-- `Hell Week' Ends With Central Banks Split on Recovery Policies
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/-hell-week-ends-with-central-banks-dividing-on-policies-to-drive-recovery.html
Central banks took divergent steps to
keep economic recoveries on track as they marked the busiest
week since uniting to fight the financial crisis of 2008.  What Danske Bank A/S called “hell week” ended yesterday
with the Bank of Japan fleshing out details of its stimulus plan
about 33 hours after the Federal Reserve pledged to buy $600
billion in Treasury securities to fight deflation. With
inflation the greater challenge in Australia and India, their
central banks raised interest rates, while climbing prices and
threatened recoveries left the European Central Bank and Bank of
England in limbo awaiting the impact of fiscal decisions.  As emerging markets take the lead in driving global growth
and the resulting need to temper inflation, officials in the
industrial world are left juggling the often conflicting needs
of the  labor market  and bond traders. The week closed with
foreign criticism of the Fed for encouraging a drop in the
dollar and investors asking whether it and other central banks
will end up having to bolster stimulus or even switch tactics.  Central bank “positions have become more entrenched,”
said  Andrew Milligan , head of global strategy at Standard Life
Investments in Edinburgh, which manages about $220 billion. “It
may be that several central banks are making errors and that may
well be the story for 2011.”  This week’s flurry of activity was in contrast to October
2008 when most of the world’s major central banks joined in an
unprecedented coordinated interest-rate cut following the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  As recoveries from the
subsequent global recession now prove uneven, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his counterparts are focusing on the needs of
their individual economies.  ‘Divergent’ Policy  “I can’t recall when monetary policy has been so divergent
as now,” said  John Hydeskov , senior foreign-exchange analyst at
Danske in Copenhagen, which first described the last five days
as “hell week” in a Nov. 1 report to clients.  Investors showed the Fed remains the most influential
central bank as they welcomed its decision to expand its program
of so-called quantitative easing and buy about $75 billion of
securities every month through June by propelling the MSCI World
Index and the price of oil to the highest in two years. The
promise of more liquidity to come left the dollar around its
lowest level in nine months versus the euro.  “The Fed’s action constitutes a substantial monetary
stimulus that percolates around the global economy and financial
system,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
Barclays Capital in London. “It raises asset prices,
particularly commodity prices, but it also depreciates the
dollar.”  Election Outcome  The Fed set aside the complaints from abroad and concerns
that more quantitative easing could either flop or fan asset
bubbles, preferring to focus on reducing unemployment near a 26-
year high and keep prices from falling. They acted as election
results in Congress gave control of the House of Representatives
to the Republicans and kept the Senate in Democratic hands,
leaving lawmakers with less scope to expand fiscal policy.  “What the Fed’s sensibly trying to do is prevent deflation
coming and ‘reflate’ its economy,”  David Blanchflower , a former
Bank of England policy maker who now teaches at Dartmouth
College, New Hampshire, told Bloomberg Television. “The Fed’s
done the right thing.”  The U.S. central bank will still likely need to do more
next year as the effect of its new plan wears off, said  Stuart Thomson , a fund manager at Glasgow-based Ignis Asset Management,
which manages about 70 billion pounds ($113 billion) in assets.
“We don’t think QE2 will work, but the Fed will be encouraged
by growth to stop it and then QE3 will be needed,” he said.  Labor Market  Data yesterday showed U.S. payrolls rose more than forecast
in October, an indication that businesses may be starting to
gain confidence in the prospects for a faster pace of growth.  Relieved that the U.S. shift didn’t spark a surge in the
yen, the Bank of Japan yesterday said it will buy real-estate
investment trusts rated AA or higher, providing new information
on a 5 trillion-yen ($62 billion) fund unveiled last month. It
kept its  overnight call rate  between zero and 0.1 percent, while
maintaining a 30 trillion-yen program to encourage bank lending.  “The Federal Reserve is the big guy -- the Bank of Japan
is following suit in a smaller way,” said  Jesper Koll , head of
equity research at JPMorgan & Co. in Tokyo.  The Bank of England kept its emergency aid program
unchanged at 200 billion pounds as the strongest two consecutive
quarters of growth in a decade and  inflation  above their target
persuaded Governor  Mervyn King  and colleagues to hold fire a
month after they shifted toward doing more. They now await the
effect of the biggest tightening of U.K.  budget policy  since
World War II and the loss of 490,000 public jobs.  ‘Rocky’ U.K.  The first half of next year “could well be rocky” and
more easing could still arrive in February when the central bank
updates its forecasts, said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  At the ECB, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  was resolute in
signaling his bank intends to outline possible steps to withdraw
aid next month as its economy recovers and some policy makers
warn  easy monetary policy  risks triggering inflation. The ECB is
committed to handing banks unlimited liquidity in its weekly,
monthly and three-month refinancing operations until the end of
the year.  Potentially blocking the ECB’s path are the threat to
exports of a rising euro and the revival of concerns about the
fiscal health of countries like Ireland, Portugal and Greece as
Trichet pleads with governments to rein in budget deficits.  ECB Reluctance  “The ECB does not seem willing to deliver short-term
solace for governments if they are not doing their part of the
job,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Groep NV in
Brussels. “Looking ahead, the ECB has clearly no intention to
follow the Fed or other central banks with further stimulus.”  Central banks in emerging or commodity-rich nations are
already withdrawing support for their economies. The Reserve
Bank of Australia cited medium-term inflation risks for an
unexpected decision to raise its  benchmark rate  a quarter point
to 4.75 percent, while India’s central bank boosted its key rate
for a sixth time this year to reach 6.25 percent.  Such decisions reflect what  Gerard Lyons , chief economist
at Standard Chartered Bank, calls a “tale of two worlds” in
which emerging markets account for a third of the global
economy, yet two thirds of its growth. Keen to maintain that
advantage, officials from Asia to Latin America prepared for
stronger currencies and asset-price inflation as they criticized
the Fed’s policy for pushing a flood of capital into their
already robust economies.  ‘Helicopter’ Money  China’s Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  yesterday
demanded an explanation from the Fed because “many countries
are worried about the impact of the policy on their economies.”
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said this week that
Bernanke is throwing “money from a helicopter.”  The criticism may grow louder next week when Group of 20
leaders meet in Seoul. Central banks in the advanced economies
may also find themselves having to do more to stimulate their
economies if the Fed’s measures keep forcing up their exchange
rates against the dollar.  “We’re in quantitative easing wars,” said Blanchflower, a
Bloomberg contributor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  