-- A Diner's Dilemma: Just Five Lavish Desserts or Eight at Pierre Gagnaire?
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/a-diner-s-dilemma-just-five-lavish-desserts-or-eight-at-pierre-gagnaire-.html
Would monsieur care for five desserts
or eight, the waiter asked more than two hours into dinner at
Pierre Gagnaire in Paris, a meal that had featured five amuses-
bouche in addition to some dozen plates of food.  Eight please, I said, assuming that we were talking about
miniature distillations of powerful flavors, the culinary
equivalent of a world in a grain of sand. The reality was more
substantial: Four plates arrived, and they weren’t tiny. One
contained two jellies (tomato, verbena) and prune sorbet.  I must have looked shocked. The waiter, noting my baffled
expression, attempted reassurance: “I’m bringing the other four
desserts after these,” he said, with a smile.  Gagnaire isn’t for the fainthearted. It’s not so much the
quantity of food. While the servings are plentiful, the portions
aren’t large, and the dishes aren’t especially rich. The starter
on the tasting menu -- skate wing in a lovage jelly with citrus
fruit and coriander and diced peppers -- was as clean and fresh
as a bright autumnal morning.  The second course, prawns and cockles with seasonal
vegetables in a champagne sauce, was perfectly balanced, the
sweetness of the sauce drawing together the elements from earth
and sea with the finesse of a “ Strictly Come Dancing ” pro.
(That’s “ Dancing With the Stars ” if you’re in the U.S.)  Fennel Marmalade  Gagnaire’s cuisine challenges by the intensity of the
experience and the boldness of the combinations. Even before
starting on the menu, there are waves of plates: clams; souffle
buckwheat pancake with sorrel leaf of white cabbage; whiting
with bone marrow; crab with fennel marmalade and lemon verbena;
stewed oxtail with slow-simmered leeks and a dash of sesame oil.  You probably won’t like everything. I won’t rush back for a
kidney, avocado, rhubarb, parsley and sage combination that was,
for me, a flavor too far. (The menu is entirely in French and
those of us whose mastery of that language doesn’t go beyond
knowing if your aunt’s pen is on your uncle’s desk may
struggle.) Service is charming, attentive and not snooty.  I would cross the Channel any time for Gagnaire’s riff on
mushrooms. The skill and mastery of technique he demonstrates is
impressive. What matters, though, is flavor: how he manages to
draw out the essence of the ingredients while employing
different temperatures and textures.  Sensuous Desserts  What arrives on your plate is the product of considerable
experimentation yet you’re not the guinea pig so much as the cat
that gets the cream, or, in this case, the ice cream in vanilla,
peach, toffee and licorice varieties; and the sorbets, flavored
with lime, blackcurrant, red fruits, yogurt, raspberry and green
apple. I haven’t mentioned the paste of apple spiced with
cinnamon wrapped in rosemary jelly with black-olive powder and
roasted-flour shortbread, nor the multicolored almond paste,
candied angelica macerated in Chartreuse herbal liqueur.  The room, with its dark woods and subdued lighting, is as
restrained as the food is exuberant. Gagnaire combines a serious
approach to cooking with an appreciation that food is about
enjoyment if you aren’t among the hungry and dispossessed. The
Menu Pierre Gagnaire is priced at 265 euros ($378) before tax,
service and matching wines.  (I ran into the chef in London at the  Frieze Art Fair  venue
of Sketch, the London restaurant that he partly owns. Gagnaire
talked with the staff and greeted diners, though when it came to
trying the food, he ate alone.)  There’s a debate in the food business -- well, it’s a
popular topic in London and New York -- about whether French
gastronomy is in terminal decline. I would like to contribute
two words to help balance any negativity: Pierre Gagnaire.  Pierre Gagnaire, 6 Rue Balzac, Hotel Balzac, Paris 75008.
Information:  http://www.pierre-gagnaire.com/index-fr.htm  or +33-
1-5836-1250.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? The tasting menu is 265 euros ($378).  Sound level? Hushed. Below 70 decibels.  Inside tip? Skip lunch.  Special feature? It’s all about the food.  Will I be back? I wish.  Date place? Yes, for oligarchs.  Rating? ****  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 