-- MacDonald Dettwiler to Sell Property-Data Unit to TPG
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-05T20:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/macdonald-dettwiler-to-sell-property-data-unit-to-tpg-for-850-5-million.html
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates
Ltd. , the maker of the robotic arm used on NASA space shuttles,
agreed to sell its property-data unit to TPG Capital for about
C$850 million ($849.6 million) after taxes.  The unit, with 1,050 workers and all except 30 of them in
the U.S. or the U.K., serves insurance companies, lenders and
lawyers, the Richmond, British Columbia-based company said today
in a statement.  MacDonald Dettwiler had been exploring the sale of part or
all of the company, after private-equity firms and competitors
expressed interest, two people with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg News last month. The company has no plans for more
divestitures and will now focus on its information systems and
geospatial services divisions.  “We are going to enter, in a much bigger way, new
commercial markets like oil and gas, agriculture,” Chief
Executive Officer  Daniel Friedmann , 54, said today in an
interview. “We will be looking for M&A opportunities.”  MacDonald Dettwiler rose C$1.83, or 3.6 percent, to C$52.41
at 3:59 p.m. in Toronto trading, the highest price since May
2007. Trading was halted before the news was announced, and
resumed about a half hour later.  The company faced a regulatory block when it tried to sell
its space business to Alliant Techsystems Inc. in 2008. Then-
Industry Minister  Jim Prentice  rejected the C$1.33 billion
transaction -- the first time since at least 1985 that Canada
disallowed the purchase of a Canadian company by foreigners
under the Investment Canada Act -- because it didn’t provide a
“net benefit” to the country.  2008 Controversy  The 2008 sale was controversial in part because it involved
the division responsible for the iconic Canadarm robotic arm
that has been used in space missions since 1981.  Canadian lawmakers from all parties said at the time they
were concerned that technology the country had funded in part
would become subject to U.S. national security laws, and that
Canada would lose its priority with Radarsat-2, a remote-sensing
satellite that it uses to monitor contested Arctic waterways.
Prentice cited the “jurisdictional” aspects of the transaction
as relevant to his decision.  Canada’s second rejection under the foreign-investment
review process came this week, as Industry Minister  Tony Clement 
rejected  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion proposed buy of  Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan . Clement evoked the same “net benefit”
deficiency as Prentice had in 2008.  Competitive Process  The sale was a competitive process and TPG won from a
shortlist of four bidders, MacDonald Dettwiler said during a
conference call after today’s announcement. The breakup fee is
about C$40 million, the company said. Following the divestiture,
MacDonald Dettwiler will have about 2,200 workers, Friedmann
said in the interview.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch served as MacDonald
Dettwiler’s lead financial adviser. The transaction has fully
committed financing, consisting of a combination of equity to be
invested by TPG Capital and debt financing to be provided by
affiliates of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, RBC Capital Markets
and Highbridge Mezzanine Partners, the statement said.  Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG’s holdings include Energy
Future Holdings Corp., the power producer formerly known as TXU
Corp., which it bought for $43.2 billion in 2007, in the
largest-ever leveraged buyout. Other companies include Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. and Caesars Entertainment Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Ed Dufner at
   edufner@bloomberg.net  