-- AIG Swings to Net Loss on Writedowns, Bailout Repayment
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-11-05T20:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/aig-loss-narrows-at-units-held-by-bailed-out-insurer-on-fewer-writedowns.html
American International Group Inc. 
swung to a third-quarter loss as the bailed-out insurer wrote
down the value of units it is selling and took charges tied to
repaying rescue loans.  The net loss of $2.4 billion compares with profit of
$455 million a year earlier, the New York-based firm said today
in a statement. The adjusted net loss, which excludes some
investment results and businesses being sold by the company, was
$200 million.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is selling assets
and planning to raise funds from private investors to repay
taxpayers and return the company to independence. AIG expects to
retire its Federal Reserve  credit line  with proceeds from the
sale of two non-U.S. life units and convert a $49.1 billion
Treasury Department  stake  into common stock by the end of March.  “They’re getting back to being a normal company,” said
 Robert Haines , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York. AIG
“wants to put on the best face for share sales.”  Profit from insurance operations being kept climbed 6.4
percent to $2.05 billion. The net loss includes more than $4
billion in charges tied to restructuring.  Shareholders’ equity, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose about 7 percent to $80.8 billion from $75.5
billion on June 30. Realized losses on investments cost the
company $661 million, compared with $1.86 billion in the year-
earlier period.  Stock Rally  AIG climbed 87 cents to $45.61 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has  climbed  about
52 percent this year, rewarding investors including  Bruce Berkowitz , who runs Fairholme Capital Management and manages
about a quarter of the publicly traded shares.  The insurer disclosed last month that Benmosche, 66, is
undergoing “aggressive” treatment for cancer and that Chairman
 Steve Miller  is available to be interim CEO if needed. AIG’s
board had begun succession planning before Benmosche’s diagnosis
because the CEO intended to retire in 2012, he told staff.  “I feel great,” Benmosche said in a recording posted on
AIG’s website. “I am still jogging about three miles
every day or so.”  Property-Casualty  Operating income for AIG’s Chartis property-casualty
insurer, which sells coverage of commercial property, corporate
boards and airplanes, rose to $1.07 billion from $719 million a
year earlier as premium revenue rose. The company earned 0.7
cent per every premium dollar, compared with a loss of 5.2 cents
a year earlier, as claims fell and expenses declined.  Sales at Chartis rose 6.5 percent to $8.6 billion.
Industrywide, sales increased for the first time in 13 quarters
in the period ended June 30, the Property Casualty Insurers
Association of America said in a September  statement . The slump
was fueled by job cuts and plant closings, which had left
commercial clients with less to insure.  The company’s U.S. life insurance and retirement services
division posted operating income of $978 million, compared with
$1.21 billion, on a decline in income from alternative holdings,
which include private equity and hedge funds. Premiums and other
considerations was little changed at $1.27 billion.  Overall investment income fell 18 percent to $5.23 billion.
Alternative assets  generated  $171 million compared with about
$282 million a year earlier. Buyout funds earned $151 million
and hedge funds gained $20 million. AIG had $18.5 billion in so-
called partnership assets as of Sept. 30, compared with $18.7
billion on June 30.  Plane Leasing  AIG’s plane-leasing business,  International Lease Finance
Corp. , posted a $218 million loss, compared with a gain of $365
million last year, on writedowns of aircraft based on decreased
demand from clients. The Los Angeles-based company said in
August that it increased liquidity by more than $12.5 billion
since March by extending credit agreements, selling aircraft and
 issuing bonds .  The loss at AIG’s mortgage guarantor, United Guaranty
Corp., narrowed to $124 million from $461 million a year
earlier. The unit had more than $4 billion in losses in the
three years through Dec. 31.  AIG reaped a combined $36.7 billion by divesting AIA Group
Ltd. and American Life Insurance Co., the firm said this week.
The company also announced in September a $4.8 billion deal to
sell a pair of Japanese units to  Prudential Financial Inc.   Taiwan Sale  Benmosche expects to sell a Taiwan unit, Nan Shan Life
Insurance Co. within a year, the insurer said today. AIG had
said in September it may weigh scaling back operations at Nan
Shan after the $2.15 billion deal to sell the unit to Primus
Financial Holdings Ltd.  China Strategic Holdings Ltd.  was
rejected by Taiwan regulators.  The third-quarter net loss includes a charges of $1.3
billion tied to the units being sold to Prudential and $1.9
billion at a consumer-lending operation that is being divested.
Paying down part of the Federal Reserve  credit line  contributed
to a $1.2 billion accounting charge.  AIG reduced its exposure to debt of six European nations
including Greece and Portugal by more than two-thirds through
the divestitures of AIA and Alico, the company said today in a
regulatory filing. AIG has about $927 million in exposure,
compared with about $3.1 billion on Sept. 30.  AIA, which AIG divested last month in a public offering,
contributed to the foreign life insurance group’s pretax
operating income of $534 million, a 31 percent increase from a
year earlier.  AIA, Alico  AIG sold a 67 percent stake in AIA for $20.5 billion. The
U.S. will receive proceeds from the IPO and sales of AIG’s
remaining holdings in the Hong Kong-based company, meaning
taxpayers stand to benefit from a rally in AIA shares.  Alico, which operates in more than 50 nations, had pretax
income of $537 million, up 45 percent from a year earlier, AIG
said in a regulatory filing.  MetLife Inc.  paid $16.2 billion in
cash and securities on Nov. 1 for Alico.  Unrealized gains on bonds available for sale rose to $18.4
billion from $10.3 billion three months earlier. Gains on
corporate debt holdings were $13.8 billion. The figures,
reflecting market fluctuations that aren’t counted toward
earnings, are monitored by investors and rating firms as a gauge
of financial strength.  The insurer’s maximum risk on a book of swaps sold to
European banks climbed to $65.5 billion as of Sept. 30, compared
with $64.5 billion as of June 30. AIG’s rescue spared European
banks from raising as much as $16 billion in capital in late
2008, the Congressional Oversight Panel said in a  report  in
June.  Bailed Out  Treasury, which said it expects to earn a profit on the AIG
bailout, will sell its common stock in phases over about two
years, a person with direct knowledge of the plan said in
September. The government will own 1.66 billion AIG shares after
the conversion, or about 92 percent of the firm.  The insurer was first rescued in September 2008 after
losses on housing market bets by the Financial Products unit.
The rescue was revised four times, swelling to $182.3 billion,
to extend more credit and lower the interest charged.  AIG benefited from a gain in the value of mortgage-linked
assets turned over to Fed investment vehicles as part of the
bailout. The company valued its share in the funds, called
Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane III, at $7.1 billion as of Sept
30, compared with $6.7 billion in the second quarter and $5.3
billion at the end of 2009. The Fed holds a majority stake.  AIG is focusing on U.S. life insurance and global property-
casualty coverage. The company, which shrank the derivatives
unit, has sold more than 30 businesses or assets since 2008,
including a U.S. auto unit, a Russian bank, an Israeli mortgage
insurer and its New York headquarters building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  