-- Taiwan Dollar Climbs to 31-Month High as Inflows Pick Up; Bonds Decline
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-11-05T09:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/taiwan-dollar-jumps-most-in-nearly-a-decade-as-fed-easing-spurs-inflows.html
Taiwan’s dollar rose to a 31-month
high on speculation money-printing by the Federal Reserve will
weaken the greenback and boost demand for emerging-market assets.
Ten-year bonds fell, driving their yield to the highest level
since August.  The currency jumped as much as 1.8 percent today before
surrendering almost all of its gain in the final minutes of
trading as the central bank intervened, according to two traders
who asked not to be identified. Global funds bought a net $2
billion of the island’s shares this week alone, exceeding the
$1.4 billion pumped in last month, exchange data show.
International Monetary Fund Chief Economist Olivier Blanchard
said yesterday the Fed’s stimulus may spur capital flows to
emerging economies and cause the U.S. dollar to depreciate.  “The dollar will be even cheaper after the new round of
quantitative easing, so foreign investors will borrow the dollar
and buy Asian assets for their higher yields,” said  Henry Lin ,
a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong
Commercial Bank. “The Taiwan dollar may breach the NT$30 level
next week.”  The Taiwan dollar closed 0.1 percent higher at NT$30.560
versus the greenback, capping a 0.7 percent weekly gain,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched NT$30.04, the
strongest level since March 2008.  The Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) has
intervened most days for more than six months to check
appreciation that may hurt exports, according to currency
traders who declined to be identified.  Intervention Risk  Taiwan’s monetary authority said on Oct. 19 it will step
into the foreign-exchange market when the local dollar
“overshoots.”  The Fed on Nov. 3 said it will buy an extra $600 billion of
Treasuries through June, building on $1.7 trillion of asset
purchases made between December 2008 and March of this year. The
Dollar Index, a gauge of the U.S. currency’s strength, yesterday
sank to its lowest level in almost 11 months.  Taiwan’s bonds retreated. The yield on the 1.125 percent
note due September 2020 rose two basis points today to 1.29
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market, the island’s
biggest exchange for debt. That’s the highest level for a
benchmark 10-year note since Aug. 11.  Inflation data released after the bond market closed showed
consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in October from a year earlier,
double the previous month’s gain. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted the rate of gains would be unchanged at 0.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  