-- Taking Vitamin E to Prevent Stroke May Be Harmful, Study Says
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-11-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/taking-vitamin-e-to-prevent-stroke-may-be-harmful-study-says.html
Taking vitamin E supplements doesn’t
reduce the risk of stroke, and may even be harmful, an analysis
of previous research found.  The vitamin raised the risk of a severe type of stroke by
22 percent, while it lowered the risk of a milder kind by 10
percent, according to the  study , published today in the  British
Medical Journal .  Exercise as well as medicines to lower blood pressure or
cholesterol have a far greater effect on stroke prevention, the
researchers, led by  Markus Schuerks  of Harvard Medical School,
wrote in the study. About 13 percent of the U.S. population
takes the supplement, they said. Previous studies of the
vitamin’s effectiveness have produced conflicting results, with
some showing a protective effect and others seeing no effect and
an increase in the risk of early death, the study said.  “Given the relatively small risk reduction of ischemic
stroke and the generally more severe outcome of hemorrhagic
stroke, indiscriminate widespread use of vitamin E should be
cautioned against,” the authors said.  The study pooled data from 9 previous trials involving a
total of 118,756 patients, about half of whom took the
supplement while the other half took a sugar pill. When the data
were analyzed, the researchers found an increased risk of
hemorrhagic stroke, and a smaller decrease in ischemic stroke.  The absolute risk is small, the study said. For every 1,250
subjects taking the supplement, one hemorrhagic stroke occurred,
while one ischemic stroke was prevented for every 476 patients.  Oxygen Supply  Stroke occurs when a blood vessel carrying oxygen to the
brain ruptures or is blocked by a blood clot or some other
particle, cutting off the brain’s supply of oxygen. Nerve cells
then die, affecting the part of the body they control. These
cells aren’t replaced, leading to disability, according to the
 American Heart Association .  About 800,000 Americans suffer a stroke each year, and
137,000 of them die, according to the association.  Hemorrhagic stroke is caused when tissue is compressed by a
hematoma, a collection of blood that has leaked out of a vessel.
Ischemic stroke is seen when a loss of blood supply to part of
the brain triggers a biochemical reaction that leads to cell
death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 