-- Alaska Air CEO Cooperating With SEC Insider Probe Related to Puget Energy
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-11-05T22:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/alaska-air-ceo-cooperating-with-sec-insider-probe-related-to-puget-energy.html
Alaska Air Group Inc.  said the
company and its chief executive officer,  William Ayer , are
“cooperating voluntarily” with U.S. regulators who are
conducting an inquiry into possible insider trading.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating
trading by New York-based  Donald Smith & Co.  in the securities
of  Puget Energy Inc.  before the utility was acquired, Alaska Air
said in a company  filing  today. Ayer, who was on Puget Energy’s
board during the buyout and is now its chairman, has said he
didn’t provide any non-public information about Puget Energy to
the investment firm, the company said.  Bloomberg News reported Oct. 7 that the SEC was examining
whether Donald Smith & Co., which was Alaska Air’s largest
investor in early 2008, acted on confidential information later
that year when it doubled its stake in Puget Energy just before
state officials approved a $3.89 billion buyout that sent the
utility’s shares up as much as 21 percent. The SEC is
investigating the role of Ayer.  Neither Ayer nor Donald Smith & Co., which manages about
$3.5 billion in assets, has been accused of wrongdoing. A call
to Puget Energy spokeswoman  Martha Monfried  wasn’t immediately
returned.  Donald Smith & Co. “increased our position in Puget Energy
only after the stock collapsed to a valuation level that we
considered attractive based on our in-depth research.” the
company said in an Oct. 8 statement. “We categorically state
that at no time did we have any communication with Mr. William
Ayer regarding Puget Energy.” The company didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment today.  SEC spokesman  John Heine  declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 