-- Man Charged in Philadelphia With $17 Million Fraud
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-05T18:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/alleged-fake-mit-graduate-accused-of-running-17-million-ponzi-scheme.html
U.S. prosecutors in Philadelphia
charged Robert Stinson Jr., who allegedly posed as a graduate of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with running a $17
million Ponzi scheme tied to real estate hedge funds.  Stinson is accused of cheating more than 260 investors by
promising returns of 10 percent to 16 percent from real estate
funds, U.S. Attorney  Zane David Memeger  said today in an e-
mailed statement. Stinson is charged with 26 counts of wire
fraud, mail fraud, money laundering, bank fraud, obstruction of
justice, filing false tax returns and making false statements.
He was arrested today, according to the statement.  Stinson, 55, formed Life’s Good Inc. and Keystone State
Corp. to operate the funds, according to a 21-page indictment.
He allegedly told investors the funds made short-term commercial
mortgage loans, prosecutors said.  Stinson falsely claimed to have degrees from MIT and
Pennsylvania State University and a long history of employment
in currency trading and investment management. In reality, he
was convicted of fraud multiple times and was previously barred
from committing securities fraud, prosecutors said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Stinson in
June over the Ponzi-scheme allegations. Regulators said in the
complaint that Stinson had a criminal history including three
convictions on federal charges of fraud, larceny or both.  Stinson allegedly used investors’ funds to pay himself and
family members and buy expensive cars and vacations, according
to the indictment.  Stuart Patchen, an attorney for Stinson with the federal
defender’s office in Philadelphia, didn’t immediately return a
phone call seeking comment.  If convicted, Stinson faces a maximum possible sentence of
329 years in prison and a $6.8 million fine, prosecutors said.  The lawsuit is SEC v. Stinson, 2:10-cv-3130, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  