-- Halliburton’s Flawed Cement May Seal Criminal Fate: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-11-05T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/halliburton-s-flawed-cement-may-seal-legal-fate-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Halliburton Co. probably meant no
irony when it named its annual  report  last year, “Pushing
Boundaries.”  The company may be wishing it had more carefully observed
certain boundaries as new evidence emerges of its role in the
biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  Take, for example, the line between legal conduct and
crime.  Halliburton  may have crossed that border if it
negligently sold faulty cement used in the construction of the
Macondo well, which spewed 4.9 million barrels of crude into the
Gulf of Mexico after an April 20 rig explosion that killed 11
workers.  Last week a commission investigating the disaster reported
that the Houston-based  company  had reason to suspect from its
own work that the kind of cement similar to that which it used
at the well wouldn’t hold. The material had failed three out of
four stability tests, and Halliburton didn’t test the final
formula used.  If it had, it might have found what experts at Chevron
discovered when testing that formula at the request of
investigators. Nine times they tested the formula used, and nine
times the stuff was unstable.  “This may have contributed to the blowout,”  Fred Bartlit Jr ., chief investigator for the National Commission on the BP
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill, said in a  letter  to the panel.  If it did contribute, it would be hard to see how
Halliburton, the world’s second-largest oilfield-services
provider, could avoid criminal prosecution. And while  BP  would
be the No. 1 defendant, the new finding suggests that
Halliburton might well show up on the list of accused, too.  Halliburton’s Shield  Halliburton disputes Bartlit’s findings. In addition, when
asked if there were concerns that the company might face
criminal charges, spokeswoman  Cathy Mann  said by e-mail that
Halliburton is protected by an indemnification clause within its
contract with BP.  But indemnification provisions typically cover civil
damages, not criminal fines.  “The whole purpose of a criminal prosecution is to punish
the wrongdoer,”  David Uhlmann , a University of Michigan law
professor and, before that, a federal prosecutor of
environmental crimes for 17 years, said in an interview.  “You can draw a straight line between an improper cement
seal and criminal charges,” he said. “It’s not a very
difficult conclusion for the government to reach that
Halliburton was negligent if Halliburton knew that there might
be problems with the cement mixture it was using, and they went
ahead and used that cement mixture, anyway.”  He figured the company’s potential fine at hundreds of
millions of dollars, possibly billions.  The Law  Simple negligence is sufficient to get convicted of a
misdemeanor with that type of penalty under the Clean Water  Act .
It’s a violation if an employee or company fails to take the
reasonable care that an ordinary person would have used under
similar circumstances, according to the only two appeals courts
that have addressed the matter. That’s easier to prove than
gross criminal negligence, which is required in other areas of
the law.  Surely it would be reasonable to supply only provably
stable cement if it’s to be used  2.5 miles  beneath the ocean
floor.  If the government can show that Halliburton knowingly and
willfully violated regulations or filed a false report or
obstructed justice, then we’re talking about a felony. In either
case, the prosecution might try to send those responsible to
prison.  Bribery Case  This wouldn’t be the first time Halliburton has crossed
legal boundaries. With global operations and  annual revenue 
exceeding $16 billion, it’s a big deal when it’s caught crossing
a line.  Take the $579 million  fine  Halliburton and an arm of its
former unit, KBR, agreed in 2009 to pay for charges related to
bribing Nigerian officials and to settle a related civil case by
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Halliburton didn’t admit
wrongdoing in the SEC matter.  And then there was that little matter of doing business
with Iran, a country that former Vice President  Dick Cheney 
 declared  “the world’s leading exporter of terrorism.” He said
that after he left his job as chief executive of Halliburton,
and after he stopped talking up the idea of letting U.S.
companies do business with state sponsors of terrorism.  Business in Iran  A Halliburton division was doing millions of dollars of
business in Iran, prompting a federal criminal investigation in
2004. The parent company avoided prosecution through a  loophole 
in the law that lets foreign units of U.S. corporations do
business with the enemy if they work independently of their
parent companies, with no Americans involved. That’s an
exception Senate Republicans refused to close in 2004 by a vote
of 50 to 49, mostly along party lines.  Now the question is whether  Halliburton  crossed the
boundary between legal and illegal conduct this year in the Gulf
of Mexico.  Bartlit’s letter says Halliburton ran two stability tests
in February on cement similar to that which would later be used,
and the stuff failed both times. Two more stability tests in
April, this time on material more closely matching the substance
that would be used, produced mixed results. First a failure,
then, finally, a passing grade for stability.  Hey, one out of four’s not bad, right?  Bartlit said it isn’t clear that Halliburton managers or  BP 
had that last test result before pouring the cement on April 19
and 20, the day the well exploded. If those responsible for
supplying the cement didn’t know about that one, it would mean
they only knew about the failed tests and supplied the stuff,
nonetheless.  Change in Formula  In any case, Halliburton says it knew of that last test
result and informed BP. It also says the earlier tests shouldn’t
count because of different formulas for the first two and errors
in the third one.  Halliburton  says even after that last test, BP ordered a
change in the formula, anyway. So, Halliburton never ran a
stability test on the cement that was eventually used.  Halliburton tries to shift its share of the blame to BP in
its public response to the Bartlit letter. It was BP that
ordered the formula change, failed to do sufficient testing and
misread the results of the tests it did run, Halliburton says.  All that could sink the hook deeper into BP, but it’s hard
to see how it would get Halliburton off. Even if the company
played only a contributing role, that would be enough to
interest prosecutors, Uhlmann said. Halliburton either did or
didn’t perform negligently in supplying the cement, no matter
what BP or Transocean Ltd., the rig’s owner, did.  The broken cement seal doesn’t have to be the only cause of
the explosion for Halliburton to face charges, and surely it
isn’t. Investigations point to multiple failures on the
Deepwater Horizon rig. Perhaps the disaster could have been
prevented if just one of those events had gone right.  Say, if the cement seal had worked.  When it comes to allocating blame and the fines that will
follow, prosecutors will have to say who did what. Look for BP
to top any list of criminal defendants, but it may not be alone.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  