-- Ally, PNC Meet With Florida Attorney General's Office About Foreclosures
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-05T23:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/ally-pnc-meet-with-florida-attorney-general-s-office-about-foreclosures.html
Ally Financial Inc.  and  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc.  discussed their foreclosure practices
yesterday with the Florida attorney general’s office, which is
investigating problems with home seizures in the state.  Representatives of the banks met with the office to talk
about how they’re planning to fix their foreclosure procedures,
 Ryan Wiggins , a spokeswoman for Attorney General  Bill McCollum ,
said in a telephone interview today.  “We’re meeting with them and discussing ways they can get
us out of the mess they put us in, they put the nation in,”
Wiggins said.  McCollum last month sought meetings with  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Ally, PNC and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. ’s Litton Loan Servicing LP to “discuss ways to promptly
and effectively redeem the integrity” of foreclosures,
according to copies of letters to the companies. The request
came after homeowners complained that mortgage companies were
using flawed documents in foreclosure cases.  McCollum’s office previously discussed the matter with Bank
of America and JPMorgan. The attorney general hasn’t met with
Litton Loan Servicing, Wiggins said. She said she didn’t know
whether the office had heard from the company. She declined to
provide details about the meetings with Pittsburgh-based PNC and
Detroit-based Ally.  PNC spokesman  Fred Solomon  declined to comment. Ally
spokeswoman  Gina Proia  declined to comment about the meeting
with McCollum’s office. The company is cooperating with
inquiries by attorneys general, she said. Litton Loan Servicing
“has been and continues to be responsive to the requests by the
state attorneys general,” spokeswoman Donna Marie Jendritza
said in an e-mailed statement. She didn’t say whether the
company plans to meet with McCollum’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 