-- AMP Remains in Talks With Axa SA on Potential New Bid for Axa Asia Pacific
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-11-05T05:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/amp-remains-in-talks-with-axa-sa-on-potential-new-bid-for-axa-asia-pacific.html
AMP Ltd., whose bid for Axa Asia
Pacific Holdings Ltd. was rebuffed in favor of National
Australia Bank Ltd.’s higher offer, is in talks with Axa SA for
another potential bid for the Melbourne-based wealth manager.  AMP, Australia’s second-biggest asset manager, has remained
interested in the deal and in contact with Axa Asia Pacific’s
majority shareholder Axa SA since its initial bid in November
2009 was rejected, spokeswoman Jane Anderson said in response to
a newspaper report that talks with the French insurer had
restarted.  The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission blocked
 National Australia Bank’s  A$13.3 billion ($13.5 billion) agreed
offer for Axa Asia Pacific in September, citing competition
concerns. French newspaper La Tribune reported yesterday that
Paris-based Axa has restarted talks with AMP.  “It’s no secret we think a merger between AMP and Axa’s
New Zealand and Australian business would make sense and is
strategically appropriate on the right terms,” Anderson said in
a telephone interview today. “We have always maintained a
dialogue with the French.”  Axa Asia Pacific today published a statement saying it has
been made aware of talks between Axa SA and AMP, adding that
those “discussions are incomplete and may or may not lead to a
transaction.”  Under both National Australia Bank and AMP’s proposals, the
French insurer was to take on Axa Asia Pacific’s businesses in
Asia, while the Australian companies would acquire the local and
New Zealand operations.  Axa Asia Pacific’s  shares  rose 0.5 percent to A$5.64 at the
4:10 p.m. close in Sydney trading, and  AMP  gained 0.4 percent to
A$5.37.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  