-- Manchester United Sending Rooney to U.S. for Conditioning
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-05T15:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/manchester-united-sending-rooney-to-u-s-to-escape-media-get-conditioning.html
Injured Manchester United striker
 Wayne Rooney  will go to the U.S. for a week of conditioning to
avoid the media spotlight in the U.K.  Rooney, who’s been sidelined with an ankle injury, will
leave for the  Nike Inc.  world headquarters in Oregon tomorrow.
The forward has an endorsement contract with the sporting goods
manufacturer.  “We’ve decided, in consultation with Wayne, our medical
team, the manager and the coaching staff that will be the best
for Wayne,” United assistant coach Mike Phelan said on the
 club’s website . “We have the facilities here but we felt it
might be in his interest and the club’s to have a change of
scenery for a while. He’s had a lot of attention lately so we’re
going to give him the best opportunity that we possibly can for
him to be in good shape when he returns.”  The 24-year-old has struggled this season, scoring just one
goal, after injuries and media reports about his personal life
limited his playing time.  He signed a new five-year contract two weeks ago that will
pay him a reported 250,000 pounds per week ($405,000), two days
after saying he wanted to leave the 18-time English champion
because it lacked ambition in signing new players.  Rooney was criticized by U.K. media over the contract issue
and even drew the ire of United fans, who picketed outside his
home before being dispersed by police.  “We want to create an environment for him that will give
him the best opportunity to be fit in a short space of time,”
Phelan said. “He needs the conditioning and he can go there
without the attention he’d get around here.”  It’s the second time this season United has taken Rooney
out of the limelight. Manager  Alex Ferguson  left the striker out
of a Sept. 11 game at Everton rather than subject him to
potential fan abuse from supporters of his former club following
newspaper allegations over his personal life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 