-- Mancini Won't Quit as City Manager After Losses, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-05T10:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/mancini-won-t-quit-as-city-manager-after-losses-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Not Quitting  Roberto Mancini  says he won’t quit as Manchester City
manager after the club suffered a third straight loss,  the Sun 
reported.  Mancini faces growing criticism following a 3-1 defeat to
Lech Poznan of Poland last night in the Europa League. City is
second in its Europa League group and fourth in the Premier
League after spending 300 million pounds ($486 million) on
players. There have also been media reports of discord in the
dressing room.  “For me it is totally clear, I will stay at City until
they fire me,” the Sun quoted Mancini as saying. “I’ve seen
the owner Sheikh Mansour two or three times and we have a good
relationship.”  Forced Sale  David James  could be sold in the January transfer period
after Bristol City announced record losses of almost 12 million
pounds for last year, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The former England goalkeeper is the second-division club’s
highest-paid player and manager Keith Millen has been told he
need to reduce the payroll, the Mirror said.  Millen will also look to get rid of defender  Nicky Hunt  and
Damion Stewart and midfielder Kalifa Cisse, who were all signed
by former manager  Steve Coppell  before he quit in August, the
Mirror said.  Doesn’t Care  Netherlands national team manager  Bert van Marwijk  said he
“does not care” about Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger ’s fears
over injured  Robin van Persie , the  Daily Express  said.  Wenger was surprised van Persie was chosen for Holland’s
exhibition match against Turkey on Nov. 17 after being sidelined
since August by an ankle injury. The striker has still not begun
full training and is eyeing Arsenal’s match against rival
Tottenham on Nov. 20 for his return, the Express said.  Russia manager  Dick Advocaat  also told Wenger to stop
complaining after the Arsenal boss said forward  Andrey Arshavin 
often returns from international duty tired.  “Wenger is always moaning about something,” the Express
quoted Advocaat as saying.  Eyeing Jay  England manager  Fabio Capello  is tracking Cardiff’s  Jay Bothroyd  as he looks to add to his injury-plagued strike force,
the  Daily Express  said.  Bothroyd leads the second-division Championship with 12
goals this season.  Wayne Rooney ,  Jermaine Defoe  and  Bobby Zamora 
are all injured and  Emile Heskey  retired from international
play. England faces France in an exhibition match Nov. 17 at
Wembley Stadium.  Not a Believer  Sunderland manager  Steve Bruce  has hit out at Newcastle’s
etiquette following his club’s 5-1 loss to its rival,  the Mirror 
said.  Newcastle fans taunted Bruce and his team at St. James’s
Park by changing the words of The Monkees’ song “Daydream
Believer” to an X-rated version, the Mirror said. The club’s
disc jockey then played the song following the game, leaving
Bruce angry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 