-- Tanker Rates Will Decline Next Year Amid Shorter Voyages, DnB NOR Says
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-11-05T16:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/tanker-rates-will-decline-next-year-amid-shorter-voyages-dnb-nor-says.html
Supertanker rental income will likely
drop next year as ships make shorter voyages and the fleet
swells, DnB NOR Markets said.  Very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, will make $35,000 a
day next year, down from $39,625 this year, Oslo-based analysts
 Henrik With  and  Glenn Lodden  estimated in an e-mailed report
today on Frontline Ltd., the largest operator. Smaller suezmax
vessels’ earnings will drop to $25,000 from $25,625, they said.  The  crude-oil transportation fleet  will expand by 7 percent
next year, while new Chinese refineries will import a greater
proportion of cargoes from the Middle East, lowering their
reliance on West African supplies, according to the analysts.
Deliveries over shorter distances increase the number of tankers
available for hire.  Still, there will be no “significant impact” on global
transportation distances as China’s reduced reliance on West
Africa is “mitigated” by more shipments to Asia from Latin
America, the analysts said. At the same time, demand from
Western Hemisphere refineries will stay “subdued.”  Rental income  from VLCCs shipping Saudi Arabian crude oil
to Japan, the route that’s used to settle freight derivatives,
fell 6.5 percent to $34,399 a day today, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange. It surged more than 13-fold
between Oct. 21 and Nov. 2 as vessel demand accelerated.  Demand Slows  Modern refineries can process a higher proportion of so-
called sour, heavy crudes found in the Persian Gulf, whereas
older plants are better able to handle the light, sweet grades
available from West Africa. Sweet crude contains less sulfur
than sour.  The distance from Cabinda in Angola, site of the Malango
oil terminal, to Qingdao in China is 9,629 nautical miles
(11,080 miles), according to the searates.com website. That
compares with 6,407 miles for the voyage from Jubail in Saudi
Arabia, located near the Ras Tanura oil port.  Vessel demand slowed today because of holidays in Asia,
said  Nikos Varvaropoulos , a Dubai-based official at Optima
Shipbrokers Ltd.  “Volumes should be lighter again next week, but the
balance should stay just fine enough to prevent a collapse” in
freight costs, E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd. said in an e-mailed
report today.  Charter rates  on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route as
measured in industry standard Worldscale terms fell 2.1 percent
to 75.82 points today, according to the exchange.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude oil
transportation costs, advanced 0.4 percent to 776 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 