-- Tanzania’s Kikwete Wins Most Constituencies in Vote
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   W i l f r e d   M w a k a l o s i
-- 2010-11-05T10:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/tanzanian-president-kikwete-leads-in-206-constituencies-commission-says.html
Tanzanian  President  Jakaya Kikwete 
won the most votes in four-fifths of constituencies in an Oct.
31 election, heading for a second term in office in which he has
pledged to continue with policies that helped accelerate growth.  Kikwete, 60, garnered the highest number of ballots in 206
of the East African nation’s 239 constituencies, according to an
e-mailed statement from the Dar es Salaam-based National
Electoral Commission. Wilbrod Slaa of the opposition Chadema
party leads in 11 constituencies and  Ibrahim Lipumba  of the
Civic United Front is ahead in 22, the commission said.  Final results are scheduled to be announced by the
commission at 3 p.m. today in the city.  “Kikwete is going to win, there is no question about that,”
Gaspar Munishi, a professor of politics and public
administration at the  University of Dar es Salaam , said in a
phone interview today.  An economist who served for a decade as foreign minister
prior to taking office in 2005, Kikwete’s policies have helped
generate average annual growth of 6.7 percent, according to
 International Monetary Fund  data. Kikwete has made less progress
on dealing with graft, a key platform in his 2005 campaign, with
Tanzania’s ranking falling to 116th from 93rd on an index of the
world’s most corrupt countries compiled by Berlin-based
 Transparency International .  Accelerating Growth  Kikwete has said he will maintain fiscal policies that are
expected to drive the economic growth rate to 7 percent this
year and 7.1 percent in 2011, Bank of Tanzania Governor  Benno Ndulu  said on Nov. 3. That compares with average growth rates of
5 percent and 5.5 percent expected in the rest of sub-Saharan
Africa in the same periods, according to IMF data.  Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold exporter after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including  Barrick Gold
Corp. , the world’s largest producer of the precious metal, and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  have mines in the country.  The country’s domestic product was $21.6 billion with a
gross national income per capita of $500 in 2009 for a
population of 43.7 million, according to World Bank data. That
compares with an average of $1,096 for sub-Saharan Africa. The
total size of the economy is second only to  Kenya  in the East
African region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Wilfred Mwakalosi  in Dar es Salaam via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 