-- Tanzania’s Kikwete Wins Reelection With 61% of Vote
-- B y   W i l f r e d   M w a k a l o s i   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-05T16:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/tanzanian-president-kikwete-wins-second-five-year-term-with-61-of-vote.html
Tanzanians  reelected President  Jakaya Kikwete  with 61 percent of the vote, giving him a second five-
year term to undertake policy improvements aimed at bolstering
East Africa’s second-biggest economy.  Wilbrod Slaa of the opposition Chadema party won 26 percent
of the ballots cast,  Lewis Makame , chairman of the  National
Electoral Commission  of Tanzania, said in remarks broadcast live
on Tanzania Broadcasting Corp. today in Dar es Salaam, the
commercial capital. The remaining votes were divided among five
other candidates, though one of them dropped out on Oct. 28,
which was too late to remove his name from the ballot.  Kikwete won with less support than the 80 percent of votes
he garnered in the previous election in 2005, signaling rising
public disapproval, particularly among young voters,  Anne Fruhauf , a London-based Africa analyst with Eurasia Group, said
by phone today.  “His platform initially was a better life for all and there
is a strong sense that he’s not delivering on that,” Fruhauf
said. “Even though he steered the economy through the global
financial crisis, there is a strong sense that at home in terms
of poverty alleviation, he hasn’t really delivered.”  Tanzania has a poverty rate of 50 percent that the state
aims to reduce to 30 percent by 2015, according to the
government’s  website .  Kikwete, 60, has pledged to maintain fiscal policies to
help the country meet its projected economic-growth rate of 7
percent this year and 7.1 percent in 2011, compared with 6
percent in 2009. Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold
exporter after South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including
 Barrick Gold Corp. , the world’s largest producer of the precious
metal, and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  have mines in the country.  Turnout  The country held presidential and parliamentary elections
on Oct. 31. Turnout was 43 percent of 20.1 million registered
voters, Makame said. Kikwete’s Chama cha Mapinduzi party won 184
seats in the legislature, while Chadema took 22 and the Civic
United Front won 24, Makame said.  Earlier this week, Slaa demanded a recount after saying
there were variations between the official results announced by
the commission and tallies recorded at polling stations.  Makame said investigations into the complaint won’t begin
until an official request has been registered, the  Daily News , a
state-run newspaper, reported yesterday.  Last weekend’s election was Tanzania’s fourth consecutive
multiparty poll since the end of one-party rule in 1995. Kikwete
won 5.28 million votes to Slaa’s 2.27 million.  “The challenges by opposition throughout the campaign
presents serious issues that we will need to consider seriously
in the next elections,” Kikwete said today at the results
announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wilfred Mwakalosi  in Dar es Salaam at 
 wmwakalosi1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  