-- Lapse of U.S. Unemployment Benefits May Cool Spending
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-05T14:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/lapse-of-jobless-benefits-poses-risk-to-u-s-consumer-spending-in-holidays.html
Sharron Tetrault and her family have
already decided to forego exchanging gifts this holiday season.
The expiration of her jobless benefits may force her to stop
paying her utility bills or even rent.  Tetrault is among the about 1.2 million unemployed
Americans the  National Employment Labor Project  in Washington
says will lose their  emergency  and extended jobless insurance
benefits by the end of the year with the scheduled expiration
of the programs on Nov. 30. The resulting reduction
in incomes may hurt consumer spending at the height of the 
holiday shopping period and restrain economic growth.  “If people are let off the rolls in November, it could
impact holiday spending,” said  Zach Pandl , an economist at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York. Pandl projects
economic growth would be reduced by as much as 0.4 percentage
point from December through February should the benefits end.  The wave of voter discontent that will put Republicans in
control of the House of Representatives next year may mean that
debate over issues like extending the Bush-era tax cuts will
take precedence in coming months, said economists at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Additionally, the lame-duck session of Congress
is not scheduled to reconvene until Nov. 15 and legislators may
take time off for Thanksgiving later in the month, making
approval of any jobless-benefit extension difficult.  Tetrault, a 46 year-old from Mount Vernon, New York, has
been without work since January, when she lost her job as an
event planner at a non-profit group. She has just over a month
left before the program that gives her $405 a week in
unemployment insurance payments runs out. While an extension
would make her eligible for additional funds, she’s bracing for
the worst.  No Phone  “What I see happening is my phone getting shut off,”
Tetrault said in an interview. “If I have no income how do I
pay for my phone and how do employers contact me?”  The federal government currently funds the emergency and
 extended  benefits that keep the unemployed receiving checks
should recipients not find jobs by the time the 26 weeks of
initial state-paid assistance runs out. The supplemental
programs may reach up to 99 weeks in some states.  About 5.01 million Americans received emergency and
extended benefits as of the week ended Oct. 16, according to
Labor Department data. Another 4.34 million were getting the
initial  state-funded relief  in the week ended Oct. 23.  Figures today showed the economy created 151,000 jobs in
October, while the unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent.  Four Tiers  The emergency programs are divided into four tiers starting
with an additional 20 weeks that kick in after the state funds
are used up. If an extension isn’t passed by the end of the
month, beneficiaries would stop receiving checks when they reach
the end of whatever group they’re in.  Republican gains in Congress have dimmed the outlook for
passage of an extension, according to  Tom Porcelli , head of U.S.
market economics at RBC Capital Markets in New York.  “Republicans would be hard-pressed to have one of their
first endorsed bills be a piece of legislation that calls for
more spending,” said Porcelli.  He estimates a total 2.5 million people would lose their
benefits by the end of the first quarter of 2011 should the
program end. That would shave about 0.3 percentage point off
consumer spending from January through March, he said. Over the
year, purchases would be cut by about 0.5 percentage point, or
$50 billion, said Porcelli.  Effect on Retailers  The last two months of the year are typically the biggest
U.S. shopping season and retailers including Toys R Us Inc. have
forecast some improvement this year compared with the previous
two.  In the aftermath of past recessions, lawmakers haven’t let
emergency funding expire until the  unemployment rate  dropped to
around 7.5 percent, according to  Heather Boushey , a senior
economist at the Center for American Progress, a research
organization whose views generally align with those of
Democrats. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
joblessness, which stood at 9.6 percent in September, will
exceed that level through at least 2012.  “The economy, while it has improved, is not creating jobs
fast enough,” Boushey said. “You could see a dip” in
spending.  In May, the last time the unemployment aid extension was
due to lapse, a renewal wasn’t approved until two months later
as legislators debated how to pay for the program. This time,
Congress may delay approval or let the benefits lapse because
Republicans are pushing to cut the deficit.  Goldman Sachs’s  Alec Phillips  and BNP Paribas’s  Julia Coronado  are among economists saying Congress will probably let
the emergency unemployment assistance expire.  “In order to get previous extensions done, there has been
a requirement to get costs offset,” Phillips said. Republicans
“would be more inclined to keep that requirement.”  Goldman Sachs has not issued estimates on what a lapse in
the emergency benefits alone would do to spending at the end of
the year. BNP Paribas projects an end to the assistance would
cut income growth by one or two tenths of a point and result in
“slowing consumption growth,” Coronado said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  