-- Arent Fox Law Firm Loses Bankruptcy Client When Judge Finds Ethical Breach
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-05T23:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/arent-fox-law-firm-loses-bankruptcy-client-when-judge-finds-ethical-breach.html
A judge barred Washington law firm
 Arent Fox LLP  from representing the official creditors’
committee in a bankruptcy case, a decision that may change the
way lawyers pursue such clients.  Arent Fox and its co-counsel in Wilmington, Delaware,
 Elliott Greenleaf & Siedzikowski , used an intermediary to
wrongly help them win appointment as counsel for the official
committee of unsecured creditors in the bankruptcy case of
Universal Building Products, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  ruled yesterday.  Law firms compete to represent official creditor committees
in bankruptcy cases. Such work allows firms to charge hundreds
of dollars an hour for each attorney involved, bills that are
paid by the bankrupt company.  The law firms’ actions were “almost like ambulance
chasing, but one step removed,”  Michael R. Lastowski , a
bankruptcy attorney who isn’t involved in the case, said today
in a phone interview.  Walrath’s ruling “will have a chilling effect,” Lastowski
said. “Lawyers will be a lot more cautious about contacting
creditors,” he said.  Lawyers are barred from directly soliciting creditors for
appointment to an official committee before the group is formed
by the U.S. Trustee, Lastowski said.  Nothing ‘Unethical’  “We do not believe we did anything unethical,” Rafael X.
Zahralddin-Aravena, a lawyer at Elliott Greenleaf, said in a
phone interview. “We are reviewing the situation and we will
respond appropriately.”  Zahralddin-Aravena declined to comment further.  Schuyler Carroll , an Arent attorney, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Walrath found that the firms used an intermediary to
contact creditors, earn their trust and persuade them to hire
the firms.  In a court hearing last month, the firms denied that they
did anything unethical by working with translator Haishan Liu,
who has represented Asia-based creditors in this and other
bankruptcy cases.  “The Court finds that the evidence proves otherwise and
finds that, in fact, AF, EG and Dr. Liu were acting in concert
to coldcall creditors,” Walrath wrote.  Five Law Firms  When Universal Building filed bankruptcy on Aug. 4, Liu was
contacted by five law firms, including Arent and Elliott
Greenleaf. Each of the firms sent him lists of the biggest
unsecured creditors of Universal, Walrath said. The biggest
creditors in a bankruptcy case stand the best chance of winning
a seat on an official committee.  Liu then persuaded two of the creditors to name him as
their proxy and give him voting power if they were appointed to
the committee, Walrath said in her ruling.  Liu won a temporary seat on the committee representing one
the creditors, Eastern Accessories Corp. After 10 law firms made
presentations to the committee, Arent and Elliott Greenleaf were
hired.  Liu then stepped down from the committee and was later
hired as a translator on the recommendation of Arent. A phone
number for Liu couldn’t be immediately located.  During the court hearing, the law firms argued that their
conduct was no different from that of other firms. Liu testified
that one of the bankruptcy attorneys hired by Universal Building
tried to solicit his support in a different bankruptcy case.  Universal Building opposed the hiring of Arent and Elliott
Greenleaf after the company and the committee began fighting
about the direction of the bankruptcy case.  Universal, based in Westminster, California, is represented
by attorney Harley J. Goldstein with the law firm K&L Gates LLP.
Goldstein said his firm didn’t approach Liu to solicit work. The
firm was introduced to Liu by another party, Goldstein said.  The case is In re Universal Building Products Inc.,
10-12453, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 