-- Argentina Debt Held Back by Concern Economic Data Unreliable, Moody's Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-11-05T22:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/argentina-debt-held-back-by-concern-economic-data-unreliable-moody-s-says.html
Concern that Argentina’s government
is reporting unreliable economic data is keeping Moody’s
Investors Service from boosting the nation’s credit rating, said
 Patrick Esteruelas , an analyst with the company.  Argentina is rated six levels below investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Service at B3. Standard & Poor’s raised the
South American nation’s rating one level to B on Sept. 13,
matching a July increase by Fitch Ratings and in line with
Belize, Honduras and Kenya.  “Argentina’s fundamentals support an upgrade,” Esteruelas
said at an  Emerging Markets Trade Association  event in New York.
“What is holding back Argentina’s rating is frankly issues over
institutional strength, issues over manipulation of data, how
that raises questions on its willingness to pay, and of course
the ongoing arrears with the Paris Club.”  While the market is betting the death of former president
 Nestor Kirchner  increased the chances of a change in government,
it may instead strengthen the administration of his wife,
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , Esteruelas said.  Fernandez “was arguably the more competitive of the two,
with much lower rejection numbers,” Esteruelas said.
“Former president Kirchner’s grip had weakened.”  Better Outlook  Moody’s hasn’t changed Argentina’s rating since raising it
from Caa1 in 2005, when the country reached an initial
restructuring settlement following its record default on $95
billion of bonds in 2001.  Argentina’s debt is undervalued relative to Brazil’s,  Hans Humes,  president of Greylock Capital Management, said at the
same event.  “Most elements are there for Argentina to be in much
better shape in the medium term,” Humes said. “It needs to be a
conversion, there is no question.”  Argentina’s outlook is better than that of Venezuela, which
is rated B2, one level higher, at Moody’s, and the nation’s
medium- to long-term prospects are “extremely good,” Humes said.  The nation’s isn’t in danger of defaulting on its debt and
has “phenomenal upside,”  Javier Kulesz , an economist at UBS,
said at the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  