-- Marks & Spencer's Bolland May Focus on Clothing, Costs Over Growth Abroad
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-11-05T10:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/marks-spencer-s-bolland-may-focus-on-costs-u-k-over-expansion-abroad.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc  Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  needs to revamp the U.K.
retailer’s clothing brands and accelerate cost savings rather
than pursue capital-intensive overseas expansion, shareholders
and analysts said.  Bolland, who took charge of Britain’s largest clothing
retailer on May 1, will outline his strategy on Nov. 9 following
a six-month review. The 51-year-old, who succeeded  Stuart Rose ,
has pledged a policy of “evolution not revolution.”  “The last thing we want them to do is go expanding like
billy-o and over-extend themselves,” said  Paul Mumford , a fund
manager at Cavendish Asset Management in London, who owns Marks
& Spencer  stock . “Domestically, the whole of the company has to
be looked at more closely. The next step is for Bolland to work
on the growth they are slowly starting to see.”  Sales growth  at Marks & Spencer has trailed rivals
including Tesco Plc, the country’s biggest retailer, over the
past five years as Tesco expanded its selection of non-food
items such as 35-pound ($57) snakeskin dresses and 15-pound
wedding bands. The  stock  has also lagged behind -- falling 4.7
percent compared with Tesco’s 35 percent advance in the period.  Bolland needs to sustain a recent revival in clothing sales
growth and market-share gains by clarifying its branding in
stores, said Panmure Gordon & Co. analyst  Jean Roche . Investors
would also welcome a faster cost-reduction plan than the 250
million pounds in savings by 2015 outlined last year by former
Finance Director  Ian Dyson  in its “Project 2020,” Roche said.  Turnaround Record  Bolland, who spent his first months in the job meeting
suppliers abroad and visiting stores, has a reputation for
reviving businesses. Within two years of his arrival as CEO of
 William Morrison Supermarkets Plc,  he turned a 250 million-pound
loss into a record profit of 554 million pounds, scrapping the
company’s century-old logo and introducing new store formats.  At Marks & Spencer, he’s starting with a new team of
executives.  Alan Stewart  began in October as finance director to
replace Dyson, who stepped down days after Bolland started.
 Robert Swannell , who helped defend the company against
billionaire  Philip Green ’s 2004 takeover bid, will replace Rose
as chairman in January. The company is also seeking new division
heads for its Internet, international and homeware businesses.  Marks & Spencer’s sales of clothing rose 7.8 percent in the
second quarter, a sixth straight quarterly increase, as men
bought suits and cashmere knitwear. The company’s fall-winter
advertising campaign, featuring Brazilian supermodel Ana Beatriz
Barros, led to a record season in footwear and 1.8 million extra
customers, the company said last month.  ‘Good Opportunity’  Reviving clothing “ought to be a good opportunity for
Bolland to demonstrate his marketing prowess,” Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc analyst  John Guy  said, in reference to the
CEO’s former position as chief operating officer at Dutch brewer
Heineken NV. Clothing and homeware sales account for 44 percent
of Marks & Spencer’s annual sales of 9.54 billion pounds.  Marks & Spencer needs to improve its marketing to
distinguish between its main brands, Guy said. The retailer
could reduce the number of overlapping own-brands and purchase
an existing one such as  N Brown Group Plc  for its plus-sized
offering or private-equity owned women’s work and casual
clothing retailer Hobbs, according to RBS research.  Improving the online clothing offering will also provide an
opportunity for the retailer to expand internationally without
operating more stores. That’s preferable to buying back stores
in western Europe that the company sold a decade ago, Guy said.
Marks & Spencer plans to repurchase some of the 38 stores in
continental Europe that it sold in 2001, the  Sunday Telegraph 
reported this week, without saying where it got the information.  International Sales  Bolland should “invest more in driving online sales
penetration abroad in a similar vein to  Next Plc ,” said Guy.
Next sells its clothing online in 38 markets including a new
website in Australia, helping boost sales at its Directory unit
7.9 percent in the third quarter, the company said this week.  Marks & Spencer has more than 320 owned and franchised
stores in 41 countries including Ireland, Greece and China.
International sales make up 10 percent of  revenue , a proportion
that the retailer plans to increase to 15 to 20 percent by 2011
with outlets in the Middle East, Europe and India.  Analysts are divided over the direction Bolland should take
with the food division, where executive director  John Dixon  has
added “Dine In” meals such as a Valentine’s Day dinner for two
including a soufflé, champagne and scallops for 20 pounds.  Food Division  The retailer reported comparable sales growth at its food
business of 3.7 percent in the three months through Oct. 2,
ahead of the 1.2 percent Tesco reported excluding petrol sales
in the U.K. in the period through Aug. 28 and the 2.9 percent
reported by J Sainsbury Plc on that basis. Marks & Spencer
controls 3.6 percent of the grocery market, according to Nielsen
market research, matching employee-owned Waitrose Ltd.  Roche says the retailer should consider larger-format
outlets with hot-food counters like the ones they have at the
Westfield shopping mall store in west London.  Credit Suisse’s  Tony Shiret  sees little growth opportunity
in food, particularly the 350-store Simply Food chain.  “They tried to create momentum with the smaller formats of
Simply Food, but I’m pretty sure they aren’t making money,”
Shiret said. “One of the biggest issues is they are a
relatively small market share player without momentum. I can see
a place for the food business, but I can’t see how it’s going to
grow.”  To be sure, UBS AG’s  Adam Cochrane  says Marks & Spencer
should look overseas to drive future growth, especially as the
U.K. implements budget cuts at the beginning of 2011.  “There is scope to move internationally, particularly
China,” said Cochrane, who has a “buy”  rating  on the shares.
“I’d view the European expansion plans in the maybe pile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in Berlin via 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 