-- Harper Drives Potash Credit Swaps Higher in Denying BHP Bid: Canada Credit
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-11-05T11:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/harper-spurs-rise-in-potash-credit-default-swaps-canada-credit.html
Credit-default swaps on  Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc.  jumped the most in almost two months after
Canada blocked BHP Billiton Ltd.’s bid for the company, raising
speculation the firm would turn to stock buybacks that damage
its creditworthiness.  Credit-default swaps that protect against losses on the
world’s largest fertilizer producer’s debt yesterday rose 11.3
basis points to 107.7, the biggest jump since Sept. 16, CMA
prices show. Contracts on Potash climbed to a high this year of
148.5 basis points on Sept. 23 after beginning 2010 at 61.4.  Canada’s Industry Minister  Tony Clement  blocked Melbourne-
based BHP’s $40 billion hostile bid for the company because the
proposed takeover doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada,
according to a Nov. 3 statement. Swaps on Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Potash signal that the company will use cash
to buy back stock that may be to the “detriment” of
bondholders, said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate
credit in New York at Brookfield Investment Management Inc.  “If Potash had gone into BHP’s structure, it would have
been moving into a best-in-class, more diversified name and
would have been rated A,” said Levington, whose firm oversees
$24 billion. “It also would have likely meant that no further
debt would have been issued at” Potash, he said.  Relative Ratings  The fertilizer producer is ranked Baa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A- by Standard & Poor’s, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. BHP is  rated  A1 by Moody’s, three steps higher
than Potash, and A+ by S&P, two levels more.  Contracts on Australia’s BHP, meanwhile, yesterday declined
14.7 basis points to 77.9, the lowest since August and the
biggest decline since May, CMA data shows. Potash has $3.7
billion of total debt as of June 30, according to a  regulatory
filing .  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s corporations instead of its
federal government held at the lowest since August.  Shaw
Communications Inc.  had its credit rankings affirmed by S&P and
Gateway Casinos & Entertainment Ltd. sold bonds.  Corporate bonds yield on average 142 basis points, or 1.42
percentage points, more than government debt, the narrowest
since Aug. 17. The spread has declined 1 basis point since the
end of October, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
The extra yield investors demand to own U.S. corporate bonds is
177 basis points, versus 165 basis points for global corporate
debentures.  Canadian corporate yields were 3.64 percent, down from 3.68
percent the day before, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index, which covers 709 bonds with a par value of C$279
billion. The index has gained 7.9 percent this year, versus 15.3
percent last year.  Shaw, Canwest  S&P affirmed its BBB- rating on  Shaw Communications  after
the Calgary-based cable provider completed its C$2 billion
acquisition of Canwest Global Communications Corp.’s television
assets.  “The terms of the purchase are largely consistent with our
expectations,” and Shaw’s gross debt to earnings ratio is
“appropriate for the rating,” S&P analysts  Madhav Hari  and
 Lori Harris  in Toronto wrote in the report.  Gateway Casinos, based in Vancouver, sold C$170 million of
8.875 percent debt maturing in November 2017 in a private
placement. The debt priced to yield 6.6 percentage points over
federal benchmarks.  In Canada’s provincial bond market, spreads rose 1 basis
point to 54, the widest in two weeks. Yields fell to 2.976
percent from 3.017 percent the prior day, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s provincial bond index. Yields fell to
2.897 percent on Oct. 19, the lowest since at least 1992.  Ontario Reopening  Ontario, Canada’s largest province, reoffered C$600 million
of its 4.65 percent bonds due in June 2041, bringing the total
outstanding to C$3.15 billion. The debt priced to yield 80 basis
points over benchmarks.  Canada’s five-year government bond rose, pushing the yield
down five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.98
percent. The price of the 3 percent security maturing in
December 2015 climbed 25 cents to C$104.93.  The gains helped push returns for the nation’s government
debt to 7.2 percent this year. That compares with 9.1 percent
for Treasuries and 5.96 percent for global government bonds,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Canada will sell C$3.5 billion of 1.5 percent bonds on Nov.
10. The bonds mature in December 2012, the Bank of Canada said
yesterday on its  Web site .  Canada’s five-year bond rose, pushing the yield down six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.97 percent. The
price of the 3 percent security maturing in December 2015
climbed 28 cents to C$104.95.  Bond Purchases  The extra yield investors demand to hold Canadian five-year
debt over comparable U.S. securities increased to 95 basis
points, the  widest  since 2003.  The American five-year note yield slid to a record low
after the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee said this week it
will focus its asset purchases through June on medium-maturity
debt in an effort to support the U.S. economic recovery.
Progress in bringing down joblessness has been “disappointingly
slow,” the Fed said Nov. 3. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest
trading partner.  Employers added 3,000 jobs last month, fewer than the
15,000 expected, according to the median  forecast  of 25
economists in a Bloomberg News survey, Statistics Canada
reported today from Ottawa.  Potash Rejection  The rejection of BHP by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government, which has sought to attract foreign investment,
marks only the second time a takeover was formally blocked in
Canada in the past 25 years. The government came under pressure
from the province of Saskatchewan, which argued the sale would
cut jobs and tax revenue and surrender control of a
“strategic” resource.  BHP has 30 days to appeal, Industry Minister Clement said
in the statement, without giving more reasons for his ruling.
The transaction would have been the second-biggest acquisition
in the country’s history.  Potash had already rejected BHP’s offer as too low and said
it was seeking alternative bids. Under the Investment Canada
Act, the federal government can block any transaction valued at
C$299 million ($298 million) or more if it finds it doesn’t
provide a “net benefit” to the country.  Biggest Decline  A reversal of the decision is “unlikely given the fierce
opposition to the deal in Canada,” bond-research firm
CreditSights Inc. said in a report.  “The rejection of BHP by the Canadian government will
deter other foreign companies from making a takeover attempt
for” Potash, New York-based CreditSights said.  Potash yesterday dropped $3.53, or 2.4 percent, to $141.97
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares earlier
tumbled 4.2 percent to $139.37, the biggest intraday decline
since May 4. The company gained 34 percent this year through
Nov. 3.  “Despite its improved fundamental outlook, we can’t see
how Potash’s share price could remain at these elevated levels
without some kind of transaction, likely a leveraging one,”
 Carol Levenson , director of research at Gimme Credit LLC in
Chicago, said today in a note.  ‘Bit Surprised’  Potash’s $500 million of 5.25 percent notes due in May 2014
rose 0.016 cent to 110.92 cents on the dollar in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “We’re not seeing any impact on the Canadian-dollar bonds
of any of the resource firms,” said  Robert Follis , head of
corporate fixed-income research at bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit. “Our market is a bit surprised by this, but
nowhere close to being shocked.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  