-- Art Technology Sued by Shareholder Over $1 Billion Oracle Acquisition
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-05T16:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/art-technology-sued-by-shareholder-over-1-billion-oracle-acquisition.html
Art Technology Group Inc. , a maker of
software for online marketing, was sued by a shareholder who
claims the company is worth more than Oracle Corp.’s $1 billion
takeover offer.  Oracle  said Nov. 2 that it would pay $6 a share for
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Art Technology, 46 percent more
than the Nov. 1  closing price  on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Terms
of the agreement, including a no-solicitation provision, may
dissuade other potential suitors, Art Technology shareholder
Gary Cronenwett said in his complaint, filed yesterday in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Art Technology’s  directors  also amended the company’s
“poison-pill” takeover defense to exclude Oracle and the
proposed transaction, Cronenwett said. Any potential acquirer
would remain subject to the poison pill.  “The proposed transaction does not adequately value ATG
shares,” Cronenwett said in the complaint. “Instead, as a
direct result of the board’s breach of duty, the proposed
transaction will benefit Oracle at the expense of ATG’s public
shareholders.”  Cronenwett, who is seeking to represent all Art Technology
 shareholders , is asking a judge to bar the deal. The company’s
shares were unchanged at $5.97 at 11:48 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq  trading .  The acquisition is Redwood City, California-based Oracle’s
ninth announced this year. Oracle, along with  competitors 
Hewlett-Packard Co. and International Business Machines Corp.,
are bolstering their offerings of corporate software and
technology within data centers. Hewlett-Packard has announced 8
deals so far this year, and IBM has announced 15.  Kim Maxwell , a spokeswoman for Art Technology, declined to
comment.  The case is Cronenwett v. Art Technology Group Inc.,
CA5955, Delaware Court of Chancery (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  