-- Harvard Taps Bond Markets for $1.04 Billion While Hoarding Cash
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-05T18:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/harvard-university-taps-bond-markets-for-1-04-billion-while-hoarding-cash.html
Harvard University plans to sell $741
million of tax-exempt municipal bonds next week as the oldest
and richest U.S. academic institution seeks to refinance
outstanding debt and fund construction while hoarding cash.  The offering follows Harvard’s $300 million sale yesterday
of taxable 30-year bonds at a coupon of 4.875 percent, its
lowest borrowing cost for that maturity, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Harvard last sold taxable debt in
December 2008.  Harvard more than tripled holdings of cash on hand outside
its endowment to $1 billion over two years, according to its
 annual financial report . The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
college is bolstering cash after losing a record 27 percent on
investments in the year ended June 30, 2009.  “In terms of balance sheet strength, it has definitely
improved,” said  Kimberly Tuby , the lead analyst on Harvard at
Moody’s Investors Service, adding the school is scaling back
some projects. “I would expect the pace of capital projects and
the resulting borrowing needs to be slower than what we saw
earlier in the decade.”  Harvard suspended work at the end of 2009 on a planned
science center in Allston, the Boston neighborhood across the
river from the school’s main campus.  The planned debt is graded Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by
Standard & Poor’s. The reason for the top rating goes beyond the
school’s balance sheet, said  John Nelson , a Moody’s managing
director.  ‘Philanthropic Flow’  The university has a strong reputation, is increasingly a
global institution and has a “huge philanthropic flow of
revenue that comes to it every year from supporters and
donors,” Nelson said.  Proceeds from Harvard’s debt offerings will be used to
repay outstanding bonds, pay down commercial paper and help fund
renovation of the  Fogg Art Museum  and other “capital
projects,” preliminary offering documents show.  “The Harvard deal will be of great interest to us,” said
 Mike Pietronico , who oversees $330 million in municipal holdings
as chief executive officer of New York-based Miller Tabak Asset
Management. “They’re bringing a high-quality tax-exempt deal at
an optimal time. With the Massachusetts market thin in supply,
that deal will see significant demand.”  Harvard was forced to borrow $2.5 billion in December 2008
at the height of the financial panic because many of its
investments were tied up in hard-to-sell assets. It held $300
million of cash, Treasuries and other easy-to-sell assets on
June 30, 2008, it said.  Harvard plans to sell the municipal debt through the
Massachusetts Development Finance Agency, the documents show,
which the state legislature last month merged with the
Massachusetts Health and Educational Facilities Authority.  The bonds will be general obligations, backed by the full
faith and credit of the university, with maturities ranging from
10 to 30 years. Most of the bonds in next week’s offering, more
than $444 million, will come due in October 2040, the documents
show.  The sale would push Harvard’s municipal issuance in 2010 to
more than $1.22 billion, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan A. McGrail in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  