-- Asian Currencies Gain as Fed's Stimulus Proposals Spur Inflows Into Region
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-11-06T00:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/asian-currencies-rise-most-in-month-as-fed-easing-encourages-carry-trades.html
Asian currencies logged their best
gain in three weeks, led by South Korea’s won, as the Federal
Reserve’s decision to pump more dollars into the financial
system spurred demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market
assets.  The Korean won strengthened 1.6 percent to 1,107.33 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar
gained 0.7 percent to NT$30.56 and the Philippine peso rose 0.9
percent to 42.625. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index ,
which tracks the region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding
the yen, climbed 0.4 percent for the week to a two-year high.  “The dollar will be even cheaper after the new round of
quantitative easing, so foreign investors will borrow the dollar
and buy Asian assets for their higher yields,” said  Henry Lin ,
a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong
Commercial Bank. “This will push Asian currencies higher.”  International Monetary Fund Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said yesterday the Fed’s stimulus has made carry
trades more attractive and may raise capital flows to emerging
economies and weaken the dollar. The Fed Open Market Committee
on Nov. 3 announced a plan to buy an extra $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to spur growth in the world’s biggest
economy. In carry trades, investors borrow in nations with low
interest rates and invest in higher-yielding assets.  Printing Money  Stock markets in India, South Korea and Taiwan attracted
more than $5 billion from abroad this week, according to stock
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. and Japan have cut
benchmark interest rates to near-zero and printed money to
support their economies, while central banks in India, China,
South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand have all raised
borrowing costs this year to contain inflation.  Taiwan’s dollar and the Philippine peso today hit their
highest levels in more than two years, while the won reached a
six-month high of 1,102.97 per dollar.  Former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , an adviser to President
 Barack Obama , said in Seoul yesterday that China and South Korea
have bounced back from the financial crisis, while the recovery
in developed economies has been unsatisfactory.  “With the Fed’s plans moving money into countries with
higher-yielding assets, a lot of that increased global liquidity
will come to South Korea,” said  Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist
at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “It has one of the fastest
growth recoveries in the region.”  The Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit both advanced by 1
percent to 29.67 and 3.086 per dollar respectively, and touched
their highest levels in 13 years during the week. India’s rupee
climbed 0.5 percent to 44.2.  Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah added 0.4 percent this
week to 8,903 versus the greenback. The Chinese yuan appreciated
0.2 percent to 6.6566. Financial markets in Singapore, India and
Malaysia were closed yesterday for public holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 