-- Asian Buyers Battle for $25 Million Qing Vase as Chinese Art Prices Surge
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-11-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/asian-buyers-battle-for-25-million-qing-vase-as-chinese-art-prices-surge.html
An 18th-century vase priced at $25
million is among the works offered by dealers and auction houses
at this week’s  Asian Art in London  event as Chinese collectors
pay more for trophy objects from their heritage.  The Qing dynasty porcelain, painted with a dragon in purple
enamels, dates from the reign of the Emperor Yongzheng. It is
the sole known survivor of a group made in the imperial palace,
Beijing, from 1723 to 1735, the Mayfair-based dealer  Eskenazi
Ltd.  said in its 50th anniversary catalog.  This palace rarity is offered less than a month after
another 18th-century imperial vase was bought by Chinese
collector Alice Cheng for a record HK$252.7 million ($32.6
million) at  Sotheby’s , Hong Kong. Asian art raised 245.5 million
pounds ($399 million) of auction sales at  Christie’s
International  in the first half, a 121 percent increase on the
same period last year.  “Western collectors are getting priced out of the
market,”  Giuseppe Eskenazi , 71, the gallery’s director, said in
an interview. “I’ve got five people interested in the vase and
in negotiations. They’re all Asian.”  Eskenazi is showing a dozen museum-quality Chinese pieces
spanning three millennia at Asian Art in London, whose 13th
annual edition opened yesterday.  “Fifty years ago it was passion that drove collectors,”
Eskenazi said. “Now there is more financial reasoning. The
explanation that the Chinese are buying so much because they
want to repatriate their art is questionable. They are conscious
of the investment side.”  House Clearance  Market-savvy buyers have also spotted the potential of an
elaborately decorated Qianlong-dynasty porcelain vase found
during a house clearance in west London and being offered by
 Bainbridges , a local auction house in Ruislip. The 16-inch-high
piece is described as being made in the imperial kilns in the
1740s and with a pierced double-wall body with roundels of
goldfish.  The vase, owned by an English family since the 1930s, is
estimated at 800,000 pounds to 1.2 million pounds, director
Peter Bainbridge said in an e-mail. It will be offered on the
afternoon of Nov. 11.  “If everyone believes in it, this might fetch more than
the $30-million vase in Hong Kong,” James Hennessy, director of
the London- and New York-based dealership  Littleton & Hennessy ,
said in an interview. “This discovery could be the piece of the
season.”  ‘Art of Scent’  Hennessy is one of 37 dealers mounting exhibitions during
the nine days of Asian Art in London. His “Art of Scent” show
presents 30 incense-burning objects from the Han to Qinq
dynasties. A 7th-century hand-held gilded-bronze censer is
priced at $600,000.  “The market is moving so quickly,” Hennessy said. “Most
of our initial enquiries and sales have come from China. We
expect to see the biggest turnout yet from the mainland Chinese
this year.”  There will be plenty of Far Eastern collectors and dealers
at the sales held by London’s three main auction houses.  Bonhams estimates that a Qianlong-period white jade
imperial seal will fetch as much as 3 million pounds at its Nov.
11 auction. The seal, carved with a dragon among cloud scrolls,
was used to make impressions in the corners of the Emperor’s
artworks and has been in a European private collection since the
1960s, according to the  catalog .  A 13th-century crackle-glazed “Guan” vase is expected to
fetch as much as 800,000 pounds at  Christie’s  on Nov. 9.
 Sotheby’s  estimates a 14th-century Yuan dynasty “peony” jar
will sell for as much as 600,000 pounds on Nov. 10.  The vase is being sold by the Hong Kong-based U.S.
collector Ronald Longsdorf. An almost identical example is on
display in London’s Victoria & Albert Museum,  Rosemary Scott ,
Christie’s international academic director of Asian art, said.  “It’s also possible that it could go to an Asian
collector,” Scott said. “Our number of mainland Chinese
clients has increased by 90 percent in the space of a year.”  Asian Art in London 2010 runs though Nov. 13.
Information:  http://www.asianartinlondon.com/   ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 