-- Massey Rises on Alpha Natural Takeover Speculation
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-11-05T22:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/massey-energy-rises-on-speculation-alpha-natural-bidding-for-mine-operator.html
Massey Energy Co. , owner of the Upper
Big Branch mine where 29 people died in April, surged after the
Wall Street Journal said the company is weighing a takeover
offer from  Alpha Natural Resources Inc.   Massey, based in Richmond, Virginia, jumped $4.73, or 11
percent, to $46.94 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Alpha Natural dropped $1.26, or 2.8 percent, to $44.45.  “Everyone out there is speculating that it’s Alpha because
it makes the most sense,” said  Pearce Hammond , an analyst at
Simmons & Co. International Ltd. in Houston. “There’s a whole
number of things besides the normal synergies.”  Massey, the largest coal producer in Central Appalachia,
has plunged 14 percent since an April 5 blast at the operation
near Montcoal, West Virginia, which was the worst U.S. coal
mining accident in 40 years.  Jeff Gillenwater , a Massey spokesman, declined to comment.
The company doesn’t comment on merger and acquisition matters,
he said in an e-mail.  Ted Pile , an Alpha spokesman, also refused
to comment in an e-mail.  The company is attractive because of its more than 1
billion tons of metallurgical coal reserves, used to produce
steel, according to Hammond. Benchmark prices for that fuel have
soared 62 percent to $209 a ton for the fourth-quarter benchmark
contract from $129 a year ago, driven by demand from China and
India.  Coal Prices  “M&A activity tends to heat up when metallurgical coal
prices are strong and getting stronger,” said  Jeremy Sussman ,
an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.  Alpha, based in Abingdon, Virginia, supplanted Consol
Energy Inc. as the third-largest U.S. coal producer when it
bought Foundation Coal Holdings Inc. on July 31, 2009, for $2
billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Crutchfield  said on a Nov. 3
conference call with analysts and investors that the company is
assessing “growth opportunities” in the U.S. and “beyond U.S.
borders” and that he “aims to penetrate” global growth
prospects.  The company may seek to buy Whitehaven Coal Ltd., an
Australian coal producer, after it said it’s open to takeovers
as well as transactions such as joint ventures, UBS AG said in a
Nov. 1 note to clients.  Crutchfield said this week that “on an international basis
right now things are pretty expensive.”  Massey’s Board  Massey’s board is in a “deliberate process” of exploring
ways to increase shareholder value, Chief Executive Officer  Don Blankenship  said on an Oct. 27 conference call with analysts and
investors.  Alpha, the largest metallurgical coal producer in the U.S.,
controls about 717 million tons of reserves in the Appalachian
region and 709.3 million tons in the Western U.S., which
includes Wyoming’s Powder River Basin.  If it were to acquire Massey, the company could use some of
the same railroads in Appalachia to ship the coal, some of the
same processing plants and spread costs across more tons of coal
in the region, Hammond said.  Last month Massey posted its first back-to-back quarterly
loss since the first quarter of 2004 amid the lost production
from Upper Big Branch and lower productivity due to increased
scrutiny from the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at  