-- Assured Says S&P Downgrade Based on ‘Unimaginable’
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-11-05T20:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/assured-ceo-says-s-p-downgrade-from-aaa-based-on-unimaginable-scenario.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Dominic Frederico  said Standard & Poor’s decision to
strip the bond insurer of the industry’s last AAA rating last
month was “unwarranted” and apparently based on a “truly
unimaginable” scenario.  The ratings company “didn’t provide us with certain
critical assumptions and key sensitivities” used in its
analysis, Frederico said today in a conference call with
analysts about the Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer’s third-
quarter earnings. He said such a disclosure should have been
required under the Dodd-Frank Act signed into law this year, and
he repeated a call for a regulator to oversee ratings companies.  S&P cut its financial strength and counterparty credit
rating on Assured Guaranty Corp. and Assured Guaranty Municipal
Corp. one level to AA+ on Oct. 25. The units’ AAA ratings were
the last held by a bond insurer after insurers from MBIA Inc. to
Ambac Financial Group Inc. lost the top rankings in 2008 amid a
housing crisis that saddled them with potential losses from
mortgage-related bets.  “As far as we can tell they have stretched their AAA
stress case loss projections to an extreme that assumes a future
depression of outside proportion,” Frederico said on the call
today.  One reason New York-based S&P gave for lowering the ratings
was a change in assumptions for losses on collateralized debt
obligations backed by trust preferred securities that Assured
guaranteed. Trust preferred securities combine characteristics
of debt and equity and were often issued by banks so the notes
could be counted as capital and the interest payments as tax
deductions.  ‘Unimaginable Scenario’  “We estimate S&P would have had to project 1,600 bank
failures with no recoveries,” Frederico said. “This is truly
an unimaginable scenario, and one can hardly conceive of what
would be left of the U.S. economy or our financial system under
such conditions.”  Jeff Sexton, a spokesman for the ratings company, said in
an e-mailed statement that “Standard & Poor’s believes that it
provided Assured Guaranty Ltd. with relevant information about
our analysis that resulted in the downgrade of the company and
its actions were in compliance with our policies and applicable
laws.”  Assured, backed by billionaire  Wilbur Ross , fell 36 cents,
or 1.8 percent, to $20.01 as of 4:08 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 8 percent this
year.  Insurance Demand Drops  David Veno , an S&P analyst, also cited a drop in demand for
bond insurance in the company’s decision last month to  downgrade
Assured .  “The current state of the financial guarantee market, with
only one organization issuing new policies, is symptomatic of
investors’ and issuers’ diminished demand for bond insurance,”
Veno said in an Oct. 25 statement. The longer that persists, the
analyst said, “the more limited the potential for the
reemergence of a strong and vital bond insurance sector.”  Only Assured writes new insurance in the $2.8 trillion
municipal-bond market after leaders MBIA and Ambac faltered
because of guarantees on securities linked to home loans that
soured.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which entered the market
guaranteeing municipal bonds in late 2007, backed off after
Chairman  Warren Buffett  told investors in February 2009 that
insuring the debt appeared to have become “a dangerous
business.” Macquarie Group Ltd. will abandon efforts to start a
municipal bond insurer, Moody’s said in an Oct. 25 report.  Profit Rises  “Such a limited field raises questions about the sector’s
long-term relevance,” Moody’s analysts led by Ranjini
Venkatesan wrote in the report.  Assured  yesterday said net income rose to $180.9 million in
the third quarter, reversing a year-earlier loss partly because
it successfully forced sellers of mortgage bonds it guaranteed
to buy back soured home loans.  Net income climbed to 96 cents a share, from a net loss of
$35 million, or 22 cents a share, a year earlier, the company
said in a statement.  Operating income  more than quadrupled to
$222.8 million, or $1.19 per share. That included a $55.8
million tax benefit from its Assured Guaranty Municipal Holdings
unit, the former Financial Security Assurance Holdings Ltd. that
the company acquired in July 2009.  Loan Buybacks  Excluding that, operating income would have been 89 cents a
share. The average  estimate  of seven analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for operating income of 89 cents a share.  Assured is gaining from efforts to get mortgage-loan
originators to buy back loans it says were marketed for sale
using faulty information. Assured said last month that
originators have repurchased or agreed to buy back $412 million
of loans, $111 million in the third quarter.  The company has reviewed a total of $5.3 billion in loans
and identified $4.7 billion with breaches of representations and
warranties, Frederico said on the conference call today. It
ultimately expects to review about $20 billion of loans, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  