-- Latin America's Central Banks May Delay Rate Rises on Fed Move, HSBC Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-05T14:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/latin-america-s-central-banks-may-delay-rate-rises-on-fed-move-hsbc-says.html
Latin American central banks may
delay interest rate increases as their currencies strengthen
because of the Federal Reserve’s move to stimulate the U.S.
economy, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  Policy makers may be “reluctant” to raise borrowing costs
to avoid luring additional foreign inflows as investors seek
higher yields, analysts at HSBC, including  Pablo Goldberg , wrote
in a note to clients dated yesterday. Government measures will
likely fail to contain currency gains in Latin America, which
should continue in the “medium term,” they wrote.  “While emerging-market yields are reaching new lows and
Latam currencies are close to their most appreciated levels in
real terms, a continuation of the ‘low for longer’ scenario
suggests valuations could get even more stretched,” the
analysts wrote. “Although nations have used capital controls
for many years, we might be on the verge of seeing a major
proliferation.”  The Fed announced this week a plan to buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries to boost liquidity, prompting
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to say the U.S. is
throwing “money from a helicopter.” The real has surged 38
percent against the dollar since the end of 2008 even after
Brazil last month tripled a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income
investments to 6 percent.  Brazil’s efforts to damp inflows may hurt domestic bond
prices while boosting Mexican debt, according to HSBC.  “In a world of abundant liquidity, Mexican rates stand to
benefit from the imposition of capital controls elsewhere and it
will stand out on a risk-adjusted basis,” the analysts wrote.
In Brazil, “foreigners have stayed away from the local market.
We are skeptical that the recent local-driven rally is
sustainable in the long end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  