-- Latvia's Three-Month Rigibor Drops Below Euribor for First Time Since 2007
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-11-05T13:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/latvia-s-three-month-rigibor-drops-below-euribor-for-first-time-since-2007.html
The cost of borrowing in lati for
three-months fell below the cost in euros for the first time
since January 2007 today because of an oversupply of lati, said
 Kaspars Jansons , head of treasury at Citadele Bank AS.  “This is basically over-liquidity in lats,” Jansons said
by telephone. “There is almost 1 billion lati ($2 billion)
already in excess liquidity in the system, and there are almost
no instruments in which to invest.”  Asking rates for three-month loans at the Riga interbank
offered rate, or  Rigibor , fell 9 basis points to 1.02 today,
while the euro-area rate, known as  Euribor , stayed at 1.05. The
difference, or spread, between the rates reached 2,868 basis
points in June 2009 when speculation mounted that the lats,
which has a fixed exchange rate to euro, would be devalued.  Central Bank Governor  Ilmars Rimsevics  yesterday cut the
interest rate on overnight deposits to 0.25 percent from 0.375
percent and the 7-day rate to 0.375 percent from 0.5 percent in
an effort to force commercial banks to lend more of the money
they keep on deposit at the central bank. Commercial bank
lending fell an annual 8 percent in September, Rimsevics said.  “Governments are issuing T-bills in too small sizes” to
pick up the excess liquidity, Jansons said today. The treasury
sold 8 million lati of 6-month T-bills at an average yield of
0.84 percent during a Nov. 3 auction.  ‘No Demand’  Latvian interest rates soared after the Baltic nation
turned to a group led by the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.6
billion) loan in November 2008 after its second-biggest bank
failed. The economy has begun to recover from the world’s
deepest recession, with gross domestic product expanding on a
quarterly basis in first two quarters of this year.  “We would be extremely glad to lend out more in lati in
extra liquidity, but there is no demand,” said  Karlis Danevics ,
head of SEB AB’s Latvian credit department. “We have
reintroduced consumer loans with some of this liquidity,” and
rates on consumer loans “have fallen considerably,” he said.  Rate cuts “will work to increase lending, but to a very
small extent,” Danevics said. “T-bills or corporate bonds
would be a preferable” for the excess liquidity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at   aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  