-- RBA Sees Faster Growth, Inflation Slowing on Dollar
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-05T01:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/australian-central-bank-sees-slower-inflation-faster-growth-on-currency.html
Australia’s economic growth will
accelerate next year, spurred by trade and mining investment,
while the local currency’s rise to parity with the U.S. dollar
will help slow  inflation , the central bank said.  “Australia’s terms of trade are estimated to have reached
around the highest level since at least Federation” in 1901,
the Reserve Bank of Australia said in a quarterly  report  today.
“Investment intentions in the resources sector are very strong,
and the pipeline of work to be done is large.”  The RBA reiterated its forecast that economic growth will
strengthen to 3.75 percent by the end of 2011, climbing to 4
percent by the end of 2012. Consumer prices will rise 2.75
percent through June 2012; previously, the RBA had estimated
inflation of 3.25 percent through mid-2011.  The forecasts reflect an economy where surging shipments of
iron ore and coal to China are stoking a jobs boom, while the
stronger currency lowers imports prices and domestic demand
wanes after seven interest-rate increases since October 2009.
RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised the overnight cash rate target
to 4.75 percent this week, ending a five-month pause.  The boost to growth from trade is “driving everything”
and “signaling rates will move higher,” said  Su-Lin Ong ,
senior economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney. She
expects the benchmark rate to rise to 5.5 percent next year.  Currency’s Move  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0136 at 12:57 p.m., from
$1.0151 just before the report was released. The currency has
risen about 13 percent against the U.S. dollar this year.  “The near-term forecast for year-ended inflation has been
lowered, partly reflecting the recent appreciation of the
exchange rate,” the central bank said in the report released in
Sydney. “The exchange rate is playing a stabilizing role.”  The RBA also said that while the local dollar’s recent
appreciation is “broadly consistent” with increases in
commodity prices and interest rate differentials, there is a
risk it may strengthen for reasons unrelated to these factors.  “If this were to occur, both growth and inflation would
likely be lower than in the central scenario,” the RBA said.  Stevens boosted the overnight cash rate target a quarter
percentage point on Nov. 2 and said the economy is on the verge
of a “a large expansionary shock” as shipments of resources to
China boost trade and help lower unemployment.  Higher Rates  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest home
lender, said after the decision it will raise its standard
mortgage interest rate by almost double the central bank’s
increase. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has urged banks not to boost
borrowing costs by more than central bank increases and called
Commonwealth Bank’s move a “cynical cash grab.”  The RBA said today that “in aggregate, the major banks’
funding costs are likely to have been little changed over recent
months though trends differ for individual banks depending on
their mix of funding.” It also said the average mortgage rate
would likely increase “marginally above its post-1996 average”
of about 7 percent.  Stevens raised rates even as the nation’s consumer price
index rose 0.7 percent from the second quarter, less than the
0.8 percent median estimate of economists, a government report
showed Oct. 27. Prices gained 2.8 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier.  The central bank aims to keep inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  Fed Policy  The RBA’s rate move also came before the U.S. Federal
Reserve decided to pump additional stimulus into the world’s
largest economy. The divergence in monetary policies has also
supported demand for the Australian dollar.  Australia’s unemployment rate, at 5.1 percent in September,
is about half the level of joblessness in the U.S. and euro zone.  “A further increase in wage growth is expected over time,
as the labor market tightens further,” the RBA report said.
While the labor market is “relatively strong,” companies are
hiring workers “without too much difficulty,” it said.  The RBA said its growth and inflation forecasts assume the
cash rate moves in line with market expectations, adding that
“money-market yields suggest markets currently expect a further
increase in the cash rate in the first half of 2011.”  One risk to the inflation picture is that consumer and
businesses confidence improves. If that occurred, together with
mining projects, “capacity pressures would emerge, wage growth
would rise more quickly than currently expected and there would
be a significant risk that inflation expectations could
increase.”  Chinese Demand  Demand from China, Australia’s largest trading partner, is
fueling a resources investment boom in projects such as  Chevron
Corp. ’s A$43 billion ($43.6 billion) Gorgon LNG venture in
Western Australia and worsening a shortage of skilled labor.
Earlier this week, BG Group Plc said it will begin building a
$15 billion liquefied natural gas venture in Queensland,
generating 5,000 construction jobs.  The bank’s seven moves since October 2009 have damped
consumer spending, which accounts for more than half the economy.
There has been “a welcome cooling in the housing market” and
the “appetite for new debt also remains more subdued,” the
central bank said today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  