-- Australia, N.Z. Dollars Set for Second Weekly Gain on Higher Rate Outlook
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-05T04:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/australia-n-z-dollars-head-for-second-weekly-gain-on-higher-rate-outlook.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars headed for a second weekly gain as investors bet both
nations will increase interest rates even as the U.S. and Japan
keep borrowing costs near zero.  Australia’s dollar traded above parity with the U.S.
currency after the Reserve Bank said in a quarterly report today
that economic growth will accelerate next year and the so-called
Aussie’s advance will help slow inflation. New Zealand’s
currency traded near the strongest since April 2008 as traders
this week added to bets policy makers will raise rates over the
next 12 months.  The central bank’s statement “supports the Australian
dollar,” said  Robert Rennie , head of currency research in
Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest
lender. “The picture the RBA is painting is the economy will
continue to grow at or above trend and inflation will remain in
the upper part of the band. So risks are clearly that we’ll see
further monetary-policy tightening from the RBA.”  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0143 as of 3:43 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0149 in New York yesterday, set for a 3.1 percent
gain this week, the most since July. The currency was at 82.01
yen from 81.95, having risen 3.7 percent since Oct. 29.  New Zealand’s dollar bought 79.30 U.S. cents from 79.45
cents, poised for a 3.5 percent advance this week. The currency
climbed to 79.76 cents yesterday, the strongest since April 2008.
The so-called kiwi was little changed at 64.11 yen.  ‘Very Strong’  “Investment intentions in the resources sector are very
strong, and the pipeline of work to be done is large,” the
Reserve Bank of Australia said in its quarterly report today.  The RBA reiterated its forecast that economic growth will
accelerate to 3.75 percent by the end of next year, and to 4
percent by the end of 2012. Consumer prices will rise 2.75
percent through June 2012, the RBA said. The central bank
previously estimated inflation of 3.25 percent through mid-2011.  The next rate increase will be during the first quarter of
2011,  Paul Bloxham , chief economist for Australia and New
Zealand at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney, wrote in a note today.
The overnight cash rate target will be raised by 1 percentage
point through next year, according to the former RBA official.  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in  Australia  and 3 percent
in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S. and
Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  Rate Bets  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand will increase its benchmark
rate by 90 basis points over the next year, according to a
Credit Suisse AG index. The prediction was 76 basis points at
the end of last week.  Gains in the Australian and New Zealand dollar were
tempered by concerns budget deficits in some European nations
will widen. Irish bonds fell for an eighth day yesterday, the
longest run in two years, as the government gave details of a
budget that some investors are concerned may not pass.  “You could think of some risk events that could come out
of Europe because of the government debt problems there,” said
 Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, the nation’s largest lender. “It could certainly be
a catalyst for a significant pull back in the Aussie and kiwi.”  Demand for both South Pacific nations’ currencies also
weakened on speculation their recent advance has been too rapid.  The New Zealand dollar’s 14-day relative strength index
against the greenback held for a second day above 70, a level
that indicates an asset’s price may reverse course. The RSI was
at 69 for Australia’s dollar versus the U.S. currency.  -Editors: Nicholas Reynolds, Nate Hosoda  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 