-- Australia Slips to Worst Cricket Losing Streak in 14 Years Before Ashes
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-05T14:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/australia-slips-to-worst-cricket-losing-streak-in-14-years-before-ashes.html
Sri Lanka beat Australia by 29 runs
in the second one-day cricket international to win the series
and inflict the home team’s seventh straight loss in all formats,
its worst run in 14 years.  Sri Lanka scored 213-3 in the rain-affected game in Sydney
before dismissing the Australians for 210 to take an
unassailable lead in the three-game contest and seal its first
series win in Australia. The rain meant Australia needed to
chase 244 in 39 overs following a Duckworth/Lewis calculation,
the formula for dealing with weather-shortened matches.  Australia, which hosts England in the best-of-five Ashes
series from Nov. 25, last fell to seven defeats in a row in  1996 ,
when it lost a Test in India and six one-day games against Sri
Lanka, India and South Africa.  “We knew how important it was to play well here leading
into the Ashes and we haven’t done that,” Australia captain
 Ricky Ponting  told a televised news conference after the match.
“It’s about time we get back to playing the type of cricket we
know we can.”  Upul Tharanga  was top scorer, with 86 off 112 balls, for
the Sri Lankans. The visitors won the series opener in Melbourne
two days ago by one wicket, having slumped to 107-8 chasing 240
for victory.  Chasing Runs  The Duckworth/Lewis calculation left Australia chasing 31
runs more than Sri Lanka had scored in two fewer overs. Opener
 Shane Watson  hit 40 and four others scored 23 or more but
tumbling wickets hurt Australia’s chances. The teams meet again
in two days in Brisbane.  “It’s a big achievement for the guys and all of them
played very well,” Sri Lanka captain  Kumar Sangakkara  said.
“It’s a great feeling to put the series away 2-0 but we have
one more to go.”  Ponting will skip the final game to return to state cricket
in order to get ready for the Ashes.  “This allows him what we believe to be the best
preparation to lead the Australian Test match team in Brisbane
for the first Ashes Test match,”  Greg Chappel , a member of
Cricket Australia’s National Selection Panel, said in a
statement.  England opened its Ashes tour today against Western
Australia in Perth. The home team declared its first innings in
the three day match at 242-8.  Stuart Broad  was the pick of
England’s bowlers, claiming three wickets for 47.  Alastair Cook 
fell for five in England’s reply. The visitors were 10-1 at
stumps.  England, which won back the Ashes with a 2-1 series victory
last year, faces two more tuneups against South Australia and
Australia’s second-string team before the first Test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  