-- House Finance Panel Republicans Said to Back Bachus as Chairman
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-05T19:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bachus-is-said-to-get-party-s-support-for-house-finance-panel-chairmanship.html
The top Republicans on the House
Financial Services Committee will support Alabama Representative
 Spencer Bachus ’s bid for the panel’s chairmanship over a
challenge from Representative  Ed Royce  of California, according
to two House aides briefed on the matter.  The six ranking Republicans on the panel today have agreed
to sign a letter circulated by Representative  Randy Neugebauer 
of Texas, the second-ranking Republican on the committee, the
aides said.  Bachus is “the best person to continue leading our team”
as the panel approaches an overhaul of  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac, the mortgage companies in federal conservatorship, and the
implementation of the financial regulation enacted in July,
according to the draft letter obtained today by Bloomberg news.  The letter underlines the support Bachus has built in his
role as senior Republican on the committee even if it doesn’t
ensure his victory. A panel of selected Republicans, not the
Financial Services Committee members, will meet after Congress
returns the week of Nov. 15 to pick the chairmen of the
chamber’s committees.  “This will be decided by the House GOP leadership and the
steering Committee, not subcommittee ranking members,” Audra
McGeorge, Royce’s spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Bachus has been the top Republican on the panel that
oversees banking and finance since 2007. The day after the Nov.
2 election where Republicans claimed more than 60 seats to sweep
back into power in the House, Royce said he also would seek the
post.  ‘Critical Time’  “This is about the need for strong leadership during a
critical time in our capital markets and our economy,” Royce
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Beth Breeding, Neugebauer’s spokeswoman, confirmed that the
letter originated in the lawmaker’s office.  Bachus led a Republican effort against President  Barack Obama ’s financial overhaul bill that “succeeded in driving the
reform debate and denying the Democrats the political ‘win’ they
so desperately needed in the wake of other unpopular Obama
administration initiatives like health care and the stimulus,”
the letter states.  The letter has been circulated to the top members of each
of the panel’s six subcommittees:  Judy Biggert  of Illinois,
 Shelley Moore Capito  of West Virginia,  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas,
 Scott Garrett  of New Jersey,  Gary Miller  of California and  Ron Paul  of Texas.  Biggert and Capito have said they will join Neugebauer in
signing the letter, their spokespeople  Zachary Cikanek  and Jamie
Corley said today. Garrett also will sign, aides said. Spokesmen
for Hensarling, Paul and Miller didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  