-- Bank of America’s Lawyers Demand Names in Mortgage-Bond Battle
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-05T20:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bank-of-america-lawyers-demand-names-in-mortgage-bond-fight-with-investors.html
Bank of America Corp. , responding to
the attorney for a bondholder group that’s pushing the bank to
repurchase soured home loans, demanded proof the lawyer is
authorized to mount an attack on behalf of investors including
units of  BlackRock Inc.  and MetLife Inc.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz’s  Theodore N. Mirvis  is
among lawyers for Bank of America who said in a letter yesterday
to Houston-based Gibbs & Bruns LLP’s  Kathy Patrick  that they
want the names of individuals who approved signatures on a
letter Patrick sent the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender
last month. They also want to know whether the board of
directors for the bondholders Patrick said she represents
approved signing of her correspondence.  “Troubling aspects of your letter strongly suggest that it
was written for an improper purpose, or in furtherance of an
ulterior agenda,” Bank of America’s attorneys wrote, saying
they see no need to take action in response to Patrick’s letter.  Investors are stepping up efforts to recoup losses on
mortgage bonds, which plummeted in value amid the worst slump in
home prices since the 1930s. Bank of America Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said Oct. 19 the lender will “defend
our shareholders” by disputing any unjustified demands for
mortgage buybacks.  Bank of America’s lawyers said they couldn’t determine
“whether any investigation of your allegations is warranted”
unless Patrick proves her clients own as much of the bonds
created by the bank’s Countrywide Financial Corp. unit as they
claim. Patrick also needs to show on a deal-by-deal basis how
the bank is falling short of its responsibilities in servicing
the home loans in the 115 securitizations at issue, they said.  Moynihan’s Surprise  Moynihan, 51, said yesterday that he was surprised by the
Oct. 19 letter from investors, which included the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.  Moynihan’s company has resolved other debt disputes with
the investors, and he has called BlackRock CEO  Larry Fink  to
discuss the mortgage buyback issue, he said.  Patrick declined to comment.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of America, confirmed
the letter’s authenticity and declined to comment further.  Lawyers  Brian E. Pastuszenski  of Goodwin Procter LLP and
Marc T.G. Dworsky of Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP also signed the
yesterday’s letter to Patrick, which was reported earlier today
by the New York Times.  ‘War of Attrition’  Banks have been waging a “war of attrition” in seeking to
dissuade bondholders from invoking their contractual rights to
force repurchases of certain bad loans,  David Grais , a lawyer at
Grais & Ellsworth LLP, said on Oct. 27 at a conference in New
York. Grais, who organized the meeting to discuss investors’
options, represents bondholders suing banks including Bank of
America and New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Owners of the bonds Patrick’s clients now hold have
suffered almost $8 billion of losses on the underlying
mortgages, and more than $22 billion of the remaining loans are
at least 30 days late, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The underlying loan balances, originally $105 billion, stand at
$47 billion after defaults, loan refinancings and home sales.  Brian Beades , a spokesman for New York-based BlackRock,
declined to comment. The company, the world’s largest money
manager, said Nov. 3 that Bank of America, which own a 34
percent stake in BlackRock, plans to sell at least 34.5 million
of those shares.  ‘Taken Aback’  Bank of America’s  lawyers also wrote that they were “taken
aback” that the investors were attacking Countrywide “for not
foreclosing on homeowners quickly enough and for making loan
modifications that may keep borrowers in their homes.”  Patrick has said her clients are concerned processing
mistakes and insufficient staffing at Bank of America are
unnecessarily delaying  foreclosures , though her clients aren’t
opposed to loans being reworked for “deserving borrowers.”  The investors are also challenging the way the bank handles
loans it discovers didn’t match Countrywide’s representations.
If the lender uncovers such discrepancies while working with
homeowners on mortgage modifications, it should repurchase the
debt from bondholders, Patrick’s letter said.  Bank of America  may also be dragging out the time it takes
to deal with bad home loans in order to boost its income from
servicing the mortgages, according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  