-- Bank of America, Citigroup Said to Test Apple IPhone
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bank-of-america-citigroup-said-to-test-iphone-as-blackberry-alternative.html
Steve Jobs  may soon bag a pair of the
biggest U.S. banks as iPhone supporters.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc.  are considering
whether to let employees use the Apple Inc. phone as an
alternative to  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry for
corporate e-mail, said three people familiar with the plans. The
banks are testing software for the iPhone that’s designed to
make it secure enough for company messages, said the people, who
didn’t want to be named because the plans aren’t public.  The tests are the latest sign that RIM may be losing its
tight grip on the corporate smartphone market. Companies are
experimenting with alternatives, including the iPhone and
devices that use Google Inc.’s Android software, as their
workers adopt those smartphones for personal use.  “People are delighted with their iPhones and Android
phones and they want to use them for work,” said  Roger Entner ,
head of telecom research at Nielsen Co. “The result is RIM now
has real competition for corporate customers.”  Apple, led by  Chief Executive Officer Jobs , said last month
that 80 percent of the Fortune 500 companies are deploying or
testing the iPhone, including  Procter & Gamble Co.  and  General
Electric Co.   JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is exploring whether to let
workers use iPhones and Android phones for corporate e-mail, two
people familiar with the bank’s plans said in September.  Bank of America, which has about 284,000 employees, and
Citigroup, with  258,000 workers , are also testing Android
smartphones, one person said. The efforts are intended to widen
the choice of devices employees can use, rather than replace the
BlackBerry, the person said.  1,000-Person Trials  The trials at Bank of America and Citigroup involve more
than 1,000 employees, two people said. Testing, which typically
takes four to six weeks, is advanced at Bank of America and will
be followed by a pilot project before potentially wider
implementation, one person said.  Laura Hunter, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment on any specific
trials, adding that “we continuously evaluate new and
innovative technologies.”  Janis Tarter , a spokeswoman for New
York-based Citigroup, said the company doesn’t comment on
supplier relationships, though it is always looking for ways to
enhance productivity.  Jeff McDowell , a RIM senior vice president, said the number
of its corporate subscribers continues to grow and the company
continues to lead the market.  “The opportunities for both corporate-issued and employee-
purchased smartphones are growing,” he said in an e-mail. “RIM
provides the best overall platform for chief information
officers to address both scenarios without compromising security
or manageability.”  Apple’s Appeal  Research In Motion , based in Waterloo, Ontario, has lost 15
percent in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading  this year before today,
while Apple, based in Cupertino, California, has climbed 51
percent. RIM rose 89 cents to $57.11 yesterday, and Apple
advanced $5.47 to $318.27.  Apple is taking steps to make its products more appealing
to businesses and challenge the BlackBerry, which won over Wall
Street banks and corporations with its security and reliability.  Apple  is working to improve the iPhone’s security by
strengthening encryption tools, adding the ability to set longer
passcodes and integrating with server computers that can wipe
out or lock an iPhone if it’s lost. The company also enlisted
computer-services provider  Unisys Corp.  to help it sell more
devices to corporate customers.  Natalie Harrison,  an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment
beyond referring to the earlier statistics about growing
corporate use of the iPhone.  Security Improvements  While both RIM and Apple’s share of the global mobile-phone
market rose last quarter from a year earlier as more consumers
upgraded to smartphones, Apple moved into fourth position,
knocking RIM into fifth, according to research firm IDC. The
popularity of Apple’s latest model, the iPhone 4, helped the
company sell more handsets than its Canadian rival.  UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank, has also said it is
considering letting employees use iPhones for company messaging.
 Standard Chartered Bank Plc  said in May it’s switching from the
BlackBerry to the iPhone and expects to have 15,000 distributed
by year-end. More companies are set to follow suit, according to
an August survey done by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Waning BlackBerry Loyalty  Of 200 companies polled in the U.S. and U.K., 74 percent
let their employees use devices other than BlackBerrys, the
research showed. For the U.S. alone, the figure was 83 percent.
Cost savings and employee preference were the two biggest
reasons cited by companies for the shift in the study. Employees
would rather own an iPhone and are increasingly willing to buy
the device themselves, which helps companies cut costs, said
 Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein in London.  Other research suggests BlackBerry loyalty may be fading
among the bankers, lawyers and government workers who drove
 RIM’s  initial success. About 42 percent of BlackBerry users say
they want to stick with the brand when they buy a new phone,
according to an August survey by Nielsen. The rate is 89 percent
for iPhone owners and 71 percent for Android devices, which are
made by companies including  Motorola Inc.  and  HTC Corp.   “RIM clearly has to defend its turf,” said Nielsen’s
Entner. “Superb e-mail is no longer enough. RIM has to
evolve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  