-- BOJ Says to Use New Fund to Buy J-REITS Rated AA or Higher
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-11-05T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bank-of-japan-to-use-62-billion-fund-to-buy-j-reits-rated-aa-or-higher.html
The Bank of Japan said it will buy
Japanese real estate investment trusts with credit ratings of AA
or higher, providing more details on how it will invest money in
a new fund that aims to stimulate demand and defeat deflation.  Japan’s central bank will also purchase exchange-traded
funds that track the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  and the  Topix
index , the BOJ said in a statement after its policy board
decided today in Tokyo to leave unchanged its  key interest rate 
and cash provision targets. It brought forward the two-day
gathering by more than a week so it could complete details about
the 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) fund unveiled last month that
will also buy government and corporate debt.  Coming two days after the Federal Reserve’s decision to
pour $600 billion into the market to support growth, the BOJ’s
inaction on policy underscores its relief that the U.S. move
didn’t lead to a yen surge. Should the currency’s rise resume
and threaten exporters in coming months, Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  may be forced to boost the asset fund, said economist
 Takehiro Sato .  “The size of the fund is becoming a sort of new policy
target for the BOJ’s monetary policy easing,” said Sato, chief
Japan economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“The governor himself has already flagged his readiness to
expand the fund.”  Unanimous Decision  The BOJ policy board voted unanimously to keep the
overnight call rate between zero and 0.1 percent. It also
maintained the sizes of its 5 trillion-yen fund and a 30
trillion yen-program to encourage bank lending.  All 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News after the Fed
decision said they didn’t expect the BOJ to follow the U.S. move
with additional monetary stimulus today.  “A sense of relief is probably spreading among BOJ policy
makers for now because a big yen jump has been avoided,” said
 Jun Ishii , chief fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. Even so, “the governor will probably
keep underlining that the expansion of the fund is a probable
option for the BOJ.”  The Japanese currency has strengthened 0.4 percent against
the dollar since the Fed move on Nov. 3, and traded at 80.83 at
12:55 p.m. today in Tokyo. The Nikkei yesterday advanced most in
seven weeks as the dollar strengthened against the yen after the
Fed’s announcement and is up 2.7 percent today.  The BOJ plans to buy 3.5 trillion yen in government debt,
500 billion yen each of corporate bonds and commercial paper,
450 billion yen in exchange-traded funds and 50 billion yen for
real-estate investment trusts. The bank will buy these assets
over a year.  Next Week  It will purchase J-REITs that have a trading record of more
than 200 days a year and total value of more than 20 billion yen
per annum, the BOJ said in a statement. The bank will start
buying government debt early next week. REITs and ETFs will be
purchased through trust banks from markets, it said.  Shirakawa yesterday called the asset-purchase fund an
“unprecedented” and “extraordinary” step for a central bank,
aimed at pushing down borrowing costs further.  “There’s about a 13 times difference in the amount of risk
when comparing buying five-year U.S. Treasuries to ETF,” he
said.  The central bank said today the “recovery seems to be
pausing,” a more pessimistic assessment than in October, when
it said the pace of the economic rebound is “slowing down.”  The BOJ program falls short of what’s needed to end
deflation and alleviate the damage from the yen’s climb to a 15-
year high against the dollar, economists from Citigroup Inc. to
Morgan Stanley have said.  100 Trillion Yen  Asset purchases of 100 trillion yen “would be more
appropriate,” Citigroup Chief Economist  Willem Buiter  and
analysts including Tokyo-based  Kiichi Murashima  said last week.
The BOJ may need to ease policy further in the January-March
period, when slower inflation in the U.S. could prompt the Fed
to buy more government bonds, Murashima said.  A strong yen threatens to depress Japan’s already weakening
economic expansion by eroding profits of exporters such as
Nissan Motor Co. and Sony Corp. and worsening deflation.  Nissan expects the yen’s strength to cut operating profits
for the year ending March 2011 by 185 billion yen, the company
said in a statement yesterday.  BOJ policy makers last week forecast consumer price growth
of 0.1 percent in the fiscal year starting April 2011, and
predicted a 0.6 percent increase the following year. Both
projections are below the 1 percent price increase that board
members consider representing price stability.  Government reports last week suggested that an appreciating
currency and decreasing overseas demand for Japanese products
are causing the nation’s economy to lose momentum.  Factory
production  slumped by more than double the pace economists
forecast and deflation deepened in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  