-- Bank of America Said to Raise $300 Million LCM CLO
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-11-05T20:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bank-of-america-said-to-price-300-million-loan-fund-for-lcm.html
Bank of America Corp.  has raised a
$300 million collateralized loan obligation for LCM Asset
Management LLC as the Federal Reserve keeps interest rates at
record lows, driving investors to seek higher-yielding assets.  The top-ranked portion, a $197 million slice rated AAA by
Standard & Poor’s, priced to pay lenders 160 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate, said two people familiar
with the transaction, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private. LCM, based in New York, is owned by  Tetragon
Financial Group Ltd.   The market for CLOs, a type of collateralized debt
obligation that pool leveraged loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk, is reviving after sales evaporated
during the credit crisis. Prices of CLO pieces and the
underlying debt have climbed this year as default rates declined
and the Fed took measures to boost the economy, including a plan
announced this week to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through
June.  “The Fed’s $600 billion supertanker pulled risky markets
up,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategists led by  Rishad Ahluwalia 
wrote in a report today.  CLO debt rated A by S&P has gained 3 cents on the dollar to
75 cents since Oct. 28; BBB slices rose 5 cents to 70 cents and
those ranked BB improved 8 cents to 60 cents, according to the
JPMorgan report.  Loan Index  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100  Index 
gained 0.34 cent to 91.87 since the Nov. 3 announcement. The
index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, is trading at the highest level since May
6 and ended 2009 at 87.68 cents on the dollar.  Carissa Ramirez , a spokeswoman for Tetragon, and Danielle
Robinson, a Bank of America spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The LCM CLO also consists of a $23 million piece ranked AA,
a $26 million piece graded A and a $14 million piece rated BBB.
There is also $40 million of subordinated notes, the people
said.  The lowest-ranking portion, some of which was sold to
outside investors in addition to Tetragon, pays 5 percentage
points more than Libor, according to the people familiar with
the deal. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to each other.  There have been $1.3 billion of U.S. CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans issued this year through October, compared with
$1.2 billion for all of last year, Morgan Stanley data show. In
2007 about $91.1 billion of that type of CLO was issued in the
U.S.  Apollo Global Management LLC , WCAS Fraser Sullivan
Investment Management LLC, an investment firm backed by Welsh
Carson Anderson & Stowe, and Doral Money Inc., along with Babson
Capital Management LLC as the collateral adviser, have completed
CLOs this year.  JPMorgan may price a CLO for Apollo next week and Bank of
America may complete a deal for GSO Capital Partners LP, the
credit investment arm of Blackstone Group LP, the week of Nov.
15, people familiar with the deals said in the past month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  