-- BBC Journalists Stage 48-Hour Walkout Protesting Cutbacks in Pension Plans
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-11-05T12:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bbc-journalists-stage-48-hour-walkout-protesting-cutbacks-in-pension-plans.html
British Broadcasting Corp.
journalists started a 48-hour strike over pensions today,
forcing the state-funded broadcaster to curtail programs and run
pre-recorded shows.  The National Union of Journalists’ 4,100 members at the
BBC, the world’s oldest public-service broadcaster, are striking
in protest over management plans to cut its estimated 1.5
billion-pound ($2.4 billion) pension-fund deficit by capping
increases in pensionable pay.  The BBC News 24 television channel ran old feature material
today, news bulletins are not running on the 6 Music radio
channel and Simon Mayo’s show on Radio 5 Live has been replaced
by repeats.  The change to the pensions system “fails BBC staff,” NUJ
General Secretary  Jeremy Dear  said in a  statement  on the union’s
website on Nov. 2. “BBC journalists are not asking for higher
pensions.” They are asking for “a deal that means what has
been promised to them -- which they have already paid for -- is
protected,” he said.  The BBC, which employs about 23,000 staff, is funded by an
annual television license fee, paid by anyone using a television
set in the U.K. The broadcaster is under increased financial
pressure after the government’s spending review on Oct. 20, in
which it was announced the license fee would be frozen for six
years and the corporation would take over funding the World
Service channels from the Foreign Office.  Strike Support  A total of 70 percent of NUJ members voted against the
BBC’s latest pensions proposals. Well-known British broadcasters
including Fiona Bruce, Huw Edwards and Martha Kearney have
joined the strike, according to the Daily Telegraph. A further
48-hour stoppage is planned to start on Nov. 15.  BBC 5 Live, a radio channel, was forced to run taped shows,
and flagship news programs including Radio Four’s Today, Good
Morning Scotland and The World Today have been disrupted or
canceled, according to the NUJ.  Members of the Bectu broadcasting union, which represents
technical and production staff, have refused to cross pickets at
four BBC offices, according to the NUJ. Bectu voted in favor of
the amended pension deal last month.  Mass walk-outs have taken place at the corporation’s
Scotland headquarters in Glasgow, as well as one of its central
London offices, Bush House, the union said.  Pickets have also been posted at BBC offices in Kabul, Los
Angeles and Istanbul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge  at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 