-- Bernanke Defends Bond Purchases, Predicts Stronger Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-05T22:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bernanke-says-goal-of-federal-reserve-asset-purchases-is-faster-recovery-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the central bank’s decision this week to buy
an additional $600 billion in Treasuries, saying the
unconventional policy will spur the U.S. recovery.  “We are showing insufficient stimulus,” Bernanke said
today in remarks to college students in Jacksonville, Florida.
Asset purchases have “the goal of reducing interest rates,
providing more stimulus to the economy and, we hope, creating a
faster recovery and an inflation rate consistent with long-run
stability,” Bernanke said to students.  Bernanke came under fire today from officials in Germany,
China, and Brazil, who said his plan to pump cash into the
banking system may jar other economies and fail to fuel U.S.
growth. Critics including  Michael Burry , the former hedge-fund
manager who predicted the housing market’s plunge, have said Fed
policy is encouraging investors to take on too much risk and
threatens to undermine the dollar.  “It’s our problem as well if the U.S. is no longer certain
that the old recipes don’t work anymore,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today in Berlin. The Fed’s
injection of $600 billion was “clueless” and won’t revive
growth, he said.  Brazil’s central bank president,  Henrique Meirelles , said
“excess liquidity” in the U.S. economy is creating “risks for
everyone.” In China, Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said
“many countries are worried about the impact of the policy on
their economies.” He also said the U.S. “owes us some
explanation on their decision on quantitative easing.”  Primary Goal  Bernanke, responding to a question on the impact of Fed
policy on other nations, said its primary goal is to support the
U.S. recovery.  “Our first objective, the first goal that we have, is to
meet our mandate to get price stability and maximum employment
in the United States,” he said. “A strong U.S. economy, a
recovering economy, is critical not just for Americans but it’s
also critical for the global recovery.”  Stocks capped their best week in two months, with the MSCI
World Index and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up more than 3.4
percent each, after the Fed pledged on Nov. 3 to buy as much as
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to boost the economy.  Bernanke is trying to boost growth after near-zero interest
rates and $1.7 trillion in securities purchases helped pull the
economy out of recession without bringing down joblessness close
to a 26-year high  An acceleration of U.S. economic growth would support the
value of the U.S. dollar, Bernanke said today.  ‘Best Fundamentals’  “The best fundamentals for the dollar will come when the
economy is growing strongly,” Bernanke said today. “That is
where the fundamentals come from. We are aware the dollar plays
a special role in the global economy.”  The dollar advanced 1.1 percent to $1.4049 per euro at 3:08
p.m. in New York from $1.4207 yesterday, when it touched
$1.4282, the weakest level since January.  Bernanke said additional easing will help the Fed achieve
its two mandates set by Congress for ensuring full employment
and stable prices.  “The unemployment rate, if at all, is coming down very,
very slowly,” Bernanke told students at Jacksonville
University. “Inflation is very, very low, probably below the
level that is healthy for the economy in the longer term.”  Referring to the policy of so-called quantitative easing,
Bernanke said, “we will be reviewing that regularly to see if
it is working, to see how the outlook is changing.”  Asset Values  The Fed’s support for asset values isn’t helping the
“real” economy, and is creating “dangerous signs of a
potential free fall” in the dollar and will be unsustainable,
Burry said in an interview.  Hedge-fund manager  Barton Biggs  is among those who defended
Bernanke.  “We still are in a very precarious situation,” Biggs, the
managing partner of New York-based Traxis Partners LLC and
former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
 Betty Liu . “The economy could easily tip back into a double
dip, and Bernanke did what he had to do.”  The U.S. added 151,000 jobs last month, Labor Department
figures showed today, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Private payrolls that exclude
government agencies also gained more than forecast, while the
jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  Commodities Prices  Asked by a student if “skyrocketing” commodities prices
may threaten his inflation outlook, Bernanke said rising
commodities prices are “the one exception” to a broad
reduction in inflationary pressures. Overall, excess slack in
the economy will make it difficult for producers to push through
higher prices to consumers, he said.  “Emerging markets are growing quite quickly,” Bernanke
said. “Demand for those commodities is pretty strong. That is
going to be a contributor to inflation in the U.S. because it
will affect gas prices, for example, and so on.”  Asked by a student about rising gold prices and concerns
over inflation, Bernanke said the Fed wouldn’t sacrifice price
stability in an attempt to boost growth.  “Let me be very clear: We are absolutely committed to
keeping inflation low and stable,” he said. “We have the tools
to unwind and tighten policy at the appropriate time. We will
honor both sides of our dual mandate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  