-- Bernanke Easing `Absolutely Right' Amid `Precarious Situation,' Biggs Says
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2010-11-05T15:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bernanke-easing-absolutely-right-amid-precarious-situation-biggs-says.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s decision to purchase Treasuries to boost the U.S.
economy was “absolutely right,” hedge-fund manager  Barton Biggs  said.  “We still are in a very precarious situation,” Biggs, the
managing partner of New York-based Traxis Partners LLC and
former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
 Betty Liu . “The economy could easily tip back into a double
dip, and Bernanke did what he had to do.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index broke through its April
peak yesterday, rising to the highest level since September 2008
after the Fed said it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus and risking
its credibility in a bid to reduce unemployment and avert
deflation. Policy makers, setting a pace of about $75 billion of
purchases a month, “will adjust the program as needed,” the
Fed’s Open Market Committee said two days ago.  “We’re going to have higher stock prices for a while,”
Biggs said. Bernanke has “gotten the stock market up, which is
what he wants to do. The stock market is an important symbol of
confidence.”  S&P Rally  The S&P 500 has rallied 17 percent since Bernanke indicated
in August that he had the tools to prevent another recession.
This week, The central bank left unchanged its pledge to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period” after Bernanke
said it could be modified in some way. While Bernanke’s near-
zero rates policy and $1.7 trillion in asset purchases helped
end the recession, the Fed said progress was “disappointingly
slow” in bringing down joblessness close to a 26-year high.  Biggs said last month that U.S. stocks may gain 10 percent
after the Fed announcement and that a bubble, or unsustainable
rally, is occurring in emerging markets.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of equities in 21 nations
has gained 35 percent since its 2010 low in May, and surged more
than 150 percent since October 2008, when it reached the weakest
level in four years. The Shanghai Composite Index has rallied 32
percent since reaching its 2010 low on July 5, while Brazil’s
Bovespa index has jumped 25 percent since May 20.  “We probably are going to have a bigger bubble because of
what Bernanke has done,” Biggs said today. “But it’s not my
job to try to correct the past. I’m just saying what he’s done
is the right thing now and it’s fueling liquidity.”  Biggs said in August that investors should avoid the
mistake he made in July, when he cut equity holdings in half to
about 35 percent of his assets. Traxis gained 38 percent in 2009
after Biggs bought shares as the S&P 500 fell to a 12-year low
in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 