-- Bernanke Will Fail in Bid to Use `Poison as Cure,' Ex-Fund Head Burry Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-05T16:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bernanke-will-fail-in-bid-to-use-poison-as-cure-ex-fund-head-burry-says.html
Michael Burry , the former hedge-fund
manager who predicted the housing market’s plunge, said Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to use “poison as
the cure” by pumping more cash into the economy to spur growth.  Bernanke’s Fed pledged this week to use $600 billion in
additional Treasury purchases to help lower a 9.6 percent
 unemployment rate , close to a 26-year high, and to avert
deflation.  The attempt to bolster growth is reminiscent of  Alan Greenspan ’s actions to revive the economy after 2001, Burry said
in a telephone interview from Cupertino, California. The former
Fed chairman helped create an unsustainable boom in U.S.
property  prices  with his policies, leading to the worst global
financial crisis since the Great Depression, he said.  Boosting the economy “was the point of inflating the
housing bubble,” Burry said yesterday. “It was the intent that
the house would become the ATM machine, and help us through
those rough times, post-dot-com, -Enron, -WorldCom, -Iraq and -
9/11. That’s why I say they’re using the poison as the cure.”  Burry, as head of Scion Capital LLC, prodded Wall Street
banks in early 2005 to create  credit-default swaps  to bet
against bonds backed by the riskiest home loans. The strategy
paid off as borrowers defaulted, letting his investors more than
quintuple their money from 2000 to 2008, according to  Michael Lewis ’s book “The Big Short” (Norton/Allen Lane). The former
resident in neurology was also featured in  Gregory Zuckerman ’s
“The Greatest Trade Ever” (Broadway Books).  Repeating Behavior  The Fed’s support for asset values isn’t helping the
“real” economy, and is creating “dangerous signs of a
potential free fall” in the dollar and will be unsustainable,
he said in the interview. It’s also probably causing investors,
including fixed-income buyers, to take too much risk, in a
repeat of their behavior in the period before markets began to
collapse in 2007, he said.  The bad decisions then included investments in so-called
collateralized debt obligations filled with default swaps tied
to subprime mortgages, which helped to hobble some of the
world’s biggest financial companies, he said. Banks and insurers
through so-called synthetic CDOs wagered on homeowners making
their payments, while firms such as Scion Capital and  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. took the opposite side of the trades.  “All those synthetic CDOs were a product of the stretch
for yield,” he said.  Greenspan’s ‘Conundrum’  This year, sales of high-yield corporate bonds have jumped
to a record as the Fed held short-term interest rates near zero
and completed purchases of $1.7 trillion of long-term debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some securities backed
by risky mortgages have extended gains to almost double their
lows in 2009, Barclays Capital data show.  Under Greenspan, the Fed lowered its  benchmark interest
rate  to 1.75 percent from 6.5 percent in 2001 and cut the rate
to 1 percent in June 2003. The central bank kept the federal
funds rate, or overnight interbank lending rate, at 1 percent
for a year before raising it at a “measured pace” of quarter-
point increments over two years, from 2004 to 2006.  Bernanke has argued that the Fed didn’t create the housing
bubble with that policy. In a Jan. 3, speech he assigned more
responsibility to lax lending standards and regulators’ failure
to combat them.  Home Prices  Greenspan said in 2005 that he faced a “conundrum” in
which long-term rates remained low even as he forced short-term
rates higher amid a global savings glut as China, Russia and
other emerging market economies earned more money on exports
than they could easily invest. He also co-wrote a paper studying
how homeowners’ were putting the home equity they were
withdrawing to use in the economy.  U.S. home prices  soared  63 percent from the end of 2001
through mid-2006, before tumbling 32 percent before bottoming
last year, according to S&P/Case-Shiller index data.  In a Nov. 4 op-ed in the Washington Post, Bernanke wrote
that “low and falling” inflation indicate “there is scope for
monetary policy to support further gains in employment without
risking economic overheating.” Inflating bond and equity prices
will help the economy, he said.  “Higher  stock prices  will boost consumer wealth and help
increase confidence, which can also spur spending” along with
consumers refinancing at lower rates to lower their mortgage
payments, Bernanke wrote. “Increased spending will lead to
higher incomes and profits that, in a virtuous circle, will
further support economic expansion.”  Rivelle, Biggs  The Fed may fail because Americans’ housing “wealth is
gone and so is the consumption, and you can’t bring it back,”
 Tad Rivelle , head of fixed-income investment at Los Angeles-
based TCW Group Inc., which oversees about $115 billion, said in
an interview after the central bank’s Nov. 3 announcement.  Bernanke’s decision was “absolutely right,” hedge-fund
manager  Barton Biggs  said today.  “We still are in a very precarious situation,” Biggs, the
managing partner of New York-based Traxis Partners LLC and
former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, said in an
interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.” “The economy could easily tip back into a double dip,
and Bernanke did what he had to do.”  Farmable Land, Gold  Burry, who now manages his own money after shuttering his
fund in 2008, said in a Sept. 6 interview with Bloomberg
Television that he was investing in farmable land and gold, as
well as small technology companies. He said yesterday he hasn’t
changed his tactics as a result of recent events, including the
Fed’s second round of so-called quantitative easing, dubbed QE2.  “I’ve expected Bernanke to act as he’s acting,” he said.
“So with QE2, anything I was doing I expect will work even
better.”  While it would damage the economy in the short-term, Burry
said he would focus on curbing government spending to prevent
harsher measures later.  “It was the problem with the housing bubble, when do you
prick it? The earlier you pricked it, the better it would have
been for all of us,” he said.  Burry isn’t necessarily a supporter of the so-called Tea
Party movement, which helped Republicans gain control of the
House this week and whose goals include trimming the size of
government.  “I’m not a big fan of populism at either the extreme right
or extreme left,” he said. “Hard choices can’t be made when
everyone is screaming at each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  