-- BMW to Begin Selling First Hybrid Supercar in 2013
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-05T16:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bmw-to-build-its-first-hybrid-supercar-to-lower-carbon-dioxide-emissions.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest maker of luxury autos, will build its first
hybrid supercar as part of a broader effort to create more fuel-
efficient vehicles and underline its technological prowess.  The  Vision Efficient Dynamics  model, which accelerates to
100 kilometers per hour (62 miles) in 4.8 seconds while emitting
99 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer, will go on sale in
2013, the Munich-based  carmaker  said today at an event in
Leipzig, Germany. The car will be priced below the company’s
Rolls-Royce models, development chief  Klaus Draeger  said.  Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  is developing the
hybrid supercar and the electric-powered Megacity auto to help
meet tighter environmental regulations and to boost sales to 2
million vehicles by 2020 from 1.4 million this year. The new
sports car, which has doors that open upwards, is powered by a
three-cylinder diesel engine and two electric motors.  “It’s important for BMW to communicate even small progress
to cement its perceived role as a leader in hybrid and
environmental technology,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt who recommends buying the shares.
“It would help if they’re the first to sell such cars. But it’s
going to take a while to make them count in terms of earnings.”  BMW closed little changed today in Frankfurt at 54.06
euros. The  stock  has gained 70 percent this year, valuing the
carmaker at 34.5 billion euros ($48.5 billion).  Speedy Acceleration  BMW ’s hybrid sports car will have a similar acceleration
rate to BMW’s M6 supercar, while emitting just 30 percent of the
M6 coupe’s CO2 per kilometer, according to BMW’s website. The
M6’s starting price in the U.S. is $102,350.  The carmaker targets “significant” sales volumes for the
Vision Efficient Dynamics and will make it available on all
major markets as BMW aims to steal customers from competitors’
models, Draeger said.  “I expect a very considerable share of conquests,” he
said. “We want to achieve a certain market presence with the
car and so can’t limit production to one car a day.”  Porsche SE , which is combining with Volkswagen AG, plans
to produce a 918 Spyder hybrid sports car, which features carbon
fiber-reinforced plastics to reduce weight and emissions,
spokesman Eckhard Eibel said. The carmaker hasn’t decided when
the car will go on sale or what the price will be, he added.  SLS Electric Car  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz currently doesn’t intend to make
hybrid sports cars but will offer hybrid versions of its S-, E-,
and C-Class models and its off-road vehicles. An electric
version of its SLS gull-wing sports car with aluminum and
plastic components will probably be built and a market
introduction by 2013 is realistic, spokeswoman Eva Wiese said.  The  Vision Efficient Dynamics  will be made in Germany,
Reithofer said today at the Leipzig plant. BMW may use a
gasoline engine in markets like China and the U.S., where diesel
engines aren’t popular, Draeger said.  BMW will invest 530 million euros to set up production of
the electric Megacity car. The investments include a new carbon-
fiber factory in the U.S. and a 400 million-euro expansion of
its Leipzig factory.  The Megacity,  BMW ’s first battery-powered auto, will be
sold under a new sub-brand when it reaches showrooms in 2013.
Passengers in the four-seat car, designed for urban driving,
will be protected by a carbon-fiber safety cell, similar to a
Formula 1 race car.  Sales for the Megacity will be “sizable” and the model
will cost less than 60,000 euros, Draeger said.  Competing Plans  The company is designing the Megacity as an electric-only
car, saying that a distinct architecture is necessary for
battery-powered driving.  Daimler , by contrast, is developing
vehicles that can be powered with combustion engines or electric
motors on the same platform.  BMW  is using carbon fiber, which is 50 percent lighter than
steel, to reduce weight and enable a smaller, less costly
battery to power the vehicle. BMW and  SGL Carbon SE , the world’s
biggest manufacturer of carbon and graphite products, are
building a $100 million factory in Moses Lake, Washington, to
make the material for the Megacity models.  Daimler  plans to begin using carbon-fiber parts in mass-
production cars starting in 2012, spokeswoman Wiese said.
Production methods for the material are being developed together
with Tokyo-based Toray Industries Inc., she added.  The Vision Efficient Dynamics hybrid sports car was first
introduced at the Frankfurt auto show in 2009. It has a height
of 1.24 meters (4.1 feet) and seats four people.  The car may lose its transparent doors in the final
production version because of demands for speakers and arm
rests, designer Benoit Jacob said in an interview today.  “The idea is to express transparency but it remains to be
seen how that’s interpreted,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Leipzig via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 