-- BofA Wins Dismissal of Mortgage Securities Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-11-06T01:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bofa-says-court-ruling-limits-mortgage-securities-in-lawsuit.html
Bank of America Corp.  won dismissal
of a lawsuit claiming its  Countrywide Financial Corp.  unit made
false statements about loan origination practices in selling
mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. District Judge  Mariana Pfaelzer  in Los Angeles gave
investors who brought the complaint 30 days to revise it. After
they refile the complaint, the court “will consider further the
other grounds” in the bank’s motion to dismiss it, Pfaelzer
wrote in yesterday’s ruling.  Pfaelzer said in her ruling that investors didn’t
sufficiently demonstrate they suffered an injury for the
securities they bought, and that the statute of limitations had
expired for some claims. Those failings must be addressed in the
new complaint, she said.  Bank of America said that, because the judge’s ruling
narrows the scope of claims that would be allowed to proceed in
a revised complaint, it expects the securities at issue in the
case would decline from 427 offerings with a face value of about
$352 billion to about 22 offerings valued at about $31 billion,
according to an e-mailed statement.  The suit claimed documents for mortgages originated by
Countrywide and later securitized contained misrepresentations
and omissions, and didn’t follow the lender’s own guidelines.  “The court’s ruling demonstrates the strict legal hurdles
plaintiffs face in bringing these sorts of claims,” said Brian
E. Pastuzinski, an attorney at Goodwin Procter LLP in Boston
representing Bank of America.  Christina Royce, a lawyer representing the investors,
declined to comment.  The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 