-- Bovespa Stock Index Drops as Steelmaker Gerdau's Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-11-05T20:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bovespa-stock-index-drops-as-steelmaker-gerdau-s-profit-misses-estimates.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell
from a two-year high, paring the biggest weekly gain in a month,
after steelmaker Gerdau SA reported a drop in earnings.  Gerdau, Latin America’s biggest steelmaker, fell the most
on the index after profit declined 3.1 percent, missing
analysts’ estimates, as raw-material costs surged. Metalurgica
Gerdau SA, Gerdau’s parent company, sank 3.4 percent. Declines
on the Bovespa index were limited as  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo ,
Brazil’s largest online retailer, gained on speculation the
company will meet its sales goal even after reporting a plunge
in net income.  “There’s been mixed earnings and Gerdau is confronting
rising costs with falling steel price in the domestic market,”
said  Fabio Spinola , who helps oversee $1 billion as equity
strategist at Sao Paulo- based hedge fund Quest Investimentos
Ltda.  The Bovespa slipped 0.5 percent to 72,606.58 at the 4 p.m.
New York time close. The gauge posted a 2.7 percent gain for the
week, the biggest since Oct. 1. The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap index 
fell 0.2 percent to 1,466.50. The real slipped 0.5 percent to
1.6799 per dollar.  Gerdau sank 3.6 percent to 22.00 reais. Metalurgica Gerdau
declined to 26.25 reais. Gerdau’s net income slid to 536.1
million reais ($319.5 million), or 38 centavos a share, from 553
million reais, or 39 centavos, according to a regulatory filing.
Per-share profit was expected to be 44 centavos on an adjusted
basis, according to the average estimate of 11 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Price Increases  “All the companies felt some effect from the increase in
the price of coal on their production costs,”  Rodrigo Fernandes , an analyst at Banco Fator in Sao Paulo, said in a
report on Oct. 26. Rising prices for iron ore, the main raw
material used to make steel, also boosted costs, he said.  B2W jumped 4.8 percent, the most since Sept. 1, to 32.85
reais. Profit tumbled to 2.5 million reais in the third quarter,
below the average estimate of 4.6 million reais in a Bloomberg
survey of eight analysts. B2W, on a call with investors today,
reiterated its expectation to increase sales by 15 percent to 25
percent this year, according to a press officer who asked not to
be named because of company policy. That helped dispel concern
earnings will keep missing forecasts, said Caue Pinheiro at SLW
Corretora.  “Reaffirming that they should meet their goal ends up
improving investors’ perception” of the company,” Pinheiro,
who has a “hold” rating on the shares, said by phone from Sao
Paulo.  Citigroup Inc. strategists  Geoffrey Dennis  and  Jason Press 
raised their rating on Brazil to “overweight.” Emerging-market
stocks will gain 35 percent in dollar terms by the end of next
year, supported by the Federal Reserve’s bond purchasing plan
and a “super-Goldilocks” economic environment, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  