-- Brazilian Opposition Lawmakers Reject Proposed New CPMF for Health Care
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-05T21:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/brazilian-opposition-lawmakers-reject-proposed-new-cpmf-for-health-care.html
Lawmakers in Brazil’s second-biggest
opposition party said they “vehemently reject” the
reinstatement of a tax on financial transactions to fund health
care.  “President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  is summoning governors in
her coalition to rally behind a move in favor of the return of a
tax the Brazilian people rejected,” Paulo Bornhausen, leader of
the Democrats in the Lower House, said in a statement sent by e-
mail today. “The Democrats won’t allow the Brazilian people to
pay the election bill.”  The Senate in December 2007 scrapped a 0.38 percent tax on
financial transactions, known as CPMF, reducing the government’s
revenue by about 40 billion reais ($23.8 billion) a year. The
Lower House is already debating a new 0.1 percent tax on
financial transactions to increase funding for health.  The majority of Brazil’s governors support the
reintroduction of the tax,  O Estado de S.Paulo  newspaper said
today, citing their own survey. Of 27 governors who will either
continue in their posts or take office in January, 14 from
parties across Brazil’s political spectrum said they supported
the measure, while six said they opposed it. The newspaper was
unable to reach two others and five didn’t declare a position, O
Estado said.  “I don’t know a poor person that became less poor or a
rich man who became richer after the end of the CPMF, but the
money that is no longer collected makes a difference,” said
 Jacques Wagner , who was re-elected governor of Bahia state from
the ruling Workers’ Party in the October election, according to
an e-mailed statement from his office. “The fundamental thing
is to ensure that the resources collected through the new tax
will be effectively invested in health.”  Rousseff said Nov. 3 that governors were moving to create
new sources of funding for health care. The president-elect said
that while she doesn’t plan to send to Congress a bill
reinstating the tax, she is willing to discuss the issue.  Yields on Brazil’s most-traded interest-rate futures
contracts rose to highs for November on speculation that
Rousseff may fail to contain spending to curb inflation.  Yields on the contract due in January 2013 rose 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 11.88 percent at 4 p.m. New
York time. The contract due in January 2012 gained seven basis
points to 11.47 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre  Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  