-- Vitaminwater Money Powers Favorites in Breeders' Cup Juvenile
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/breeders-cup-juvenile-favorites-showcase-vitaminwater-money-mets-colors.html
Mike Repole  waited for the New York
Mets to offer him a job as general manager after he graduated
with a degree in sports management from St. John’s University in
1991.  “No one called,” the Queens, New York, native said. “I
was very disappointed.”  Repole, 41, went on to co-found Glaceau Vitaminwater sports
drink in 1996, which  Coca-Cola Co.  bought for $4.1 billion three
years ago. Then he started purchasing race horses, and now he
has two of the favorites in the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile race
tomorrow at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky. Both will
be wearing his stable’s colors -- orange and blue, just like the
Mets.  “Of 30,000 foals born in a year, I have two of the top-10
colts,” he said in a telephone interview from New York.  This weekend, Uncle Mo goes off as the 7-5 favorite in the
$2 million Juvenile, the 10th of 14 races in the two-day
Breeders’ Cup Championships. The Juvenile, a 1 1/16-mile race,
introduces some of the top colts in the world who will enter the
Triple Crown series in 2011 as 3-year-olds.  The Breeders’ Cup is the richest two-day sporting event in
the world, with $26 million in purses, according to Greg Avioli,
chief executive officer of the Breeders’ Cup.  Zenyatta, the undefeated 6-year-old mare who is seeking her
record 20th consecutive win, is headlining the Breeders’ Cup as
she defends her title against 11 male contenders in the Classic.
The winner of the 1 1/4-mile race often is named Horse of the
Year, a title that eluded Zenyatta when Preakness Stakes
champion Rachel Alexandra was given the honor in 2009.  $10 Million Colt  Uncle Mo, the 2-year-old colt Repole bought for $220,000,
is valued today at more than $10 million, he said. It also is
the top prospect in early wagering in Las Vegas to win the 2011
Kentucky Derby in May. His other colt in the Juvenile, Stay
Thirsty, is co-third-favorite at 8-1.  Repole grew up the son of a waiter and a seamstress and
started going to  Aqueduct Racetrack  in Queens at the age of 13.
Sometimes cutting classes, he would take $20 and find someone at
the track to bet $2 on each race for him.  Learning to read the racing form created a foundation for
his future as a successful entrepreneur, he said.  “It really is the way I think in business,” the Long
Island, New York, resident said. “It was a great thinking
experience predicting the future -- a visionary exercise. It
wasn’t about money; it was more about being right.”  Winless Start  After selling his stake in Vitaminwater, he had the means
to pursue his thoroughbred racing passion.  “I loved sports and I loved money,” he said. “But I
needed to put my training wheels on first.”  As Repole’s stable of horses began running, he had “the
most depressing five weeks of my racing life” last year when he
went 0-36 at  Saratoga Race Course  in Saratoga, New York. At the
same time, he led all New York horse owners with 51 wins. Yet
losing at Saratoga bothered him the most.  “I didn’t sleep for 11 months,” he said. “Horse racing
is a great cure for overconfidence.”  He reduced the size of his stable to 85 from 120 horses and
hired  Todd Pletcher , 43, who won the Eclipse Award as the top
trainer in North America from 2004 to 2007. This year, Repole
was 13 for 42 at Saratoga, and Pletcher was named top trainer.  Uncle Mo will be running from the No. 7 post position; Stay
Thirsty will be next to him, leaving from No. 6.  ‘Perfect Spot’  “We have the best post positions for both horses,”
Pletcher said. “It’s a perfect spot for Uncle Mo with plenty of
speed inside.”  Repole hasn’t been to a Kentucky Derby since 2008, when he
went as a spectator. Afterward, he told his wife that he
wouldn’t return until he had a horse running in the first Triple
Crown race.  He might get there in 2011 with Uncle Mo, the 20-1 favorite
in the future book of Johnny Avello, executive director of race
and sports operations at Wynn Resorts Ltd. in Las Vegas.  “That’s a pretty short price for a race that’s seven
months away,” said Avello, who opened the colt at 45-1 in the
first week of September. “I’m taking quite a bit of money on
him.”  Repole owns a filly that he has named Stopspendingmaria
after his wife’s shopping habits. He says every time a horse
wins, his wife asks how big the purse is, claims the prize and
heads for a Prada store.  Shopping Habit  Stopspendingmaria replaced Noshoppingmaria, a filly that he
sold. He said his wife thought he had named the horse
Goshoppingmaria. Repole blamed the error on a typo in the
office.  “Michael thinks by publicly announcing that I have a
shopping habit, it’s going to slow down my happy habit,” Maria
said in an e-mail. “It actually has the reverse effect. It has
motivated me to shop even more, especially on days when my horse
runs.”  Repole, who today has majority interests in Pirate Booty
snacks and Energy Kitchen, a chain of health-conscious fast-food
restaurants, said he hopes his wife of 10 years has a reason to
go to Prada after the Breeders’ Cup race.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  