-- Bank-Stock Calls Jump as Fed May Allow Dividend Rises
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bullish-bank-stock-options-jump-as-fed-may-allow-dividend-rises.html
Bullish options on U.S. banks and
brokers rose yesterday on reports the Federal Reserve is
preparing guidelines for supervisors to use in assessing whether
banks are strong enough to boost dividends.  More than 479,000 calls to buy the  Financial Select Sector
SPDR Fund , an exchange-traded fund tracking 81 firms, changed
hands, quadruple the four-week average and 3.5 times the number
of puts to sell. Almost 637,000 calls were traded yesterday and
the ETF climbed 2.3 percent to $15.58, the highest since May 13.
The ETF’s  most-active options  were December $16 calls, which
jumped 39 percent to 32 cents and accounted for almost half of
call volume.  “The options market is pricing in higher dividends from
the banks following the news that they may do payouts,” said
Etai Friedman, head derivatives trader at Stamford, Connecticut-
based MKM Partners LP.  Financial stocks rallied yesterday after a person familiar
with the matter told Bloomberg News that the Fed is preparing
guidelines for supervisors to use in assessing whether banks are
strong enough to boost payouts or buy back shares. They
continued gains from Nov. 4, after the Wall Street Journal
reported the U.S. might allow some of the “healthier” companies
to increase dividends. An index of  banks  in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 4.1 percent yesterday.  “We estimate the options market is pricing in a steady
increase in JPMorgan dividends over the next four quarters to a
2012 annual run-rate of 80 cents,”  John Marshall  and  Maria Grant 
of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a note to investors
yesterday, recommending buying XLF December $16 calls.  ‘Left Behind’  “In our view, dividend increases have the potential to
expand generalist investor interest,” the equity derivatives
strategists wrote.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Wells Fargo & Co. are among banks
most likely to increase dividends as early as the first quarter
of 2011,  Dick Bove  of Rochdale Securities LLC said in an
interview yesterday. Bloomberg dividend forecasts show JPMorgan,
based in New York, will quadruple its quarterly payout to 20
cents in February, while San Francisco-based Wells Fargo will
double its to 10 cents in April.  The bank-stock index is now up 12 percent in 2010, while
the S&P 500 has gained 9.9 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  