-- Bunds Head for Weekly Gain on Safety Bid; Greek Bonds Fall for a 10th Day
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-05T16:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bunds-head-for-weekly-gain-on-safety-bid-greek-bonds-fall-for-a-10th-day.html
German 10-year bunds headed for a
weekly gain as mounting concern that Europe’s so-called
peripheral nations will need to restructure their debt boosted
demand for the euro region’s safest assets.  Greek 10-year bonds fell for the 10th straight day, their
longest run of declines since May 2007, while Irish debt dropped
for a ninth day. The 10-year bund pared its first weekly advance
in four after a U.S. labor market report showed non-farm payrolls
increased more than analysts estimated.  “Bunds have caught a safe-haven bid this week,” said  Marc Ostwald , a bond analyst at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.
“The peripheral markets slumped on fears of debt restructuring.
The task of meeting harsh budget cuts may make the issue of debt
servicing even more acute.”  The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark security,
rose four basis points to 2.42 percent at 4:32 p.m. in London.
The yield has dropped nine basis points this week, according to
Bloomberg generic data. The 2.25 percent security maturing in
September 2020 fell 0.31, or 3.1 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,404)
face amount to 98.52. The two-year note yield was at 0.91
percent, a decline of seven basis points on the week.  Payrolls climbed 151,000 last month, exceeding the 60,000
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington.  Greek ‘Caution’  The Greek 10-year bond yield gained 37 basis points to
11.72 percent, pushing the yield difference, or spread, over
bunds above 900 basis points for the first time since Sept. 20.  “There’s still a lot of caution about,” said  Harvinder Sian , a senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London. “There’s been very light flow, but little to
justify the move ahead of this weekend’s elections.”  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  last month urged Greeks to
back his ruling party in local elections, his first test at the
ballot box since crafting a 110 billion-euro bailout.  “If we stop now and don’t continue with major changes, the
sacrifices we have made so far will be lost,” Papandreou said
in comments televised Oct. 25 on state-run NET TV and six other
channels. “Instead of making the crisis an opportunity, we will
probably find ourselves in a worse situation,” he said.  Irish bonds gained after the government yesterday
accelerated efforts to cut its budget deficit, announcing
savings and tax increases for next year worth 6 billion euros,
or 3.6 percent of gross domestic product. A further 9 billion
euros will be cut in the following three years.  Irish Struggle  Ireland is struggling to convince investors it can deal
with the mounting cost of bailing out its banking system and
avoid the fate of Greece, which earlier this year applied for an
international rescue.  The Irish government last month said it needs 15 billion
euros of savings over the next four years to reduce the deficit.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday he’s optimistic the budget plan will calm investors as
the government faces a market rout that has pushed the premium
on Irish 10-year debt over German counterparts to a record.  The spread reached 534 basis points today, the most since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1991.  Spanish bonds declined for a ninth consecutive day, bound
for their longest losing run since January 2000, as the deepest
austerity measures in three decades undermined the economic
recovery.  Unchanged GDP  Spanish 10-year bonds fell as data showed the nation’s
gross domestic product was unchanged in the third quarter from
the previous three months. It expanded 0.2 percent from a year
earlier, the Bank of Spain estimated in its monthly bulletin
today in Madrid. The economy had expanded 0.2 percent from April
to June.  Spain’s Socialist government faces widespread opposition as
it seeks to make the deepest budget cuts since at least 1980 and
halve the euro area’s third-largest deficit in two years.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German securities surpassed
200 basis points, leading spread widening among so-called
peripheral bond markets in Europe.  The Spanish spread reached 204 basis points, the most since
July 15.  German bonds have returned 8.7 percent this year, compared
with a 9.2 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have gained less
than 1 percent, while Irish securities lost 10 percent, the
indexes show. Greek debt has lost 17.6 percent and Portuguese
bonds lost 8.4 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  