-- Bush Says New Orleans Flyover After Katrina a `Huge Mistake'
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-05T21:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/bush-calls-new-orleans-flyover-in-wake-of-hurricane-katrina-huge-mistake-.html
Former President  George W. Bush  said
he made a “huge mistake” in not stopping in Louisiana after
Hurricane Katrina and in allowing photographers to take pictures
of him looking at New Orleans as he flew over the city.  The image, taken on board Air Force One, made him look
“detached and uncaring,” Bush said in an interview scheduled
for broadcast on NBC next week in connection with the Nov. 9
release of the former president’s book, “Decision Points,”
about his time in office.  Bush was criticized for the federal government’s botched
response to the 2005 storm that devastated New Orleans and other
parts of the Gulf of Mexico coast and for not going to the area
soon after the hurricane hit.  “I should have touched down in Baton Rouge, met with the
governor and walked out and said, ‘I hear you. We understand.
And we’re going to help the state and help the local governments
with as much resources as needed,’” said Bush, 64, according to
excerpts from the interview with  Matt Lauer  scheduled to air at
8 p.m. New York time on Nov. 8.  In his book, Bush writes that a low point in his presidency
was a remark by rapper  Kanye West  shortly after Katrina hit that
the government’s response to the disaster showed Bush “doesn’t
care about black people.”  ‘All-Time Low’  “I faced a lot of criticism as president,” Bush wrote,
according to the NBC excerpt. “I didn’t like hearing people
claim that I lied about Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction or
cut taxes to benefit the rich. But the suggestion that I was
racist because of the response to Katrina represented an all-
time low.”  In the interview Bush said, “I resent it, it’s not true,
and it was one of the most disgusting moments in my
presidency.”  The former president, who served two terms in office,
defended his decision to go to war in Iraq in 2003, saying the
world would be much more unstable if  Saddam Hussein  were still
in power.  Bush began the U.S.-led attack on Iraq on March 19, 2003,
because, he said,  Saddam Hussein  had scorned the United Nations’
12 years of mandates to get rid of its chemical and biological
weapons.  He wrote that he felt “sickened” when the U.S. found no
weapons of mass destruction. In the interview, Bush said he
never considered apologizing for the decision to go to war.  “Apologizing would basically say the decision was a wrong
decision,” he said. “And I don’t believe it was the wrong
decision.”  No ‘Opining’ on Obama  In an interview scheduled to air on  “The Oprah Winfrey
Show”  on Nov. 9, the former president said he hasn’t publicly
critiqued President  Barack Obama ’s administration because it is
not “good for the presidency.”  “I want to treat my successor the way I’d like to have
been treated,” he said, according to interview excerpts. “I
don’t think it’s good for a former president to be out there
opining on every darned issue.”  Bush said that Obama is going to face “plenty of critics
and he doesn’t need me criticizing him.”  The former president declined to answer when Winfrey asked
whether former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin , the 2008 Republican
vice presidential nominee, should be the party’s candidate for
president in 2012.  In the interview with Lauer and in his memoir, Bush talked
about his struggles with alcohol. Drinking “became a love,” he
said, according to interview excerpts. “And therefore, began to
compete for my love with my wife and my daughters.”  He said he was able to quit on his own because he was never
“chemically addicted.” He described himself as a “habitual
drinker” before stopping at the age of 40. He said he hasn’t
had “a sip” of alcohol since 1986.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate  Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  