-- CommScope, Dish Network, GT Solar, Radian: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-08T14:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/cablevision-emcor-group-mariner-energy-microsoft-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 8:45 a.m.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc.  (ANR US) rose 3.4 percent to
$45.98. The third-largest U.S. coal producer may rise to $60 on
demand from China and India, Barron’s reported in its Nov. 8
edition, citing Brean Murray Carrett & Co. analyst  Jeremy Sussman .  Amazon.com Inc.  (AMZN US) gained 0.1 percent to $170.95.
The largest Internet retailer is near an agreement to buy Quidsi
Inc., the owner of Diapers.com and Soap.com, for $540 million,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Ashland Inc.  (ASH US) advanced 2.1 percent to $52. The
maker of Valvoline motor oil agreed to sell its distribution
unit to TPG Capital for $930 million as it focuses on specialty
chemicals. The transaction is scheduled to close before the end
of March and is subject to regulatory approvals, Ashland said
today in a statement.  Cablevision Systems Corp.  (CVC US): The New York-area
cable-television provider said its average cable TV price will
increase 2.88 percent. Prices for its Optimum Online high-speed
data service will remain unchanged.       CommScope Inc.  (CTV US) climbed 2.1 percent to $32.10.
Private equity-firm TPG Capital may make a bid for the North
Carolina-based fiber-optic cable maker that would top an offer
from the Carlyle Group, the Wall Street Journal reported on Nov.
5. CommScope entered into a definitive merger agreement with
Carlyle Group in a transaction valued at about $3.9 billion.  Dish Network Corp.  (DISH US) lost 3.5 percent to $20.09.
The second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider was cut to
“neutral” from “buy” at UBS AG. The share-price estimate is
$23.  Emcor Group Inc.  (EME US) fell 1 percent to $27.08. The
provider of mechanical and electrical construction services said
Chief Executive Officer Frank MacInnis plans to exercise 100,000
options and sell an additional 160,000 shares.  GT Solar International Inc.  (SOLR US) jumped 13 percent to
$9.95. The supplier of equipment to solar manufacturers boosted
its full-year earnings and sales forecasts to more than the
average analyst estimates.  Separately, the company agreed to repurchase and retire
26.5 million shares of common stock from GT Solar Holdings LLC
whose members include all of its private equity investors,
according to a statement distributed by Business Wire. In
connection with the repurchase, GT Solar obtained a commitment
from Credit Suisse Group AG for a loan of as much as $200
million.  IDT Corp.  (IDT US) surged 15 percent to $17.75. The U.S.
long-distance telephone service provider will pay a dividend of
22 cents to shareholders of record on Nov. 15, followed by a
comparable payout in the second quarter of its fiscal year
ending Jan. 31. The company also may pay future dividends based
on performance, according to a Nov. 5 statement.  Intel Corp.  (INTC US) gained 1.2 percent to $21.49. The
world’s biggest chipmaker was raised to “buy” from “neutral”
at UBS AG. The share-price estimate is $25.       JDS Uniphase Corp.  (JDSU US) added 4.1 percent to $11.87.
The maker of fiber-optic equipment is undervalued and may rise
as growth in online video traffic boosts demand for its optical-
networking products, Barron’s said in its Nov. 8 edition. Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Waechter  told the newspaper that broadband
capacity demand is “growing faster than any of the carriers can
respond to.”  Mariner Energy Inc.  (ME US) rose 0.5 percent to $26.40. The
oil and natural gas producer being acquired by Apache Corp. (APA
US) reported third-quarter earnings of 2 cents a share on an
adjusted basis, trailing the 8-cent average estimate.  Radian Group Inc.  (RDN US) fell 5 percent to $9.45. The
second-largest U.S. mortgage insurer said in a regulatory filing
it received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development. Radian also said it has started an
underwritten public offering of up to $350 million principal
amount of its convertible senior notes due 2017. The information
was disclosed in a statement distributed by Business Wire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 