-- McAfee, Air Liquide, Oracle: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-05T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/mcafee-air-liquide-coca-cola-assemblies-of-god-intellectual-property.html
McAfee Inc. ’s  Secure Computing  unit,
a maker of programs that block Internet viruses and spam, lost
an appeal to overturn a patent-infringement verdict won by
Finjan Inc.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington yesterday upheld a finding that Secure Computing’s
Webwasher products infringe aspects of Finjan’s patents
6,092,194, 6,804,780 and 7,058,822.  The appeals court, which specializes in U.S. patent law,
sent the case back to determine how much closely held Finjan is
owed for sales that occurred between the March 2008 trial and
the August 2009 ruling in which a judge ordered Secure Computing
to stop selling the infringing software.  The jury awarded $9 million in damages. U.S. District Judge
Gregory M. Sleet increased the amount to more than $13.7 million
because the jury found the infringement to be intentional.  McAfee, which is being acquired by  Intel Corp. , has said it
redesigned the software to avoid using Finjan’s inventions so
the order wouldn’t affect sales of its products. McAfee is based
in Santa Clara, California.  The case is Finjan Inc. v. Secure Computing Corp., 2009-
1576 and 2009-1594, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Finjan Software
Ltd. v. Secure Computing Corp., 06cv369, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  EU Patent Patchwork Is Too Costly, Helps U.S., Chinese Rivals  The European Union risks handing a competitive advantage to
the U.S. and China if it fails to change a patent system which
companies, such as  Air Liquide SA , say costs too much.  “There’s an urgency to find a solution to de-block this
point on competitiveness for our companies,” Michel Barnier,
the EU’s internal-market commissioner, said at a conference in
Brussels Nov. 3. “We won’t be credible if prices for our
patents in Europe are above those of U.S. patents.”  Barnier’s remarks come a week before ministers from the 27
EU nations gather to discuss a new proposal for a region-wide
patent system. The EU patent, an idea that’s been discussed for
some 40 years, was thought dead in 2004 after member nations
failed to agree on the language system to go with it.  Now, four years after the European Commission revived the
plans, the EU-wide system is closer than ever, according to the
head of Europe’s patent agency, which acts independently from
the EU.  “We’ve never been this close to an agreement,” Benoit
Battistelli, president of the European Patent Office, said in an
interview in Brussels. The Munich-based EPO is the only place
for companies to apply for a multi-national patent, which has to
be defended in each country once it is granted.  “This fragmented litigation market in Europe for patents
is costing us a lot,” Thierry Sueur, vice-president of
intellectual property at Air Liquide, the world’s biggest
producer of industrial gases, said at the event in Brussels.  Belgium, holder of the EU’s rotating presidency until the
end of the year, foresees a language framework similar to that
of the EPO. Patents would be granted in French and German as
well as English. Spain has opposed plans to exclude Spanish.  “Any political solution should protect linguistic
diversity,” Alberto Casado Cervino, director general of the
Spanish Patent Office, said at the Brussels event.  Air Liquide’s Sueur said continued clashes over languages
will hurt European companies like his. “We have no time for
fancy theories, we’re fighting hard to win over our competitors
from the other side of the ocean or from China.”  Apple Seeks Patent for Virtual IPhone ‘Gun’ for Game-Playing  Apple Inc. , maker of the iPad and the iPhone, is seeking a
patent on a technology that will enhance the ability of players
to use their iPhones as game tools.  According to application  20100279768 , published yesterday
in the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the
technology covered by the patent would enable players to use
their iPhones as simulated guns.  The “gun” attachment would permit players to target
others in a “real world gaming environment,” according to the
application. This would be achieved through the use of the
phone’s sensors, including its global positioning device and
accelerometer.  The technology also may enable the player to guide “a
virtual ball through a virtual maze or steer a virtual car or
boat through a virtual racetrack,” Cupertino, California-based
Apple said in its application.  Apple filed the application in April 2009 with assistance
from Boston’s  Fish & Richardson PC .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Coca-Cola Claims U.K. Restaurant’s Sign Infringes Trademark  Coca-Cola Co.  accused a restaurant in the U.K.’s Hampshire
region of infringing a trademark for its  Relentless  energy
drink, the BBC  reported .  The Relentless Stake & Lobster house in Southsea received a
17-page legal document demanding that the restaurant’s name be
changes, according to the BBC.  The Atlanta-based beverage company said the restaurant’s
sign looked too similar to the label used on its energy drink,
the BBC reported.  The restaurant owner told the BBC he was “gobsmacked” by
the complaint from Coca-Cola and that he named his restaurant
after his father’s fishing boat.  New York State Residents Charged With Criminal Infringement  Three residents of New York’s Oneida County were charged
with felony trademark counterfeiting, the Syracuse Post-Standard
 reported .  More than $183,000 worth of merchandise was seized,
including suspected fake North Face clothing, Ugg boots and
Coach, Louis Vuitton and Dolce & Gabbana handbags, according to
the newspaper.  The fake goods were found at the suspects’ homes and at
rental-storage facilities in three New York towns -- Utica,
Schuyler and Westmorland, the newspaper reported.  The defendants, who also were charged with misdemeanor
conspiracy, are required to appear on court next week, according
to the Post-Standard.  Assemblies of God Sues Retailer for Infringing Trademarks  The General Council of the Assemblies of God , a Pentecostal
Christian church based in Springfield, Missouri, sued the
proprietors of two Stockton, California, stores for trademark
infringement.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Chicago, stems from
the alleged sale of counterfeit versions of emblem patches, t-
shirts and other items bearing the church’s trademarks. The
church also accuses the defendants of unauthorized use of
Internet domain names that mirror some of its ministry groups,
such as “ Royal Rangers ,” “Missionettes” and “ Frontiersman
Camping Fellowship .”  The defendants are two separate stores -- Ranger Supply
Store and Valley Homebuyer Services -- and three Stockton
residents the church says are the proprietors. They also are
accused of copyright infringement by copying the text and images
on the church’s website and using them on unauthorized sites.  The church asked the court to bar defendants’ infringement,
and to order the seizure and destruction of all infringing
materials in their possession, as well as forfeiture or
cancellation of infringing domain names.  Additionally, the church asked for money damages, including
defendants’ profits attributable to their alleged infringement,
and asked that all damages be tripled to punish the defendants
for their actions. The church also requested $3 million for
infringing the domain names, and for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The church is represented by  William T. McGrath ,  Maureen
Beacom Gorman , and  Tiffany D. Gehrke  of Chicago’s  Davis McGrath
LLC .  The case is General Council of the Assemblies of God v.
Ranger Supply Store Inc, 1:10-cv-07050, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Oracle’s Ellison to Testify Nov. 8 at SAP Trial  Oracle Corp. Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison, who has
said the new head of rival Hewlett-Packard Co. oversaw
“industrial espionage” when he was at SAP AG, will testify
Nov. 8 at a trial between Oracle and SAP, a lawyer said in
court.  Geoffrey Howard, an Oracle attorney, told U.S. District
Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland, California, that date is his
best estimate for when he will call Ellison as a witness.
Hamilton asked about high-profile witnesses to make arrangements
for potential media interest.  Ellison said in an Oct. 26 statement that Oracle plans to
produce evidence that Hewlett-Packard CEO Leo Apotheker was
involved in an effort to steal Oracle software while at SAP.  HP says Apotheker had a limited role in the SAP software
maintenance unit where the downloads took place, and claims
Ellison is seeking to harass him.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, the second-
largest maker of software for business applications behind SAP,
sued its competitor in 2007. It seeks at least $2.3 billion in
damages for what a former SAP unit acknowledges were fraudulent
downloads of Oracle software that infringed Oracle copyrights.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Copyright  U.S. Copyright Office Targeted in Denial-of-Service Attack  An anti-copyright group that has targeted content owners
and intellectual property rights enforcement groups since
September, yesterday attacked the U.S. Copyright Office and
managed to disable its website temporarily, the TorrentFreak
website  reported .  After the denial-of-service attack began at 3 p.m. London
time, the Copyright Office was completely offline for half an
hour and then began to come back up again slowly, according to
TorrentFreak.  Past targets of the action, performed by a group that calls
itself “Anonymous,” included the Motion Picture Association of
American, the Recording Industry Association of America, and the
U.S. Intellectual Property Office, TorrentFreak reported.  Anonymous released a statement saying it attacked the
Copyright Office website because it was “perpetuating the
system that is allowing the exploitative usage of copyright and
intellectual property,” according to TorrentFreak.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Talk  U.K. Plans to Revamp IP Laws ‘for Internet Age,’ Cameron Says  The U.K. will review its intellectual-property laws with an
eye to updating them to fit “the Internet Age,” Prime Minister
David Cameron said in a speech in east London yesterday .  “The founders of  Google  have said they could never have
started their company in Britain,” Cameron said. “The service
they provide depends on taking a snapshot of all the content on
the internet at any one time and they feel our copyright system
is not as friendly to this sort of innovation as it is in the
United States.”  Cameron wants eastern London, including the areas around
Old Street, Shoreditch and the Olympic Park, to be developed as
a “technology city,” he said. He said that  Google Inc. ,
Facebook Inc.,  Intel Corp. , McKinsey & Co. and  Cisco Systems
Inc.  have committed to investing in projects in the area.  Cameron also said more needs to be done to provide funding
to small and mid-sized enterprises setting up in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 