-- California City to Weigh Exit From Biggest Municipal Bankruptcy Since 1994
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/california-city-to-weigh-exit-from-biggest-municipal-bankruptcy-since-1994.html
The City Council of  Vallejo ,
 California , will consider a five-year budget as part of a plan
to exit the biggest bankruptcy in the state since Orange County
sought court protection in 1994.  The council will hear details of the general-fund plan on
Nov. 16,  JoAnn West , a Vallejo spokeswoman on bankruptcy issues,
said yesterday in a telephone message.  “Because of Vallejo, other municipalities and their
creditors, whether they be unions or bondholders, have done
everything they could to avoid bankruptcy,” attorney  Marc Levinson  of Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, who’s leading the
city’s effort to draft the plan, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The seven-member legislative body will vote Nov. 30 on
whether to adopt the proposal, West said. If it does, the fiscal
road map will be included in the exit plan and presented to a
bankruptcy judge, she said.  The community of about 120,000 on the northern edge of San
Francisco Bay  sought  protection under Chapter 9 of U.S.
bankruptcy law in May 2008 after unions refused to accept salary
cuts, and the recession began eroding tax collections. Chapter 9
lets cities and towns reorganize debts rather than liquidate.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Michael McManus  in Sacramento ordered
the city to devise an exit plan by Jan. 18.  Past Deadline  “I expect the bankruptcy case will continue well beyond
Jan. 18,” James Paul, a lawyer representing Vallejo’s retirees,
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Paul, a partner at Sacramento-based Downey Brand LLP, said
he expects the retirees committee to object to health-benefit
cuts that it anticipates in the plan. All creditors will be able
to file objections that would be resolved either through
negotiation or by the court, Paul said.  A copy of the budget proposal will likely be released on
the city’s  website  on Nov. 12, West said.  Before Vallejo, the last California municipality to seek
protection from creditors was Desert Hot Springs in 2001. The
city near Palm Springs was hit by a legal judgment it couldn’t
afford. Orange County filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy in
U.S. history after investments soured.  The case is In re City of Vallejo, 08-26813, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 