-- California Plans $3.75 Billion Build America, Tax-Exempt Sales This Month
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-05T20:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/california-plans-3-75-billion-build-america-tax-exempt-sales-this-month.html
California , the largest U.S. issuer
of municipal debt, plans to sell at least $3.75 billion of bonds
in the next two weeks to help finance public works.  The state will sell $2 billion of federally subsidized,
taxable Build America Bonds the week of Nov. 15 and $1.75
billion of tax-exempt, general-obligation bonds the following
week, according to Treasurer  Bill Lockyer ’s  website . Those sales
come as the state also is preparing to issue an estimated $10
billion in one-year, revenue-anticipation notes next week.  The bond and note sales come after Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers on Oct. 8 approved a budget 100
days after the start of the fiscal year, the longest period ever
in which the state operated without a spending plan. California
may face a deficit next fiscal year as large as this year’s $19
billion gap, Lockyer has said.  “The outlook on the state of California is stable at this
time, based on the expectation that the state will deal with any
further challenges to its budgetary balance and liquidity
without another major cash crisis,” said  Emily Raimes , a
Moody’s Investors Service analyst, in a report today. Moody’s
affirmed the state’s A1 rating, the fifth-highest.  Lockyer is moving to sell the long-term bonds before a
self-imposed “dark period” in December and early January, when
he typically doesn’t sell debt while new economic data are
prepared. Governor-elect  Jerry Brown  must deliver a new spending
plan to the Legislature in the second week of January.  Extra Yield  The  extra yield  investors demand to own 10-year California
bonds was 123 basis points more than that provided by AAA rated
 municipal securities  yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s down from 150 basis points in March. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Revenue-anticipation notes are a type of short-term
municipal bond the state offers when cash is low. The money is
repaid with tax collections.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  will manage
the sale of short-term notes, along with De La Rosa & Co. and
Wells Fargo Securities. Lockyer had been unable to sell the
notes because the promise to repay them had to be included in
the budget.  Standard & Poor’s rates California general-obligation debt
A-, its seventh-highest grade and the lowest among states. Fitch
Ratings ranks California A-.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  