-- Canada's Harper Says G-20 Needs Joint Action, Not Currency Devaluations
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-05T20:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/canada-s-harper-says-g-20-needs-joint-action-not-currency-devaluations.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said a meeting of Group of 20 leaders in South Korea next
week should focus on coordinated action to deal with an uneven
global economic recovery and tensions in currency markets.  The risks to the global recovery have increased since the
June summit in Toronto,  Dimitri Soudas , a Harper spokesman, said
at a briefing in Ottawa today where he read excerpts from a
letter Harper sent to his G-20 colleagues. Soudas also said that
Canada wants more flexibility in world currencies and that China
needs to meet a commitment made in June on that subject.  “The recent agreement by our finance ministers to move
towards more market determined exchange rates that better
reflect economic fundamentals, and to refrain from competitive
devaluations, is of critical importance,” Harper wrote in the
letter, excerpts of which were given to reporters.  The G-20 meeting in Seoul Nov. 11-12 may struggle to make
progress after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  today
said the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to buy another $600 billion
of Treasuries was “clueless.” Other unilateral measures to
boost growth have raised concerns about what Brazil Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  dubbed a “currency war” as countries
seek to ease trade and budget imbalances.  “There is heightened volatility in foreign exchange
markets and global imbalances are widening once again,” Harper
wrote in the letter. “We must continue to avoid the temptation
of unilateral action in response to the current pressures now
weighing on the global economy.”  Current-Account Targets  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has proposed
targets to shrink current-account gaps to less than 4 percent of
gross domestic product. The U.S. has cited a glut of Asian
savings for helping spark the credit crisis earlier this decade,
while Asian officials counter it’s the Fed’s liquidity
injections that are warping global capital flows.  While the Fed is adding new stimulus, European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has signaled he intends to outline
possible steps to withdraw aid next month as its economy
recovers and some policy makers warn easy monetary policy risks
triggering inflation.  The G-20 nations must also implement the capital and
liquidity rules set out in the Basel III agreement and new
supervisory standards proposed by the Financial Stability Board,
Harper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 