-- Canada Needs Clear Takeover Rules After BHP Bid, Scotiabank's Waugh Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-11-05T17:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/canada-needs-clearer-rules-on-foreign-takeovers-scotiabank-s-waugh-says.html
Canada needs clear rules on foreign
takeovers after the federal government blocked BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,   Bank
of Nova Scotia  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Waugh  said.  “These rules and regulations have to be transparent, so
investors know what the rules are, and take out the
uncertainty,” Waugh said today in Toronto at an event to raise
 funds  for the United Way. “Every country has its strategy and
its rules; what we have to do is reaffirm them and then make
sure there’s good transparency and disclosure.”  Industry Minister  Tony Clement  rejected BHP’s $40 billion
bid for Potash on Nov. 3, saying the proposal doesn’t provide a
“net benefit” to Canada. Clement said he can’t elaborate on
why he rejected the bid until a 30-day appeal period is
completed.  Canada should use this opportunity to “reassess what our
strategy should be on investment,” Waugh said in an interview.  Waugh, the head of Canada’s third-largest bank by assets,
said foreign companies are still looking at Canada for
investment because of “great markets” and a strong currency.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said in the House of Commons
yesterday that the foreign investment rules should be reviewed.  Michael Sabia , CEO of Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec, doesn’t expect the BHP ruling to make it more difficult
for Canadian companies to do transactions abroad. The Caisse,
Canada’s largest pension-fund manager, owned 3.5 million Potash
shares as of June 30, according to Bloomberg data.  “I would say that Canada has been a very open market,”
Sabia told reporters yesterday after a speech to the Montreal
Board of Trade. “I think some other markets are less open, and
therefore it would be difficult for me to see that this would
have negative implications for the access of Canadian
investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 