-- Canada Stocks Rise on U.S. Employment Increases; Magna Surges
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-05T21:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/canada-stocks-advance-as-u-s-employment-increases-magna-telus-increase.html
Canadian stocks  extended a weekly
gain as better-than-forecast profit at companies including Telus
Corp. and the first increase in U.S. jobs since May fueled
optimism after the Federal Reserve’s latest stimulus initiative.  Manulife Financial Corp., North America’s third-biggest
insurer, advanced 4.8 percent after  Tom MacKinnon , an analyst at
Bank of Montreal, raised his rating on the shares. Magna
International Inc., Canada’s largest auto-parts maker, rallied
6.1 percent after beating analyst profit estimates and raising
its dividend. Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest base-metals
and coal producer, climbed 4 percent as metal prices gained.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  increased 46.32
points, or 0.4 percent, extending a two-year high to 12,925.11.
For the week, the market closed up 2 percent two days after the
U.S. Federal Reserve announced a $600 billion plan of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing.  “The combination of a modest recovery on top of
quantitative easing, you’re starting to see that mix in the
markets now,” said  Arthur Salzer , who oversees C$160 million
($160 million) as a money manager at MacNicol & Associates Asset
Management Inc. in Toronto. “Companies are in the best shape
they’ve probably been in in 30 years.”  The S&P/TSX has climbed 17 percent over the past four
months as  commodities  have surged on a weaker U.S. dollar. The
index rallied the most in two months yesterday, as oil and
metals prices jumped after the U.S. Fed announced its asset-
purchase plan.  Jobs  U.S. payrolls rose by 151,000 positions last month, the
Labor Department said today in Washington. Economists had
forecast an increase of 60,000 jobs, according to the median of
83 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  In Canada, the  jobless rate  fell to 7.9 percent from 8
percent as full-time employment climbed by 47,200. Two of 25
economists forecast a decline in the unemployment rate.  The  S&P/TSX Financials Index  advanced to a five-month high.
Manulife climbed 4.8 percent to C$14.79 after surging 9.4
percent yesterday, when it reported a smaller loss than most
analysts had forecast.  MacKinnon boosted his  rating  on Manulife to “outperform”
from “market perform.” In a note to clients, MacKinnon said,
“We believe Manulife is showing signs that it is starting to
turn the corner.”  Financial-services companies GMP Capital Inc. and
DundeeWealth Inc. also jumped today after their earnings
surpassed analyst estimates.  Beating Estimates  GMP, Canada’s second-largest non-bank brokerage, soared 14
percent to C$12.85 after its  profit  of 32 cents a share beat
analyst forecasts of 15 cents a share and 22 cents a share,
excluding certain items. The gain was the most in a day since
2008.  Money manager DundeeWealth topped the  average profit
estimate  of six analysts by 29 percent, excluding certain items,
and advanced 9.7 percent to a post-2007 high of C$19. Dundee
Corp., which owns a majority stake in DundeeWealth, climbed 9.2
percent to C$17.80.  Since Oct. 7,  72 companies in the S&P/TSX  have reported
financial results that topped their average analyst estimate,
while 40 have had a negative surprise.  Outside of the financial industry, Magna, Telus and
Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Ltd. gained on earnings news.  Stock Split  Magna rallied 6.1 percent to a three-year high of C$99.33
after beating analysts’ average third-quarter profit estimate by
35 percent, excluding certain items. The company also announced
a 20 percent dividend boost, an increase to its 2010  sales
forecast  and a two-for-one stock split.  “Earnings were surprisingly strong, and we believe that
the many actions announced by the company are an indication that
corporate governance is turning for the better after many years
of what was often perceived to be a shareholder unfriendly
dynamic,”  Peter Sklar , a Bank of Montreal analyst, said in a
note to clients.  Telus, Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier, climbed 3
percent to C$45.73. The company reported third-quarter earnings
that surpassed the average analyst estimate by 16 percent,
excluding certain items, and raised its quarterly  dividend  by 5
percent.  Consolidated Thompson, which operates in Quebec, rose 9
percent to C$11.81 after reporting earnings that matched the
average of 11 analyst estimates. The market had been “somewhat
fearful of a significant miss,”  Chris Lichtenheldt , an analyst
at UBS AG, wrote in a note.  Strike  Copper futures rose to a 28-month high as workers went on
strike at the world’s fourth-largest copper mine in Chile.  Teck gained 4 percent to C$49.71. First Quantum Minerals
Ltd., Canada’s second-largest publicly traded copper producer,
advanced 3.3 percent to C$95.36. Capstone Mining Corp., which
produces copper, silver and zinc in Mexico, jumped 15 percent to
a two-year high of C$4.37.  Alamos Gold Inc., which mines in Mexico, soared 7.4 percent
to a record C$18.99 after  Stephen D. Walker , an analyst at Royal
Bank of Canada, raised his rating on the shares to
“outperform” from “sector perform.” In a note to clients,
Walker said successful exploration in Turkey and Mexico should
lead to a “significant” resources increase at the end of the
year.  Uranium One Inc., the uranium producer in which Russia’s
ARMZ is buying a controlling stake, advanced for an 11th day,
surging 7.3 percent to C$5.  Ian Parkinson , an analyst at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, raised his 18-month price
forecast on the shares to C$6.80 from C$6.30, citing the
likelihood of higher uranium prices.  BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd, lost 2.6 percent
to C$55.65. Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are testing
iPhone software designed to make it secure enough for company
messages, according to three people who didn’t want to be named
because the plans aren’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 