-- Canadian Dollar May Strengthen Further to 2007 High, MFC's Janis Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-11-05T17:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/canadian-dollar-may-strengthen-to-2007-high-mfc-s-janis-says.html
The Canadian dollar, which traded at
parity with the U.S. currency today, may strengthen further to
match its 2007 record high of $1.10, said MFC Global Investment
money manager  Daniel Janis .  The loonie, as the currency is called because of the
aquatic bird on the one-dollar coin, “should be in a stronger
range,” Janis said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s Toronto
office.  When asked if the Canadian dollar may rise to its 2007 peak
of $1.10 to the U.S. currency, Janis said: “I could see that.”  Janis, who manages the $700 million  Manulife Strategic
Income Fund  and helps run about $5 billion in assets from
Boston, said Canada’s fundamentals and government policies are
strong. The Canadian dollar is headed for a 1.8 percent gain
this week for the fifth-best performance among the 16 most-
traded currencies.  “If productivity improves, Canada as a country could deal
with a stronger currency in a stronger range,” said Janis, 50.  Janis, a senior vice president and portfolio manager at the
unit of Manulife Financial Corp., said today’s Labor Department
data showing that the U.S. added 151,000 jobs in October may
encourage investors to look at “risky” assets and regions such
as Asia.  “We’ll look at the high yield, we’ll look at emerging
markets, we may look at some of the foreign-denominated bonds
outside of the U.S. and outside of Canada to get some relative
value in currency trades,” Janis said.  The Manulife Strategic Income Fund has returned 9.9 percent
this year. The Global Broad Market Corporate Index has gained
9.7 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 