-- Canada Funds Buy Channel Tunnel Line for $3.4 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-06T10:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/canadian-funds-buy-right-to-run-u-k-high-speed-rail-line-for-3-4-billion.html
(Corrects spelling of spokeswoman’s name in seventh
paragraph of story published Nov. 5.)  The British government will sell a
30-year contract to run the rail route linking the Channel
Tunnel with central London to a group of Canadian investment
funds for 2.1 billion pounds ($3.4 billion).  The concession to run the 68-mile (109 kilometer) High
Speed 1 line was awarded to Borealis Infrastructure Management
and Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, U.K. Transport Secretary
 Philip Hammond  said today in a statement.  Britain’s coalition government is selling High Speed 1 as
part of an asset-disposal program aimed at paying down a 155
billion-pound budget deficit. The award is a setback for  Groupe
Eurotunnel SA , which runs the Channel Tunnel and bid with its
shareholders Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Prudential Plc.  “It’s an enormous amount of money,” Hammond said. “It
shows that the decisive action this government has taken to
reduce the deficit is already paying dividends. Passengers will
also benefit hugely as HS1 seeks to attract new services.”  Other offers came from Allianz SE, Europe’s largest
insurer, and 3i Infrastructure Plc teamed with Morgan Stanley’s
infrastructure unit and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, people
familiar with the auction have said.  ‘Attractive, Stable’  “HS1 operates in an attractive and stable regulatory
environment with good long-term visibility on inflation-linked
cash flows,” Borealis Chief Executive Officer  Michael Rolland 
said in a statement.  While Eurotunnel lost out in the bidding, the price being
paid for HS1 “reflects favorably” on the valuation of the
Channel Tunnel itself, which the company runs under a 70-year
concession, spokeswoman  Fabienne Lissak  said by telephone.  The contract award could also mean Eurotunnel will no
longer be campaigning alone for regulatory changes to allow new
types of train to use the tunnel. “There are two actors with a
lot to gain from increased traffic,” Lissak said.  Eurotunnel had indicated it was unwilling to overbid for
HS1, and the contract is probably of more value to a pension
fund, said  Myriam Cohen , an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris.  “Eurotunnel a contract like this would take years to bring
back the cash, but for a fund the goal isn’t to grow the value
of an asset, just to be able pay people’s pensions,” she said.  Eurostar, Go-Ahead  High Speed 1 is currently used by Eurostar Group Ltd.,
which runs services from London St. Pancras to Paris and
Brussels, as well as freight operators and Go-Ahead Group Plc’s
Hitachi Ltd. “Javelin” commuter trains. It attracts about 9
million international and 5 million domestic passengers a year.  The line makes about 250 million pounds a year in access
charges, 60 percent from domestic services, and has more than
one-third of capacity unused, enough to permit more operators.  Germany’s Deutsche Bahn AG plans to run services via the
tunnel to Cologne, Frankfurt and Amsterdam by 2013 after the
European Union introduced rules requiring track owners to grant
access to new operators for cross-border high-speed trains.  The concession also includes the running of St. Pancras and
terminals at Stratford, Ebbsfleet and Ashford, east of London.
The winning bidder will take charge later this month.  Ontario Teachers’ is Canada’s largest single-profession
pension plan, with C$96.4 billion in assets. Its direct
investments include Camelot Group Plc, the U.K. lottery
operator, and Birmingham and Bristol airports in England.  Borealis is the infrastructure arm of OMERS Worlwide, which
has C$48 billion assets and stakes in businesses including
Britain’s Associated British Ports Holdings Plc and Scotia Gas
Networks Plc. Both of the Canadian funds are based in Toronto.  UBS AG acted as financial adviser to state-owned London &
Continental Railways, through which High Speed 1 was sold, and
Citigroup Inc. advised the  Department for Transport .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Jasper  in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  