-- Cargill Arm Raises $373 Million to Buy Assets Banks May Sell to Meet Rules
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/cargill-arm-raises-373-million-to-buy-assets-banks-may-sell-to-meet-rules.html
Cargill Inc., the nation’s largest
closely held company, raised $373 million through its CarVal
Investors unit to buy debt assets that banks divest in the face
of new regulations.  CVI Credit Value Fund LP plans to acquire home loans,
consumer debt and mortgage-backed securities, according to
Timothy Clark, a senior partner at Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
CarVal. It also may buy liquidation claims held by banks,
brokerages and other creditors in the bankruptcy proceedings of
companies such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Nortel
Networks Corp.  Formed in 1987 to complement Minneapolis-based Cargill’s
proprietary financial trading, CarVal became a big acquirer of
assets from failed savings and loans auctioned off by the
Resolution Trust Corp. in the early 1990s, according to Clark.
The firm, one of at least six in the U.S. to start credit-
related funds since June, sees a fresh opportunity as banks and
other financial institutions work out their “debt hangover”
from soured loans and distressed securities, he said.  “The asset purge is beginning from major financial
institutions and we are focused on the resulting orphaned
assets,” Clark said in an e-mail. “Consumer assets are
starting to be priced attractively,” he said, referring to
credit-card receivables and retail auto loans.  In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, the 27-nation
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision adopted international
standards in September that will more than double the ratio of
capital banks must hold in relation to the amount of risk on
their balance sheets. The Dodd-Frank U.S. financial overhaul,
signed into law in July, limits proprietary trading by banks as
well as their investments in private-equity and hedge funds.  Fund’s Targets  CarVal will acquire assets banks might divest to increase
capital and meet requirements under the new rules, Clark said.  Banks have been stuck holding assets from business lines
they’re exiting, such as trading for their own accounts, Clark
said. CarVal’s fund is looking to buy these leftovers, which are
often hard to sell to other financial institutions because the
assets are illiquid, requiring lots of capital to be set aside.  “There are non-strategic businesses in banks and
corporations that are being disbanded or rationalized or put up
for sale,” Clark said, citing a portfolio of aircraft leases
that CarVal recently purchased.  Fortress Investment Group LLC, which oversaw about $41.7
billion of private equity, hedge-fund and fixed-income
investments as of June 30, said in its second-quarter earnings
release that the firm had $2.6 billion in commitments for a
second credit-opportunities fund and related accounts.  Ken Griffin ’s Chicago-based Citadel Advisors LLC reported in August
regulatory filings that it had raised $225 million for a
residential mortgage opportunities fund.  Pine River, Premium Point  Firms that have filed SEC notices for credit or mortgage
funds in the last five months also include Minnetonka-based Pine
River Capital Management LP; Premium Point Investments LLC, a
New York firm run by  Anilesh Ahuja , the former global head of
residential mortgage-backed securities at Deutsche Bank AG; and
Claros Advisors LLC, also in Manhattan.  Money managers formed dozens of credit funds from July 2007
through 2008, hoping to acquire mortgages and other types of
debt from banks that were jettisoning the assets to raise cash
and reduce leverage as the financial crisis worsened. Banks
balked at the distressed prices being offered, as the sales
would have left them with steep losses that further depleted
regulatory capital.  ‘Awash in Liquidity’  “Our marketplace has been awash in liquidity since the
early 2000s,” said  Kingsley Greenland , the CEO of DebtX, a
Boston-based online marketplace that hosts auctions for
mortgages and other forms of debt. “It was a pricing issue”
that impeded sales, he said.  Banks became more willing to sell soured mortgages and
distressed mortgage bonds earlier this year because rising
profits from other sources were available to cushion potential
losses, according to CarVal’s Clark. Investors have offered
higher prices for mortgages and other bank assets because
delinquencies have stabilized, making it easier for buyers to
calculate potential returns, he said.  DebtX’s transactions during this quarter will be more than
double those recorded a year earlier, with most of the volume
coming from commercial banks, Greenland said. PNC Financial
Services Group Inc., the Pittsburgh-based bank, said in August
it was selling $2 billion of distressed mortgages and home-
equity loans.  Pricing Floor  “Prices have found a floor and have risen to levels that
are more appealing for banks to sell,” said  Chris Hentemann , a
managing partner at 400 Capital Management LLC, a New York-based
firm that specializes in mortgage- and asset-backed securities.
“Regulatory capital requirements are changing for the asset
class, which is putting pretty significant constraints on what
banks will be able to hold on their balance sheets,” said
Hentemann, formerly head of global structured products at Banc
of America Securities LLC.  Since its founding with a single grain-storage facility in
1865, Cargill has developed expertise in commodities trading,
using futures and other instruments to manage the price risk
associated with buying, selling and processing agricultural
commodities, according to  Lisa Clemens , a spokeswoman. That led
to trading financial instruments and, in the late 1980s,
distressed-credit investing. The company had almost $108 billion
of revenue in its latest fiscal year.  $10 billion in Assets  CarVal, the parent’s vehicle for investing in distressed
assets, now has about $10 billion under management in four
categories, including loan portfolios, corporate securities,
real estate and special opportunities.  Under the loan-portfolios strategy, CarVal invests in
commercial borrowings, consumer receivables and residential
mortgages that are either delinquent, modified or have been
written off. The corporate-securities strategy focuses on bonds,
bank debt, credit-default swaps and stocks tied to leveraged or
financially troubled companies.  Before joining Cargill in 1992, Clark, 46, was a manager in
the financial-services practice of Arthur Andersen & Co. He runs
CarVal with President  John Brice , who came to Cargill in 1996
after working in the private-equity and quoted asset-management
division of Friends Provident, a U.K. life-insurance company.  Cargill is among the Investors in CVI Credit Value, whose
fundraising was disclosed in an Oct. 15 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  