-- Chavez Takeover of Steelmaker Sidetur Sparks Bond Rally on Payoff Clause
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-11-05T16:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/chavez-takeover-of-steelmaker-sidetur-sparks-bond-rally-on-payoff-clause.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
expropriation of steelmaker Siderurigica del Turbio SA is
sparking the biggest weekly rally in the bonds in at least a
year on speculation the government will pay more than face
value.  The price on Sidetur’s 10 percent bonds due in 2016 jumped
to 79.75 cents on the dollar today from 69.13 cents on Oct. 29,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield fell to 15.58 percent
from 19.26 percent. Chavez said Oct. 31 that he would seize the
company, citing the need to guarantee steel supplies.  The bonds contain a clause that guarantee holders payment
of 101 cents if there’s any change in company ownership,
prompting investors to buy the securities after the Chavez
takeover, said  Alberto Cardenas , head of strategy at BancTrust &
Co. in Caracas.  “Investors are betting that they can benefit from a legal
clause,” Cardenas said in a phone interview. “The market
expects the government to honor the debt obligations of these
expropriated companies.”  A spokesman at the Finance Ministry said that Minister
 Jorge Giordani  wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Sidetur, based in Caracas, sold $100 million of the bonds
in 2006. There is currently $86.3 million of the debt
outstanding.  Chavez’s seizure of fertilizer company Fertilizantes
Nitrogenados de Venezuela last month sparked a rally in that
company’s bonds on speculation that the government will honor
the $250 million debt.  33% Gain  Fertinitro, a joint venture between Koch Industries Inc.,
Venezuela’s state petrochemical firm Pequiven, Italy’s
Snamprogetti SpA and Empresas Polar SA, saw the price of its
8.29 percent bonds surge 33 percent since Chavez announced the
takeover Oct. 10 and after Fitch Ratings said in an Oct. 22
statement that Pequiven will most likely pay the debt.  Some Fertinitro bondholders are forming a group in response
to the nationalization. The members report holding more than 65
percent of the bonds, Boston-based Bingham McCutchen LLP said in
a statement Oct. 25.  “In the case of Sidetur, we think the transaction is
risky,” BancTrust’s Cardenas said. “The government decreed the
expropriation of the company’s assets, but it’s not clear if
that corresponds to a change in legal ownership.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services put Sidetur on review
for a possible downgrade yesterday, according to a statement.  Oil Nationalization  “The indenture of the senior unsecured notes contains a
clause that requires Sidetur to make a change-of-control offer
to the noteholders,” the statement said. “However, Sidetur
will not be required to make this if a third party makes the
change-of-control offer or if the current rating of the notes is
at least as high as the rating on the issue date.”  The Sidetur bond fell 1.25 cents to 79.75 cents on the
dollar today from 81 cents yesterday.  BancTrust’s Cardenas said the yields on the Sidetur and
Fertinitro bonds will likely come closer in line with the
sovereign yield curve on government ownership.  The government’s average dollar-bond yield fell to 12.82
percent yesterday from 13.32 percent on Nov. 3, according to
JPMorgan indexes. The extra yield investors demand to own
Venezuelan government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 39
basis points today, or 0.39 percentage point, to 10.17 percent,
according to JPMorgan.  JV Bondholders  Chavez, who nationalized heavy crude oil ventures with
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  ConocoPhillips  in 2007, and later took
over companies in the food, cement and telecommunications
industries, has accelerated government seizures this year after
losing his two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. The
government is in arbitration with Exxon and ConocoPhillips to
compensate the companies for the seized assets.  Bondholders of two joint ventures with Exxon and Conoco,
Cerro Negro and Petrozuata, received more than face value for
their securities, according to  Russell Dallen , head bond trader
at Caracas Capital Markets at BBO Financial Services Inc. in
Miami.  State oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  repurchased
millions of dollars of bonds from investors in those ventures,
according to Dallen.  “The bondholders of these ventures were paid but Exxon and
Conoco haven’t received any compensation,” Dallen said in a
telephone interview. “They paid more than par to compensate
people for the expropriation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  