-- Chicago's Credit Rating Is Lowered by S&P Amid Concern About Cash Reserves
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-05T22:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/chicago-s-credit-rating-is-lowered-by-s-p-amid-concern-about-cash-reserves.html
Chicago’s credit rating was cut by
Standard & Poor’s, which cited Mayor  Richard Daley ’s reliance on
dipping into cash reserves to balance the budget.  S&P reduced the rating one step to A+, the fifth-highest
investment grade. The third-most-populous U.S. city has $6.7
billion in general-obligation debt outstanding, though not all
of the securities are subject to the downgrade, said Helen
Samuelson, an analyst at New York-based S&P.  The city is “disappointed” with the change, said  Gene Saffold , Chicago’s chief financial officer.  “We disagree with S&P’s new rating and believe it is
unwarranted given the progress we have made in reducing
expenditures, maintaining substantial reserve levels and working
to address our pension liability issues,” Saffold said in an e-
mail statement.  Daley, facing a projected $654.7 million deficit, proposed
Oct. 13 to close it by dipping into cash reserves and having
businesses perform some municipal services while leaving taxes
as they are. Daley announced in September he wouldn’t seek re-
election after 21 years in office. The primary is in February.  He proposed borrowing $120 million from the city’s parking-
meter funds to help balance the budget and acknowledged it was a
“controversial” step. He also proposed taking $38 million from
a surplus raised in tax-increment financing deals, in which
municipalities borrow against future property tax returns.  ‘Structural Imbalance’  “The lowered rating reflects our view of the city’s
ongoing structural imbalance and heavy reliance on nonrecurring
revenues to bridge its 2011 budget gap, including the use of
most of its remaining reserves from the sale of its parking
meters,” Samuelson wrote in a release on the ratings move.  The city’s unfunded pension liabilities “will place a
substantial and increasing burden on its future budgets,”
Samuelson also said.  Lowered credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing
costs.  Chicago Parking Meters LLC  yesterday sold $600 million of
10-year notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
5.489 percent securities yield 300 basis points, or 3 percentage
points, more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  