-- Chile's Economy Expands 6.5% in September, Beating Economists' Estimates
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-11-05T17:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/chile-s-economy-expands-6-5-in-september-beating-economists-estimates.html
Chile’s economy expanded more than
forecast in September led by growth in the retail, transport and
communications industries.  Economic activity, as measured by the  Imacec  index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, increased 6.5 percent from the same
month a year earlier, the central bank said in a report
distributed in Santiago. The median estimate of 17 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg  was 6.4 percent.  Economists had expected a slower pace of economic growth
after industrial production in September increased less than
anticipated and because  mining output  contracted in the month,
 Alejandro Puente , an economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, said. Today’s data bolsters expectations for a
sixth straight rate increase this month to prevent economic
growth from creating inflationary pressure, Puente said in a
telephone interview from Santiago.  “The central will once again increase interest rates by a
quarter point precisely in anticipation of inflationary pressure
that has been incubating,” Puente said. “The decreasing
unemployment rate and very strong internal demand growth could
cause inflation to accelerate in coming months.”  Policy makers have increased the benchmark interest rate to
the current 2.75 percent from a record low 0.5 percent,
including last month’s 0.25-point increase. The bank will
continue to remove the monetary stimulus at a pace that depends
on economic conditions, policy makers said in a statement
accompanying their decision in October.  Stronger Peso  Chile’s peso strengthened 0.5 percent to 477.60 per U.S.
dollar at 12:57 p.m. local time. The peso has gained 7.9 percent
against the dollar in the past three months, beating six other
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Chile’s economy has grown on increased investment and
consumption of consumer and durable goods, which reflects
improved optimism in the economy, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said today.  Data such as an increase in building permits suggest the
construction sector, which has been slow to recuperate from a
February earthquake, is recovering, he told reporters in
Santiago.  Less Working Days  Chile had one less working day in September from the
previous year, which can shave about 0.6 percentage point from
the growth figure, Larrain said. The economic growth data also
reflects a low base of comparison, as Chile suffered its worst
recession in more than a decade in 2009, he said.  The economy expanded 0.4 percent in September from the
previous month on a seasonally-adjusted basis, the bank said in
today’s statement.  Economic activity rose 7.1 percent in the three months
through September from last year, which would be the fastest
quarterly expansion since 2004, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on central bank data.  The economy grew 1.5 percent in the first quarter and 6.5
percent in the three months through June.  The central bank estimated in its latest quarterly monetary
report that the economy will expand as much as 5.5 percent in
2010, which would be the most since 2005.  Internal demand may grow 16 percent this year as imports
rise 26 percent and exports shrink 0.3 percent, the central bank
said in the monetary report, published Sept. 8.  Quake Recovery  Internal demand helped the economy recovery from the
February quake, which caused activity to shrink in March, said
 Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The post-February 27 earthquake economic recovery
followed a tight  V-shaped pattern ,” he said in an Oct. 29 note.
“The post-earthquake rebound of real activity has been nothing
short of impressive.”  Industrial output  has grown at a slower pace than economic
activity since the 8.8-magnitude temblor. Some industries are
yet to reach pre-quake production levels, the National
Statistics Institute said in an Oct. 28 report.  Industrial output grew 4.4 percent in the third quarter
from the previous year and 1.9 percent in the three months
through June, according to calculations by Bloomberg based on
the institute’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  