-- Chilean Peso Gains Most in Latin America This Week as Copper Surges on Fed
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-11-05T19:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/chilean-peso-leads-latin-currency-weekly-gains-as-copper-rallies-on-fed.html
Chile’s peso posted the biggest
weekly gain among major Latin American currencies as copper, its
biggest export, reached a two-year high after the U.S. Federal
Reserve announced $600 billion worth of bond purchases.  The peso climbed 0.5 percent to 477.6 per U.S. dollar at
2:54 p.m. New York time, from 479.95 yesterday. It appreciated
2.4 percent this week, the most among six regional currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Fed’s economic stimulus plan announced on Nov. 3 helped
drive the Thomson/Jefferies Commodity Index to its highest level
since October 2008, while copper for December delivery advanced
as much as 2.1 percent to $3.9955 a pound on the Comex in New
York.  “The Chilean peso is one of the better plays against a
weak dollar,” said  Mike Moran , senior foreign exchange
strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York. “It’s still
not excessively expensive like the Brazilian real. The threat of
Chile applying capital controls is low in the context of the
risk we see something again from Brazil, or from Colombia and
Peru. While what we had before was people selling the dollar
against everything, we expect to see a more subtle expression of
that in November, favoring commodity currencies versus non-
commodity currencies.”  Copper Exports  Copper exports made up $28 billion of Chile’s $162 billion
gross domestic product last year, or 17 percent of the economy,
according to data from the central bank and International
Monetary Fund.  Chile’s currency strengthened even after the central bank’s
announcement yesterday that it would raise limits on foreign
investment for pension funds because the funds already have room
to invest more abroad under current limits.  The bank’s board voted to gradually raise the limit on
foreign holdings to 80 percent of assets from 60 percent,
following a request from the finance ministry. Chile’s pension
funds had $138 billion under management at the end of September,
of which 46 percent was invested outside Chile.  “The central bank yesterday used the last card it had left
before intervention,” said  Eugenio Cortes , head of currency
forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA. “Intervention
is the only thing left, but they’ll let the dollar fall another
10 pesos first.”  Traders have reduced bets on interest-rate increases after
central bank meeting minutes published on Oct. 29, in which the
bank said it would take the rising peso and lower rates in
developed countries into account when setting its own policy.
Traders are pricing in a pause in the central bank’s rate
increases possibly as soon as December, after a 25 basis-point
rise to 3 percent on Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  