-- China Halts Sinograin's Trading Business, Seeks Fines for Excessive Buying
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T06:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/china-halts-sinograin-s-trading-business-seeks-fines-for-excessive-buying.html
The China Grain Reserves Corp. has
been ordered to halt its trading business and companies that buy
grain in excess of government limits will be fined, the  State
Administration of Grain  said.  State-run Sinograin, as China Grain Reserves Corp. is
known, should only engage in “stockpiling and rotating
government reserves,” the agency said in a  statement  on its
wesbite. The move is aimed at ensuring an orderly grain market
and managing inflationary expectations, the statement said.  The measure to stabilize the market comes after grains,
rubber, cotton and sugar prices in China gained to records this
week as tight supplies stoked their investment appeal.  Inflation 
gaining at the fastest pace in 23 months and increased liquidity
after government curbs on property investments have fueled the
rally in commodity prices.  “The move is to reduce the number of entities in the
grains market,” Tian Feng, analyst at BOC International (China)
Ltd. “The government doesn’t want those companies that receive
subsidies to stockpile grains for the government to have their
own sideline business at the same time.”  Sinograin handles stockpiling grains and oilseeds for the
government as well as operating its own grain processing and
trading business, according to the company  website .  Qualified grain buyers will have to be registered properly
and conduct their grain purchasing business within their
stipulated areas, said the government statement, which was dated
Nov. 4. Granaries may receive fines of as much as five times the
value of the grain that exceeds the limit and risk having their
business licenses revoked, the statement said.  “We will enforce a broad examination of all entities in
the grain market,” the agency said. The examination will weed
out those unqualified buyers from purchasing grains, it said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Feiwen Rong in Shanghai at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  