-- China Says Fed Must Explain Bond-Buying or Endanger Recovery
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T14:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/china-says-u-s-fed-must-explain-bond-buying-or-endanger-global-confidence.html
China said the U.S. Federal Reserve
needs to explain this week’s decision to purchase bonds to pump
money into the world’s biggest economy or risk undermining the
global recovery.  “Many countries are worried about the impact of the policy
on their economies,” Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at
a press briefing in Beijing today. “It would be appropriate for
someone to step forward and give us an explanation, otherwise
international confidence in the recovery and growth of the
global economy might be hurt.”  Cui’s remarks echo concerns raised across Asia as countries
brace themselves for stronger currencies and possible asset-
price inflation. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
yesterday said the U.S. was creating problems for the world and
the subject would be raised during next week’s Group of 20
leaders’ summit in Seoul.  Asian stocks rose, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index 
climbing for a fifth day , gaining 1.3 percent to 135.07 in
Tokyo.  The U.S. “owes us some explanation on their decision on
quantitative easing,” Cui said. We hope the U.S. “will adopt a
responsible position on that matter,” he said.  ‘Missing the Point’  Hours after the Federal Reserve’s Nov. 3 decision to
purchase $600 billion of Treasury securities, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  explained in an opinion article for the Washington Post
that “this approach eased financial conditions in the past and,
so far, looks to be effective again.” He also said that
“easier financial conditions will promote economic growth.”  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  expressed
disappointment and concern about the measures and criticized the
U.S. for acting unilaterally.  “Most of the $600 billion that the Federal Reserve will
pump into the U.S.A.’s economy will find its way into the
financial markets of emerging-market countries” and strengthen
their currencies, Gordhan said in an e-mailed statement today.
That will have “devastating consequences for exports.”  Cui also dismissed a U.S. proposal to push for targets to
shrink current-account gaps and address global trade imbalances
as “missing the point.” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
has suggested deficit or surplus targets of less than 4 percent
of gross domestic product.  “The artificial setting of a numerical target cannot but
remind us of the days of a planned economy,” Cui said, adding
that the U.S. and China are capable of overcoming difficulties
in their relationship.  ‘Abnormal’ Capital Flows  Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said today
that while quantitative easing in the U.S. is understandable
because of domestic economic conditions, the policy may not be
good for the world. Conflicts between the dollar’s role at home
and abroad could raise questions about the international
monetary system, Zhou said at a forum in Beijing.  Several Asian governments yesterday said the Fed’s expanded
monetary stimulus threatened to escalate an inflow of capital
into the region. China will seek to limit the effects of
“abnormal” capital flows, Zhou said today.  The International Monetary Fund last month urged Asia-
Pacific nations to withdraw policy stimulus to head off asset-
price pressures, as their world-leading economies draw capital
because of low interest rates in the U.S. and other advanced
countries.  Chinese central bank adviser  Xia Bin  said yesterday that
Fed quantitative easing is “uncontrolled” money printing, and
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  cited the U.S. as pursuing a
“weak-dollar policy.” The Hong Kong Monetary Authority warned
the city’s property prices could surge and Malaysia’s central
bank chief said nations are prepared to act jointly on capital
flows.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this week raised its 12-month
target for Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index of equities, saying the
city has the most to gain from extra liquidity released by
quantitative easing programs and China’s growth.  -- Michael Forsythe  with assistance from  Zhang Dingmin  in
Beijing,  Chinmei Sung  in Taipei and Miek Cohen in Cape Town.
Editors:  Bill Austin ,  Patrick Harrington ,  Paul Panckhurst ,
 Philip Sanders .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  