-- ChiNext Tightens Rules on Executives Selling Shares Amid Overhang Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T07:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/chinext-tightens-rules-on-executives-selling-shares-amid-overhang-concerns.html
China’s  ChiNext  bourse for technology
companies tightened rules governing share sales by top managers
amid concern outgoing executives of companies on the exchange
may flood the market with stock.  Executives won’t be able to sell their shares for at least
18 months after the company’s initial public offering, according
to the new  rule  posted on ChiNext’s website yesterday. Managers
who quit within six months of a listing will be unable to sell
stock for at least 18 months after resigning.  Gains in the year-old ChiNext bourse have trailed the
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  on concern that top managers
would sell their shares as lockups end. About 33 billion yuan
($5 billion) of ChiNext shares became tradable on Nov. 1 as one-
year lockups expired, equivalent to a quarter of the outstanding
stock on the board, according to  Huatai Securities Co.   The  index  of 100 companies on the Shenzhen-based ChiNext
has risen 7.5 percent since the gauge was compiled on June 1,
compared with a 22 percent gain by the benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index .  The latest restrictions augment already existing rules that
prevent controlling shareholders from selling shares for three
years after the IPO. Pre-IPO individual investors are subject to
a 12-month lockup. Before the new rule, executives typically
pledged not to sell stock within six months of resigning.  General managers, board members and chief financial
officers at 37 ChiNext companies have quit since their companies
went public, according to  Liu Xiangning , a Nanjing-based analyst
at Huatai Securities. Departing managers at 21 of those ChiNext
companies own shares in their firms valued at a combined 5
billion yuan, Liu said.  Executives who depart their companies between six months
and a year after listing won’t be allowed to sell their shares
until 12 months after resigning.  -- Eva Woo . Editors:  Russell Ward ,  Philip Lagerkranser   To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  