-- Christchurch House Repairs to Start Two Months After New Zealand Quake
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-05T01:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/christchurch-house-repairs-to-start-two-months-after-new-zealand-quake.html
New Zealand’s government will start
the first round of repairs on homes in Christchurch next week,
two months after the city’s buildings and streets were wrecked
by the country’s worst earthquake in eight decades.  Builders will start work on more than 50,000 houses that
suffered moderate damage, according to  Fletcher Building Ltd .
The nation’s largest construction company is project manager on
behalf of the  Earthquake Commission , New Zealand’s state-owned
disaster insurer, which covers homes costing no more than
NZ$100,000 ($79,000) to repair.  “We’re starting in Halswell next week,”  Mark Binns , chief
executive, infrastructure at Fletcher, said in an interview,
referring to a suburb in the southwest of Christchurch, the
South Island city rocked by the magnitude 7 temblor on Sept. 4.  Binns estimates as many as 70,000 damaged homes may be
covered by the commission’s criteria. Since being appointed mid-
October, Fletcher has been establishing a project command
center, and hiring engineers, architects, surveyors and other
managers to help oversee the repairs, Binns said.  “We’ll have over 300 people in our structure when we are
fully up and running,” he said. Some Fletcher staff from
outside the area will be relocated to Christchurch but most of
the hiring will be local. Local building companies and
contractors will be accredited and undertake the repair work.  “The rate of rollout will be dependent on the rate at
which we attract resources,” Binns said. Some builders may
prefer to focus on commercial work or more expensive house
repairs and rebuilds, which are the responsibility of private
insurers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  