-- Chrysler's Third-Quarter Loss May Be Narrowest Since Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/chrysler-may-post-smallest-loss-since-bankruptcy-on-best-u-s-sales-gains.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA , may report its smallest quarterly loss
since emerging from bankruptcy protection, helped by the biggest
sales gains among U.S. automakers.  The automaker may report a third-quarter net loss of $129
million Nov. 8, based on the average estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be less than the company’s
$172 million second-quarter loss and a sign Chrysler is
strengthening almost 18 months after emerging from bankruptcy.  “Chrysler may prove to be one of 2011’s most surprising
success stories,”  Stuart Pearson , an industry analyst with
Morgan Stanley, said in a note to investors on Nov. 3. He wrote
that he expects a “solid if not spectacular quarter.”  The results for the three months through September will be
better than for the first two quarters of the year, Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said in September, according
to remarks posted on the company’s website.  Chrysler’s operating profit may have been $172 million,
according to the average of four analysts’ estimates. That would
be a 6 percent decline from $183 million in the second quarter.  “We already know that we will make more money in the third
quarter than we have made in any quarter so far,” according to
the text of Marchionne’s Sept. 14 speech to Chrysler dealers.  Topped Forecast  Chrysler, which had a $143 million operating profit in the
first quarter, already has topped its forecast for as much as
$200 million in operating profit for all of 2010.  “Chrysler might have continued to show a stronger cash flow
generation than the business plan expectations,”  Monica Bosio ,
an analyst with Banca IMI in Milan, wrote in a note Oct. 25.  During the third quarter, Chrysler sold 293,000 cars and
trucks in the U.S., a 20 percent increase from the same period
last year, according to Autodata Corp., a Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based researcher.  General Motors Co.’s  U.S. sales in the quarter declined 5
percent, while  Ford Motor Co.’s  rose 7.9 percent, according to
Autodata.  Ford reported a $1.69 billion profit for the third quarter.
GM, which also went through a U.S. government-backed bankruptcy
last year, reported preliminary net income of $1.9 billion to
$2.1 billion Nov. 3 and said it will hold a conference call to
discuss the results Nov. 10.  Chrysler may be becoming too reliant on fleet sales, said
 Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry trends at TrueCar.com,
an automotive pricing website based in Santa Monica, California.
The company’s sales to corporations, governments and rental car
companies made up 37 percent of its U.S. volume during the third
quarter, according to TrueCar.  ‘Highly Dependent’  Until the U.S. automaker’s relationship with Fiat can
result in new products, Chrysler will be “highly dependent” on
fleet and rental sales, Toprak said. The industry average during
that period was 17 percent.  “Anytime you go over 25 percent in total fleet and rental
sales that typically starts to diminish overall residual values
and has a negative impact on brand image,” Toprak said.  While Chrysler’s reliance on fleet sales shrank from 41
percent in the second quarter, it is higher than the 20 percent
level from a year ago, according to TrueCar.  Chrysler, which doesn’t release its mix of retail and fleet
sales, has defended deliveries to those customers.  “They pay cash for their vehicles just like anyone else,”
 Fred Diaz , Chrysler’s lead sales executive, said during an
interview on Oct. 22 in San Antonio.  Marchionne, who also is CEO of Fiat, said he objects to
those who classify fleet sales as “dirty.”  New Vehicles  Chrysler is relying on fleet customers and lower incentives
until the company can introduce new vehicles, said  Jessica Caldwell , an analyst with Edmunds.com in Santa Monica,
California.  “It seems like they are bridging to a point when they have
the product to be more aggressive,” Caldwell said.  Purchasing data from the Los Angeles Department of Water &
Power shows how fleet sales can mean lower prices for
automakers. The utility purchased 400 of the 2009 Dodge Avenger
SXT sedans last year at an average price of $14,868.69,
according to the city-owned power provider. The average
transaction price of that model for retail customers was $19,684
a year ago, according to Edmunds.  Grand Cherokee  Marchionne has reduced U.S. consumer discounts, with
incentive spending falling 21 percent from a year earlier to
$3,125 per vehicle during the quarter. Chrysler’s retail
business has improved with the introduction the redesigned Jeep
Grand Cherokee, Caldwell said.  “It’s good to have a vehicle that’s out there selling in
the market, over 10,000 units, and is not really dependent on
incentives,” Caldwell said. Last month, U.S. dealers sold 12,721
Grand Cherokees.  The average transaction price of a Chrysler vehicle during
the third quarter was $29,350, 6.4 percent more than last year,
according to Edmunds.  The U.S. accounted for 73 percent of the company’s global
sales, which rose 17 percent from a year earlier to 401,067,
according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  