-- Climber Cuts Off Arm, Tapes Farewell; Downey’s Road Trip: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/climber-cuts-off-arm-tapes-farewell-downey-s-road-trip-rick-warner.html
Some moviegoers fainted during
festival screenings of “ 127 Hours ,” when mountain climber Aron
Ralston cuts off his lower right arm to free himself from a
giant boulder.  Don’t let those reports scare you away from  Danny Boyle ’s
daring, spine-tingling drama, which features a remarkable
performance by  James Franco  as the real-life adventurer who
spent six days trapped in a remote Utah canyon after falling
during a weekend hike in 2003.  Most of the 90-minute movie takes place inside that narrow
canyon, where Ralston survives with a meager supply of food and
water, a dull utility knife and a steely determination. Except
for a brief encounter with two women hikers, periodic flashbacks
and his helicopter rescue, Franco commands the screen by
himself.  We see him chiseling away at the rock, carving his name on
the wall and using his camcorder to record what he assumes will
be a video farewell to friends and family. We watch him run out
of water and resort to drinking his own urine. We hear him
narrate his predicament in a mock TV appearance accompanied by
canned laughter.  Dull Knife  As much as I wanted to look away at times, I couldn’t
because Franco is mesmerizing. He portrays despair and hope with
equal alacrity. He laughs, he cries and he shouts without
resorting to hammy tricks or tearjerker conventions. He makes
his own special effects.  So does Boyle, a British cult director before gaining
worldwide fame for “Slumdog Millionaire.” He jazzes things up
with dreamy flashbacks to Ralston’s childhood, chilling close-
ups of the climber’s face as he struggles to escape and an
adrenaline-pumping soundtrack.  But Boyle never loses sight of the central story, which is
the overwhelming urge to live in the face of death.  When Ralson starts hacking away at his arm with that dull
knife, the squeamish may have to close their eyes. Everyone else
will watch with awe and wonder.  “127 Hours,” from Fox Searchlight Pictures,” now playing
in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Due Date’  Ethan Tremblay is a doltish actor who carries his late
father’s ashes in a coffee can, never goes anywhere without his
French Bulldog and pretends to have glaucoma to justify his
marijuana habit. Peter Highman is a tightly wound architect
who’s about to fly home to witness the birth of his first child.  When their paths cross at the Atlanta airport and they end
up on a no-fly list, it leads to a bizarre cross-country trip to
Los Angeles that includes a car plunging off an overpass, an
arrest at the Mexican border, an accidental shooting and a butt-
kicking by a wheelchair-bound vet.  “ Due Date ,” starring  Robert Downey Jr . and Zach
Galifianakis, is an amiable, slapdash comedy that follows in the
footsteps of other odd-couple road movies like “Midnight Run”
and “Planes, Trains and Automobiles.”  But with its first-class comic pedigree -- it was written
by Alan R. Cohen and Alan Freedland (TV’s “King of the Hill”)
and directed by Todd Phillips (“The Hangover”) -- it should be
funnier.  Downey and Galifianakis make a fine mismatched pair, and
 Juliette Lewis  has a hilarious cameo as a drug-dealing mom. But
 Jamie Foxx  is wasted as an old friend of Highman’s and the
inevitable rapprochement between the traveling companions gets a
little too touchy-feely.  “Due Date,” from Warner Bros. Pictures, now playing
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 