-- PetroChina Parent to Refine Record Oil to Meet Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T02:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/cnpc-daily-crude-processing-rises-to-record-to-ease-china-fuel-shortages.html
China National Petroleum Corp. , the
country’s largest oil and gas producer, plans to continue
processing crude at record levels reached on Nov. 3 for the rest
of the month to help meet increased year-end demand.  The parent of Hong Kong-listed  PetroChina Co.  will refine
about 400,000 metric tons of crude a day, or about 2.9 million
barrels daily, CNPC said in a statement on its website today.
The company will raise processing volumes by 8.5 percent this
month from a year earlier and boost output of fuel including
diesel and gasoline by 11 percent, according to CNPC.  China is battling a diesel shortage in some regions because
of increased use by factories and seasonal demand from farmers
busy with the autumn harvest. CNPC said it will expedite
operations at new refineries and resume production on time at
plants where maintenance is scheduled for the fourth quarter.  CNPC plans to expand its daily diesel output in November by
7 percent from the previous month to 168,000 tons, according to
today’s statement.  China is accelerating power restrictions to meet efficiency
targets, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. That’s prompting
some manufacturers to turn to their own diesel generators at the
same time as use of fuel climbs during the autumn harvest,  Qiu Xiaofeng , an oil analyst at China Merchants Securities Ltd.,
said yesterday.  Rival China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec,
is also “sparing no effort” to ensure supplies to the market.
The nation’s largest refiner will increase daily oil processing
to a record this month, its parent, China Petrochemical Corp.,
said yesterday.  -- Wang Ying  in Beijing. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  John Viljoen .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 