-- Collahuasi Copper Miners Prepare to Start `Long' Strike as Wage Talks Fail
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-05T16:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/collahuasi-workers-plan-long-strike-at-chile-mine-after-wage-talks-fail.html
Workers at  Anglo American Plc  and
 Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi unit in northern Chile started a strike
today at the world’s fourth-biggest copper mine after wage talks
failed. Copper rose to a 28-month high in New York.  The stoppage began with the first shift at 7 a.m. New York
time, Bernardita Fernandez, a company spokeswoman, said today by
telephone. Collahuasi will continue operating at full capacity
using non-unionized employees and contract workers, she said
yesterday.  “Our strike will be long and definitive,” Jacqueline Cerda,
a union official, said yesterday at a worker assembly from the
city of Iquique, Chile. “The company is making stratospheric
profits.”  The strike will likely drive up prices of the metal used in
pipes and wires,  Mark Pervan , an analyst at ANZ Bank Ltd. said
in a Nov. 2 report. Half of the 1,551 unionized workers are on
strike at the mine site, while hundreds of others are protesting
at the union’s office in Iquique, Cerda said.  Copper for December delivery rose 6.75 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $3.9795 a pound at 11:04 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Earlier, the price reached $3.9955, the highest level for
a most-active contract since July 3, 2008.  Collahuasi representatives are waiting in the hotel in
Iquique where talks took place last week and are willing to
resume negotiations, Fernandez said.  “We are waiting for them to come to us,” Fernandez said.  Bonus Proposal  Collahuasi increased a bonus proposal to 11.5 million pesos
($24,000) plus 2 million pesos in low-interest loans, Fernandez
said yesterday. A previous bonus offer of 8.9 million pesos was
rejected by workers in an Oct. 27 vote.  The union “stuck” with its requests throughout the talks
and wouldn’t consider any other offers, Fernandez said. Cerda
declined to detail the union’s demands.  The union “will not approach the company” as it begins the
strike, Cerda said. “We are waiting for the company to respond
to our proposal.”  Workers opposed a company proposal to extend beyond 2013 a
routine whereby miners work for seven-day periods followed by
seven days of rest, according to the union. That proposal should
be negotiated later on, Cerda said.  Production  Collahuasi produced about 535,000 metric tons of copper
last year, or 3.5 percent of the world’s output, according to
Standard Bank Plc. Profit rose 36 percent last year to $1.56
billion, according to the company’s website. Anglo American and
Xstrata each own 44 percent and a group led by Mitsui & Co.
holds the rest.  Collahuasi’s copper production is only surpassed by  BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s  Escondida mine, also located in Chile’s Atacama
Desert; Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in
Indonesia; and Codelco’s Norte division in Chile. Workers at
Escondida were paid bonuses of more than 14 million pesos to
sign a new wage deal last year.  Inventories  of copper in warehouses monitored by the London
Metal Exchange have declined 27 percent this year, signaling
demand already exceeds supplies. Stocks fell to a 2010 low on
Nov. 3.  The Collahuasi mine located near Chile’s border with
Bolivia in the Andes Mountains is unrelated to the San Jose
copper mine where the rescue of 33 miners was watched by
millions of people across the world earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  