-- Connecticut Awaits Bridgeport Tally to Decide Winner of Governor's Race
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/connecticut-awaits-bridgeport-tally-to-decide-winner-of-governor-s-race.html
Connecticut ’s next governor remains
undetermined as the state’s election chief awaits the Nov. 2
vote count from  Bridgeport , the state’s most-populous city.  Secretary of State  Susan Bysiewicz  said late yesterday that
she wouldn’t say more on the race between Democrat  Dan Malloy 
and Republican  Tom Foley , 58, until the city’s tally is known.
On Nov. 3, Bysiewicz declared Malloy, 55, the winner, based on
unofficial results. Excluding heavily Democratic Bridgeport,
Foley led by almost 8,400 votes out of 1.12 million counted.  Each candidate said yesterday that he had won, citing
campaign estimates. Certifying the ballots will take about a
week, said Av Harris, a spokesman for Bysiewicz, a Democrat.  Earlier yesterday, Foley asked Bysiewicz to delay further
announcements about the vote “until the results are certain,”
according to a statement from Justin Clark, his campaign
manager. He cited varying counts and changes in some districts.  “In the last 24 hours alone, Bridgeport has revised
downward the number of votes cast for Dan Malloy by over
3,500,” Clark said. Bridgeport polls  remained open  an extra two
hours on Nov. 2 because ballots ran short and more had to be
provided. The Secretary of State’s  website  shows the city had
about 71,500 registered voters in 2009, 63 percent as Democrats.  The Malloy campaign figures his lead is more than 10,000,
said  Roy Occhiogrosso , an aide.  Malloy Confident  “We are 100 percent confident that the final vote will be
far outside what will be necessary to trigger a recount,”
Occhiogrosso said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Under Connecticut rules, if the winning margin is less than
2,000, a recount is required, Harris said. The winner will
succeed  Jodi Rell , 63, a Republican who didn’t seek re-election.  Malloy, who was Stamford’s mayor for 14 years,  pledged 
during his campaign to overhaul the state’s tax code and develop
a strategy to create jobs. He ran on a ticket with  Nancy Wyman ,
the state comptroller, who would serve as lieutenant governor.  A political newcomer, Foley started and ran NTC Group Inc.,
a private-equity firm, in 1985. The Bush administration named
him to oversee most of Iraq’s state-owned companies in 2003. In
2006, he was appointed U.S. ambassador to Ireland, a post he
left in 2009.  In his campaign, Foley  promised  to reduce the state
government’s size as Connecticut strives to recover from the
recession. The state’s  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent in
September, near a 34-year high of 9.2 percent in March.  Late yesterday, Foley said a bag of uncounted photocopied
ballots had been found in Bridgeport, according to the
Associated Press. He wants the ballots impounded, AP reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  