-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Increased $2.1 Billion in September
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-11-05T20:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increased-2-1-billion-in-september.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S.
unexpectedly increased in September by the most in two years,
led by a surge in non-revolving credit such as college loans and
auto financing.  Credit rose $2.1 billion after a revised $4.9 billion drop
in August that was more than the previously estimated, the
Federal Reserve said today in Washington. Economists projected a
$3 billion decrease, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Credit-card debt declined for the 25th
straight month, while non-revolving loans rose by the most since
August 2007.  Student borrowing picked up as the school year began, at
the same time Americans remain wary of using credit cards for
their purchases. Unemployment near  10 percent , limited income
growth and more home foreclosures are keeping borrowing
contained and restraining consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy.  “Consumers appear to be continuing to restructure balance
sheets by paying down debt and increasing savings, while
spending moderately,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York. “I don’t think
this one number changes that ongoing reality.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 35 economists ranged
from decreases of $200 million to $14 billion.  Earlier today, the Labor Department said the economy added
151,000 jobs in October and the unemployment rate held at 9.6
percent.  Stocks and the dollar climbed and Treasury securities
declined after the reports.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.4 percent to
1,225.85 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to its
price, rose to 2.54 percent from 2.49 percent late yesterday.
The dollar strengthened to $1.4037 per euro from $1.4207.  Non-Revolving Debt  Non-revolving debt  jumped $10.4 billion in September.
Federal government non-revolving loans, such as those for
student loans, increased an unadjusted $27 billion in September.  Auto sales in September increased to a seasonally adjusted
11.73 million annual  rate , according to industry statistics.
Ford Motor Co., the second largest automaker, reported a 41
percent increase in car and truck sales for the month.  The pace in October improved further. Industrywide, light
vehicles last month sold at a 12.3 million pace, the best
performance without a government incentive program since
September 2008.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, dropped $8.3
billion in September, the most since December 2009, according to
the Fed. The report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate,
such as home equity lines of credit.  Card Delinquencies  In a sign that Americans are reducing debt and building
savings, past-due credit-card payments declined in the second
quarter to the lowest level since 2001. Card delinquencies fell
to 3.62 percent from 3.88 percent, according to figures last
month from the American Bankers Association in Washington.  The ABA’s quarterly report uses data from banks on loans 30
days or more past due and covers eight categories, including
auto loans, credit cards and home-equity loans.  A drop in U.S. credit-card late payments this year has
helped  Capital One Financial Corp.  boost profit even as
consumers reduced balances. The McLean, Virginia-based Capital
One said Oct. 18 that net income rose to $803 million in the
third quarter from $394 million in the same period last year.  American Express Co., the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, announced on Oct. 22 that its third-quarter profit
increased 70 percent as fewer overdue payments allowed the
company to trim loss reserves.  The amount of bad credit card loans written off as
uncollectible in the U.S. fell to 8.9 percent at an annualized
rate in September, according to Moody’s data service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  