-- Corn May Jump 27% by Yearend Propelled by Weekly Gap: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/corn-may-climb-27-by-year-end-propelled-by-weekly-gap-technical-analysis.html
Corn futures are likely to rise 27
percent before the end of the year after yesterday’s surge
signaled the start of an accelerating rally, according to a
technical analysis by Paul Hare at the Linn Group.  The attached chart shows the grain surpassed resistance at
$5.90 a bushel in Chicago yesterday, a level “needed to confirm
a new run up in prices,” Hare said. The chart pattern is
similar to the period in 2008 before the start of the four-week,
$1.50 surge in prices that sent corn to a record high, he said.  “We should see a surge in prices before the end of the
year,” said Hare, an executive vice president for the Linn
Group in Chicago. “Corn futures could rally toward $7.50.”  Corn futures have rallied 58 percent since the end of June,
touching a two-year high yesterday $5.9575, as adverse weather
reduced global  grain crops . That gain marked the end of a four-
week period of “sideways consolidation” and the start of a new
rally phase, Hare said.  Prices rose more than $2 from the end of June to Oct. 8. A
6.6 percent gain over the next five trading days created a blank
‘area,’ or gap, in the weekly chart. The $2 rally before the gap
is expected to be matched by a $2 gain from the middle of that
gap, which was about $5.50, Hare said. That would take corn to
$7.50.  “Generally, these weekly gaps lead to very powerful price
moves,” Hare said. “Prices may temporarily stall below $6.25”
before the bullish momentum returns, Hare said.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 9 cents, or 1.5
percent, to close yesterday at $5.90 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the biggest gain since Oct. 25.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 