-- Corporate Bond Sales Are Stifled in Europe as Sovereign Budget Woes Deepen
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-11-05T13:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/corporate-bonds-sales-stifled-in-europe-as-budget-woes-deepen.html
Corporate bond sales plummeted 55
percent in Europe this week as renewed speculation that Europe’s
most indebted nations will struggle to reduce budget deficits
sidelined borrowers.  Issuance of investment-grade securities dropped to 4.9
billion euros ($6.9 billion) from the previous week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand
to hold the securities instead of government bonds rose 4 basis
points to 163, the first increase in six weeks, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  European sales also cooled as the European Central Bank and
the Bank of England opted against extending bond purchase plans
to stimulate the economy. The issuance slowdown contrasted with
the U.S. where corporate offerings surged as the Federal Reserve
said it will buy $600 billion of bonds to help spur growth.  “Sentiment is hurting as peripheral concerns return and
that seems to be making companies wary of issuing into this
market,” said  Sanjay Joshi , who oversees about $500 million as
a money manager at London & Capital Group Ltd. in London.
“Compounding matters, there’s uncertainty about what the ECB is
going to do in terms of monetary policy.”  Austerity measures in Europe’s so-called peripheral
countries are failing to reassure investors that fiscal crises
are under control. Ireland yesterday accelerated plans to cut
its budget to avoid the fate of Greece, which was rescued
earlier this year, and Portugal is suffering higher borrowing
costs after agreeing the biggest spending cuts since the 1970s.  Bulls Retreat  The spread between Irish bond yields and benchmark German
bunds reached a record 537 basis points, and the cost of
insuring Irish debt also soared to new a high. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  “Bullishness in Europe has abated and investors are
becoming more selective on the deals they will look at,” said
 Simon Ballard , a London-based credit strategist at RBC Capital
Markets. “Only the right company at the right price tested the
market.”  Utilities  Electricite de France SA , Edison SpA and
Alliander NV led the week’s deals.  EDF , Europe’s largest power producer sold 1.5 billion euros
of bonds, including 750 million euros of 30-year debt in the
longest-dated senior benchmark sale in the currency in more than
a year, Bloomberg data show.  Dutch energy distributor Alliander issued 500 million euros
of hyrbid bonds, while Italy’s Edison raised 600 million euros
from seven-year notes.  EDP-Energias de Portugal SA , the country’s biggest power
company, may sell subordinated bonds in euros in the near future
following investor meetings, according to a banker with
knowledge of the transaction.  Junk Sale Plummet  Sales of junk-rated notes plummeted 61 percent to 954
million euros, Bloomberg data show. Yield spreads widened 6
basis points to 570, Bank of America indexes show. High-yield,
or junk, bonds are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  BAA (SH) Plc, the holding company of the owner of London’s
Heathrow and Stansted airports, led high-yield sales with 325
million pounds ($528 million) of six-year senior secured bonds
priced to yield about 7.25 percent, Bloomberg data show.  -- Editors:  Andrew Reierson ,  Paul Armstrong   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London on 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  