-- Cotton Futures Extend Rally to Record as China Demand Raises Shortage Risk
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-11-05T19:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/cotton-rises-to-record-for-fourth-day-as-demand-in-china-erodes-stockpiles.html
Cotton futures in New York rose to a
record for the fourth straight day as concerns mounted that
global demand led by China, the world’s biggest user, will
outstrip supplies and reduce inventories.  After a cold spell damaged crops in China last month, the
nation may be forced to import more from global stockpiles that
already are forecast to drop to a 14-year low. U.S. exports have
climbed, and adverse weather may damage crops in India. Cotton
prices have more than doubled in the past year.  “The export-sales report of last week shows, yes, there
still is demand” after prices surged, said  John Flanagan , the
president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay-Varina, North
Carolina.  Cotton for December delivery rose 1.78 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $1.4223 a pound at 3 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Earlier, the fiber reached $1.446, the highest
level since the fiber started trading 140 years ago.  The price was up for the sixth straight session, the
longest rally since mid-February. The fiber gained 14 percent
this week, the biggest such rally since November 2008.  In China, cotton futures for May delivery on the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange gained as much as the daily limit of 5
percent to a record 31,235 yuan a metric ton.  The U.S., the biggest exporter, shipped 560,798 bales of
upland cotton in the week ended Oct. 28, up 20 percent from the
average of the previous four weeks, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said yesterday. China  purchased  59 percent. A bale
weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  “Export sales, feeding the seemingly inexhaustible Chinese
appetite for cotton, continue abnormally strong,”  O.A. Cleveland , an analyst at cottonexperts.com in Starkville,
Mississippi, said in a note e-mailed today.  USDA Forecast  Global production is forecast to lag behind demand for a
fifth straight year, draining stockpiles, the USDA said on Oct.
8. China will have a production deficit of 18.5 million bales
this year, according to the USDA. The agency will update its
crop  forecast  on Nov. 9.  China’s crop may be 2 million bales smaller than the USDA
estimated in October, Flanagan said. China is the world’s
biggest grower, followed by India.  The latest USDA forecast was released before a hailstorm
hit Texas, the largest U.S. growing state, on Oct. 21. The China
Meteorological Center said on Oct. 25 that a cold front moving
across the nation might hamper the cotton harvest and reduce
fiber quality.  Tropical Cyclone 5B strengthened over the Bay of Bengal and
was heading toward India’s east coast. The storm was projected
to reach hurricane strength and reach land on Nov. 7. It may
bring up to 8 inches (20 centimeters) of rain and winds of 80
miles per hour, damaging crops in Andhra Pradesh, said MDA
Information Systems Inc., a weather forecaster.  “It’s going to be a big deal for both sugar and cotton,”
 Donald Keeney , an MDA meteorologist, said today in a telephone
interview from Rockville, Maryland. “Cotton has open bolls, so
it’s not going to be good at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 