-- Cotton Advances to Record in New York as Demand in China Erodes Stockpiles
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-11-05T06:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/cotton-advances-to-record-in-new-york-as-demand-in-china-erodes-stockpiles.html
Cotton climbed for a sixth day in New
York to a record and prices in Zhengzhou advanced for a fifth
day to an all-time high on concern that global demand led by
China will outstrip supplies and reduce inventories.  Cotton for December delivery rose as much as 2.5 percent to
$1.4394 a pound, the highest level since the fiber started
trading 140 years ago, on ICE Futures U.S. and traded at $1.431
at 2:32 p.m. Tokyo time. The price has jumped 14.2 percent this
week, gaining for a fifth week. That would be the biggest weekly
gain since November 2008.  “Cotton is in a long-term bull market as China relies on
the overseas market for one-third of its demand and the
international cotton market is rising,” China International
Futures Ltd. said in a report today.  Cotton has surged 88 percent this year, the best-performing
commodity on the  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index . Prices are
rallying on concern that a production deficit in China may be
wider than estimated, forcing mills to import more from global
stockpiles that already are forecast to drop to a 14-year low.  Futures for May delivery on the Zhengzhou Commodity
Exchange gained by the daily limit of 5 percent from the
previous settlement to a record 31,235 yuan ($4,689) a metric
ton and last traded at that level by 1:34 p.m. local time.  The U.S., the world’s biggest exporter, shipped 560,798
bales of upland cotton for the week ended Oct. 28, up 20 percent
from the average of the previous four weeks, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said yesterday. China, the largest user of the
fiber,  purchased  59 percent of the exports.  China Controls  China’s government is increasing its control on the price
of cotton and will pay attention to challenges faced by textile
companies, Wen Zhongliang, the commercial counselor at the
Ministry of Commerce’s foreign trade department, said yesterday.
Wen attributed rising prices to an expected production deficit
this year and speculative buying.  Global production is forecast to lag behind demand for a
fifth straight year, draining stockpiles to the lowest level in
14 years, according to an Oct. 8 estimate by the USDA. An 18.5
million-bale production deficit in China this year may push the
nation’s inventories to a 16-year low, according to USDA data.  The USDA estimates were released before a hailstorm hit
Texas, the largest U.S. growing state, on Oct. 21. The China
Meteorological Center said on Oct. 25 that a cold front moving
across the nation might hamper cotton harvesting and reduce
fiber quality, adding to global supply concerns. The USDA will
update its crop  forecast  on Nov. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  