-- Credit Swaps Decline to Six-Month Low After U.S. Jobs Report
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-05T22:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/credit-swaps-decline-to-six-month-low-after-u-s-jobs-report.html
The cost of protecting bonds from
default in the U.S. fell every day this week, dropping to the
lowest in more than six months, after payrolls rose more than
forecast, bolstering optimism the labor market is recovering.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.9 basis points to a mid-
price of 85.4 basis points, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  “Payrolls really surprised on the upside -- I’d expect on
a normal day we’d be substantially tighter,” said  Mikhail Foux ,
a credit strategist at New York-based Citigroup Inc. “That
tells us in my opinion that people are a little tired.”  The index has lost 9 basis points this week, the biggest
slide since July, after the Nov. 2 elections resulted in a
divided Congress and the Fed said it will buy $600 billion of
Treasuries to bolster the economy. Swaps on New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most profitable securities firm in
Wall Street history, fell 18.9 basis points over the five-day
period.  Payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures
showed today. Private payrolls that exclude government agencies
also gained more than forecast, while the jobless rate held at
9.6 percent.  Less of a Worry  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley, based in New York,
dropped 15.2 basis points this week, CMA data show. Contracts on
Wells Fargo & Co., based in San Francisco, slid 15.1 basis
points, according to CMA.  The swaps on the banks had jumped amid the controversy over
whether the mortgage industry has taken improper shortcuts to
speed up foreclosures and on demands from bond investors that
lenders repurchase faulty securitized loans.  Banks don’t suffer from constrained liquidity right now,
said  Ricardo Kleinbaum , a credit analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
New York. “Secondly, this whole mortgage repurchase issue, and
this is true for all financials, could be less of a credit worry
than some people anticipate.”  Banks have benefited as the Fed has implemented
quantitative easing and as investors have reevaluated the impact
of mortgage-foreclosure put-backs, according to Kleinbaum and
Foux.  Fed Guidelines  Other factors pushing bank swaps lower are the news that
the Federal Reserve is preparing guidelines to assess whether
banks are strong enough to boost dividends or buy back shares,
and Representative  Spencer Bachus ’s Nov. 3 comment letter saying
the so-called Volcker rule barring bank holding companies from
trading on their own accounts will hurt U.S. competitiveness and
cut profits at the largest such companies, Foux said. Bachus, an
Alabama Republican, may become the next chairman of the
Financial Services Committee.  The Markit index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves, rose earlier as the cost of insuring
sovereign debt surged to a record. Austerity measures in
Europe’s so-called peripheral countries are failing to reassure
investors that fiscal crises are under control.  Four U.S. issuers defaulted this week, bringing the U.S.
total to 50 and global count to 73, according to a report by
Standard & Poor’s dated today.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  