-- Cuban Plane Crashes With 68 Aboard, Including Foreigners, State TV Reports
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-05T16:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/cuban-plane-crashes-with-68-aboard-including-foreigners-state-tv-reports.html
A Cuban passenger plane flying from
Santiago de Cuba to Havana crashed and burst into flames,
killing all 68 people aboard.  The  AeroCaribbean  flight crashed yesterday near the town of
Guasimal in Sancti Spiritus province, central Cuba, according to
a statement from the  nation’s civil aviation institute . The
plane reported an emergency at 5:42 p.m. local time before
losing contact with air-traffic controllers.  The ATR-72 turboprop aircraft was carrying 61 passengers
and seven crew. There were 40 Cuban nationals and 28  foreigners
on the plane.  Authorities are investigating the crash, the
aviation institute said.  The crash took place as Tropical Storm Tomas strengthened
over the Caribbean Sea after triggering deadly landslides in
Costa Rica. Cuba’s  meteorological institute  had predicted that
the storm would cause strong winds in Santiago as it passed
eastern Cuba, according to a statement late yesterday.  AeroCaribbean didn’t immediately respond for comment.
Havana-based AeroCaribbean, owned by Cuban state airline Cubana
de Aviacion, operates domestic services and flights to the
Caribbean and South America.  Avions de Transport Regional, maker of the ATR72-212, said
the plane, with the license number CU-T1549 and serial number
459, left the factory in November 1995 and had flown 25,000
hours. It was operated by AeroCaribbean since Oct. 2006.  Finmeccanica, EADS  ATR is a venture between  European Aeronautic Defence &
Space Co.  and Finmeccanica SpA.  “Currently the causes of the accident remain unknown,”
ATR said in an e-mailed statement. “Local information sources
spoke of the Tomas hurricane passing in the region, which led to
the Civil Aerospace Institute of Cuba suspending all flights.”  The last fatal passenger-plane crash in Cuba was in March
2002, when an Antonov 2R operated by local charter company
Aerotaxi went down in central Cuba, killing 16 passengers,
according to a Flight Safety Foundation’s  website .  AeroCaribbean began operations in 1982 and currently has a
fleet of 21 aircraft, according to information supplied by
Ascend, a London-based global aviation consultancy.  This is AeroCaribbean’s second fatal accident on a revenue
passenger flight, according to Ascend. An Ilyushin IL-18 was
destroyed in November 1992 when it flew into a hillside at night
while on a charter flight to Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic
from Santo Domingo to Havana via Puerto Plata. All 28 passengers
and six crew were killed, Ascend said.  The airline also suffered a total loss to another Ilyushin
IL-18 in March 2005 in an aborted take-off at Caracas. There
were no reported injuries in that accident.  Separately, 20 people were killed in a plane crash in
Pakistan today. The aircraft was chartered by Rome-based Eni
SpA, said Marianna Croning, a spokeswoman in the oil company’s
Karachi office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net 
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 