-- Daewoo International May Build Deep-Water Port in Congo; KNOC May Invest
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-11-05T15:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/daewoo-international-may-build-deep-water-port-at-banana-congo-pm-says.html
Daewoo International Corp.  may build
a deep-water port at Banana in the Democratic Republic of
Congo’s southwestern Bas-Congo province, Congolese Prime
Minister  Adolphe Muzito  said.  Muzito met Daewoo officials yesterday in Seoul, where he is
holding talks with companies interested in investing in the
Central African nation, according to an e-mailed statement today
from his office in Kinshasa, the capital. State-run  Korea
National Oil Corp.  may work with Cohydro, Congo’s government-
owned oil company, to develop the country’s potential oil
deposits, it said.  “The passage of the prime minister through Seoul just gave
an accelerating push to different high-visibility projects
interesting to the DRC,” Muzito’s office said.  Korea and Congo signed a cooperation agreement on March 30
to encourage South Korean investment in mining, power and water
projects. Muzito is leading a delegation that includes the oil,
energy and transport ministers, as well as the director of
Cohydro, ahead of next week’s Group of 20 summit in Seoul.  In addition to the deep-water port, Muzito and an
unidentified Daewoo vice president discussed other possible
investments in transportation and water, the statement said.  Congolese Energy Minister Gilbert Tshiongo also met with
the Korean national aid and development agency to discuss
possible projects to improve Congo’s energy and water
infrastructure, the statement said.  Congo is recovering from more than 40 years of dictatorship
and war that destroyed much of its infrastructure and economy.
The country has a third of the world’s cobalt reserves and 4
percent of its copper, according to the U.S. Geological Survey,
as well as reserves of tin ore, gold and diamonds.  Last week, a delegation of Korean companies visited Congo’s
mineral-rich Katanga province to research possible investments
in the mining and energy industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 