-- Dell Plans More Deals, Research Spending to Add Business Sales
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-11-06T01:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/dell-plans-more-deals-research-spending-to-add-business-sales.html
Dell Inc. plans to make more
acquisitions and boost spending on research and development to
double the size of its data-center business to $30 billion in
sales, Chief Financial Officer  Brian Gladden  said.  The company also intends to be more “patient” to keep the
valuation of potential targets from escalating after it waged a
bidding war with Hewlett-Packard Co. to buy storage maker 3Par
Inc. HP acquired 3Par in September for $2.35 billion, more than
triple 3Par’s market value before Dell’s offer was made public.  “We’re going to be patient,” Gladden said today in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “You don’t
want to have a situation in which boards think a 3Par valuation
is the starting point,” he said. “You have to be disciplined,
and that’s what we’re doing right now.”  Dell gets more than 55 percent of its  revenue  from selling
desktop and notebook computers, where industrywide margins are
shrinking. It’s using acquisitions and research and development
spending to beef up its business of selling computer servers,
data storage, networking gear and technology services.  The goal, Dell said in June, is for those businesses to
generate $30 billion in sales by the end of fiscal 2014, from
$17 billion in the year that ends in January.  As Dell’s data-center business expands, the Round Rock,
Texas-based company plans to increase research and development
spending on those products from a single-digit percentage of
sales to 10 percent or more, raising the company’s overall R&D
spending percentage above today’s 1 percent of revenue, Gladden
said in the interview.  Storage, Services  “That’s the future in terms of our investments,” Gladden
said. “We still have a big PC business that we have to run
well. I don’t see that being the M&A focus of the company.”  Dell slipped 6 cents to $14.46 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Two areas where Dell may acquire are in storage and
services for specialized industries, Gladden said.  Enterprise computing companies such as Isilon Systems Inc.,
Fortinet Inc. and  Riverbed Technology Inc.  may become “less
risky” acquisitions targets if their profit margins improve,
Gladden said.  Dell on Nov. 2 agreed to buy software company Boomi, which
lets companies share data between Web applications and programs
that run in their data centers, for an undisclosed amount.  The computer maker had $12.4 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of its second quarter, which ended in
July, and raised $1.5 billion through a debt sale in September.  Cash for Purchases  Dell would be able to use cash generated by PC sales to
fund its enterprise business expansion, Gladden said.  The company’s stock has declined 40 percent since the end
of January 2007, when Dell returned as CEO. That gives the
company less currency than HP, Cisco Systems Inc. and Oracle
Corp. for acquiring companies that can help it compete in the
market for data-center computer systems, said  Shaw Wu , an
analyst at Kaufman Bros. in San Francisco.  “They don’t have as much room to maneuver,” said Wu, who
has a “hold” rating on Dell shares and doesn’t own them. “If
Dell had thought of this a few years ago, when they still had a
decent market cap, they would have had a better chance of
success.”  Besides expanding its data-center business, Dell is taking
steps to broaden in mobile computing for businesses and
consumers.  Swapping Out BlackBerry  Dell is distributing its new Venue Pro smartphones, running
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7 software, to 25,000 employees,
or about a quarter of its workforce, replacing Research In
Motion Ltd. BlackBerry devices and other mobile phones, said
Gladden. Dell is also trying to persuade business customers to
switch from BlackBerry handsets to Dell phones as a less
expensive way to connect mobile workers to corporate networks.  RIM said Dell may have been trying to drum up free
publicity.  “We find it highly unlikely that they will actually save
any money with this move,”  Mark Guibert , a spokesman for
Waterloo, Ontario-based Research In Motion, said in a statement.
“Consider all the hard and soft costs of purchasing, deploying
and supporting new devices with new software inside a company.”  To cater to consumers, Dell is trying to widen the market
for its Alienware line of computers designed for game players.
The computer maker increased in-store advertising for the brand
at Best Buy Co., and is developing a tablet for gamers that
would have a 5-inch or 7-inch screen and bear Alienware’s brand.  The company has also entertained the prospect of a
management-led buyout. In June, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  told a group of investors and analysts in New York that
he’d considered taking the company private. Dell has a market
value of $28.1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 