-- Delta Attendants' Union Rejection May Be Voided by U.S.
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-05T19:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/delta-flight-attendants-union-rejection-may-be-voided-by-u-s-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  flight
attendants’ vote to reject union representation may be nullified
by a  U.S. labor board  controlled by Obama administration
appointees, according to a senator and an analyst.  The National Mediation Board, which in August  ordered  a new
election for technicians who work on simulators for Delta, will
take similar action after reviewing flight-attendant allegations
of company interference in balloting, said  Ray Neidl , an analyst
at Maxim Group LLC in New York. “The deck is stacked in the
union’s favor,” he said in an interview.  Democratic appointees of President  Barack Obama  gained a
majority on the three-member board last year, and in May eased
rules for organizing elections in the airline industry. Given
that stance, the panel will probably order a revote by flight
attendants, said Senator  Johnny Isakson , a Georgia Republican.  “Nothing tells me they won’t do that,” Isakson said in an
interview. “To come around and revote again, it’s a lack of
respect for the employees.”  Nullifying the vote results announced Nov. 3 would present
a new challenge to the position of Atlanta-based Delta as the
least-unionized major U.S. carrier. The flight attendants
rejected union representation with 51 percent of the 18,760
votes cast against organizing.  A mediation board spokesman didn’t return a telephone call
for comment. The board referees relations between labor and
management at railroad and airline companies under the 1926
Railway Labor Act.  Claims ‘Ridiculous’  A spokeswoman for Delta, the world’s second largest airline
after  United Continental Holdings Inc. , declined to comment on
what the board may do. “Claims of interference are
ridiculous,” said  Gina Laughlin , the spokeswoman.  The union plans to file interference charges by a Nov. 12
deadline, or seek an extension if the organization needs more
time, said  Pat Friend , president of the Association of Flight
Attendants. Union leaders are discussing whether to seek a
revote or a recount, in which votes cast via company computers
would be disqualified, possibly changing the outcome, she said.  The computer ballots may have allowed the company to track
whether employees voted, a violation of their privacy, Friend
said. “We expect that this board will in fact investigate,”
she said. “I believe they will ultimately agree with us that
there was egregious interference.”  Laughlin of the airline said, “Delta did not track
anyone’s votes.”  Previous Efforts  Harry Hoglander , a former pilot-union official who became
the mediation board’s chairman in July, twice sided with the
flight attendants’ union when it brought interference charges
following losses seeking to organize at Delta in 2002 and 2008.
In the first  case  he called for a new election and in the  second 
urged additional investigation.  Hoglander was overruled both times by the board’s
Republican majority. He declined to comment on the Delta
allegations.  Obama gave the board a Democratic majority by adding former
flight-attendant union President  Linda Puchala , who replaced a
former lobbyist for Northwest Airlines.  The Democratic-controlled board found in August that Delta
tainted the organizing election for 91 flight-simulator
technicians by announcing a pay increase and holding
“coercive” one-on-one meetings. The board ordered a revote.  The workers in February had rejected representation by the
International Association of Machinists, with 40 voting in
favor. In the revote, the union lost support, with 18 voting for
representation, Delta announced Sept. 16.  Republican Opposition  Hoglander and Puchala also made a change that lets
employees form a union with majority approval from those who
vote, rather than most of all workers in a class. Unreturned
ballots are no longer counted as “no” votes. The change was
made over protests from the panel’s sole Republican,  Elizabeth Dougherty , a former White House special assistant.  The board’s political bent that began with the  George W. Bush  administration “is here to stay,” said  Kate Bronfenbrenner , a labor professor at Cornell University in
Ithaca, New York. “This board is clearly very divided.”  The board made a political decision in 2008 when it found
no basis to further investigate Delta flight-attendant
allegations, contrary to evidence, Bronfenbrenner said. In the
upcoming case she said the board will follow the law.  Given the board’s May action to change voting rules, it
will be watched carefully as to how it handles the flight-
attendant protest, said  William Swelbar , a research engineer
specializing in air transport at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in Cambridge.  “I see this board as having to tread very lightly,”
Swelbar said. “There’s a lot of credibility to win or lose.”  Neidl said a revote probably will produce the same result,
a defeat for the union organizers. “Delta is a strong entity,”
he said. “They can survive nicely with or without a union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 