-- Deutsche Bank Sued in Frankfurt Over Postbank Takeover-Offer Share Price
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-05T10:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/deutsche-bank-sued-in-frankfurt-over-postbank-takeover-offer-share-price.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
lender, was sued by an investor who said the share price the
bank set in a mandatory takeover offer for Postbank AG was too
low.  Effecten-Spiegel AG filed a lawsuit in Frankfurt Regional
Court seeking 3.6 million euros ($5.1 million) in compensation
over the price offered for the stock, the company said in a
 statement  on its website today. Deutsche Bank should pay 49.52
euros per share instead of the 25 euros it offered, Effecten-
Spiegel said.  Meinrad Woesthoff , a spokesman for the Frankfurt
court, said he couldn’t immediately confirm the suit.  “Deutsche Bank deliberately circumvented the mandatory
takeover rules and so deprived Postbank shareholders of 1.6
billion euros,” Effecten-Spiegel said.  Deutsche Bank on Oct. 7 made the mandatory takeover offer
required under German law if an investor acquires 30 percent in
a company. The deadline for the 25 euros cash per share offer
was yesterday. The Frankfurt-based lender agreed to buy a stake
in Postbank in September 2008 from Deutsche Post AG and then
renegotiated the transaction in January 2009 after the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  roiled financial markets.  Effecten-Spiegel claims the bank should have made the offer
in the first half of 2009 and paid the higher price. Deutsche
Bank used “a complex construction” including derivatives and
convertible bonds to evade applicable rules, according to
Effecten-Spiegel.  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  declined to comment
on the case.  Effecten-Spiegel manages securities on its own account and
published a magazine for investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 