-- Dish Network Third-Quarter Profit Triples, Beating Estimates
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-05T20:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/dish-third-quarter-profit-more-than-triples-beating-analysts-estimates.html
Dish Network Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, said third-quarter
profit tripled, beating analysts’ estimates, after the company
extracted more sales from existing customers.  Net income  rose to $245 million, or 55 cents a share, from
$80.6 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier, Englewood, Colorado-
based Dish said in a statement today. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey  projected  44 cents on average.  Chief Executive Officer  Charlie Ergen  is touting offerings
like digital video recorders and a service that allows customers
to watch TV shows on the Internet, to help wring more sales out
of existing subscribers as competition for new users
intensifies. Dish also increased prices in the quarter. The
average monthly revenue per customer rose 7 percent to $74.36.  The company’s churn, or fraction of users who canceled the
service in the quarter, rose to 1.98 percent as customers rolled
off cheaper promotions and didn’t renew their service. As a
result, Dish lost 29,000 subscribers in the quarter, despite
marketing campaigns like its “Free HD for Life.”  “Dish had a lot of customers coming off their commitment
periods in the quarter, so they were looking to retain them with
promotions like free high-definition,” said  Todd Mitchell , an
analyst at Kaufman Bros. LP in New York. Mitchell, who
recommends buying the stock, estimated Dish would add 12,000
subscribers in the quarter.  Dish gained 12 cents to $20.81 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares are little changed this
year.  Pouring Cold Water  Dish targets a low-end consumer who may have been hit the
hardest by unemployment rates hovering around 10 percent and
high home foreclosures, forcing them to disconnect their pay-TV
subscription or shop for a better deal, said  Craig Moffett , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York.  “The travails of the low-end consumer poured cold water on
Dish’s nascent recovery from the rough patch it had it in
2009,” Moffett, who rates the stock “market perform,” wrote
in a note to investors today. “And as any Seinfeld fan will
recall, with cold water comes shrinkage.”  Moffett said Dish’s steady state cash flow, the best
available measure for value creation, fell 36 percent and free
cash flow was down 29 percent compared with a year earlier.  Dish’s sales advanced 11 percent to $3.21 billion last
quarter, compared with analysts’ $3.16 billion average estimate.  Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S. cable operator, lost
275,000 basic video subscribers in the quarter, while DirecTV,
the biggest satellite-TV provider, added 174,000 U.S. customers.
Cable rivals Time Warner Cable Inc. and Cablevision Systems
Corp. dropped basic subscribers in the third quarter.  Cable operators have an edge on the satellite providers in
that they can offer TV, Internet and phone in one package. Dish
cited increased competitive pressures as one of the reasons it
lost customers in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  