-- Walt Disney Signs Joint Venture to Build First Mainland-China Theme Park
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T10:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/disney-signs-joint-venture-contract-with-shanghai-for-first-park-in-china.html
Walt Disney Co.  signed a contract
today with state-owned Shanghai Shendi Group Co. to build its
first mainland China theme park, less than a week after the
World Expo drew a record number of visitors.  The signing is “another step forward” in  Disney ’s goal
to open its fourth theme park outside the U.S. after being in
talks with the Shanghai city government “for quite some
time,” the Burbank, California-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Disney  won government approval for a theme park last year.
It still needs approval for the venture from “relevant
government departments,” the municipal government said in a
 statement  on its website today. Shendi will work with the
world’s biggest theme-park operator to construct and operate
the park, according to another government statement.  “This is a sign that restrictions on construction
projects have been lifted after the Shanghai World Expo and
work on the Disney park will speed up,”  Zhang Chifei , a
Nanjing-based analyst at Huatai Securities Co., said in a phone
interview.  The project may cost 25 billion yuan ($3.8 billion),
state-controlled Xinhua News Agency said today. The park, to be
in Shanghai’s Pudong district, will have a Magic Kingdom theme
with some elements reflecting regional flavor, Disney said last
November.  Disney  opened a park in Hong Kong in 2005.  Neither  Disney  nor the government divulged more details
about the arrangement with Shendi.  The six-month Expo attracted 73.1 million visitors,
topping the record of 64 million set in Osaka, Japan, in 1970.
It was part of an investment campaign in the city of
19.2 million people that China aims to develop into a global
financial center by 2020. The city government has spent $44
billion on construction and operating costs as well as
infrastructure including airport terminals, new roads and
tunnels and a three-year renovation of The Bund.  Roadbuilder  Shanghai Pudong Road & Bridge Construction Co. 
jumped by the 10 percent daily limit to 19.82 yuan in Shanghai
trading today. Property developer  Shanghai Lujiazui Finance &
Trade Zone Development Co.  gained 10 percent to 21.66 yuan.
 Shanghai Construction Co.  rose 9 percent to 17.35 yuan.  The Disney park will be built inside a 20-square-kilometer
area earmarked for tourism development,  said  the Shanghai
Municipal Tourism Administrative Commission.  “The Disney project will probably be a new growth engine
for Shanghai and benefit companies that win building
contracts,” Zhang of Huatai Securities said.  -- Stephanie Wong , Jiang Jianguo and  Jing Jin  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Gregory Turk ,  Frank Longid   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7029 or
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  