-- Dollar Extends Advance Versus Euro After U.S. Adds More Jobs Than Forecast
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-05T21:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/dollar-extends-gain-versus-euro-after-u-s-adds-more-jobs-than-forecast.html
The dollar advanced from near a nine-
month low versus the euro as a government report showed U.S.
employers added more jobs than forecast last month, increasing
payrolls for the first time since May.  The common currency retreated against 15 of its 16 major
counterparts after data showing European  retail sales 
unexpectedly fell and Spain’s economy stagnated revived concern
that so-called peripheral countries will struggle to plug budget
gaps. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said an
acceleration in U.S. economic growth would support the value of
the U.S. dollar compared with other currencies.  “We’re back to where good news from the U.S. is actually
good for the dollar,” said  Win Thin , a senior currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “If
growth starts to pick up in the U.S., then inflation fears come
back up and that becomes a little more dollar-supportive.”  The dollar advanced 1.3 percent to $1.4032 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.4207 yesterday. It touched $1.4282
yesterday, the weakest level since Jan. 20, and lost 0.6 percent
for the past five days. The greenback gained 0.6 percent to
81.26 yen, from 80.75 yen yesterday, and rose for the first week
since the five days ended Sept. 17, gaining 1.1 percent. The
euro declined 0.6 percent to 114.04 yen, from 114.71.  Payrolls climbed by 151,000 jobs, beating the 60,000-
position median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, after a revised 41,000 drop in September, Labor Department
data showed in Washington. Private payrolls that exclude
government agencies also gained more than forecast, swelling by
159,000 positions, while the  jobless rate  held at 9.6 percent.  Fed Purchases  The dollar fell versus the euro earlier this week after the
Fed said Nov. 3 it will buy $600 billion in Treasuries through
June in a strategy called quantitative easing to spur employment
and avert deflation.  The greenback, which has dropped 13 percent versus the yen
this year amid speculation the U.S. would debase its currency
with debt purchases, could be nearing a bottom, according to
 Kathy Lien , director of currency research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York.  “A true bottom in the U.S. dollar will not occur until we
see a consistent improvement in non-farm payrolls that
encourages the Fed to pare back their quantitative-easing
program,” Lien wrote in a note to clients.  Bernanke said the Fed’s asset-purchase plan is targeted at
bringing about a more rapid U.S. recovery.  “The best fundamentals for the dollar will come when the
economy is growing strongly,” the central-bank chief said today
in response to questions from college students in Jacksonville,
Florida. “A strong U.S. economy is critical not just for
Americans but for a global recovery,” he added.  Bets Against Euro  The euro’s one-month 25-delta risk-reversal rate against
the dollar -- the premium of put options over calls -- dropped
below minus 1 percent for the first time since Sept. 14, falling
as much as 0.24 percentage point and signaling investors are
betting on a weaker common currency. A delta is the change in
the value of an option for each dollar change in the market
price of an underlying asset.  Peru’s sol had its biggest weekly gain in three months as
the Fed’s bond-purchase plan lifted commodity prices and fueled
demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market currencies. The sol
gained 0.2 percent to 2.7925 per dollar, from 2.7985 on Oct. 29.  More Explaining Needed  China said the U.S. central bank  needs to further explain
its decision to pump more money into the world’s biggest economy
or risk undermining the global recovery.  “Many countries are worried about the impact of the policy
on their economies,” Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at
a press briefing in Beijing today.  Cui’s remarks echoed concerns raised across Asia as
countries brace themselves for stronger currencies and possible
asset-price inflation as the greenback weakens.  The Canadian dollar was worth more than its U.S.
counterpart for the first time since Oct. 14 after the U.S. jobs
data and a report showing Canada’s employers added 3,000
positions last month. The currency, nicknamed the loonie, traded
at C$1.0004 per greenback after strengthening to as much as
99.92 Canadian cents, from C$1.0022 yesterday.  The greenback fell yesterday as the European Central Bank
signaled it will likely stick with its stimulus-exit strategy
even as the Fed buys Treasuries to spur the U.S. economy.  Weak European Data  The European shared currency slid today after weaker-than-
expected economic data as austerity measures by some euro-region
countries to reduce budget deficits undermined their recovery.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German securities touched 200
basis points, a three-month high, leading the spread-widening
among bonds of Europe’s peripheral nations.  “Those spreads have been widening for a couple weeks now,
but now that we’re past quantitative easing the market has been
more focused on that,” said  Amelia Bourdeau , a currency
strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at UBS AG.  Retail sales in the euro region fell 0.2 percent in
September from the previous month, when they also slipped 0.2
percent, the European Union’s statistics office said today.
Spain’s gross domestic product stalled in the third quarter, the
Bank of Spain estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  