-- Duquesne Alumni Said to Start New Hedge Fund With $5 Billion
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/druckenmiller-alumni-said-to-start-hedge-fund-with-5-billion-of-capital.html
Stan Druckenmiller ’s former
colleagues at Duquesne Capital Management LLC are opening a new
firm with $5 billion in assets, said four people briefed on the
plans, the second-largest hedge-fund startup ever.  Druckenmiller, 57, said in August that he was closing his
30-year-old hedge-fund firm and returning client capital. He
will invest about $1 billion in the new fund, Point State
Capital, according to the people. He will have no ownership
stake in the firm, they said.  The remaining $4 billion will come entirely from former
Duquesne investors, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the fund is private.  Jack Meyer , the former head of
Harvard University’s endowment, holds the record for the largest
hedge-fund startup, when he opened Convexity Capital Management
LP with $6 billion in 2006. This year, the biggest new funds
have opened with less than $1 billion.  “Five billion dollars is a big number, but it’s logical
given this isn’t a pure startup,” said  Brad Balter , head of
Boston-based Balter Capital Management LLC, which farms out
money to hedge funds.  Shawn Pattison , a spokesman for Point State, declined to
comment, citing securities law.  Point State, which is closed to new clients, will begin
trading next year and be based in New York, the people said.
 Sean Cullinan , who was vice chairman of Duquesne, will serve as
CEO of Point State. Six former Duquesne portfolio managers will
be joining the firm, which is named for a park in Pittsburgh
where Fort Duquesne once stood.  30% Return  As of the beginning of November, Druckenmiller had returned
about 98 percent of the $12 billion in investor capital he
managed. He will open a family office in which he’ll oversee
about $3 billion, said two people familiar with his plans.  In August, when he announced his retirement, his funds were
down about 5 percent. He’s closing the funds with a small gain
for this year, according to investors, having rightly predicted
that markets would  rally , buoyed by the expectation of a strong
Republican showing in U.S. elections and anticipation that the
Federal Reserve would announce the purchase of hundreds of
billions of dollars in Treasuries to help reduce unemployment
and avert deflation.  Duquesne, which has never had a money-losing year, posted
an average annual return of 30 percent. A $1,000 invested in
1986 would be worth $500,000 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net .;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 