-- Tea Party Election Results Diluted in Highly Populated States
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/tea-party-results-diluted-in-high-density-states-as-christie-fades-at-home.html
Tea Party supporters boasted of their
28 victories in U.S. House races. What the election results also
made clear was that their appeal stopped at the border of the
most densely-populated states and metropolitan areas.  Republican  Carl Paladino , who had the Tea Party
endorsement, took a 27 percentage-point drubbing from Democrat
 Andrew Cuomo  in New York’s gubernatorial race. In California,
 Carly Fiorina  failed in her Senate race.  Other contests in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco,
Atlanta, Chicago and Philadelphia showed as well that Democrats
maintained their political firewall in areas that historically
have backed their party.  In New Jersey, Tea Party-backed U.S. House candidate Anna
Little lost to Democratic incumbent  Frank Pallone  by 11 points.
Governor  Chris Christie  backed Little only after his first
choice lost to her in the state’s Republican primary.  Christie last month decided not to join a lawsuit the Tea
Party filed against the health-care overhaul President  Barack Obama  pushed through Congress. And he rejected help from former
Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin , a prominent spokeswoman for the Tea
Party causes of limited government and lower taxes, for his own
campaign last year.  “The trend is away from Tea Party people,
demographically,” said  Ken Warren , a professor of political
science at St. Louis University.  Blue-State Firewall  The Nov. 2 election results and Christie’s reluctance to
fully embrace the Tea Party illustrates the group’s difficulty
in winning elections in some of the most populous U.S. areas.  Representative  Rush Holt , a Democrat who defeated
Republican  Scott Sipprelle  53 percent to 46 percent, said “at
the end of the day, New Jersey is still a blue state. It’s still
significantly more Democratic-leaning than Republican. For any
conservative movement, it’s going to be tough to make inroads.”  Maurice Carroll , director of the  Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute  in Hamden, Connecticut, said the same trends
applied across the U.S.  “The country is red in the middle, but it’s blue on the
sides,” he said, using the color-coded political parlance for
regions that trend toward Republicans and areas where Democrats
have the advantage.  A Republican Party fueled by energy and enthusiasm from Tea
Party activists gained at least 60 House seats in the midterm
vote, easily exceeding the 39 needed to take control of the
chamber. Tea Party-endorsed candidates accounted for 28 of those
pickups, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Florida Defies Trend  To be sure, Tea Party favorites such as  Marco Rubio  in
Florida defied the trend by winning the Senate race in the
U.S.’s fourth most-populous state.  Republicans running in traditionally Democratic areas need
support from independents and some Democrats to succeed in
certain parts of the country, said  Mike DuHaime , a political
adviser to Christie.  “To be successful -- in the Northeast or in any other blue
state, whether it’s Illinois or on the West Coast -- you have to
appeal to a broader audience,” DuHaime said.  Dennis Hastert , the former Republican speaker of the House
from Illinois, likened the Tea Party winners to those who won
election in 1994, energized by their support of former
presidential candidate  Ross Perot .  “The big challenge will be bringing these people into the
process,” Hastert said.  Slim Pickings  Going into the midterm elections, the party breakdown among
House members in the six-state New England area was 22
Democrats, zero Republicans. In the elections, Republicans
picked up only two, in New Hampshire.  Tea Party-endorsed candidates who lost House bids in the
region included Republicans Jason Levesque and Dean Scontras in
Maine and  Jeff Perry , who was seeking the Massachusetts seat
vacated by retiring Democrat  Bill Delahunt . The seat was won by
Democrat Bill Keating.  In California, Fiorina called the movement a “tremendous
help” to her campaign. Fiorina lost to Senator  Barbara Boxer ,
52 percent to 43 percent.  “The voters, I think, said to us that they don’t want to
engage in the divisive Tea Party-type of politics,” said state
Senate President Pro Tem  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from
Sacramento.  A San Francisco-based Field Poll released Oct. 6 found that
almost seven out of 10 independent voters in California disliked
Palin, that 53 percent of California voters had a negative
opinion of her and that Palin’s endorsement would make them less
inclined to vote for a candidate.  California’s Size  “The biggest factor is California’s size,” making it
“difficult to organize anything of a grassroots nature,” said
Douglas Johnson, a fellow at the Rose Institute of State and
Local Government at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,
California.  In Michigan, Tea Party-backed Republican Rob Steele lost by
17 percentage points to Democratic Representative  John Dingell ,
a 55-year House veteran whose district covers part of Detroit’s
industrialized suburbs including Woodhaven, site of a  Ford Motor
Co.  plant.  In a Missouri House district that includes part of St.
Louis and a mix of its suburbs, Tea Party-backed Republican Ed
Martin lost to Democratic incumbent  Russ Carnahan  by two
percentage points.  “The good news for Democrats in the next national election
in 2012 is that it will draw out a more diverse mix of voters:
younger, and more ethnically and racially representative,” said
 William Frey , a demographer at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. That should help them maintain the firewall they
have in the metro areas, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  