-- ECB Rejects Request for Greek Swap Files, Citing `Acute' Risks
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   A l a n   K a t z   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-05T07:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/ecb-rejects-request-for-files-on-greek-derivative-use-cites-acute-risks.html
The European Central Bank refused to
disclose internal documents showing how Greece used derivatives
to hide its government debt because of the “acute” risk of
roiling markets, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said.  The ECB turned down a request and an appeal by Bloomberg
News to release two briefing documents officials drafted for the
central bank’s six-member Executive Board in Frankfurt this
year. The notes outline how Greece used the swaps to hide its
borrowings, according to a March 3 note attached to the papers
and obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The information contained in the two documents would
undermine the public confidence as regards the effective conduct
of economic policy,” Trichet wrote in an Oct. 21 letter in
which he rejected the appeal. Disclosure “bears, in the current
very vulnerable market environment, the substantial and acute
risk of adding to volatility and instability.”  The ECB is withholding the information six months after
the European Union and International Monetary Fund led a 110
billion-euro bailout ($154 billion) for Greece. The government
didn’t originally disclose the swaps, which were designed to
help it comply with the deficit and debt rules it agreed to meet
when it joined the euro in 2001. Eurostat, the EU’s statistics
agency, is still trying to work out how Greece hid the deficit.  The Greek swaps fueled a financial crisis that threatened
the breakup of the region’s currency. The government now says
the swaps, some of which were arranged by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. , may have caused “long-term damage” for taxpayers.  ‘Full Disclosure’  “There’s only one solution to resolving the current
uncertainty: full disclosure,” said  Gustavo Piga , author of
“Derivatives and Public Debt Management,” and a professor at
Tor Vergata University in Rome. “The ECB, the European
Commission and Eurostat need to show that they are aware of all
the transactions and that they have no issue in disclosing them.
The market has been left to think the worst.”  Investor confidence in Greece’s ability to repay its debt
is weakening. The extra yield investors demand to hold the
nation’s 10-year government bonds instead of German 10-year
bunds climbed to 893 basis points on Nov. 4, up from a four-
month low of 649 on Oct. 18. The spread set a record of
965 on May 7.  The IMF, which published a sensitivity analysis of Greece’s
debt in September, said it identified 5 billion euros of swaps
that could increase public borrowings. Officials at the
Washington-based fund declined to comment beyond the report.  ‘Big Mistake’  Eurostat will by Nov. 15 publish revised budget deficit
figures for Greece that will take into account the effect of the
swaps.  Tim Allen , a spokesman for Eurostat, said the agency has
everything it requested from Greece. The agency is currently
examining data sent to Greece’s statistics office.  The government has given Eurostat all relevant details on
the transactions, said a finance ministry official in Athens who
declined to be identified. The impact of the swaps on the
deficit is “small,” the official wrote in an e-mail, declining
to elaborate.  “Given the history of transparency with respect to Greece,
which we all know is pretty bad, it would be a big mistake by
the ECB to refuse this” request, said  Manfred Neumann , a
professor of economic policy at the University of Bonn. “Voters
will be more suspicious than they used to be. In my view, there
is no defense for not publishing.” Neumann led a group of 155
economists who in 1998 called for a delay in creation of the
euro in part because countries hadn’t cut deficits sufficiently.  The ECB must consider demands for access to public
documents under a March 2004 EU directive. Individuals and
companies can subsequently appeal to the European Ombudsman,
which reports to Parliament, and the European Court of Justice.  ‘Right to Know’  “As citizens of the EU have every right to know how their
taxes are being used to bail out secret financial deals between
a government and its bankers, we are considering legal options
in the pursuit of transparency and the public interest that may
take us to the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg,”
Bloomberg News Editor-in-Chief  Matthew Winkler  said.  The first document is entitled “The impact on government
deficit and debt from off-market swaps: the Greek case.” The
second reviews Titlos Plc, a securitization that allowed
 National Bank of Greece SA , the country’s biggest lender, to
exchange swaps on Greek government debt for funding from the
ECB. It also discusses the existence of similar transactions,
the Executive Board said in the cover note for the briefings.  The ECB in its note proposed to change how EU members
account for swaps based on Greece’s experience. The executive
board, which Trichet heads, manages the bank and oversees its
implementation of monetary policy. Members include  Vitor Constancio , the ECB’s vice president, and  Juergen Stark , the
chief economist.  ‘Risk Control’  The briefings give officials’ views on the impact of the
swaps and analyze how the Titlos transaction would affect “the
Eurosystem collateral framework, and associated risk control
measures,” Trichet said in his reply to Bloomberg.  Trichet said the documents were used for decision-making
and so cannot be released. At the same time, he said the
documents were outdated and could mislead investors. Complete
information will be published by Eurostat, Trichet said.  “Releasing the two documents would undermine the
possibility of ECB’s staff to freely submit uncensored advice to
the ECB’s decision-making bodies and that they would be subject
to external pressure thus limiting the ECB’s space to think,”
Trichet said in his letter.  The European Commission is responsible for overseeing
national deficits and Eurostat reviews the statistics. While the
ECB is the EU’s most powerful economic institution, its main
remit is setting interest rates and fighting inflation. The
central bank doesn’t directly oversee national accounts.  ‘Unusual Terms’  It was April 2009, seven months before the Greek crisis
erupted, when ECB officials first spotted “a swap operation in
unusual terms,” according to the March 3 document.  After uncovering Titlos, the ECB’s Governing Council, the
bank’s main decision-making body, commissioned the two reports,
the first from its Statistics unit and the second from its
Market Operations and the Risk Management divisions. Bloomberg
is seeking copies of both reports.  The ECB declined to comment on the March 3 note and on the
outcome of previous public access requests.  Greece was also in April 2009 considering selling bonds in
dollars and yen, the first time it would have sold non-euro debt
since 1998. The government then forecast that the deficit would
fall to 3.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 and that
debt would rise to 96.3 percent of GDP in 2009. Greece now says
the deficit for that year exceeded 15 percent. The country’s
debt amounted to at least 115 percent of GDP, according to
Eurostat. Greece hasn’t sold bonds with maturities longer than
12 months since March.  Goldman Sachs  Greece’s fiscal crisis turned attention to off-market swaps
arranged by Goldman Sachs that allowed the country to hide the
extent of its debt from 2000 onwards. The Goldman Sachs swaps,
signed in 2000 and 2001, reduced the country’s foreign-
denominated debt in euro terms by 2.37 billion euros and lowered
debt as a proportion of GDP to 103.7 percent from 105.3 percent,
according to a Feb. 21 statement by Goldman Sachs. Greece told
Eurostat that the other swaps were significantly smaller than
the Goldman Sachs agreements, according to the EU agency.  “Disclosure could, of course, help with working through
what happened, who knew what at what time,” said  Carsten Brzeski , a senior economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels who used
to work at the European Commission. “Everyone knows they’ll
have to watch out for swap arrangements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  