-- TechShop Expands, Helps Turn Inventions Into Viable Products
-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 2010-11-05T13:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/techshop-expands-helps-turn-inventions-into-viable-products.html
Mark Hatch is convinced that aspiring
entrepreneurs and inventors will pay for the shop class of their
dreams. He’s chief executive officer of  TechShop , a Menlo Park,
Calif., company that offers members access to workshops that
make most tinkerers’ garages look like kindergarten classrooms.  Founded by Jim Newton, an inventor, robot enthusiast, and onetime
science adviser to the Discovery Channel’s MythBusters series,
the company operates TechShops in Menlo Park and Raleigh, N.C.
(A third location in Beaverton, Ore., closed because it was not
profitable.) Hatch, 50, says the company is in the process of
raising its first round of venture capital, had $700,000 in
revenue in 2009, projects $1.1 million this year, and plans to
open in dozens of American cities in the next two years. He
spoke recently with Bloomberg.com’s  John Tozzi  about the growing
tribe of do-it-yourself types that he’s betting on to realize
TechShop’s national ambitions. Edited excerpts of their
conversation follow.  John Tozzi: How did TechShop get started?  Mark Hatch: Jim Newton founded it in October 2006 primarily for
himself. He wanted access to a wider range of tools so he
created this membership-based model that would enable him to
make his own things while giving other people access to the
tools as well.  Q: What do members get for their $125 a month?  A: We have every machine tool, woodworking tool, 3D printers,
digital prototyping software, laser cutters, a full sheet-metal
shop, an automotive bay, a textiles lab, a plastics lab. It’s
literally everything you need to make anything. We have a guy
making a lunar lander on-site. And we have people who are silk-
screening T-shirts and making stuffed animals.  Q: What’s the business model?  A: It’s a membership-based, do-it-yourself fabrication
workshop. The primary revenue driver is from memberships, like a
gymnasium. We teach a lot of classes. It’s a great mix. It’s a
cross between a gymnasium, an educational institution, and an
incubator, all founded on the principal of open access, so
anybody can join, anybody can play, anybody can learn. We do some
short-run manufacturing, a little bit of retail, and then we
offer studios for startups.  Q: Do entrepreneurs use TechShop to start companies?  A: That’s probably the most encouraging component. A couple of
electrical engineers created this liquid-cooled server cabinet.
The company, Clustered Systems, just beat IBM and others
[efficiency-wise] by a solid 15 percent at an industry event.
Two engineers, [investing] $20,000 over two years. They picked
up a $3 million Department of Energy grant. There’s not a dime
of VC funding in it; it’s completely controlled by the
inventors.  Q: TechShop has locations in Menlo Park, Calif., and Raleigh,
N.C. What are your plans for expansion?  A: We’re about to open [in] San Francisco. We’ve got nine
cities on the docket for next year: San Jose, Detroit, and New
York; we’re also targeting Boston and Washington, D.C., Chicago,
Seattle, Portland, Ore., and L.A. We’re hoping to do 20 the
following year and plan to have a television show by the fall of
2012. I expect to be profitable in the second quarter of next
year.  Q: What’s driving the growth?  A: We’ve graduated more mechanical engineers than software
engineers last year. Then you’ve got the Science Channel, the
Discovery Channel, National Geographic, all of those pumping our
living rooms full of all this interesting science stuff. All of
that combined with the new economic reality of reduced
consumption and more DIY. You’ve got this whole environment that
this is popping into.  Q: What makes TechShop possible? A lot of the equipment is
high-tech but a lot of this is stuff that’s been around in some
form or another for a long time.  A: Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, when the
steam engine was hooked up to mills and lathes, the capital
tools moved out of the shed of the common tradesperson and into
corporations. There they stayed literally for 240 years. What’s
happened in the last 20 years is the cost of those tools has
dropped dramatically. Twenty years ago a quality, entry-level
CNC [computer numerical controlled] machine was a quarter
million [dollars] and up. A decent one was probably half a
million to 1 million dollars. I can get a good one for less than
$20,000 today. The magic that we’re providing is access to the
most powerful tools of innovation and creativity for the cost of
a daily Starbucks cup of coffee.  Q: Do you have projects you’re working on in TechShop?  A: The most recent fun one: I dragged my kids up there and we
did some sumo robots. They’re these little desktop robots that
push one another out of a ring.  To contact the reporter on this story: John Tozzi at
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  