-- Ecuador's Rating Raised by Fitch on Oil Gain, Growing Access to Financing
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-11-05T18:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/ecuador-credit-rating-raised-by-fitch-on-rising-oil-better-financing.html
Ecuador’s credit rating was raised
today by Fitch Ratings Ltd., which cited a recovery in
international oil prices and improved access to international
financing.  Fitch upgraded the South American country’s issuer default
rating to B- from CCC with a stable outlook, according to a
statement today from the rating company. Fitch also raised the
rating on the country’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015 to
B- from CCC and the short-term foreign currency IDR to B from C.  Ecuador’s government is projecting  gross domestic product 
in South America’s seventh-biggest economy will expand 5.1
percent next year, the most since 2008, as public spending rises
and oil output recovers from a two-year slump. Ecuador, which
forecasts a $3.73 billion budget deficit next year, has
defaulted twice on foreign debt in the last 11 years.  “The upgrade to B- reflects the easing of near-term
liquidity and financing constraints for Ecuador due to the
recovery in international oil prices and increased bilateral
lending,” analysts including  Erich Arispe  wrote in the
statement. “Ecuador’s creditworthiness balances moderate levels
of public and external debt and the country’s relatively high
income and human development levels against demonstrated weak
willingness to service debt.”  Domestic Investors  Ecuador, which forecasts oil will average $73.30 a barrel
next year, will seek $1.1 billion in loans from domestic
investors and $3.86 billion from foreign lenders to cover the
budget deficit, according to a copy of the proposed budget on
the Finance Ministry’s  website .  The government may also sell international bonds for the
first time since 2005 next year to finance infrastructure
projects, President  Rafael Correa  said in an Oct. 20 interview
with Bloomberg News.  The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015
was unchanged today at 11.49 percent as of 2:12 p.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The yield has risen 48
basis points, or 0.48 percentage point, this year, while the
bond’s price has declined one cent to 92 cents on the dollar,
according to the bank.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 8 basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 10.18 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. Ecuadorean government debt is the
second-riskiest after Venezuela’s among 15 emerging markets
tracked by JPMorgan.  Standard & Poor’s rates the nation’s debt B-, six levels
below investment grade and one level under Argentina. Moody’s
rates the debt Caa3, nine steps below investment grade.  Today’s upgrade may also boost foreign investment in
Ecuador, which uses the U.S. dollar as its currency, and ease
restrictions on corporate credit after the country’s default on
$3.2 billion of international debt in 2008, Fernando Simo, chief
executive officer at Quito-based brokerage Casa de Valores
Produvalores SA, said.  “This is excellent,” Simo, who predicted other rating
agencies will probably follow Fitch in upgrading the Andean
nation, said in a telephone interview. “This will definitely
make international lines of credit reopen and financing
providers and investors return to the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  