-- Edenor Debt Outperforms on Price Cap Outlook: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n ,   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-11-05T20:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/edenor-debt-soars-on-utility-rate-increase-speculation-argentina-credit.html
Bonds of Empresa Distribuidora y
Comercializadora Norte SA, Argentina’s biggest power
distributor, are beating the nation’s corporate debt index on
expectations caps on utility price increases may be eased.  Dollar notes sold last month by Edenor, as the company is
called, due in 2022 returned 4.9 percent since Oct. 26, versus
0.6 percent for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Corporate EMBI Broad
Argentina Index . Edenor, based in Buenos Aires, priced $140
million of bonds on Oct. 15 at a yield of 9.75 percent, compared
with 9.04 percent for  Argentine dollar  securities on that day,
according to data compiled by JPMorgan and Bloomberg.  Speculation is growing that the next government may curb
utility price limits after the death of former President  Nestor Kirchner , the late husband of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , increased the chances an opposition candidate will win
next year’s election, according to RBS Securities Inc. Eight
years of price controls have made most Argentine utilities
unprofitable and led companies including France Telecom SA to
sell assets or abandon operations there.  “The companies that should benefit the most are those that
have been suffering from price controls,”  Francisco Velasco , an
analyst with Exotix Ltd., a brokerage specializing in emerging
markets, said in a telephone interview from New York. Companies
including Edenor have been hurt by “not getting granted the
tariffs that they should receive under a normal regime,” he
said.  Presidential Election  Edenor’s debt is outperforming the  Credit Suisse AG Latin
America Utility Index , which has gained 0.5 percent since Oct.
26, as well as all three of the Argentine companies that issued
debt this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Edenor
bonds have lagged behind Argentine government dollar debt, which
 returned  6.7 percent since Kirchner’s death on Oct. 27,
according to JPMorgan.  Alberto Lippi , a spokesman for Edenor in Buenos Aires,
declined to comment.  Kirchner said in July that either he or Fernandez would run
for president next year. Fernandez, 57, is eligible for a second
four-year term. Opposition parties stand a better chance in the
vote because Kirchner had been the strongest potential
candidate,  Felipe Noguera , a Buenos Aires-based political
analyst and co-founder of the Latin American Association of
Political Consultants, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 27.  After taking office in 2003, Kirchner maintained utility
rates that were frozen in 2002 to restrain inflation after the
government of then-President  Eduardo Duhalde  devalued the peso.  ‘Unprofitable’ Industry  In 2008, Fernandez allowed electricity companies to raise
rates as much as 30 percent for the country’s biggest users. Gas
rates for some users have also been raised on a seasonal basis.  Utilities in Argentina, which invested more than $20
billion in the 1990s to expand capacity, have sought price
increases as they struggled with rates that were frozen by the
government.  Price caps have spurred international utilities including
GDF Suez SA of Paris, operator of Europe’s largest-natural gas
network, and France Telecom , the country’s biggest phone
company, to scale back in Argentina or leave the country.  The peso increased 0.1 percent to 3.9547 per dollar at 4:07
p.m. New York time, from 3.9594 yesterday.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 31 basis points to
601 yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Spread Narrows  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 21 basis points to 486
today, according to JPMorgan.  Fernandez’s prospects for the October 2011 election have
deteriorated since her husband died of a heart attack, said
 Federico Thomsen , a Buenos Aires-based political and economic
analyst with research firm E.F. Thomsen.  “Her chances of success have been reduced,” he said.
“Nestor Kirchner was the one who managed to keep others in line
and nobody would dare to challenge his potential candidacy.”  While negotiations on new tariffs have been postponed in
the last several years, “people assume it will be after the
presidential election,”  Cecilia Minguillon , a Fitch Ratings
Ltd. analyst in Buenos Aires, said in a telephone interview.
“Even if there is no certain date, people are always expecting
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at   bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  