-- Emerging Stocks Gain on Speculation Fed's Wider Stimulus Will Stoke Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T06:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/emerging-stocks-advance-on-speculation-fed-move-will-stoke-growth-in-u-s-.html
Emerging-market stocks  rose, driving
the benchmark index to its biggest weekly advance in 13 months,
on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will succeed in
supporting growth in the world’s largest economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.6 percent to
1,157.9 as of 2:14 p.m. in Shanghai. The gauge of 754 companies
in developing nations has climbed 4.7 percent this week, the
most since the five days ended Oct. 9, 2009.  The index climbed for a seventh straight day after the Fed
said yesterday it will purchase $600 billion more of Treasuries
because of “disappointingly slow” progress in boosting
economic growth. Crude oil futures climbed to the highest
settlement price since April 6, while copper advanced to a 28-
month high. Gold futures surged to a record.  “We could have an optimistic scenario for quite some
time,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion at Templeton
Asset Management Ltd., said in a telephone interview from
Beijing yesterday. “I don’t see any risks any time soon.”  The Shanghai Composite Index  rose 1.3 percent, paced by
raw-materials producers.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , the nation’s largest producer, climbed
5.1 percent. Copper futures advanced 3.4 percent on the Comex in
New York yesterday. The  London Metal Exchange Index  of prices
for six industrial metals including copper and aluminum jumped
3.1 percent, the most since May.  Zijin Mining Group Co., the biggest gold producer, advanced
4.7 percent after gold futures for December delivery settled at
an all-time of $1,383.10 an ounce on the Comex.  PetroChina, Crude  PetroChina Co. , the country’s largest oil company, rose 0.9
percent higher to a six-month high. Crude oil for December
delivery rose 2.1 percent in New York yesterday.  “Commodities are the big area for us,” Mobius said. “We
are great believers in higher commodity prices and therefore are
investing in commodity companies.”  The MSCI stock index has surged 17 percent this year as
investors poured money into emerging-market equity and debt
funds at a record pace, according to EPFR Global data.  Benchmark equity gauges in Taiwan and Thailand increased
more than 1 percent. Malaysia and Singapore markets are shut for
public holidays. India’s stock market will open for a truncated
one-hour evening session to mark Diwali, the start of the Hindu
new year.  Taiwan Fertilizer Co. , one of Taiwan’s largest land owners,
rose 6.6 percent for the third-biggest increase on the MSCI
gauge, as property values gain with the appreciation of the
local currency, said  Jeff Chang , an analyst at Grand Cathay
Securities Corp.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.  slumped 8 percent,
the most in more than 19 months after the company said it plans
to cut as many as 1,200 jobs and third-quarter profit grew at
the slowest pace in six quarters. It was the biggest decline on
the MSCI measure, and contributed most to a 1.1 percent drop in
the Philippine Stock Exchange Index.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. With assistance from Kevin Hamlin in
Beijing, Ian Sayson in Manila and Weiyi Lim in Taipei. Editors:
Reinie Booysen, Allen Wan  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  