-- Tennis's Kim Clijsters May Sign With Olympic Games Sponsor, Her Agent Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-05T14:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/tennis-s-kim-clijsters-may-sign-with-olympic-games-sponsor-her-agent-says.html
U.S. Open tennis champion  Kim Clijsters  may sign an agreement with a worldwide sponsor of the
Olympic Games, her agent Bob Verbeeck said.  Clijsters, the highest earner on the women’s tour this
season with more than $5 million in prize money, has seven
sponsors. Her management is seeking a replacement for Thomas
Cook Group Plc, after a one-year agreement with the tour
operator ended in September.  “One of the options we are looking at now is a partnership
that is linked to the Olympic Games and to one of the worldwide
partners of the Games,” Verbeeck, who has represented Clijsters
since 2001, said in an interview. “London 2012 is very
important for Kim as an end goal for her career.”  A deal may be announced in the first quarter of 2011, said
Verbeeck, who is founder and chief executive officer of Paal-
Beringen, Belgium-based sports, media and entertainment company
 Golazo .  The  International Olympic Committee  has 11 worldwide top-
tier sponsors, including consumer-goods company  Procter & Gamble
Co. ,  McDonald’s Corp. ,   Coca-Cola Co.  and  Visa Inc .  Since coming out of a two-year retirement in August last
year -- during which she got married and had a baby girl --
Clijsters has won two U.S. Open championships and risen to No. 3
in the rankings of the  WTA Tour . Last month, the 27-year-old
Belgian beat top-ranked  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark to win the
season-ending WTA Championships in Doha for the third time in
her career. Clijsters, a former world No. 1, wants to spend more
time with her family after the Olympic tennis event at Wimbledon
in 2012.  Endorsements  Clijsters’s endorsements include  Adecco SA , the world’s
biggest supplier of temporary workers; Italian sports brand
 Fila , racket manufacturer  Babolat , watchmaker  Citizen , banana
seller  Chiquita , Belgian cable operator  Telenet Group Holding NV 
and the maker of the  AA sports drink .  “Possibly as a result of the extended media coverage on my
comeback as a mom, we get a lot more international endorsement
requests,” Clijsters said in an e-mail to Bloomberg. She said
she’s looking for sponsors who won’t have special requirements
on her time.  Clijsters is also selective when it comes to the sort of
products she endorses, and won’t promote unhealthy food,
Verbeeck said. She’s turned down campaigns that might involve
her daughter Jada, said Verbeeck, whose 19-year-old Golazo
represents around 100 athletes, mostly in track and field.  “She is a role model for working women between the ages of
25 and 45,” said Verbeeck, a former Belgian Olympic track
athlete.  Golazo staged the Best of Belgium in July, an exhibition
between 13-time Grand Slam champion  Serena Williams  and
Clijsters that was played in front 35,000 spectators, the most
ever for a tennis match.  It also organizes sports events, including the Tour of
Flanders, Belgium’s Davis Cup and Fed Cup tennis matches as well
as marathons in Antwerp, Brussels, and Kuala Lumpur.  Clijsters, who first met Verbeeck through her father, the
late Belgian soccer player Lei Clijsters, may work for Golazo in
the future on some of its events or as an adviser to its
athletes.  “Kim would like to stay involved with sports after her
tennis career is over,” Verbeeck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 