-- Indonesia Extends Safety Zone as Merapi Eruption Toll Rises
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o
-- 2010-11-05T06:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/merapi-s-latest-eruption-kills-at-least-12-indonesia-extends-safety-zone.html
The death toll from Indonesia’s Mount
Merapi eruptions in central Java doubled to 93 after a midnight
blast caught villagers by surprise, prompting authorities to
extend the safety distance and close the Yogyakarta airport.  The latest eruption killed another 49 people and wounded 66,
Sri Suryantini, a spokeswoman at Sardjito hospital in Yogyakarta
said by telephone today. Authorities extended today the minimum
safety distance from the volcano to 20 kilometers (12 miles)
from 15 kilometers and closed the Adi Sucipto airport since 6
a.m. Jakarta time as ash covered the runway, officials said.  The death toll may rise “because many people were trapped
in their village as the eruption happened in the middle of the
night,” Oka Hamid, a spokesman at Red Cross Indonesia’s
Yogyakarta branch, said by telephone today. “We are running out
of masks, and we need diapers, medicines and lots of ready-to-
eat food.”  Merapi, which means mountain of fire, has been spewing hot
ash cloud for 11 days, stretching rescue efforts as villagers
defy safety orders to tend to their cattle stranded on the
mountain’s slope. The volcano may release hot ash for about two
months, Subandriyo an official at the Energy Ministry’s
Volcanology and Geology Disaster Mitigation Center said Nov. 3.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  “issued a special
instruction that if anyone tries to return to the village the
person must be forced to stay back,”  Agung Laksono , the
coordinating minister for people’s welfare affairs, said
yesterday. “This is for their own safety and security.’”  A series of hot ash cloud releases occurred throughout the
night and Merapi’s rumbles could be heard by an observation post
as far as 30 kilometers away, Surono, the volcanology center’s
head, said in a statement on the agency’s website.  Indonesia is battling to recover from two disasters that
struck the Southeast Asian nation within a day of each other.
The death toll from a tsunami that hit Mentawai Islands off the
west coast of Sumatra Oct. 25 reached 427, Furqon Chavid
Setianto, an official at the  National Disaster Management Agency 
said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
 Bambang Djanuarto  in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  