-- Mercedes-Benz Says It Won't Be `Stupid' in Effort to Beat Lexus in U.S.
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-05T18:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/mercedes-benz-says-it-won-t-be-stupid-in-effort-to-beat-lexus.html
Daimler AG’s  Mercedes-Benz won’t be
“stupid” in adding sales incentives to its cars as the company
pushes to become the top-selling luxury brand in the U.S., an
executive said.  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Lexus brand, helped by customer
discounts in October, has remained the No. 1 selling luxury
brand in the U.S. this year, a title it has held since 2000.
Mercedes and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s namesake marque have
gained on Lexus with new products as the Japanese brand deals
with record recalls.  “December is a big month,”  Dietmar Exler , vice president
of Mercedes-Benz Financial USA, said in an interview at his
office in Farmington Hills, Michigan. “There will be some
programs, but there will be nothing stupid just to be No. 1.”  Lexus more than doubled average incentive spending from a
year earlier to $2,152 per vehicle in October, according to
Santa Monica, California-based TrueCar.com. Mercedes increased
average incentive spending by 9.4 percent to $4,389 in the
month, the researcher said.  Lexus led Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler’s Mercedes in
the U.S. by 5,449 sales through October.  Daimler offered “crazy” lease deals on some models last
month, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry trends for
TrueCar. Leases on the C-Class sedan cost about $300 a month,
comparable to deals on  Honda Motor Co.’s  Accord, he said.  ‘Better Deals’  “They are clearly trying to get the luxury sales lead this
year,” Toprak said of Mercedes. “Lexus is going to do what it
takes to keep that spot, which only means better deals for
consumers.”  U.S. sales for this year through October totaled 183,529
for Lexus, 178,080 for Mercedes and 176,736 for Munich-based
BMW, the global leader in luxury-vehicle deliveries.  Exler took the helm of Mercedes-Benz Financial in the U.S.
in February just as the automaker’s sales began to accelerate.
The company has been helped by a move into less expensive luxury
categories. Incentives amounts are typically decided by an
automaker’s marketing department.  Sales of the C-Class sedan, the only  Mercedes  with a
starting price under $35,000, rose 15 percent this year through
October, according to Autodata Corp., a researcher based in
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  The average amount financed by Mercedes-Benz Financial for
new vehicles is around $50,000, according to the unit. The
lower-priced vehicles create greater pressure to reduce costs,
Exler said.  iPad System  In mid-October, the unit introduced a system that allows
customers to sign some documents on the screen of an  Apple Inc. 
iPad, allowing for quicker and more accurate service. Mercedes’s
355 U.S. dealers also can use the iPad as a mobile tool in
showrooms to access the company’s point-of-sale system.  The finance arm is implementing a fully electronic contract
system that will take several years to complete, Exler said.
Last year, the company introduced a computer program that
validates contracts to catch more errors, reducing the need for
staff in that area by more than half, he said.  During the first nine months of the year, the unit found
2,000 errors, which cost about $1,000 each to fix, Exler said.  “You don’t want to call these customers once and say
there’s a problem,” he said. “Not a good story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  