-- Estonia Inflation Accelerates to Fastest in 22 Months as Food Prices Climb
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-11-05T09:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/estonia-inflation-accelerates-to-4-7-fastest-in-22-months-on-food-costs.html
Estonia’s inflation rate climbed more
than expected to the highest level in 22 months in October,
driven by higher prices for food.  Consumer  prices  rose 4.7 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest increase since December 2008, following a 4 percent rise
the previous month, the Tallinn-based statistics office said on
its website today. The median estimate of four analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for an inflation rate of 4.4 percent.  “Unfortunately there are no signs pointing at a slowdown
in inflation,” said  Maris Lauri , chief economist with Swedbank
AB in Tallinn, in an e-mail. “In the short term, prices will
only rise.”  Estonian companies must not try to use the adoption of the
euro on Jan. 1 as an excuse to demand more money for their
goods, Finance Minister  Jurgen Ligi  said last month. The central
bank has warned that higher prices may hamper a recovery from
the  second-deepest recession  in the European Union.  Inflation will “stabilize ahead” as raw-material price
growth is slowing,” central bank economist  Martin Lindpere  said
in an e-mailed statement.  Food and non-alcoholic drink prices rose a monthly 2
percent and added 8.9 percent from a year earlier, accounting
for almost 80 percent of the total increase, the statistics
office said. Dairy prices added an annual 20.7 percent and
vegetable prices jumped 36.8 percent, it said. Overall, prices
rose 0.6 percent in the month.  Price Cartels?  Estonian prosecutors and competition authorities have
started two inquiries into possible bread and dairy cartels
since August after the bread producers lobby announced plans to
boost prices by 10 percent to 20 percent that month.  Most leading retailers raised milk prices by 25 percent at
once in September. The September increases in milk prices came
at the end of the month, and therefore did not affect September
data, the statistics office said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  