-- EU's Almunia Sees Increased Possibility of Winding Down State-Owned WestLB
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-05T14:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/eu-s-almunia-sees-increased-possibility-of-winding-down-state-owned-westlb.html
WestLB AG  may eventually have to be
wound down if the bank can’t fulfill European Union orders to
shed assets and sell itself by the end of 2011, the EU’s
antitrust chief said today.  The possibility of winding down the bank “unfortunately is
increasing,”  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters in Brussels as he
announced an in-depth probe into an extra 3.4 billion euros
($4.8 billion) in German government help. He said the additional
aid the bank received may necessitate more restructuring and
further asset sales.  “At this stage either the German government notifies
further restructuring measures to compensate for the additional
distortion of competition or the aid should be progressively
clawed back,” Almunia said in an e-mailed statement.  WestLB has received several bailouts and shifted about a
third of its assets into a bad bank to shield itself from losses
and help attract buyers. The state-owned lender was already
ordered to shed its real-estate unit Westdeutsche ImmobilienBank
AG this year and sell itself by the end of 2011 under conditions
imposed by the commission.  Dietrich Voigtlaender , WestLB’s chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement that the EU didn’t have any new
evidence to back up its doubts about the Dusseldorf-based bank’s
restructuring plan.  The European Commission, which checks state aid in the 27-
nation EU, said its concerns about the bank’s long-term future
without state aid have increased and that it may have to change
a business model that “still relies on comparatively  volatile 
and risky activities.”  Capital Markets  Regulators doubt “that WestLB needs to maintain an
important position in global structural finance and capital
markets,” the EU antitrust chief said.  Almunia said he was “not convinced” by WestLB’s efforts
to shrink its balance sheet and reduce risk as it was required
to do in a May 2009 order from regulators. The bank has rejected
current offers for WestImmo as unacceptable and has sought an
extension to the Dec. 31 deadline for the sale. The commissioner
said decisions on the bank’s future “are required as soon as
possible.”  WestLB has transferred “toxic and non-strategic assets”
to a so-called bad bank, “well above their real long-term
economic value,” the commission said. WestLB is “not providing
any remuneration” for about 3.4 billion euros of the transfer.  The assets held by the bad bank have already lost
about a third of their value this year and EU regulators
anticipate further declines, which could force Germany to
provide more state guarantees, Almunia said.  German Disagreement  Germany disagrees with the EU evaluation of WestLB, Almunia
said.  “We expect that WestLB will be able to fulfill the EU’s
aid conditions,” Finance Ministry spokesman  Michael Offer  said
today. Bank and German government officials including Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are scheduled to meet the European
Commission on Nov. 15 to discuss WestLB, ministry spokeswoman
Ingrid Herden said earlier today.  WestLB lost a potential merger partner yesterday when
Bayerische Landesbank, the Munich-based government-owned lender,
said it was pulling out of talks to create Germany’s third-
biggest bank because a combination wouldn’t “sufficiently”
boost profitability.  German officials favor mergers between the country’s eight
state-owned “Landesbanken,” to cope with higher capital
requirements. The government would “carry on pursuing
consolidation in the state banking sector,” Offer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 