-- European Bonds Tumble as Spanish Growth Stagnates; Yield Spreads Increase
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-05T11:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/european-bonds-tumble-as-spanish-growth-stagnates-yield-spreads-increase.html
European bonds fell as a report
showed Spanish growth stalled in the third quarter, leading so-
called peripheral-nation debt lower and widening spreads against
German bunds, the euro region’s safest assets.  Spanish bonds declined for a ninth consecutive day, bound
for their longest losing run since January 2000, as the deepest
austerity measures in three decades undermined the economic
recovery. Irish bonds also fell for a ninth day, the longest
streak in two years, after the government accelerated efforts to
cut its budget deficit. German government bonds advanced, with
the 10-year bund headed for its first weekly gain in four.  “The task of meeting harsh budget cuts may make the issue
of debt servicing even more acute,” said  Marc Ostwald , a bond
analyst at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “The peripheral
markets slumped on fears of debt restructuring. Bunds have
caught a safe-haven bid.”  The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark security,
was at 2.38 percent at 11:36 a.m. in London. The yield has
dropped 13 basis points this week, according to Bloomberg
generic data. The 2.25 percent security maturing in September
2020 rose 0.10, or 1 euro per 1,000-euro ($1,411) face amount to
98.84. The two-year note yield fell one basis point to 0.91
percent, a decline of seven basis points on the week.  Spain’s Socialist government faces widespread opposition as
it seeks to make the deepest budget cuts since at least 1980 and
halve the euro area’s third-largest deficit in two years.  Unchanged GDP  Spanish 10-year bonds fell as data showed the nation’s
gross domestic product was unchanged in the third quarter from
the previous three months. It expanded 0.2 percent from a year
earlier, the Bank of Spain estimated in its monthly bulletin
today in Madrid. The economy had expanded 0.2 percent from April
to June.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German securities surpassed
200 basis points, leading spread widening among so-called
peripheral bond markets in Europe.  The Spanish spread was eight basis points higher at 201
basis point, the most since July 14, based on closing generic
prices.  The Irish  spread  widened seven basis points to a record 533
basis points today, according to Bloomberg generic data. That
compares with the record 973 basis-point premium on Greek 10-
year debt, reached May 7, before the European Union crafted a
rescue package worth 750 billion euros.  The Irish 10-year bond reversed earlier gains. The yield
rose seven basis points to 7.86 percent after dropping to 7.68
percent earlier today.  Irish Struggle  Ireland is struggling to convince investors it can deal
with the mounting cost of bailing out its banking system and
avoid the fate of Greece, which earlier this year applied for an
international rescue.  The finance ministry yesterday announced savings and tax
increases for next year worth 6 billion euros, or 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product. A further 9 billion euros will be cut in
the following three years.  The Irish government last month said it needs 15 billion
euros of savings over the next four years to reduce the deficit.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday he’s optimistic the budget plan will calm investors as
the government faces a market rout that has pushed the premium
on Irish 10-year debt over German counterparts to a record.  The Greek-German spread widened three basis points to 885,
while the Portuguese-German yield gap increased two basis points
to 419.  German bonds have returned 8.7 percent this year, compared
with a 9.2 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have gained less
than 1 percent, while Irish securities lost 10 percent, the
indexes show. Greek debt has lost 17.7 percent, while Portuguese
bonds lost 8.4 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  