-- European Stocks Rise as U.S. Payrolls Beat Economists’ Forecasts
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-11-05T17:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/european-stock-index-futures-climb-rbs-lafarge-may-be-active-on-earnings.html
European  stocks gained, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index extending a six-month high, after U.S.
payrolls climbed more than forecast, increasing optimism that
the world’s largest economy will continue to recover.  Carphone Warehouse Group Plc soared 11 percent after the
mobile-phone retailer raised its profit forecast for the full
year. Smith & Nephew Plc rallied 5.2 percent as Europe’s largest
maker of shoulder and knee implants reported an increase in
third-quarter earnings. Amlin Plc sank 3.1 percent as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. recommended selling the biggest insurer at Lloyd’s
of London.  The  Stoxx 600  added 0.4 percent to 271.97 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London, with the measure gaining 2.3 percent this week,
its largest weekly increase since September. The benchmark index
extended the six-month high that it reached yesterday after the
Federal Reserve unveiled plans to buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries to spur growth in the U.S. economy.  “Growth momentum is showing signs of picking up again and
corporate results remain strong,”  Robert Parkes , a strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc wrote in a report before the payrolls data
was released today. “Recent developments on the macro-economic
front suggest that the soft patch may be coming to an end. And
for those that have been fearing a double-dip or a period of
stagnation, these should be welcome developments that may help
to calm nerves and pull risk appetite further off the floor.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  rose 0.2 percent,
while France’s CAC 40 Index was unchanged. Germany’s DAX Index
gained 0.3 percent.  Payrolls Climb  U.S. payrolls rose more than forecast in October, a sign
that businesses may be starting to look past what the Federal
Reserve has called the “disappointingly slow” pace of recovery
in the world’s largest economy.  Total payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and following
a revised 41,000 drop the prior month that was smaller than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Private payrolls, which exclude hiring by government
agencies, also increased more than forecast, while the jobless
rate held at 9.6 percent.  The Bank of Japan today said that it will use part of its 5
trillion yen ($61.5 billion) fund to buy exchange-traded funds
that track the Nikkei 225 Stock Average and the Topix index and
Japanese real-estate investment trusts with credit ratings of AA
or higher. The fund will also start purchasing government debt
early next week.  Carphone Warehouse Increases  Carphone Warehouse jumped 11 percent to 341.8 pence after
Chief Executive Officer  Roger Taylor  increased the company’s
full-year earnings-per-share forecast to as much as 14 pence.
The retailer will introduce a dividend this year as smartphones
“stimulate consumer demand” and the U.S. division outperforms,
Taylor said.  Smith & Nephew  rallied 5.2 percent to 587.5 pence. The
maker of implants’ third-quarter earnings per share rose to 15.4
cents from 14.5 cents a year earlier as sales climbed, the
company said today.  Mail.ru Group Ltd.  soared 30 percent to $36 on its first
day of trading as the Russian investor in Facebook Inc. raised
$912 million in London’s biggest initial public offering since
July.  Scor SE  rose 4.4 percent to 18.49 euros as France’s biggest
reinsurer said third-quarter net income rose to 111 million
euros ($155.9 million), an 18 percent gain from a year earlier.  Amlin, RBS Fall  Amlin  dropped 3.1 percent to 403.8 pence after JPMorgan
downgraded the shares to “underweight” from “neutral.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc declined 4.5 percent to 45
pence as the lender’s third quarter net loss narrowed by 36
percent to 1.15 billion pounds from 1.8 billion pounds in the
year-earlier period as impairments fell.  RBS faces “a long, hard slog,” according to  Ian Gordon , a
banking analyst at Exane BNP Paribas SA in London, writing in a
note to clients. “Management deserves credit for the good
progress that has been made, but it remains a long journey of
rehabilitation.”  Bank of Ireland dropped 10 percent to 43.7 euro cents, the
11th day of a losing streak that has seen the lender’s shares
plunge 29 percent. Ireland led a surge in the cost of insuring
sovereign debt to a record today as the government struggles to
convince investors it can avert a European Union-led bailout.  About 62 percent of the 213 companies on the  Stoxx 600  that
have announced results since Oct. 7 have beaten analyst
estimates for per-share income, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the U.S., 77 percent of  S&P 500  companies have
topped predictions in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 