-- Euro Retreats From Nine-Month High Amid Peripheral Budget-Deficit Concern
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-11-05T11:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/euro-retreats-from-nine-month-high-amid-peripheral-budget-deficit-concern.html
The euro declined against the dollar
and yen as investors sold bonds from so-called peripheral
European countries amid concern that faltering economies will
hamper efforts to plug national budget shortfalls.  The common currency retreated from a nine-month high
against the dollar as reports showed German factory orders and
European  retail sales  both unexpectedly fell, while Spain’s
economy stagnated as austerity measures undermined the recovery.
Ireland will push back the publication of a four-year plan to
narrow its deficit, the Irish Times said. The Canadian dollar
declined against its U.S. counterpart as the nation’s employers
added fewer jobs than economists predicted.  “The euro has to take some notice of what is happening” in
Europe’s periphery, said  Jane Foley , a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “We could have
choppy conditions for euro-dollar.”  The euro slid 0.6 percent to $1.4117 at 6:35 a.m. in New
York, from $1.4207 yesterday, when it rose to its strongest
level since Jan. 20. It’s still about 1 percent stronger this
week. The 16-nation currency bought 113.99 yen compared with
114.71 yesterday, cutting its weekly advance to 1.7 percent. The
dollar traded at 80.88 yen from 80.75 yen.  Spanish Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German securities surpassed
200 basis points and reached a three-month high, leading spread
widening among peripheral bonds. The Irish spread widened four
basis points to a record 532 basis points.  Retail sales in the euro region fell 0.2 percent from
August, when they also slipped 0.2 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office said today. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent
gain, the median of 19 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey  showed.  German factory orders were hurt in September amid a slump
in demand for investment goods, after big-ticket contracts
inflated the previous month’s increase. Adjusted orders fell 4
percent from August, when they rose 3.5 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. The median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg economist survey was for a 0.4 percent gain.  UBS AG advised selling the euro against the Swiss franc,
which is seen as a haven from financial turmoil, amid rising
bond yields in Europe’s smaller economies.  Investors should bet the euro will weaken to 1.29 Swiss
francs, and end the bet should it appreciate to 1.3870,  Beat Siegenthaler , a currency strategist in Zurich, wrote in an
investor note today.  Switzerland’s currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 1.3522
against the euro, pushing its gain this week to 1.3 percent. The
franc rose against 14 of its 16 most-actively traded peers,
advancing the most against the Swedish krona.  U.S. Jobs  Dollar gains may be limited before a report economists said
will show unemployment held near 10 percent in October, adding
to evidence the recovery is faltering.  The U.S.  jobless  rate was 9.6 percent for a third month,
according to the median prediction of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before today’s report. Unemployment has been at 9.5
percent or higher since August 2009, a record stretch of such
elevated readings since monthly data began six decades ago.
Payrolls likely rose by 60,000, the first gain since May,
economists also predicted.  The dollar has declined this week as the Federal Reserve
said it will buy $600 billion of bonds to boost the economy and
described progress toward its objectives of full employment and
stable prices as “disappointingly slow.” Policy makers had
already cut interest rates almost to zero and bought $1.7
trillion in securities.  Demand for Euros  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled yesterday that the bank intends to stick to its
strategy of withdrawing stimulus, saying “non-standard measures
are by definition temporary in nature.  “We still have an on-going demand for euros from reserve
managers,” said  Paul Bednarczyk , a strategist in London at
4Cast Ltd., a research company that counts central banks among
its clients. “Over the next few weeks it’s hard to see any big
turnaround in the negative dollar view.”  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, depreciated
0.5 percent to C$1.0068 per U.S. dollar. One Canadian dollar
buys 99.42 U.S. cents.  Employment  rose by 3,000 in October after a decline of
6,600 in September, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The
 jobless rate  declined to 7.9 percent from 8 percent as the labor
force shrank. Economists  forecast  job growth of 15,000 and an 8
percent unemployment rate, according to the median estimates of
25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  