-- Loan Investors Demand Call Protection as Returns Rise (Correct)
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2010-11-05T18:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/leveraged-loan-investors-demand-call-protection-as-cheaper-credit-abounds.html
(Corrects year in fifth paragraph.)  The number of leveraged loans with
call provisions has jumped sevenfold this year as investors
demand protection from the risk that companies will refinance
their debt with borrowing costs at the lowest in six months.  Getty Images Inc. and Dunkin’ Brands Inc. came to the
market this week seeking loans that mandate they pay a premium
over face value if they decide to refinance.  Call provisions, common in the bond market, were included
in 144 loans arranged this year, up from 21 in all of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as investors seek
protection amid a surge in demand for new loans. Leveraged loans
have rallied, with total returns on the Markit iBoxx USD
Leveraged Loans Index at 9.62 percent as of yesterday.  “The call premium is a way of attracting high-yield
accounts into the loan market,” said Randy Schwimmer, head of
capital markets at Churchill Financial LLC in New York. “It
brings liquidity into the market and gives alternative investors
insurance that their asset won’t be repaid too quickly without
some cost to the issuer.”  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
rose to 91.87 cents on the dollar yesterday, approaching this
year’s high of 92.9 cents on April 26. Prices are up 55 percent
from Dec. 17, 2008, when the index closed at 59.2 cents. High-
yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  Getty Images, the visual-content provider, is offering
investors soft-call protection of 101 cents on the $1.37 billion
loan facility it’s seeking, according to a person familiar with
the deal. That means the Seattle-based company would have to pay
1 cent over face value to refinance the debt in the first year.  ‘Cheap Way’  “When you’re trying to attract the last dollar, a call
premium is a fairly cheap way to improve yield for the investor
without costing the issuer anything upfront,” Schwimmer said.  Getty Images reduced the interest rate it was offering
investors on the loan, which it plans to use to pay a dividend
to private-equity owners Hellman & Friedman LLC and recapitalize
the company, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  The new interest rate will be 3.75 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate, with a 1.5 percent Libor
floor, according to the person. The loan is expected to price at
99 cents on the dollar. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend
to each other.  The facility includes a $1.27 billion six-year term loan
and a $100 million five-year revolving line of credit, according
to the person. Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., General
Electric Capital Corp., Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. are arranging the facility.  Easier Access  Borrowing costs in the loan market are at the lowest since
May, according to S&P’s Leveraged Commentary and Data, giving
companies easier access to the debt markets.  New-issue spreads, including Libor floors and upfront fees,
averaged 5.26 percentage points as of Oct. 21 for loans rated BB
or BB-, down from 5.82 percentage points at the end of August,
according to S&P LCD.  About $290 billion of U.S. leveraged loans have been
arranged in 2010, compared with $170 billion in all of last
year, according to Bloomberg data.  Since the end of 2009 through the end of September, about
$96 billion of leveraged loans due through 2014 have matured,
been paid down or extended, according to data supplied by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  Dunkin’ Brands, owner of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins
restaurants, was seeking a $1.35 billion loan facility this week
that included a call option, according to a person familiar with
the deal.  Dunkin’ Soft Call  Dunkin’ lenders also are being offered one-year soft-call
protection of 101 cents, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. Barclays, JPMorgan
Chase, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs are arranging the debt.  Proceeds from the offering will be used to refinance debt
and to pay a dividend to private-equity owners, said the person.
Dunkin’ Brands, based in Canton, Massachusetts, was purchased by
Bain Capital LLC, Carlyle Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP in
2006.  Declining default rates and Federal Reserve policies that
have kept interest rates low have helped fuel demand for debt.  On Nov. 3, the Fed’s Open Market Committee said it would
buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June in an
effort to reduce unemployment and avert deflation. The central
bank also left its benchmark interest rate target for overnight
interbank loans at zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since
December 2008.  Default Rate  “Keeping long-term rates low will continue to incentivize
companies to issue debt at attractive yields,” said Darin
Schmalz, a director at Fitch Ratings in Chicago. “And it sounds
like the Federal Reserve is committed to keeping interest rates
low for an extended period of time, which should help
businesses.”  The issuer-weighted global speculative default rate fell to
3.7 percent in October from 4 percent in September, according to
a Nov. 4 report by Moody’s. The global default rate was 13.4
percent in October 2009 and is expected to fall to 2.8 percent
by the end of 2010, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 