-- Facebook Backer Mail.ru Jumps 41% After $912 Million London IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-11-05T18:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/facebook-backer-mail-ru-surges-41-after-912-million-offering-in-london.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd. , a Russian
investor in Facebook Inc., surged 30 percent in London trading
after raising $912 million in the city’s biggest initial public
offering since July.  The operator of Russian social-networking sites and online
game platforms climbed $8.30 to $36 today. The Moscow-based
company and its existing shareholders sold 32.9 million global
depositary receipts at $27.70 each, the top end of the $23.70 to
$27.70 offering range, according to a Regulatory News Service
statement. Mail.ru had orders for 20 times the shares available
in the IPO, said two people familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be named because the information isn’t public.  The IPO was the biggest in the U.K. since  Nathaniel Rothschild’s  mining fund, Vallar Plc, raised $1 billion in July.
The offering from Mail.ru, partly owned by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  and South Africa’s  Naspers Ltd. , came after share sales
by emerging-market companies attracted more money than
industrialized nations for the first time in at least a decade
last quarter.  “Mail.ru is an interesting story with the Facebook factor,
plus that it’s a very good asset by itself,” said  Ivo Kovachev ,
a senior emerging-markets money manager in London at JO Hambro
Capital Management Ltd., which oversees about $6.3 billion.
“It’s not surprising to see people buy into emerging-market
IPOs and this trend will probably continue.”  Emerging Market IPOs  The company sold $84 million of shares while its existing
shareholders reaped $828 million, according to the statement.
They may raise a further $91 million selling shares in the over-
allotment option, given sufficient demand for the stock.  A London-based spokesman for Mail.ru declined to comment on
how many times the IPO was oversubscribed. The company will use
the primary proceeds to partly fund the acquisition of an
additional stake in vKontakte, a Russian social network service.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley of New York and Russia’s VTB Capital arranged the IPO.  Mail.ru owns 2.4 percent of Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, the world’s largest social networking service,
according to an Oct. 11 statement. Mail.ru also has a 5.1
percent stake in Chicago-based Groupon Inc., the Daily Deal
website with 20 million subscribers, and 1.5 percent of Zynga
Game Network Inc. in San Francisco, the maker of the
“FarmVille” and “FrontierVille” games.  Sales, Earnings  Revenue at Mail.ru may increase 51 percent this year to
$301 million, while earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization are likely to rise 70 percent to $104 million,
analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a note last month.  Companies in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s  21 countries
raised $141 billion through IPOs and additional sales last
quarter, more than double the amount in industrialized
countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Coal India Ltd. , the world’s largest coal producer,
yesterday surged 40 percent on its first trading day after
investors bid for 15 times the shares sold in the country’s
largest IPO. India’s government raised 152 billion rupees ($3.4
billion) last month selling a 10 percent stake in the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 