-- Fannie Mae Seeks $2.5 Billion Amid Narrowing Loss
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-11-06T00:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/fannie-mae-seeks-2-5-billion-in-u-s-treasury-aid-amid-narrowing-losses.html
Fannie Mae , the mortgage-finance
company operating under federal conservatorship, reported a $1.3
billion third-quarter loss and said it would seek more U.S. aid.  The company requested $2.5 billion from the Treasury
Department, most of which will be used to pay a $2.1 billion
dividend on the federal government’s nearly 80 percent stake,
Washington-based Fannie Mae said today in a  Securities and
Exchange Commission  filing. The firm’s loss for the three-month
period that ended Sept. 30 was down from $18.9 billion a year
earlier, the company said.  Fannie Mae has received almost $89 billion in taxpayer
funds since September 2008, when it was seized by regulators
along with McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . The two firms
will have received more than $151 billion in government aid and
returned some $17 billion in dividends since the U.S. takeover.  “We’re going to get to the point where Fannie and Freddie
have basically recovered in terms of their operations and
they’re losing money because they’re paying the dividends,”
said  Guy Cecala , publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, a
Bethesda, Maryland, trade publication. “There are some people
who view the dividend as designed to punish them.”  Fannie Mae said the company’s dividend payments will
prevent it from earning a profit “for the indefinite future.”
Freddie Mac requested $100 million in Treasury aid Nov. 3 after
reporting a third-quarter loss and paying $1.6 billion in
dividends.  The two government-sponsored enterprises were chartered to
boost homeownership by buying mortgages from lenders and
providing a guarantee of principal.  Fannie Mae has demanded that lenders repurchase
nonperforming loans if they were issued based on inaccurate
data. Lenders repurchased or reimbursed the company for losses
on about $1.6 billion worth of loans in the third quarter, the
company said in the filing.  The company has outstanding repurchase requests on $7.7
billion worth of loans, of which 36 percent have been
outstanding for more than 120 days, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 