-- Fed Go-Ahead Seen Leading to Bank Dividend Surge: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-05T15:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/fed-go-ahead-seen-leading-to-bank-dividend-surge-chart-of-the-day.html
Dividend increases are likely to be
commonplace for the largest U.S. banks once the Federal Reserve
allows them to raise payouts, according to Bloomberg estimates.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the projected dividends per
share for the 10 biggest banks by assets to pay back bailout
funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Quarterly totals
are provided through 2013, when the combined payout will climb
to $1.89 a share from 84 cents in this year’s fourth quarter.  Seven of the lenders -- Bank of New York Mellon Corp., BB&T
Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., PNC Financial Services Group Inc.,
State Street Corp., U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo & Co. --
probably will start raising dividends next year, the estimates
show. Bank of America Corp. may follow in 2012.  Capital One Financial Corp., by contrast, may maintain its
quarterly payout for the next three years. The dividend was cut
to 5 cents a share from 37.5 cents in March 2009. Northern Trust
Corp., the only one of the 10 that didn’t reduce its dividend
last year, may keep it at 28 cents through 2013.  The Fed is drafting guidelines for supervisors to use in
determining whether banks are strong enough to raise dividends,
a person familiar with the matter said. The Wall Street Journal
reported a similar story yesterday.  TARP repayment is likely to be among the criteria cited in
the guidelines, according to Paul J. Miller, an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets. Other possibilities are return on assets and
Tier 1 common capital, or common equity as a percentage of
assets, he wrote today in a report.  “The Fed is unlikely to allow any banks to raise their
dividends unless capital levels exceed a certain benchmark,”
Miller wrote. Banks’ ability to generate profits will be an
issue as well, he added. The report included data from SNL
Financial LC on the top 35 U.S. lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  