-- Fiat's Marchionne, With New Models Coming Next Year, Says Targets `Fine'
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-11-05T14:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/fiat-s-marchionne-with-new-models-coming-next-year-says-targets-fine-.html
Fiat SpA  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  confirmed that the Italian carmaker will
release new models in 2011 and said the company won’t have
problems meeting its targets.  The new-model plan for next year, including an updated
Panda, a Lancia Y and a European version of the Chrysler 300C
carrying the Lancia brand, “is totally confirmed,” Marchionne
told reporters in Mirandola, Italy today.  “They used to say we didn’t have any new models,” the CEO
said. “Now there are many coming to the market.”  Marchionne also said Fiat is committed to its “Fabbrica
Italia” plan, in which it will invest 20 billion euros ($28
billion) through 2014 to improve factories and vehicle
development in exchange for union concessions on work rules.  The plan is “in the interest of the vast majority of the
country,” Industry Minister  Paolo Romani  said in a statement
today.  Asked how Turin, Italy-based Fiat will be able to meet its
2011 targets for the auto division, Marchionne said, “just
relax, it will be fine.” Fiat, which will separate its
carmaking and industrial operations next year, in  April forecast 
2011 revenue of 37 billion euros with trading profit of as much
as 1.2 billion for the car unit. The company defines trading
profit as earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or
costs.  Fiat rose as much as 2.2 percent, and traded up 2.1 percent
at 12.78 euros, its highest price in over two years, at 3:01
p.m. in Milan.  Chrysler Targets  Marchionne also said that mid-term elections in the U.S.
won’t affect Chrysler Group LLC’s strategy and that he’ll
probably raise targets for the American carmaker on Nov 8. Fiat
bought 20 percent of Chrysler last year and Marchionne heads
both companies.  Fiat’s Italian sales slumped 40 percent in October to
around 38,000 cars, compared with a 29 percent decline for total
registrations in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  