-- Fiery Interpol, Big Apple's Mongolians, Aziz at Laugh Fest: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/fiery-interpol-big-apple-s-mongolians-aziz-at-laugh-fest-n-y-weekend.html
Head up to the United Palace Theatre
for downtown gloom-rockers Interpol. Currently touring for their
fourth album, Paul Banks and Co. craft a glamorous clamor of
melancholy slicked with menace.  Interpol’s music feels like a rainy night in New York when
the street lights glow even stronger in the cold.  Their propulsive, rhythmic sound will be nicely
complemented by opening band White Rabbits, which trades in
jangly piano rock.  Their lead single, “Percussion Gun,”
pretty much spells it out for you.  Then cross the street for beer and bronzed roast chicken
Dominican style at El Malecon.  United Palace Theatre is at 4140 Broadway, corner of 175th
St. Information:  http://www.bowerypresents.com/event/4926   El Malecon is at 4141 Broadway at 176th St. Information:
+1-212-927-3812.  Saturday  Artist Ana Mendieta died 25 years ago, at 36, after a
strange fall from a 34th-floor apartment in Greenwich Village.
Her husband, minimalist sculptor  Carl Andre , was tried and
acquitted of her murder.  Galerie Lelong has mounted a show of Mendieta’s witty,
gender-bending studies, with never-before exhibited photographs,
slides and other materials from the artist’s archive, along with
rarely seen drawings, sculpture and recently restored films.  Get ready for fire and blood, two of her life-long
preoccupations.  “Ana Mendieta: Documentation and Artwork, 1972-1985” runs
through Dec. 11 at Galerie Lelong, 528 W. 26th St. Information:
+1-212-315-0470;  http://www.galerielelong.com/   Saturday Afternoon  The Big Apple Circus is in town with a brand new show,
“Dance On!”  You’ll see the Hebei Wuqiao Acrobatic Troupe from China
perform a spell-binding act involving lassoes and monocycles,
Ethiopian juggler cum percussionist Girma Tshehai, the X Bud
Roses Troupe of five mysteriously flexible Mongolian
contortionists, and Jenny Vidbel’s assortment of trained white
mini-horses.  Of course, they will send in the clowns, including Grandma.  Under the Big Top at Damrosch Park in Lincoln Center, 62nd
St. between Amsterdam and Columbus Avenues. Information: +1-212-
268-2500;  http://www.bigapplecircus.org/   Saturday Night  Check out  Aziz Ansari ’s “Dangerously Delicious Tour” at
the Beacon Theatre, part of the New York Comedy Festival.  The son of Indian immigrants, raised in the South, Ansari
sends up celebrity as he describes his evenings out with  Kanye West .  By the time he got his marketing degree from  New York
University’s Stern School of Business , the 27-year old was
already a successful standup. Eat your hearts out.  You might have seen him as inept ladies’ man Tom Haverford
on “Parks and Recreation” with  Amy Poehler , or as the
profanity-loving Randy in  Judd Apatow ’s “Funny People.” Grab
this chance to experience him live.  There are plenty of other laughs elsewhere: Sunday brings
veteran funnyman Dick Gregory and the Best of the Breakout
Artists Comedy Series to Carolines.  Beacon Theatre is at 2124 Broadway at 74th St.  Carolines is at 1626 Broadway between 49th and 50th St.
Festival information:  http://www.nycomedyfestival.com/   Sunday Afternoon  Take in a pair of short plays by Nobel Prize-winner  Harold Pinter , presented by the Atlantic Theater Company in its 25th
season.  “The Collection” explores possible infidelities among two
couples, one straight, one gay, culminating in a duel with
household knives.  “A Kind of Alaska,” inspired by  Oliver Sacks ’s
“Awakenings,” presents a woman who wakes from a 30-year coma.
Total comic incredulity is her response to news of what’s
transpired during her long sleep.  In previews at the borrowed theater of the Classic Stage
Company, 136 E. 13th St. Opens Nov. 22 for a limited run.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.atlantictheater.org/   Stroll over to the corner of Bond Street and the Bowery to
Cire Trudon and flabbergast your nose by lifting up the glass
bell jars that enclose scented candles and inhaling deeply.  Try Ernesto, which evokes leather, tobacco, wood and
barrels of guns under the hot Havana sun. Or Abd el Kader, which
brings notes of mint, peppery ginger, and tea on the fresh winds
plunging down from the mountains to the Mascara coast.  Founded in 1643, Cire Trudon is the oldest candle maker in
the world. This is the first shop to open outside of France.  Cire Trudon is at 54 Bond Street. Information: +1-212-677-
1200.  Then walk across the street to Peels -- opened by William
Tigertt of  Freemans  fame during the summer -- for some Southern
comfort food.  Start with a Hairy Mary made with mezcal, or a Bond Street
Swizzle, absinthe floating on a gin base. Order up some
andouille corn dogs, crusty fried chicken, and plates of seared
Montauk squid rings  Peels is at 325 Bowery at 2nd St. Information: +1-646-602-
7015.  (With assistance from  Lili Rosboch .  Zinta Lundborg  is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 