-- Former China Pension Adviser, Prime Broker Start Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-05T03:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/former-china-pension-adviser-morgan-stanley-prime-broker-start-hedge-fund.html
A former senior adviser to China’s
state pension fund and a former head of Morgan Stanley’s Asia
prime brokerage business started a China-focused hedge fund this
week that will bet on rising and falling Chinese stocks.  JT Greater China Long/Short Fund, backed by the
international arm of the nation’s third-largest mutual fund
house, started trading on Nov. 1, said  Larry Zhang , 48, chief
investment officer of its Hong Kong-based manager JT Capital
Management Ltd.  Harvest Global Investments Ltd. ’s international
unit holds a “minority but significant” stake in JT Capital,
he added, declining to give further details on the arrangement.  Chinese investors are emerging as a new source of capital
for managers in Asia as fundraising from international
institutions has become tougher after the financial crisis. The
Americas and Europe accounted for 84 percent of the investors in
hedge funds operating in Hong Kong, according to a 2009  survey 
by the city’s Securities and Futures Commission.  “Mainland Chinese corporate seeders of Asia-based hedge
funds are becoming much more frequent,” said  Paul Smith , chief
executive officer of Hong Kong-based asset manager and hedge-
fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd. “Chinese investors are
stepping into the void left by U.S. and European institutions
who have all but abandoned this industry.”  The development is a significant step toward localizing the
source of capital for the Asian industry, Smith said.  China Presence  Thomas Tey is starting a hedge fund in Singapore with Wang
Wei Dong, who helped set up  Bosera Asset Management Co. , one of
China’s biggest money managers. The fund will start trading this
month with some money from investors in China, said Tey, the
former head of equities derivatives at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp.  Beijing-based Harvest, part owned by Deutsche Bank AG,
ranked third among peers at the end of the third quarter, with
156 billion yuan ($23 billion) of mutual fund assets under
management, according to data from Shanghai-based fund research
company  Z-Ben Advisors Ltd .  “We’re starting to see Chinese institutions play a larger
presence in allocating to hedge funds and in particular with
startup funds as some of the recent deals highlight,” said
 James Fallon , a Hong Kong-based director of prime brokerage
sales at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit. “We
expect this trend will continue as these groups look to
diversify their businesses outside of mainland China.”  Inflation  Investors committed more than $50 million of capital toward
the JT fund, said two people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified as the information is private. Zhang
and Co-Chief Executive Officer  Kurt Baker  declined to comment on
the figure. Baker, 44, headed Morgan Stanley’s  prime brokerage 
unit in Asia before leaving in November 2008.  JT Capital, which employs nine people in Hong Kong and
Beijing, is targeting a 15 percent annual return after fees,
said Zhang. It aims to help investors benefit from yuan
appreciation, ward off inflation and market swings, he added.  “We’re probably facing a significant inflation period in
world history,” said Zhang. “The financial crisis isn’t
finished. The world has just become more volatile.”  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said this week
that quantitative easing and record-low interest rates may fuel
inflation.  About half of the JT fund’s investments will be in Hong
Kong-listed stocks, Zhang said. As much as 30 percent will be in
yuan-denominated A-shares traded on Chinese exchanges. The
remainder will be depositary receipts traded in the U.S., Europe
and Taiwan, he added.  China Pension Fund  JT Capital has the capacity to manage as much as $1 billion
yet plans to close the fund to new investors at $500 million,
said Baker.  Zhang advised China’s $116 billion  National Social Security
Fund  on global investments. He was a partner of London-based
hedge-fund manager  GSA Capital Partners LLP , running its global
equity market-neutral investments, before returning to China two
years ago. Before GSA, Zhang managed the long-short stock
investments in Asia excluding Japan for Barclays Global
Investors in San Francisco.  Baker is in charge of operations, and Zhang oversees
investments at JT Capital.  Co-manager of the JT fund,  Pauline Ju , most recently helped
manage emerging market stock investments with a focus on greater
China for State Street Global Advisors in Boston.  Huang Guang , JT Capital’s research head, worked for
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  