-- Fortress Investment Profit Rises 37% as Holdings Gain With Market Rebound
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-05T15:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/fortress-profit-rises-37-as-assets-rise-with-market-rebound-new-money.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC , the
buyout and hedge-fund firm run by  Daniel Mudd , said third-
quarter profit rose 37 percent as holdings in its credit funds
rose and clients added money to hedge and credit strategies.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, were $78 million, or 15
cents a share, compared with $57 million, or 11 cents, a year
earlier, the New York-based firm said today in a statement. The
results beat the 11-cent  average estimate  of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Earnings were boosted by $75 million in performance fees,
mostly from the credit funds and liquid hedge funds, which rose
above their previous peak asset values. Fortress has trailed
competitors in lining up private-equity deals after a buying
binge three years ago left it with little cash and investors cut
back on new commitments during the financial crisis. The firm is
trying to turn around some of its most troubled deals in an
effort to return money to clients.  “It was a relatively quiet quarter for Fortress in terms
of private-equity investment realizations,” Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Inc. analysts led by  Robert Lee  wrote in an Oct. 15 note
to clients. “Dry powder along with incremental capital raising
should allow the company to leverage its significant expertise
in distressed investing.”  Credit Investments  Fortress said it raised $1.2 billion in outside money
during the quarter, of which $551 million were added to assets
under management, all of it in credit and hedge funds. The new
money, together with a $1.3 billion increase in invested
capital, brought assets to $44 billion at the end of the
quarter, from $41.7 billion at the beginning.  “Our hedge funds produced significant incentive income,”
Mudd said in the statement. “Our credit business remains in a
sweet spot.”  Fortress rose 25 cents, or 5.3 percent, to $4.98 at 10:22
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Assets in private-equity funds, Fortress’s largest
business, gained less than 1 percent to $11.6 billion at the end
of the quarter. Wesley Edens, who heads that unit, said the most
recent buyout fund is almost fully invested, and he expects to
raise new money in the “very near term,” without giving
details.  Investor Cash  Fortress has 3.2 billion in unused capital commitments,
with about $3 billion of that in the credit funds, Chief
Financial Officer Daniel Bass said on a conference call.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to take over
companies, financing the purchases with mostly debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit. Hedge funds are
lightly regulated pools of capital whose managers can buy or
sell any asset. Managers of both types of funds receive a
portion of investment gains, usually 20 percent.  Fortress has written down most of its $2.8 billion
investment in the ski-resort operator Intrawest Corp., which
owns slopes operated by Whistler Blackcomb Holdings Inc.  Intrawest skirted a lender takeover during the February
Olympics after the company missed a final payment on a $1.4
billion loan. This week Intrawest sold three-quarters of its
stake in Whistler in an IPO to pay down debt.  The company’s net loss widened to $95 million, or 62 cents
a share, from $59 million, or 43 cents, a year earlier.  KKR Fundraising  Managers are trying to distribute profits to investors
before some firms begin marketing their next large buyout funds
in 2011. During the third quarter, private equity-backed
companies made 190 exits, including sales and initial public
offerings, valued at $56.7 billion, the most transactions at the
highest dollar volume since the third quarter of 2007, according
to London-based researcher  Preqin Ltd .  Blackstone Group LP , the world’s largest buyout firm, said
last week that third-quarter profit increased 23 percent as the
value of its private-equity and real estate holdings rose.  KKR &
Co. ’s profit fell 61 percent as it booked smaller gains on its
private-equity investments, the firm said this week.  KKR is set to raise more than $2.5 billion for new funds in
the second half of this year. The firm has said it may pitch its
first large buyout fund since 2006 early next year. Blackstone
earlier this year raised a $13.5 billion buyout fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 