-- Foxconn Says Male Employee Found Dead Outside Dormitory in Shenzhen Campus
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-11-05T12:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/foxconn-says-worker-found-dead-at-china-campus-first-since-august-rally.html
Foxconn Technology Group, the world’s
largest contract maker of electronics, said a worker was found
dead outside a company dormitory earlier today, the first
reported death at the manufacturer since 100,000 employees
staged a “Treasure your life” rally in August.  The body of the 23-year old male worker was found around
1:20 a.m. at Foxconn’s Guanlan campus in the southern Chinese
city of Shenzhen, the company said in an e-mailed statement sent
through its public relations agency Burson-Marsteller. Louis
Woo, a spokesman for Foxconn, said the cause of death hasn’t
been determined.  An Aug. 18 rally held by the company and its labor union
called on employees to “treasure your life, care for your
family” after at least 10 employees committed suicide this
year. Founder and Chairman  Terry Gou  felt “guilty” about the
deaths after he at first “did not see this as a serious
problem,” he said in a September interview with Bloomberg
Businessweek  Foxconn has expressed condolences to the family of the most
recently-deceased worker and are providing them with assistance,
it said in today’s statement. Foxconn is cooperating with a
police investigation, it said.  Expanding Workforce  The maker of  Apple Inc . iPads and  Hewlett-Packard Co .
computers employs more than 900,000 people across at least 20
factories in China and plans to expand its workforce to as many
as 1.3 million by the end of next year. China has a  suicide rate 
of 21.2 per 100,000 according to data from the World Health
Organization.  Foxconn has more than doubled wages in Shenzhen, its
largest manufacturing base, and begun moving factories to inland
China, closer to most workers’ hometowns. Labor groups including
China Labor Watch have called the company a sweatshop which
tramples workers’ rights, allegations Gou has denied.  Personal problems and compensation packages offered to
bereaved families caused most of the suicides, Gou said at Hon
Hai’s annual shareholder meeting in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 