-- Fresh Market Rallies 59% After $290 Million IPO
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-05T20:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/fresh-market-raises-290-million-after-increasing-initial-offering-price.html
Fresh Market Inc. , the Greensboro,
North Carolina-based grocery chain, surged 46 percent after
raising $290 million in its initial public offering as the U.S.
IPO market extended its rebound.  Fresh Market climbed  $10.11  to $32.11 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading today, the second-biggest first-day gain for a
U.S. company this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Fresh Market sold 13.2 million shares for $22 each, after
offering them at $18 to $20 apiece yesterday.  The offering was the largest of six U.S. initial sales this
week and the latest sign the market has recovered after 55
companies withdrew or postponed IPOs this year. Twenty-one
companies completed deals in October, the most in almost three
years, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has surged 20
percent since its 2010 low in July. Fresh Market’s profit
climbed 45 percent in the first nine months of the year.  “Anyone who buys an IPO has to have some hope and
optimism, and we’re starting to see investor attitudes reflect
that,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-
based Harris Private Bank, which oversees about $55 billion.
Real growth “is probably the strongest characteristic that an
offer can bring to IPO buyers these days. Investors saw that in
this offering,” he said.  Vera Bradley, ChinaCache  Vera Bradley Inc. , the Fort Wayne, Indiana-based maker of
women’s handbags, posted the biggest first-day gain for a U.S.
company that completed an IPO this year, climbing 55 percent on
Oct. 21.  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-
based provider of Internet content to businesses, had the
largest first-day rally on New York exchanges this year, surging
95 percent on Oct. 1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of America Corp.  of Charlotte, North Carolina, and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York
led Fresh Market’s sale.  At the middle of the forecast range, Fresh Market would
have been valued at 16.4 times net assets, according to
IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey, California.  That’s almost six times higher than the ratio of 2.9 for
Austin, Texas-based  Whole Foods Market Inc. , which Fresh Market
identified as a competitor in its regulatory filing.  Both grocery chains were valued at 25 times estimated
earnings, according to IPOdesktop.com.  ‘Exclamation Point’  Fresh Market’s profit increased 45 percent to $41.1 million
in the first nine months of the year, from $28.4 million in the
year-earlier period, according to its filing.  Whole Foods , the largest U.S. natural-goods grocer, surged
the most in 15 months yesterday after its fiscal fourth-quarter
earnings doubled and the company raised its profit forecast.  “There’s good demand in this particular area,” said  Scott Billeadeau , who helps oversee $18 billion at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Minneapolis. The earnings from Whole Foods “put
an exclamation point on that,” he said.  Fresh Market was the first American company to complete an
IPO this week after four offerings from companies based in
China, Israel and Greece. Non-U.S. companies account for six of
the ten best-performing IPOs on New York exchanges this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Primo Water Corp. , the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
company that sells purified bottled water and dispensers, also
completed its initial sale yesterday.  The company raised $100 million after pricing 8.33 million
shares at $12 each, the middle of its forecast range, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares advanced  7.9 percent  to
$12.95 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 