-- Frontier Rare Earths Increases Size of Public Offering to C$60 Million
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-05T12:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/frontier-rare-earths-increases-size-of-public-offering-to-c-60-million.html
Frontier Rare Earths Ltd. raised C$60
million ($59.8 million) in an initial public offering, 50
percent more than planned, to develop a South African deposit of
rare metals used in computers and car batteries, said two people
familiar with the sale.  The Luxembourg-based company sold 17.65 million units
consisting of one share and half a warrant for C$3.40 each in
the Canadian offering, according to the people, who asked not to
be identified because the plans aren’t public. Frontier sold a
19.8 percent stake, based on 89.08 million shares outstanding,
valuing the company at C$302.9 million.  Frontier is developing the Zandkopsdrift deposit in South
Africa’s Northern Cape Province, the company said in a Sept. 30
filing with Canadian regulators. Frontier aims to become one of
the leading producers of rare-earth metals outside of China and
one of the first new producers of the elements after  Lynas Corp. 
and  Molycorp Inc.   The rare earths, a group of 17 metals including neodymium,
lanthanum, cerium and europium, have industrial uses such as
petroleum refining, fiber-optic transmission, and military radar
and missile-guidance systems. China dominates the market because
it’s been able to produce the elements more cheaply and with
fewer environmental restrictions than its competitors.  Frontier, which initially sought to raise C$40 million,
will trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol FRO
starting Nov. 17. CIBC World Markets led a group of banks
including Canaccord Genuity, Cormark Securities Inc., Byron
Securities Ltd. and National Bank Financial for the sale, and
they have the option to sell another 15 percent of the offering.  Prices Soar  Prices for rare earth metals have jumped as much as
sevenfold in the past six months as Chinese export quotas have
crimped worldwide supplies for the elements. China reduced its
second-half export quota for the minerals by 72 percent in July.  Molycorp has more than doubled since its July 29 debut on
the New York Stock Exchange, after selling shares for $14 each
in its $394 million IPO. Shares of Sydney, Australia-based Lynas
Corp. have nearly tripled in the past 12 months.  Frontier Chief Executive Officer James Kenny in Luxembourg
didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment.  Companies have sold C$4.61 billion in IPOs in Canada this
year, the highest amount since 2006, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; or
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  