-- Georgia Breaks Up Russian Spy Ring That Started Operating Before 2008 War
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2010-11-05T17:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/georgia-arrests-13-suspected-of-spying-for-russia-interior-ministry-says.html
Georgian authorities said they broke
up a Russian spy ring that started collecting information on the
country’s military before the 2008 war in which the Russian army
routed Georgian forces.  Thirteen people, including four Russians and nine
Georgians, remain in custody after being arrested last month on
suspicion of delivering information to the intelligence unit of
Russia’s Defense Ministry, known as the GRU, Interior Ministry
spokesman  Shota Utiashvili  said today at a briefing in Tbilisi,
the capital. Two others were released after plea bargains.  “All this was going on for years,” Utiashvili said. “Not
only did they monitor secret military information but they
continued to do so during the war. They wanted to know how many
weapons we had, where we had them, and planted agents everywhere
to seek information.”  Russian forces defeated Georgia a five-day war over the
breakaway region of South Ossetia in August 1998. Russia later
recognized South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent countries
in a move condemned by the U.S. and many European countries.
Russia has agreed to defend both regions’ borders.  The U.S. in June arrested 10 “deep-cover” spies who had
sought to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles since the 1990s,
according to the U.S. Justice Department. The suspects pleaded
guilty July 8 and were deported as part of a prisoner exchange
with Russia.  Infiltrating Ring  The Georgia arrests were made after authorities planted a
former Soviet intelligence officer inside the spy ring in
Russia, Utiashvili said, without elaborating. The Interior
Ministry today released video of the suspects confessing their
roles in the espionage and describing how the ring operated.  The Russian Foreign Ministry said Georgia staged the arrest
as a “provocation” to attract attention before the North
American Treaty Organization summit later this month in Lisbon
and a meeting of the Collective Security Treaty Organization in
Astana, Kazakhstan, Dec. 1-2. The CSTO includes Russia, Armenia,
Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.  “Another obvious goal is to use a bogus Russian threat to
maintain anti-Russian hysteria in the country,” the ministry
said in a statement. President  Mikheil Saakashvili ’s government
suffers from “chronic anti-Russian spy mania.”  This is the second time Georgia, a former Soviet republic
that gained independence in 1991, has detained suspected Russian
spies. In September 2006, Georgia arrested four Russians and
more than 10 Georgians on suspicion of spying. In that case, the
Russian citizens were handed over to authorities in Moscow.  No Russian Request  Georgia hasn’t received any official request from Russia to
hand over the suspects in the current case, Utiashvili said.  Prosecutors are now handling the investigation, which will
determine how the suspects are handled, including whether to
send them to Russia as Russian citizens, said Khatuna Iosava, a
spokeswoman for the Prosecutor General’s Office in Tbilisi.  In January 2009 former Georgian diplomat Vakhtang Maisaia
was sentenced to 20 years in prison for spying on behalf of
unidentified foreign countries during the war. Saakashvili said
at the time that Maisaia provided “hourly information” that
aided Georgia’s enemies, though he didn’t name Russia.  Alexander Rondeli, head of the  Georgian Foundation  for
Strategic and International Studies, said Russia continues to
use “shameless” methods to spy on Georgia, mainly to control
the flow of arms into the country.  “As if Georgia had atomic bombs or other serious
equipment,” he said before the arrests were announced. “They
simply want to know kind of additional weapons are coming to
Georgia so they can be prepared for a possible attack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helena Bedwell  in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  