-- Gerdau Profit Misses Estimates as Costs Climb; Stock Drops Most in 6 Weeks
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-11-05T16:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/gerdau-quarterly-profit-drops-to-320-million-on-higher-raw-material-costs.html
Gerdau SA ’s third-quarter net income
missed analysts’ estimates after surging costs pared profit
margins, prompting the stock to drop the most in six weeks and
lead declines on Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Net income at Latin America’s largest steelmaker declined
3.1 percent to 536.1 million reais ($319.6 million), or 38
centavos a share, from 553 million reais, or 39 centavos, Gerdau
said today in a regulatory filing. Per-share profit was expected
to be 44 centavos on an adjusted basis, the  average  of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Rising costs of iron ore, coal and other raw materials
reduced Gerdau’s profit margins in Brazil and North America, the
Porto Alegre, Brazil-based company’s two biggest markets.
Profit fell even as net sales climbed 20 percent to 8.19 billion
reais and the company boosted output by about 9 percent.  Margins “were hurt by the increase in the prices of its
main raw materials,”  Luciana Leocadio , an analyst at Brazilian
brokerage Ativa Corretora, said in a note to clients today.  Gerdau fell 79 centavos, or 3.5 percent, to 22.03 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 11:33 a.m. New York time, after losing as
much as 3.8 percent earlier, the most since Sept. 24. Before
today, the stock had declined 22 percent this year, compared
with a 6.4 percent gain for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Prices for raw materials increased this year through the
third quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Andre Gerdau Johannpeter 
said in a conference call with journalists today.  ‘Revert Quickly’  “We now have to revert this situation quickly by looking
for a costs reduction,” he said.  Acquisitions of iron-ore assets are “possible,” while no
“concrete” negotiations are taking place, he said  Consumption of steel may rise 8.4 percent in Latin America
next year, Johannpeter said on Oct. 25.  The results are based on international financial reporting
standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  