-- German Manufacturing Orders Unexpectedly Declined in September
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-11-05T11:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/german-manufacturing-orders-unexpectedly-fell-in-september-on-europe-slump.html
German  factory orders  unexpectedly
dropped in September, led by a slump in euro-area demand for
investment goods, after big-ticket contracts inflated the
previous month’s increase.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, fell 4
percent from August, when they rose 3.5 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists had forecast a 0.4
percent gain, according to the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg news  survey . From a year earlier, orders climbed 14
percent, when adjusted for working days.  Demand for German manufactured goods may wane as the global
economic recovery stutters and the stronger euro hurts price
competitiveness outside the 16-nation currency bloc. The
Bundesbank expects growth to slow to about 0.5 percent in the
third and fourth quarters after surging exports helped the
economy expand 2.2 percent in the second, the fastest pace in
two decades.  “German companies have still got their hands full working
off increasing backlogs,” said  Carsten Brzeski , a senior
economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels. “Industrial production
will remain an important growth driver. However, today’s drop in
new orders shows the speed of the industrial recovery is
normalizing.”  Export orders dropped 6.6 percent from August, with sales
to euro-area countries plunging 13.3 percent, today’s report
showed. Domestic orders fell 0.6 percent. Demand for investment
goods declined 4.5 percent, driven by a 20.4 percent slump in
euro-area orders. Orders for consumer goods rose 0.3 percent.  ‘Still Pointing Up’  “As expected, the upward-dynamic in manufacturing orders
has weakened after the boom in the first half,” the Economy
Ministry said in a statement. “But the trend is still pointing
upward, even when adjusted for big-ticket orders.”  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit in Munich, said
order volume has been “distorted by vehicle and aircraft
demand” in recent months. “We won’t be able to maintain the
speed of the second quarter, but in the coming months there will
still be solid order growth,” he said.  The government last month raised its estimate for economic
growth this year to 3.4 percent from 1.4 percent.  Germany’s  SGL Carbon SE , the world’s biggest maker of
carbon and graphite products, yesterday increased its forecast
for the year after third-quarter profit more than doubled.  Spending Cuts  The same day,  Beiersdorf AG , the German maker of Nivea skin
creams, cut its full-year margin forecast as third-quarter
profit missed estimates because of falling volumes in Europe.  Euro-area governments are cutting spending, damping demand
in Germany’s biggest export market, as investors grow
increasingly  concerned  about budget deficits in Ireland,
Portugal and Greece.  In China, economic expansion cooled in the three months
through September, and in the U.S. the Federal Reserve is buying
an additional $600 billion of Treasuries to bolster its ailing
economy. That’s helped the euro advance 19 percent against the
dollar since early June.  A “persistently strong” euro is hurting manufacturers’
price competitiveness,  Thomas Lindner , president of Germany’s
VDMA machine makers’ association, said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  