-- Germany's Feldmann Wins $100,000 Hugo Boss Prize After Four Decades of Art
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-11-05T06:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/germany-s-feldmann-wins-100-000-hugo-boss-prize-after-four-decades-of-art.html
German artist Hans-Peter Feldmann,
who turns everyday objects into conceptual installations, won
the $100,000  Hugo Boss  Prize yesterday evening at New York’s
 Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum .  Feldmann, born in Dusseldorf in 1941, became the oldest
artist to receive the biennial award since its inception in 1996.
His use of toys, souvenirs and ordinary domestic objects
“amounts to a tremendous ongoing project of cataloging the
multiplicity of potential meanings present in the world around
us,” the prize’s jury said in a statement.  “His art brings back a lot of memories,” said  Claus Dietrich Lahrs , chief executive officer of Hugo Boss, who grew
up not far from Feldmann. “You see Germany. He shows and
celebrates the ordinary people from early stage to becoming an
adult.”  Administered by the  Guggenheim Foundation , the prize
recognizes outstanding innovation and creativity in the arts.
Past winners include U.S. artist  Matthew Barney  in 1996, Thai
artist Rirkrit Tiravanija in 2004 and Tacita Dean of England in
2006. There are no geographical or age restrictions for nominees.  A jury made up of museum directors, curators and critics
selected the winner from six finalists. They included Chinese
artist Cao Fei, known for creating virtual communities, video
installations and photography; provocative Lebanese mixed-media
artist and essayist Walid Raad; Slovakian Roman Ondák;
Thailand’s Apichatpong Weerasethakul, who works with film and
installation; and conceptual artist Natascha Sadr Haghighian.  “Winning was a surprise for me,” said Feldmann, a stately
man in a gray pinstriped suit who has been producing art for
four decades. “I am almost 70 years old. I am also the first
German to win the prize. The last few winners were young artists
from far away.”  Feldmann had solo exhibitions at the  P.S. 1  in Queens and
at the  Museum Ludwig  in Cologne. He received the eighth Benesse
Prize at the 53rd Venice Biennale in 2009. An exhibition of
Feldmann’s work will be on view at the Guggenheim Museum from
May 20 through Sept. 5, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 