-- German Stocks Gain After U.S. Jobs Data; HeidelbergCement, Pfeiffer Rally
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-05T17:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/german-stocks-fluctuate-thyssenkrupp-gains-as-adidas-falls-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks  rallied, with the DAX
Index extending a two-year high, after a better-than-forecast
U.S. payrolls report boosted optimism about the strength of the
economic recovery.  HeidelbergCement AG advanced as  Ludwig Merckle  increased
his stake in the world’s third-largest maker of cement and
concrete. Pfeiffer Vacuum Technology AG surged 2.9 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the shares. Singulus
Technologies AG slumped after forecasting an operating loss.  The DAX gained 0.3 percent to 6,754.20 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt, its highest close since June, 2008. The
gauge has increased 2.3 percent this week as the Federal Reserve
announced an additional $600 billion of bond purchases to
bolster the world’s largest economy. The broader  HDAX Index  also
rose 0.2 percent today.  “The Fed signaled, after already announcing $600 billion
of bond purchases, that it’s ready to help the economy further
if needed,” said  Steffen Neumann , a strategist at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz. “The Fed is on the side of equity
markets and the general positive trend is still intact, even if
the market won’t keep rising at this speed. 2011 won’t be such a
bad year.”  U.S. Payrolls  Payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists and following a revised
41,000 drop in September that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Private payrolls that exclude government agencies also gained
more than forecast, while the jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  HeidelbergCement AG surged 2.2 percent to 41.86 euros,
extending yesterday’s 8.9 percent jump. The cement maker said
Ludwig Merckle’s share of the company’s voting rights crossed
the 25 percent threshold, taking his stake to 25.11 percent as
of Nov. 4, 2010. A separate company statement quoted Merckle
saying he has no intention of obtaining further voting rights
“by acquisition or by any other means” within the next 12
months.  BASF SE  gained 1.8 percent to 57.17 euros, the highest
price on record. The world’s biggest chemical company was raised
to “buy” from “hold” at M.M.Warburg & Co. KGaA.  Pfeiffer Vacuum  jumped 2.9 percent to 81.80 euros as
Goldman Sachs raised its recommendation on the vacuum pump maker
to “buy” from “neutral.”  ThyssenKrupp, Praktiker  ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, gained 1.1
percent to 27.31 euros. European basic-resource shares posted
the best performance among 19 industry groups in the benchmark
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  Praktiker AG, Germany’s second-biggest home-improvement
retailer, surged 5.6 percent to 7.06 euros on speculation that
Home Depot Inc. may make an offer.  “Praktiker reached a three-week high and could rise
further amid a rumor that Home Depot is interested in the
stock,” said Thomas Nagel, a German equity market strategist
and technical analyst, who publishes the BoersenSonar weekly
newsletter. “This rumor has already been out in the market
before but the stock is still reacting strongly on it.”  Kathleen Draeger, a spokeswoman for Praktiker, said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation. Home Depot
doesn’t comment on speculation, Ron DeFeo, a spokesman for the
Atlanta-based retailer, said by telephone.  Singulus Technologies  sank 2.1 percent to 3.53 euros,
ending the longest winning streak since June. The maker of
machines that produce compact discs and DVDs won’t achieve its
sales target for the year after revenue in the first nine months
fell to 81 million euros and order intake was “insufficient.”
The German company also expects to report an operating loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 