-- GM Begins Making Chevrolet Cruze Compact Car With RS Package After Delay
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-05T21:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/gm-begins-making-chevrolet-cruze-compact-car-with-rs-package-after-delay.html
General Motors Co.  began production
of a version of the Chevrolet Cruze compact car more than three
weeks behind schedule because of quality issues that the company
declined to specify.  Output of Cruzes with the optional RS appearance package
began this week, Lesley Hettinger, a GM spokeswoman, said today
in an telephone interview. GM’s plant in Lordstown, Ohio, was
supposed to begin making the cars in early October, she said.  “There were some issues affecting the quality of the
package, and in order to ensure that no vehicle leaves without
meeting our standards, we held off until it was perfect,”
Hettinger said. She declined to specify what caused the delays.  GM is counting on the Cruze to help make up ground on
 Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Honda Motor Co.  in the compact car
segment. The Detroit-based automaker sold 5,048 Cruzes in
October, the car’s first month in showrooms. Toyota had 18,636
Corolla sales, and Honda sold 17,121 Civics.  The Cruze is "the workhorse" that’s going to carry GM,  Don Johnson , the automaker’s vice president of U.S. sales, said on
the company’s Nov. 3 conference call.  "We haven’t been as strong in cars, especially at the low-
end, as we would have liked to have been, and Cruze is really
going to be the game-changer in that regard," Johnson said. GM
wants to “significantly increase” Cruze deliveries starting in
November as dealers build inventories, he said. He didn’t give
specific sales targets.  The Cruze starts at $16,995 and sells for as much as
$22,695, according to a June 3 statement. The RS package
includes “rocker moldings, unique front and rear fascias, front
fog lamps, and rear spoiler,” GM said.  Production Delayed  GM said in October last year it would push back the start
of Cruze production to the third quarter of this year, from the
previous three-month period, to have all variations of the new
model available. The Cruze replaces the Cobalt in Chevrolet’s
lineup.  “Long term, we expect that Cruze is going to be
substantially more of a vehicle than the Cobalt and will better
meet consumer needs, and therefore we would expect the Cruze to
outsell the Cobalt,” Johnson said on the conference call.  The Lordstown plant had 4,150 hourly employees as of July
28, according to the company’s media website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 