-- MGM Studios, Lehman, GM, Awal, Chemtura: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-05T12:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/mgm-studios-lehman-awal-dykstra-chemtura-bankruptcy.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. held its
first Chapter 11 hearing yesterday and the bankruptcy judge set
aside Dec. 2 for a confirmation hearing to consider approving
the reorganization plan that creditors accepted in advance.  The judge said that while the plan’s confirmation is
pending, MGM can pay pre- and post-bankruptcy debts owing to
employees, suppliers and licensors. The judge also gave interim
approval for the use of cash.  The plan will swap $4.89 billion of debt for most of the
equity. To read Bloomberg coverage of the first-day hearing,
click here.  After confirmation, Gary Barber and  Roger Birnbaum  from
Burbank, California-based Spyglass Entertainment Group will
become MGM’s co-chairmen and chief executive officers.  General unsecured claims would be paid in full while
existing stockholders receive nothing.  MGM’s assets include a library with 4,100 feature films and
10,800 television episodes. The assets as of Sept. 30 were
valued at $2.67 billion and total liabilities were $5.77
billion, without adjustments required by generally accepted
accounting principles.  MGM, based in  Los Angeles , owns 62.5 percent of United
Artists Entertainment LLC, which isn’t in bankruptcy.  MGM was acquired in April 2005 in a $4.8 billion
transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG Capital.  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc., 10-
15774, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District  New York 
(Manhattan).  Updates  Lehman Aiming to Cut Derivative Claims Almost in Half  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed papers on Nov. 3
objecting to the valuation of more than $900 million in
derivative claims. If Lehman is correct in its calculation, the
amount of the 128 claims will be reduced to $475.5 million.    American International Group Inc . has a claim for $12.5
million, which Lehman says should be allowed for $6.1 million.
The $38.9 million claim of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  should
be $18.4 million, and the $5.9 million claim of  National Bank of
Canada  should be $525,000, Lehman said.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American brokerage business to London-based  Barclays Plc  one
week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said it
intends to amend the plan in the last quarter of the year and
have the plan approved in a confirmation order by March.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  GM, Delphi Agree on Result, Disagree on Which Judge  Two bankruptcy judges in New York may need to decide
whether  General Motors Co ., often referred to as new GM, is
liable to pay the United Auto Workers union $450 million for
retiree health benefits for employees of former unit Delphi
Corp.  The union sued in federal court in  Michigan , claiming
the liability was extinguished in neither of the bankruptcies of
old General Motors Corp. nor Delphi. New GM responded by filing
a motion in old GM’s bankruptcy court in New York contending
that the liability was cut off in either its own or Delphi’s
bankruptcy. The dispute is on the old GM court’s calendar for
Nov. 9.  While new GM wants old GM’s bankruptcy judge, Robert E. Gerber, to decide issues from both the GM and Delphi cases,
Delphi, now formally known as DPH Holdings Corp., filed papers
arguing that only its bankruptcy judge, Robert D. Drain, should
make rulings about the preclusive effect of orders in the Delphi
case.  New GM wants Gerber to rule that liability for retiree
benefits was cut off when old GM’s core assets were sold to the
new company, which is 60.8 percent-owned by the U.S. government.
As a fallback, new GM would have Gerber rule that the liability
was cut off when Delphi’s assets were sold in October 2009 to
old GM and Delphi lenders including Elliott Management Corp. and
Silver Point Capital LP.  DPH agrees with the result sought by new GM. DPH says Drain
alone should make decisions interpreting his own orders.  Delphi originally confirmed what was supposed to be a full-
payment plan in January 2008. The plan couldn’t be implemented
because the business deteriorated. In July 2009, Drain approved
the sale to old GM and the lenders.  In October, Gerber agreed to approve the disclosure
statement explaining old GM’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan. A
trust for unsecured creditors will distribute the stock and
warrants issued by new GM as part of the sale. For details of
the plan, click here for the Sept. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The sale of the GM business produced a pot for old GM
creditors containing 10 percent of the stock of new GM plus
warrants for 15 percent. The warrants will have value if new GM
is profitable enough to raise the new stock’s value to specified
levels.  Old GM began the largest manufacturing reorganization in
history by filing under Chapter 11 on June 1, 2009. GM listed
assets of $82.3 billion against debt totaling $172.8 billion.  The GM case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
Delphi case is In re Delphi Corp., 05-44481, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Awal Administrator May Be Rethinking Chapter 11 in U.S.  The administrator for Awal Bank BSC may be rethinking
whether to pursue the Chapter 11 case begun Oct. 21. The
Bahrain-based bank was already in an approved Chapter 15 case
that started in September 2009.  Awal said it intended for the Chapter 11 case to have
“very limited scope.” At the first hearing held Oct. 26, the
bankruptcy judge in Manhattan balked at the idea of having no
creditors’ committee, no lists of assets and debt, distributions
made to creditors by the court in Bahrain, and payment to
professionals without bankruptcy court approval. The judge said
he might eventually give approval, though not without notice to
creditors.  The bank yesterday said it is assessing “creditor views in
relation to Chapter 11.” Awal’s administrator will later
“determine whether to further pursue the Chapter 11 case,”
according to a statement.  The bank began bankruptcy administration proceedings in
Bahrain in July 2009. In the Chapter 15 case in New York, the
bankruptcy judge recognized Bahrain as the home of the so-called
foreign main proceeding, meaning that the foreign court would be
largely responsible for collecting assets and making
distributions to creditors, were there no Chapter 11 case.  Awal evidently filed under Chapter 11 because the ability
to bring lawsuits is limited in Chapter 15.  Awal’s petition said assets are less than $100 million
while debt exceeds $1 billion. Although domestic banks are
precluded from filing any form of bankruptcy in the U.S.,
foreign banks such as Awal may file for bankruptcy or
reorganization.  The new Chapter 11 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 10-15518,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Chapter 15 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 09-
15923, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Sea Island Confirms Plan for Sale to Oaktree Group  Sea Island Co. has a confirmed Chapter 11 plan, the resort
and real estate development company said in a statement
yesterday. By early this morning, the formal confirmation order
wasn’t yet on the court’s docket.  Approval of the liquidating Chapter 11 plan resulted from a
settlement between unsecured creditors and secured lenders. The
plan provides for a $212.4 million sale of the assets to a group
including Oaktree Capital Management LP, Avenue Capital Group,
Starwood Capital Group Global LP and Anschutz Corp. The opening
bid at auction had been $197.5 million.  Sea Island said it expects to complete the sale this year.  To garner support for the plan from the official creditors’
committee, the lenders increased the fund for unsecured
creditors to $6.33 million from $3 million, for a recovery of
about 6 percent on unsecured creditors’ $100 million in claims.
The lenders are also making $217,000 available to fund a
liquidating trust. The settlement ended disputes over which
assets were covered by the secured lenders’ liens and which
weren’t.  Sea Island’s properties are on or near St. Simons Island
and Sea Island, Georgia.  Before the price increased at auction, Sea Island projected
having about $180 million remaining after paying priority
claims. About $177 million under the pre-auction price would go
to secured lenders with $566 million in claims. Their recovery
originally was expected to be 31 percent.  The Chapter 11 plan and the original sale were negotiated
before the bankruptcy petition was filed in August. Synovus
Bank,  Bank of America Corp . and Bank of Scotland are lenders.  The case is In re Sea Island Co., 10-21034, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Georgia (Savannah).    Maryland ’s Rosecroft Track to Get Chapter 11 Trustee  Cloverleaf Enterprises Inc ., owner of the Rosecroft Raceway
in Fort Washington, Maryland, is being taken over by a Chapter
11 trustee.  The U.S. Trustee, an official of the Justice Department,
sought either conversion of the case to liquidation in Chapter 7
or the appointment of a trustee in Chapter 11. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Paul Mannes in Greenbelt, Maryland, opted for a trustee in
Chapter 11.  The U.S. Trustee said that the track halted operations in
July and lost its racing license. In April, Mannes denied a
motion to sell the assets, saying the sale “primarily
benefits” the track’s sole shareholder.  The U.S. Trustee named James J. Murphy to serve as
Cloverleaf’s trustee. Mannes hasn’t yet approved the
appointment. Murphy has 30 years’ experience in horse racing,
according to the U.S. Trustee.  Cloverleaf filed under Chapter 11 in May, aiming to
forestall termination of the racing license and the license
allowing simulcasting. The petition said assets are more than
$10 million and debt is less than $10 million. Liabilities
include $6.8 million owing on variable-rate notes secured by all
the assets. The noteholders have protection from a letter of
credit issued by PNC Bank.  The case is In re Cloverleaf Enterprises Inc., 09-20056,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  Credit Suisse Wants Tamarack’s Chapter 11 Reorganization Ended  The secured lender to  Tamarack Resort LLC  wants the Chapter
11 reorganization dismissed or converted to a liquidation in
Chapter 7.  Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, contends the
reorganization must end in view of continuing losses, gross
mismanagement, unauthorized use of cash collateral, and lack of
insurance.  The motion to dismiss or convert comes on the heels of a
ruling by the bankruptcy judge denying a $2 million secured loan
for the golf and ski resort in Valley County, Idaho. Tamarack
said it needed the loan to winterize the property.  The Tamarack case began with an involuntary petition in
Chapter 7 that the company unsuccessfully opposed. The company
switched the case to Chapter 11 in April when the bankruptcy
judge granted a motion for conversion to reorganization, even
though a Chapter 7 trustee had been named in March.  The project’s 27.5 percent owner, VPG Investments Inc.,
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in 2008. The petition was
dismissed in October 2008. VPG was controlled by Mexican
businessman Alfredo Miguel Afif.  The new case is In re Tamarack Resort LLC, 09-03911, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Idaho (Boise). The previous case
was  In re VPG Investments Inc., 08-00253, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Idaho (Boise).  Dykstra, Companies Should Be Consolidated, Trustee Says  The Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustee for Lenny Dykstra wants
the bankruptcy judge in  California  to consolidate Dykstra’s
liquidation with three corporations claimed to be alter egos for
the former Major League Baseball player for the New York Mets
and Philadelphia Phillies.  The motion is scheduled for hearing on Dec. 1 in Woodland
Hills, California. The trustee, David K. Gottlieb, contends in
court papers filed last week that Dykstra used the companies to
“conceal assets and interfere” with creditors. He also says
that the companies’ revenue was “squandered” on Dykstra’s
“personal needs.”  Unless the companies’ assets and liabilities are combined
with Dykstra’s, there will be “few assets with which to satisfy
claims of creditors,” Gottlieb said. The trustee wants to bring
fraudulent transfer claims on behalf of the companies.  The companies the trustee wants to consolidate are Car Wash
Corp., Car Wash III and South Corona Center. Claims against
buyers of the properties are “significant assets of the
estate,” Moshe Mortner, an attorney for Dykstra who isn’t
involved in the bankruptcy case, said in an interview. Dykstra
“is much in support of the claims,” Mortner said.  Dykstra filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 in July
2009 in Woodland Hills, California. A Chapter 11 trustee was
appointed in September 2009 and the case was converted to a
liquidation in Chapter 7 in October 2009.  Dykstra listed assets of $24.6 million against debt
totaling $37.1 million. Debt includes $12.9 million owing to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lenny Kyle Dykstra, 09-18409,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Woodland
Hills).  Actor Stephen Baldwin Negotiates Mortgage Reduction  Actor Stephen Baldwin, who filed under Chapter 11 in July
2009 to stop home foreclosure, negotiated a settlement reducing
the amount owed to the first-mortgage lender Bankers Trust Co.  With unpaid interest and fees, the balance on the first
mortgage in September was $925,000. The principal will be
reduced to $790,000. The new mortgage will bear 5.5 percent
interest and require an $8,214 monthly payment, including
principal, interest, taxes and insurance.  There is also a $292,000 second mortgage on the home in
Upper Grandview, New York.  Baldwin’s petition said the home was worth $1.1 million and
had $1.2 million in mortgages. The second mortgage probably will
be converted to an unsecured claim and lose its lien on the
home. In total, Baldwin and his wife listed assets of $1.1
million against debt totaling $2.3 million.  The case is In re Stephen and Kennya Baldwin, 09-23296,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White
Plains).  New Filing  Gulfstream, Feeder Airline, Files in Fort Lauderdale    Gulfstream International Group Inc ., the parent of
Gulfstream International Airlines Inc., filed for Chapter 11
reorganization yesterday in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida . The case
is to be financed with a $5 million loan from Chicago-based
Victory Park Capital Advisors.  The June 30 balance sheet had assets of $13.6 million
against total liabilities of $26 million. Revenue of $46.3
million for the first half of 2010 resulted in a $1.6 million
operating loss and a $2.8 million net loss.  On 2009 revenue of $87.3 million, the operating loss was
$2.9 million and the net loss was $7.6 million.  Fort Lauderdale-based Gulfstream was operating with a
going-concern qualification from the auditors, resulting from a
“net capital deficiency” and “recurring losses from
operations.”  Gulfstream has 23 turboprop aircraft seating 19 passengers
each. The company has more than 150 daily flights from Florida,
the Bahamas and Ohio. Gulfstream operates under code-sharing
arrangements with Continental Airlines Inc., UAL Corp.’s United
Airlines and Copa Airlines.  The case is In re  Gulfstream International Group Inc ., 10-
44131, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort
Lauderdale).  Statistics  Exchanges Beat Prepacks in Recoveries to Creditors  Creditors’ recoveries are the same whether or not the
defaulting company is owned by a private-equity investor,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report on Nov. 3.  For 62 companies owned by private-equity investors that
defaulted since the recession began, recoveries averaged 55.8
percent, compared with 55.7 percent for 64 companies not owned
by private equity.  The recovery rate during the recession is slightly higher
than the historical average. For 850 issuers that defaulted
since the 1980s, Moody’s calculates creditors’ recoveries at
54.7 percent.  Moody’s also found that distressed exchanges brought higher
recoveries than regular or prepackaged Chapter 11s. Although
Moody’s found that prepacks often gave higher recoveries for
senior or secured creditors, company-wide recovery rates were
similar for prepacks and regular bankruptcies.  The final tallies aren’t in, because companies may default
a second time following an exchange offer or bankruptcy. Moody’s
said the “question ahead is whether these defaults will right
the ship for sponsored companies enough to stave off subsequent
default.”  Moody’s Still Predicting Junk Defaults to Remain Low  Moody’s Investors Service reported that its liquidity
stress index declined to 5.8 percent in October from 6 percent
in September.  Moody’s said the index is “consistent” with a predicted
default rate during the next year of 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent
for junk-rated companies.  The report, issued Nov. 3, says that refinancings have
addressed “much of 2011’s maturities.”  The peak for the liquidity stress index was 20.9 percent in
March 2009.  Briefly Noted  Chemtura’s Confirmed Plan Can Take Effect November 8  Specialty-chemical maker Chemtura Corp. can implement on
Nov. 8 the Chapter 11 plan that the bankruptcy judge formally
confirmed on Nov. 3, as the result of a ruling by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Robert E. Gerber. At the company’s request,
Gerber shortened the usual 14-day wait to five days because
Chemtura will pay $230,000 a day in interest on creditors’
claims until the plan is consummated.  Chemtura’s plan reduces debt for borrowed money to about
$750 million from $1.3 billion. For details of the plan, click
here for the June 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. To read about
Gerber’s 78-page opinion explaining why he confirmed the plan,
click here for the Oct. 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion
against debt totaling $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion
owing on three issues of notes and debentures. Sales fell to
$2.5 billion last year from $3.5 billion in 2008. The
subsidiaries outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Schutt Reports $989,000 September Operating Loss  Schutt Sports Inc. reported a $989,000 loss from operations
during September on revenue of $3 million.  The net loss was $1.64 million. During September, Schutt
paid a $350,000 fee for its reorganization loan.  The football-helmet maker was forced into Chapter 11 by a
$29 million patent-infringement judgment in favor of competitor
Riddell Inc. Based in Litchfield, Illinois, Schutt said assets
and debt both exceed $50 million.  The case is In re Schutt Sports Inc., 10-12795, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Boston Generating, Scotia-Palco, TerreStar and Vertis: Audio  An appeal from an important opinion requiring buyers to pay
more under a bankruptcy plan, gumming up the works in the sale
of Boston Generating LLC, a motion to dismiss the
reorganizations of some  TerreStar Corp . affiliates, and the
possible need for another reorganization by Vertis Inc. are
covered in the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Downgrades  Packaging Maker Pregis Lowered to B- on Resin Costs  Pregis Corp., a manufacturer of flexible packaging,
received a one-notch downgrade yesterday from Standard & Poor’s
to match the action taken more than two years earlier by Moody’s
Investors Service.  The new S&P corporate peg is B-.  S&P acted because it found the Pregis “unable to pass
through significant resin price increases due to competitive
industry pricing conditions.” S&P noted that Pregis will need
to refinance a $50 million revolving credit that matures in
October 2011.  Pregis Holding II Corp., based in Deerfield, Illinois, had
a net loss of $15.8 million for the first half of 2010 on sales
of $427.8 million.  Clearing Provider Penson Lowered to B+ on 2nd Lien    Penson Worldwide Inc ., a provider of clearing and margin
lending services for the brokerage industry, received a one-
notch downgrade yesterday from Standard & Poor’s that reduced
the rating on the $200 million in second-lien debt to B+.  S&P said that earnings for Dallas-based Penson declined
amid “extremely low market volumes and the continued low
interest-rate environment.”  Pension reported a net loss of $16.6 million for the first
three quarters of 2010 on net revenue of $208.3 million.  Advance Sheets  Judge Uses ‘Equity’ to Save Employee’s Injury Claim  A federal judge in Monroe, Louisiana, took a fresh approach
to situations where an individual with a confirmed Chapter 13
plan didn’t amend schedules by disclosing an asset that arose
after confirmation.  U.S. District Judge Robert G. James had a case where an
individual confirmed a Chapter 13 plan in March 2005. More than
three years later, she was injured in an accident at work. At
the time, she was still making payments to creditors under her
plan.  James ruled in line with seven federal circuit courts of
appeal that she had a continuing duty to disclose the claim
against her employer because she hadn’t received a bankruptcy
discharge when the accident took place. James also found that
all of the requirements were met for the doctrine of judicial
estoppel to apply and bar the lawsuit against her employer.  James nonetheless denied the employer’s motion to dismiss
the suit. He noted, “as a purely equitable consideration,”
that the bankruptcy trustee wouldn’t have attempted to modify
her Chapter 13 plan to require more payments to creditors. Even
if the suit were disclosed, he said it was unclear whether
creditors would have attempted to modify the plan “based on the
possibility that she might recover a future judgment.”  James denied the employer’s motion to dismiss the suit
after “balancing all of the equities.”  The case is Gilbreath v. Averitt Express Inc., 09-1922,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana (Monroe).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 