-- GM's Bonds Hold Advance as Executives Promote $19 Billion Profit Potential
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-11-05T22:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/gm-s-bonds-hold-advance-as-executives-promote-19-billion-profit-potential.html
Bonds issued by  General Motors Co. ’s
bankrupt predecessor held yesterday’s gains after the automaker
said it could earn as much as $19 billion before interest and
taxes if the global auto market strengthens.  GM’s 8.375 percent bonds due July 2033, which were issued
by old General Motors Corp. and convert to shares in the new GM,
rose 0.375 cent to 35.875 cents on the dollar at 4:29 p.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds rose 2.25
cents yesterday, the biggest gain since June 14.  The largest U.S. automaker, planning to raise as much as
$10.6 billion in an initial public offering, has reduced hourly
labor costs and will be able to produce as much as $16 billion
in free cash flow with profit margins as wide as 10 percent
during a “high cycle” for the industry, Chief Financial
Officer  Chris Liddell  said in a presentation promoting the IPO.  “As global light-vehicle demand recovers, we expect GM’s
earnings to grow considerably, thanks to a dramatically lower
cost base than old GM,”  David Whiston , a Chicago-based analyst
at Morningstar Inc., said yesterday in a research note.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  said Detroit-based GM
can make “significant” profit today amid U.S. sales that are
running about 30 percent below the 16.8 million unit annual
average from 2000 to 2007.  GM  plans to sell 365 million shares at $26 to $29 each and
offer about $3 billion of preferred shares that later will
become common stock. The company is looking to lower the stake
the Treasury Department acquired as part of a $50 billion
taxpayer bailout last year to 43 percent from  61 percent .  ‘Very Low’  The offering’s price range is “very low,”  Kirk Ludtke ,
senior vice president of CRT Capital Group LLC, said yesterday
in a note. The $27.50 midpoint price is about 41 percent below
the “fair value” of GM’s shares, said Ludtke, whose Stamford,
Connecticut-based firm recommends buying the bonds.  The government-backed bankruptcy last year helped GM earn
as much as $4.2 billion through three quarters this year. The
company aims to pay off all  debts  and fully fund employee
pensions that had a $17.1 billion shortfall in the U.S. at the
end of last year, Liddell said.  “This will give us the type of fortress balance sheet that
we believe is appropriate for a company in a high fixed-cost,
cyclical industry,” Liddell said in the presentation on the
 website  retailroadshow.com.  High Cycle  In a so-called high cycle for global auto sales, profit
before interest and taxes would be $19 billion, Liddell said. In
a mid-cycle market, GM would have EBIT as high as $13 billion
and free cash flow of as much as $10 billion, he said.  GM previously needed U.S. auto sales at a 15.5 million
 annual rate  -- which is “around mid cycle” -- and a 25 percent
market share to be profitable, Liddell said. It’s now profitable
at a 10.5 million rate and about an 18 percent share.  GM estimates it will have slashed hourly labor costs by
more than two-thirds by next year, to $5 billion from $16
billion in 2005. Health care-related costs alone for hourly
retirees were $4 billion in 2005, Liddell said.  The acquisition of General Motors Financial Co., the
subprime lender formerly known as AmeriCredit Corp., will help
the automaker maintain profitability by expanding credit to more
customers, said  Dan Ammann , GM’s vice president of finance.  Leases accounted for 2 percent of GM’s financing mix last
year, compared with 16 percent for the industry, the company
said, citing researcher J.D. Power & Associates. The automaker
has said it will introduce a lease financing pilot program
through GM Financial by the first quarter of 2011.  “By making these financing options available to our
customers during all business cycles and all credit cycles, we
expect to sell more vehicles and gain market share over the long
term,” Amman said in a presentation.  GM’s offering may price on or about Nov. 17, according to
the presentations. Two teams of executives, which will include
Liddell, Ammann and vice chairman  Stephen Girsky , began a
roadshow this week to pitch the offering to investors throughout
the U.S., a person familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 