-- Goldman Sachs Shares Signal S&P 500 Rally to Continue: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2010-11-05T12:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/goldman-sachs-shares-signal-s-p-500-rally-to-continue-technical-analysis.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s advance
above its average price in the last 200 days and the likelihood
that its shares won’t fall to lows bode well for U.S. stocks,
said Christopher Verrone at Strategas Research Partners.  Shares of the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history climbed above the 200-day moving average this
month for the first time since March, when it stayed above the
measure until mid-April. Since its 2010 low on July 2, the stock
has risen, making higher peaks and higher valleys.  Goldman’s bullish trend suggests financial stocks may
rebound soon, helping extend the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 
best September and October performance in 12 years, said
Verrone, lead technical analyst at Strategas. Financial shares
ranked  second  in weightings among the benchmark’s 10 groups
after technology, and were the only loser in the past six
months.  “When we see the trend starts to improve for bellwethers
in the financial sector like Goldman, it gives you some
confidence that the market is beginning to treat these financial
stocks a little bit better,” Verrone said in a telephone
interview from his office in New York. “That’s a major group
and it’s important for that group to at least participate if the
rally is going to extend into 2011.”  The  S&P 500 Financials Index  tracking 81 companies has
fallen 4.9 percent in the past six months after new regulations
following the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
require banks to reduce risk taking while concerns grew that the
industry face more losses from bad mortgages. During the same
period, the S&P 500 added 4 percent.  Industry-Group Leadership  Goldman and other financial shares  led  during the first
year of the bull market. While the S&P 500 jumped 69 percent
from a 12-year low on March 9, 2009, Goldman surged 128 percent
and the financials index rallied 145 percent. Since then, the
group has surrendered its leadership and become a drag on the
market.  There are signs that the industry’s price trend is
improving, Verrone said. The S&P 500 financials index yesterday
crossed above its 200-day average after failing to sustain above
that threshold in three attempts since May. Goldman’s momentum
is picking up, with the 50-day average about 0.6 percent below
its 200-day average, according to Bloomberg data.  The group “is at an important inflection point,” Verrone
said. “Anything you get from financials, that really helps the
cause even more.”  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  