-- Gold May Advance Next Week on Weaker Dollar, Fed Stimulus, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/gold-may-advance-next-week-on-weaker-dollar-fed-stimulus-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain as a weakening dollar
and additional debt purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve boost
demand for the precious metal, a survey found.  Ten of 15 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 67 percent, said the metal will rise next week.
Four predicted lower prices and one was neutral. Gold futures
for December delivery gained 1.9 percent this week to $1,383.10
an ounce as of 1:21 p.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York. In
after-hours trading, it reached an all-time high of $1,393.40.  Gold will climb “on a combination of weak dollar and anti-
inflation hedging,”  James Moore , an analyst at
TheBullionDesk.com in London, said in an e-mail.  The dollar slipped to a nine-month low versus the euro
yesterday after the Fed said it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June to boost the U.S. economy.
Gold usually moves inversely to the dollar, and some investors
buy the metal to protect against accelerating consumer prices.  “Given the relationship between precious metals and
liquidity, we view this as extremely positive for precious-metal
prices,”  Walter de Wet , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in
London, wrote yesterday in a report.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Oct. 29.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 193 of 335 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:
 Bullish : 10  Bearish : 4  Neutral : 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 