-- Goldman Settles Lawsuit Over Pregnancy Bias With Former Vice President
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-05T20:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/goldman-settles-lawsuit-over-pregnancy-bias-with-former-vice-president.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  settled a
suit by a former vice president who claimed she was pushed onto
the “mommy-track” and eventually fired after she chose to work
part-time following her pregnancy.  The lawsuit, filed in March by  Charlotte Hanna , claimed
violations of the U.S. Family Medical Leave Act, and gender and
pregnancy discrimination. The terms of the settlement are
confidential, said  Douglas Wigdor , Hanna’s attorney.  In her complaint, Hanna said she joined Goldman as an
associate in 1998 and two years later was promoted to vice
president for Goldman Sachs University, an in-house training
program. She claimed her opportunities for advancement at
Goldman Sachs disappeared when she took maternity leave with her
first child in February 2005.  “When Ms. Hanna decided to take the ‘off-ramp’ provided by
the firm to devote time to her children, there was no ‘on-ramp’
that enabled her to return to full-time employment,” her lawyer
wrote in the complaint. “The ‘off-ramp’ was a direct path to a
mommy-track that ultimately derailed Ms. Hanna’s career.”  Hanna claimed that once she began working part time for the
firm, she was channeled into lower positions that made it more
difficult for her to earn more money and advance to better
positions. She claimed she was demoted, lost her office and then
was fired in 2008, before she returned from a second maternity
leave.  Goldman Sachs spokesman  David Wells  had no comment.  The case is Hanna v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 10-cv-02637,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 