-- Google Chief Schmidt May Be Called Before Congress, Barton Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-05T22:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/google-s-data-collection-may-draw-lawmakers-scrutiny-house-s-barton-says.html
Google Inc. ’s data collection
practices may draw scrutiny from the next Congress, as lawmakers
consider questioning Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt , U.S.
Representative  Joe Barton  said.  “The Google thing is very troubling,”  Barton , of Texas,
the top Republican on the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
said in an interview on the C-Span television show “The
Communicators.” The network today released a recording of the
program, which is scheduled to be aired Nov. 6 and 8.  Google said automobiles, equipped with cameras to collect
photographs for its Street View product, captured personal data
from unsecured household wireless networks. The Federal Trade
Commission last month ended its investigation of the practice
after the company said it will improve privacy safeguards.  “There appears to have been a conscious effort to collect
information,” said Barton, who is among several lawmakers vying
to become chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee after
Republican won control of the House in the Nov. 2 elections.  “Now, Google has said it was inadvertent,’;’ Barton said.
‘‘But it wasn’t just kind of accidentally gathered.”  Google “will continue to work with the authorities to
determine the best way forward, as well as to answer their
further questions and concerns,”  Christine Chen , a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Asked if chief executives from companies such as Mountain
View, California-based Google and Facebook Inc., led by founder
 Mark Zuckerberg , would be called before the Commerce Committee,
Barton replied, “You could almost guarantee that.”  Safeguarding Data  Facebook in an  Oct. 29 letter  told Barton and
Representative  Ed Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, it had taken
steps to safeguard users’ data. The letter followed reports the
Palo Alto, California-based company had sent information about
users to marketers.  Andrew Noyes , Facebook’s Washington-based
spokesman, declined to comment.  “ President Hoover  is alleged to have said, the worst thing
about capitalism is the capitalists,” Barton said.
“Republicans in the majority in the House have a responsibility
to the country to not only keep an eye on the Obama
administration, we also have to make sure that the private
sector plays by the rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 