-- Google, Dell Likely to Keep Acquisition Spree Alive
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-11-08T21:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/google-to-acquire-more-companies-as-big-as-youtube-doubleclick.html
Google Inc.  and  Dell Inc.  plan to
push ahead with more acquisitions, helping maintain a takeover
spree that’s boosted the value of U.S. technology mergers to
more than $60 billion this year.  Google is likely to buy more companies about the size of
YouTube and DoubleClick, its two largest  deals , to help offer
more online services, the company’s head of mergers and
acquisitions said in an interview last week. Dell plans more
takeovers in its drive to double the size of its data-center
business to $30 billion in sales, a company executive said.  Internet and computer companies are increasingly relying on
acquisitions to gain new technology and customers.  Amazon.com
Inc.  said today it will spend $500 million for Quidsi Inc.,
owner of Diapers.com. For Google, the largest Internet search
company, absorbing more startups could provide fresh ways to
sell ads and compete with social-networking sites such as
Facebook Inc.  “The world changes really quickly, and companies that were
small two years ago are huge today,”  David Lawee , vice
president of corporate development at Mountain View, California-
based Google, said in a Nov. 4 interview. “It wouldn’t surprise
me to see more large opportunities for us.”  Google  has stepped up its dealmaking in 2010, spending $1.6
billion on more than 20 companies in the first nine months of
the year, according to  regulatory filings . Its acquisition of
mobile-ad service AdMob Inc. and a pending bid to acquire travel
data aggregator ITA Software Inc., for about $700 million each,
would be the company’s third- and fourth-largest deals since it
went public in 2004.  Same Size  Google  paid $1.65 billion for YouTube, the world’s biggest
video-sharing site, in 2006. It acquired DoubleClick, an online
advertising company, for $3.2 billion in 2008. When asked if
Google would buy more companies of the size of those businesses,
Lawee said, “Yes.”  Dell, meanwhile, is using deals to grab a bigger chunk of
market for data centers -- large rooms of servers and storage
systems that deliver software and information over the Internet.
The company is racing with Hewlett-Packard Co.,  International
Business Machines Corp.  and Oracle Corp. to become one-stop
shops for data-center technology.  The competition triggered a bidding war earlier this for
3Par Inc., a maker of storage technology. HP outbid Dell by
agreeing to pay $2.35 billion for the business. That was more
than triple 3Par’s market value before the initial offer was
made public.  More Patient?  Dell intends to take its time with future deals, so that it
doesn’t increase prices so much, Chief Financial Officer  Brian Gladden  said last week in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters
in New York.  “We’re going to be patient,” Gladden said. “You don’t
want to have a situation in which boards think a 3Par valuation
is the starting point,” he said. “You have to be disciplined,
and that’s what we’re doing right now.”  The goal, Dell said in June, is for computer servers, data
storage, networking gear and technology services to generate $30
billion in sales by the end of fiscal 2014. That would be up
from $17 billion in the year that ends in January. Two areas
where Dell may acquire businesses: storage and services for
specialized industries, Gladden said.  ‘Less Risky’  Corporate-computing companies such as Isilon Systems Inc.,
Fortinet Inc. and  Riverbed Technology Inc.  may become “less
risky” acquisitions targets if their profit margins improve,
Gladden said.  On Nov. 2, Dell agreed to buy software company Boomi, which
lets companies share data between Web applications and programs
that run in their data centers, for an undisclosed amount.  An Amazon acquisition of Quidsi takes out an e-commerce
upstart that won over customers by focusing on shopping niches.
The company began selling diapers in 2005, a year before Amazon
entered the market, and then pushed into soap and beauty
products. A toy site is now in the works.  Last year, Amazon  bought  another specialty retailer,
Zappos.com Inc., for $1.2 billion. That helped the company
expand sales of shoes and gain more market share from rivals
such as EBay Inc.  Amazon , based in Seattle, rose $1.22 to $171.99 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Google climbed $1.69 to $626.77,
while Dell declined 17 cents to $14.29.  Retaining Talent  At  Google , the goal is to hang on to the entrepreneurs that
arrive with acquisitions, Lawee said. The company has had three
high-profile executives step down in the past few weeks.  On Oct. 29, Google announced that AdMob founder  Omar Hamoui 
was leaving, five months after the purchase of his company was
complete.  Chad Hurley , YouTube’s co-founder, and Lars Rasmussen,
whose Where 2 Technologies was acquired in 2004 and became the
basis for Google Maps, also are stepping down.  Google tries to ensure that startup founders stay on board
and help improve their products, said Lawee, 44.  “These people have a very strong passion around what they
are doing and a vision for getting it done,” he said. “The
skills that those people bring are often subtle, but their
effect is profound.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  