-- Guineans to Vote in an Election That Threatens to Stoke Ethnic Tensions
-- B y   E m i l y   B o w e r s   a n d   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2010-11-05T11:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/guinea-to-hold-election-on-nov-7-that-threatens-to-stoke-ethnic-tensions.html
Guinea  holds a delayed presidential
runoff on Nov. 7 that threatens to stoke ethnic tensions in the
world’s biggest bauxite-exporting nation.  Former Prime Minister  Cellou Dalein Diallo , who received
43.7 percent of votes in the June 27 first round, will compete
against opposition leader  Alpha Conde , who garnered 18.2
percent. The vote will pave the way for the transition from
military to civilian rule in the West African nation.  “These elections seem to have divided the country,” said
Rolake Akinola, London-based West Africa analyst with Eurasia
Group. “The civilian class has to present a united front” to
stave off future military interventions, she said yesterday in a
phone interview.  The election is being held almost two years after the army
seized power following the December 2008 death of President
 Lansana Conte , who ruled the country for 28 years. Guinea hasn’t
had a democratic transfer of power since it gained independence
from France in 1958. General Sekouba Konate took control in
December after an aide shot the coup leader  Moussa Dadis Camara ,
in the head.  Diallo, 58, may emerge the winner by drawing support from
his ethnic Peul that forms a majority in the country, Akinola
said. Conde, 60, courts the Malinke and other, smaller ethnic
groups.  Mining Agreements  Both candidates have pledged to continue a review of mining
agreements. The review has already led to a dispute with London-
based  Rio Tinto Group  over ownership of the Simandou iron-ore
project. Other companies operating in the country include
Russia’s  United Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum
producer,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , Africa’s biggest gold miner,
and Brazil’s  Vale SA , the No. 1 iron-ore producer.  Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, an ore used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion
metric tons of “high-grade” iron ore and “significant”
deposits of diamonds and gold, according to the U.S. State
Department.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  also operates in the
country.  The ballots will be collected from polling stations until
Nov. 10, with the preliminary results released on Nov. 12, said
Lounceny Camara, vice president of the Conakry-based electoral
commission. The body is “ready for organization of the
presidential runoff,” he said in a phone interview today. Polls
were delayed in September and October when the commission said
it wasn’t prepared.  Future for Guinea  “A well-organized, transparent and credible runoff
election, with results accepted by all parties, will be a major
step toward a promising future for the people of Guinea,”
 Yakubu Gowon , a former Nigerian head of state and leader of the
Atlanta-based  Carter Center’s  observation team in the country,
said in a statement published on the group’s website Nov. 2.  Guinea is one of three West African countries that have
held votes this month in an attempt to overcome political
turmoil and revive economic growth.  Ivory Coast went to the polls on Oct. 31 for an election
that aims to reunite a country divided between a rebel-held
north and a government-controlled south. Young-jin Choi, the
United Nations mission chief in Ivory Coast, said the country
showed “political maturity and determination to put an end to
the crisis.”  ‘International Goodwill’  Guinea’s leaders should “be taking note” of the praise
given to Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa grower, Akinola
said. “Guinea needs that sort of international goodwill.”  Niger, the world’s sixth-biggest uranium producer, voted
90.2 percent in favor of a new constitution on Oct. 31, a step
toward the return of civilian rule after the army ousted
President  Mamadou Tandja  in February. A presidential election is
planned for Jan. 31.  Political instability in West Africa has curbed investment
and economic growth over the past 15 years, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Guinea’s per capita income is less
than half the sub-Saharan African average of $861, according to
the World Bank, and the country ranks 170th out of 182 countries
on the UN’s  Human Development Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 