-- IMF Leaves Serbia Without Agreement on Loan Payments, Talks to Continue
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-11-05T14:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/imf-leaves-serbia-without-agreement-on-loan-payments-talks-to-continue.html
An International Monetary Fund 
mission said it will leave Belgrade today without an agreement
on disbursement of the next tranche of Serbia’s bailout loan as
the government works to meet fiscal targets for next year.  Talks will continue on the efforts by Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s administration to narrow the budget deficit to 4
percent of gross domestic product in 2011 from 4.8 percent this
year, mission chief  Albert Jaeger  said in an interview. The
target must be met to secure the next installment of Serbia’s 3
billion-euro ($4.3 billion) emergency loan package.  “I don’t think that anything went really wrong in the
talks, it’s just not easy to come up with a 2011 budget in line
with fiscal rules,” he said in Belgrade, the Serbian capital.
“We have made progress, but we still aren’t there.”  The government is struggling to find ways to reduce
spending and boost tax collection without cutting too many
popular social benefits as it brings the economy into line with
 European Union  norms. The current spending plan for 2011 exceeds
the target by 0.5 percent of GDP, Economy Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said in an interview in Bratislava, Slovakia today.  “I am pretty optimistic we will close negotiations this
month,” he said. Cabinet is working on cutting expenditures and
the IMF, which said an initial agreement may be reached
“soon,” isn’t dictating which items should be trimmed, Dinkic
added.  IMF Aid  The former communist countries of Europe and central Asia
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies, after cheap credit helped growth average 5
percent annually in the years before the credit crunch. The IMF
provided more than $70 billion of loans to the region during the
global financial crisis, making it the largest recipient of
bailouts.  Serbia, Hungary, Latvia, Ukraine and Romania all received
loans as they struggled to refinance debt, often denominated in
foreign currencies. The region received more than $100 billion
in total, including aid from the European Union and World Bank.  Cvetkovic’s government, which faces a general election in
2012, met quarterly budget targets for September “and they’re
pretty close” to meeting the goals for the entire year, Jaeger
said.  “The recovery in Serbia is kind of proceeding, maybe a
little bit better than we expected, but not enough for us to
change our target” of 3 percent  economic growth  next year, he
said. “It’s mainly export driven, especially to EU markets, but
exports to the region around Serbia are not quite there compared
with pre-crisis levels.”  ‘Tighter’ Fiscal Policy  While Serbia is unlikely to meet its 2010 and 2011
inflation targets as currency declines push price expectations
higher, consumer-price growth will return to target levels in
the second half of 2011, Jaeger said, noting that monetary
policy has to be supported by “tighter” fiscal policy.  “The central bank has tools to bring inflation back to the
target in a reasonable period of time,” he said. “What the
central bank can do is to be effective in communicating how they
see the  inflation  outlook and how they plan to keep inflation
within target.”  The weakening of the dinar, which has lost 11 percent since
the start of the year, has made the economy “more competitive,
but the depreciation has its consequences for companies with
euro exposure, so in balance inflation targeting is the policy
choice” for the central bank, he said.  “When you target inflation, you have to have a flexible
exchange rate,” Jaeger said. “The dinar has depreciated by a
substantial amount but in our point of view there are no strong
reasons for it to depreciate more.”  The IMF hopes Serbia will adopt new rules on corporate debt
restructuring by early 2011 to start addressing a rise in non-
performing loans at banks,  Bogdan Lissovolik , the fund’s
representative to the Balkan nation, said at the same interview
today.  The central bank’s supervision of the industry was “quite
prudent” during the crisis, though “there is a need to clean
up those debts,” he said. 