-- IMF's Blanchard Says Carry Trades More Attractive on Fed Move
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/imf-s-blanchard-says-fed-s-stimulus-made-carry-trades-more-attractive-now.html
The Federal Reserve’s stimulus boost
has made carry trades more attractive and may raise capital
flows to emerging economies and weaken the dollar, International
Monetary Fund Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said.  “It makes the risk associated with carry trades much
smaller,” he said at an event at the London School of Economics
late yesterday. “I think that risk has largely gone and
therefore this makes carry trade more attractive. The
implication for this implies more capital flows outside the U.S.
and presumably some dollar depreciation.”  The Fed yesterday pledged to buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus and
risking its credibility in a bid to reduce unemployment and
avert deflation. That may increase expectations that the U.S.
central bank will keep  interest rates  lower for longer, making
investments in emerging economies using dollar-based funding
more attractive, Blanchard said.  Still, the stimulus is “worth doing because I think the
risks are so substantial,” he said. The “mechanical” effects
of the so-called quantitative easing move “may not be very
large,” though “the psychological effects may be larger.”  In a carry trade, investors borrow in low-rate countries to
buy higher-yielding assets in expectation that gains made on the
interest-rate differential won’t be offset by changes in
exchange rates.  Capital ‘Hysteria’  “There is a bit of hysteria about capital flows,”
Blanchard said. “They are high but are not yet at pre-crisis
levels.” Still, “some countries are faced with these large
flows,” he said.  Blanchard also reiterated his forecast of global economic
growth of 4 percent to 5 percent this year, correcting himself
from an earlier erroneous estimate of 3 percent to 4 percent in
a radio interview broadcast yesterday. The probability of the
global economy contracting next year is about 2 percent and in
the U.S. it is about 10 to 15 percent, he said.  “It’s clear what is needed to sustain growth in the U.S.
over the coming decade is a shift in which consumers spend less,
they have larger exports and a smaller current account
deficit,” Blanchard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  