-- Indian Stocks to Extend Record as Fund Flows Quicken, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T03:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/indian-stocks-to-extend-record-as-fund-flows-quicken-deutsche-bank-says.html
Indian stocks  will extend a rally
that sent the benchmark index to a record close yesterday as
foreign fund inflows accelerate and economic growth continues to
look “robust,” according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “India remains an attractive deflation hedge trade for
global asset allocators and pension funds,”  Abhay Laijawala  and
 Abhishek Saraf , analysts at Deutsche Bank, said in a report
dated yesterday. The U.S. central bank’s widened economic
stimulus measures “will keep global risk appetite supportive.”  The brokerage reiterated its yearend estimate of 22,000 for
the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index . That’s 5.2 percent
higher than yesterday’s record, on the eve of Diwali, the start
of the Hindu new year.  This year’s 20 percent rally makes the Sensex the best
performer among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets. Foreign
fund inflows have surged 80 percent, helping to absorb the
nation’s largest initial share sale by  Coal India Ltd.  and
making the gauge the most expensive in Asia and among the BRIC
markets that also include Brazil, Russia and China.  Valuations haven’t reached the “bubble zone,” the
Deutsche Bank analysts said, predicting that companies on the
Sensex will boost earnings at a compound annual growth rate of
26 percent over the 2010 to 2012 financial years.  “A positive macro-economic environment is providing a
strong platform for corporate earnings growth,” they said.  Fed Stimulus  The MSCI World Index rose 2.4 percent yesterday after the
Federal Reserve unveiled plans to buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries to spur the world’s largest economy. The  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  gained 1.7 percent to a five-month high.  Emerging market nations may face inflationary pressures
from the capital inflows stimulated by the Fed’s quantitative
easing,  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion at Templeton
Asset Management Ltd., said in a telephone interview from
Beijing yesterday.  If funds keep pouring in and companies that have raised
cash begin using the cash to buy assets, prices will be pushed
up in a “snowball effect,” he said.  Stock markets in the biggest developing nations may double
as the Fed’s monetary stimulus sends valuations back to their
2008 peak, Dylan Grice, a global strategist at Societe Generale
SA, said Oct. 23. BNP Paribas predicts the  Sensex  may rise to
22,000 by yearend. based on the outlook for foreign fund flows,
according to a report on Oct. 7.  Emerging Funds  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bond funds, both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
started tracking them in 1995. Stock markets in the biggest  Overseas investors bought a net 9.3 billion rupees ($209
million) of Indian equities on Nov. 2, extending this year’s
record inflows to 1.2 trillion rupees, according to data on the
 website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  Bourses will hold a truncated one-hour trading session this
evening, enabling token stock purchases on the day considered
most auspicious for starting investments.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  