-- Indonesia's Economic Growth Unexpectedly Slowed to 5.8% in Third Quarter
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2010-11-05T07:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/indonesia-s-economic-growth-unexpectedly-slowed-to-5-8-in-third-quarter.html
Indonesia’s economic growth
unexpectedly slowed last quarter, cooling an expansion that has
spurred capital inflows, pushed  stocks  to a record and lifted
the rupiah to a three-year high.  Gross domestic product  increased 5.8 percent in the three
months to Sept. 30 from a year earlier, after growing a revised
6.19 percent in the previous quarter, according to the Central
Bureau of Statistics. That was lower than the 6.35 percent
median estimate of 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  The central bank has refrained from raising interest rates
from a record-low 6.5 percent, delaying an increase that could
attract more funds at a time when emerging markets are luring
investors away from developed economies, where growth is slower
and interest rates are low. Indonesia’s GDP expansion may
rebound to 6.2 percent in the final quarter,  Perry Warjiyo , a
director at the central bank, said in Jakarta today.  “The downside surprise in third-quarter headline growth is
not a cause for alarm” as heavy rains probably hurt agriculture
and mining, said  Wellian Wiranto , an HSBC Holdings Plc economist
in Singapore. “With consumption cruising robustly and
investment showing further signs of a pickup, Indonesia’s growth
momentum is still vigorous, and Bank Indonesia cannot rest easy.
We still see policy rates heading up early next year.”  The rupiah was little changed at 8,895 a dollar as of 1:21
p.m. in Jakarta. The benchmark stock index was up 0.7 percent.  Price Pressures  Bank Indonesia left borrowing costs unchanged for a 15th
meeting yesterday even as it said price pressures may increase
amid higher demand for goods and services at the year-end.
Warjiyo said today the economy may expand 6.1 percent this year.  Growth slowed last quarter because imports grew faster than
exports, the Bank Indonesia director said. Weather disruptions
also affected agricultural output even as manufacturing
“remained good,” he said.  “Indonesia remains a domestically driven economy and the
fundamentals at home are strong,”  Prakriti Sofat , an economist
at Barclays Capital in Singapore, said before the report. She
cited “upbeat consumers, positive wealth effect from equity
markets, rising capital goods imports” as reasons for the
nation’s growth.  The rupiah has risen more than 5 percent against the U.S.
currency this year as economic growth and a benchmark rate
that’s higher than those in Malaysia, Thailand and the
Philippines lures investors. It reached 8,875 per dollar before
the GDP report today, the strongest level since June 2007.  Guarding Rupiah  Bank Indonesia said last month it will “guard” the rupiah
at its “fundamental” level of 8,900 to 9,300 against the
dollar, as the region’s growth lures funds at a time when Japan
and the U.S. are keeping borrowing costs low to boost their
economies.  Central bank Governor  Darmin Nasution  has ordered lenders
to set aside larger reserves, aiming to rein in liquidity
without hurting economic expansion. The benchmark interest rate
is at the lowest level since its introduction in July 2005.  The  Jakarta Composite Index  has gained more than 44 percent
this year and reached a record 3,667.01 on Oct. 27, boosting
stocks of companies including lender PT Bank Central Asia and
noodle-maker PT Indofood Sukses Makmur.  Indonesia’s economy may grow more than 6 percent this year,
 Slamet Sutomo , an official at the statistics bureau, said at a
press conference today  Confidence Climbs  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting annual
growth of 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his
term ending in 2014. Consumer confidence rose in October from
September, with a central bank index measuring expectations
climbing 4.4 points to 112, the highest level since August 2009.  Indonesia is less dependent on exports compared with its
neighbors, suggesting it may be more resilient amid weakening
global growth. The International Monetary Fund predicts
Southeast Asia’s largest economy will expand 6 percent this year
and 6.2 percent in 2011.  Consumer spending is benefitting from easing inflation,
which slowed in October to 5.67 percent, a four-month low. The
central bank expects inflation to remain within a target range
of 4 percent to 6 percent this year, and the statistics bureau
said prices may rise less than 6 percent in 2010.  Indonesia’s total exports this year may rise 16 percent
from 2009, Trade Minister  Mari Pangestu  said Sept. 30. The
Finance Ministry said in August Indonesia’s private consumption
may rise 5 percent in 2010 while investment may gain 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  