-- Lion Capital Taps JPMorgan Chase for $980 Million Bumble Bee Foods Buyout
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-11-05T19:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/lion-capital-taps-jpmorgan-led-group-for-980-million-bumble-bee-buyout.html
Lion Capital LLP will use debt
financing from lenders led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. to pay for
its $980 million leveraged buyout of Bumble Bee Foods LLC,
according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  Wells Fargo & Co., Barclays Plc and Jefferies Group Inc.
also agreed to help raise money for the transaction, the London-
based private-equity firm said today in a statement.  Lion Capital, with investments totaling 19 billion euros
($27 billion) in enterprise value, is buying Bumble Bee from New
York-based private-equity firm Centre Partners Management LLC,
according to the statement.  The purchase price is about 7.5 times more than the San
Diego, California-based company’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, the person familiar with
the talks said. Bumble Bee, North America’s biggest supplier of
canned seafood, had $940 million in net revenue last year,
according to the statement.  Della Sweetman, a spokeswoman for Bumble Bee, didn’t
immediately return a message left at her office seeking comment.  Lion Capital will provide about 35 percent of equity
financing for the transaction, the person familiar with the
talks said. The balance will be paid with bonds and bank debt,
which may include term loans and a revolving credit line, the
person said. In a revolving credit facility, money can be
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  The debt structure is yet to be determined and bonds are
expected to make up a bigger portion of it, the person said. The
acquisition is expected to be completed by mid-December and
marketing of the buyout debt will begin after the borrowings are
rated, the person said.  Bumble Bee’s total leverage, or debt to Ebitda, will be
about 5.5 times after the LBO, the person said.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors and obtain
debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling the
companies later for a profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 