-- Iraqi Parliament Session Is Postponed Until Nov. 11 as Deadlock Persists
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-05T16:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/iraqi-parliament-session-is-postponed-until-nov-11-as-deadlock-persists.html
The convening of Iraq’s parliament
was postponed as the country’s political leaders failed to reach
an agreement to form a new coalition that would eliminate an
eight-month power vacuum.  The legislature will meet on Baghdad on Nov. 11 instead of
Nov. 8, state-sponsored al-Iraqiyah television quoted acting
Speaker Fuad Massoum as saying today. Members of former Prime
Minister Ayad Allawi’s al-Iraqiyah alliance said yesterday that
they wouldn’t attend the session planned for Nov. 8 because no
agreement had been reached on the distribution of key posts, the
Kurdish AK News news agency  reported .  Since the March 7 parliamentary elections, lawmakers have
met once, in a June 14 session that lasted less than 20 minutes
before going into recess. Iraq’s Supreme Court ruled on Oct. 24
that lawmakers must convene again to elect a speaker and his
deputies and formally close the initial session.  A political vacuum caused by the inconclusive vote has
coincided with an increase in violence, prompting world and
regional leaders to call for the rapid creation of an
administration able to unify the country.  Iraqi leaders are conducting negotiations to try to break
the impasse at the initiative of  Massoud Barzani , president of
the country’s Kurdish-run northern region. King Abdullah of
Saudi Arabia had offered to hold a similar meeting under the
auspices of the Arab League in Riyadh.  Once a speaker and deputies are elected, the constitution
gives lawmakers 30 days to elect a president. The new president
then has 15 days to ask the largest bloc in parliament to choose
a prime minister, who has 30 days to form a Cabinet.  Allawi’s bloc, backed by Sunni Muslims and secular voters,
won 91 seats to the 89 secured by Prime Minister  Nuri al- Maliki ’s Shiite State of Law alliance. Both are trying to muster
the 163 seats needs for a governing coalition in the 325-member
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 