-- Irish Deepen `Last Chance' Budget Cuts as Trichet Backs Squeeze
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2010-11-05T09:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/ireland-accelerates-cuts-as-trichet-swings-behind-drive-to-avoid-bailout.html
Ireland is accelerating efforts to
cut its budget deficit as European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  swings behind the country’s drive to avert a
European Union-led bailout.  The  finance ministry  yesterday announced savings and tax
increases for next year worth 6 billion euros ($8.5 billion), or
3.6 percent of gross domestic product. A further 9 billion euros
will be cut in the following three years.  Ireland is struggling to convince investors it can deal
with the mounting cost of bailing out its banking system and
avoid the fate of Greece, which earlier this year applied for an
international rescue. While Trichet said yesterday he’s
optimistic the budget plan will calm investors, the government
is facing a market rout that has pushed the premium on Irish 10-
year debt over German counterparts to a  record .  “Given the continuous upward movement in bond yields we’ve
seen in recent weeks, it’s obvious that time is of the
essence,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham
Stockbrokers in Dublin. “This is Ireland’s last chance to
impress. Failure to do so will have serious negative
consequences.”  The government will push back the date for publishing its
four-year plan to narrow the deficit, the Irish Times reported
today, without citing anyone. The announcement, which had been
scheduled for over the next two weeks, will now be published
closer to the Dec. 7 budget day, the newspaper said.  EU Splits  The  premium  investors charge to hold Irish 10-year debt
over the German equivalent, Europe’s benchmark, widened 3 basis
point to 529 today. It earlier rose to 530 basis points,
according to Bloomberg generic data. That’s the most since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1991.  Ireland’s difficulties have opened new divisions in the EU
just months after splits that delayed Greece’s bailout and
threatened to undermine the euro region. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said on Oct. 29 that taxpayers shouldn’t pay for
other countries’ fiscal woes and is pushing for bondholders to
foot some of the bill in any future bailout. Spain says that may
spook investors, a concern shared by Trichet.  Bonds have slumped across the euro region’s periphery since
Merkel’s announcement. The extra yield that investors demand to
hold  Portuguese debt  was at 421 basis points today, compared
with 343 a week ago. Greece’s spread has climbed to 885 basis
points from 804 in the past week.  ‘Front Loading’  Lenihan’s planned savings are larger as a proportion of the
economy than the reductions planned by U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , whose cuts in the fiscal year through
March 2012 are worth 2.5 percent of GDP.  “The Irish government has upped its game in response to
the unsustainable level that Irish bond yields have risen to,”
 Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at Goodbody Stockbrokers in
Dublin, said in an e-mailed note today. “Bond market jitters
have been caused by factors outside of Ireland’s control.”  Trichet signalled yesterday that the budget announcement
may help the Irish government, which is  fully funded  until the
middle of next year, turn the situation around.  “I have no reason to think that observers will be
disappointed,” Trichet told reporters in Frankfurt. “The front
loading of the program is of extreme importance.”  Brian Devine , an economist at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin,
suggested he doesn’t share Trichet’s optimism.  “There is no doubt that Ireland is serious about tackling
its fiscal deficit,” he said in an e-mailed note. “The market
doesn’t seem to care though -- events have surpassed the
unveiling of a credible, conservative multi-year budget.”  Anglo Irish bailout  The mounting burden of bank bailouts has added to Ireland’s
problems after the recession and a housing slump eroded tax
revenue. The cost of saving lenders such as  Anglo Irish Bank
Corp.  may be as much as 50 billion euros.  Ireland’s budget shortfall will be reduced to between 9.25
percent and 9.5 percent of GDP next year, the government said.
The deficit this year will be 11.9 percent of GDP, or 32 percent
when the costs of the bank bailout are included.  Lenihan plans to cut the shortfall to 3 percent of GDP by
the end of 2014 and he is scheduled to detail the 2011 budget on
Dec. 7. He sees debt peaking at 106 percent of GDP in 2012,
slipping to 101 percent in 2014.  Distant Memory  “In the background, Ireland’s doing everything right,”
said  David Keeble , global head of fixed-income strategy at
Credit Agricole Corprate & Investment Bank, based in New York.
“But you can’t convince the market of that until you’ve got all
the bank problems in more of a distant memory.” At the same
time, the chances of a bailout are “very slim,” he said.  Lenihan may face a fight to pass the budget after a Nov. 25
election to fill a vacant parliamentary seat. The vote threatens
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s majority in the parliament, where
he has the support of 82 lawmakers, including independents,
compared with 79 for the combined opposition.  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt rose 23 basis
points to 580 yesterday, according to CMA prices as of 2.22 p.m.
in New York. A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  “We have little doubt that Ireland’s fiscal position is
unsustainable,” said  Stuart Thomson , a fund manager at Glasgow-
based Ignis Asset Management, who helps oversee about $110
billion. “At some point in the next two years, you will find
they will be forced to borrow from the European Financial
Stability Fund.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Fraher  in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  