-- Liverpool Chairman Broughton Seeks Profit in Sports After Sale
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-05T01:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/liverpool-chairman-broughton-seeks-profit-in-sports-businesses-after-sale.html
Liverpool Chairman  Martin Broughton 
will team up with his son to invest in sports after leaving his
post upon the sale of the 18-time English champion. One place
they won’t be putting their money is in soccer clubs.  Broughton oversaw the 300 million-pound ($487.6 million)
sale of Liverpool to the owners of Major League Baseball’s
Boston Red Sox. The 63-year-old, who is also chairman of  British
Airways Plc , will work two days a week with his son Michael and
Nic Couchman, a lawyer with 20 years experience in the industry,
to find profits in sports.  Their Sports Investment Partners, which was delayed for six
months because of Broughton’s role in Liverpool’s sale, will
start meeting potential backers this month. Spending in the
sector in Europe, Africa and the Middle East will increase to
$46.3 billion in 2013 from $39.4 billion in 2009, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP report.  “It was certainly put back by Martin’s six-month
adventure,”  Michael Broughton , 32, said in an interview. “He’s
our chairman so we weren’t going to go to market and look to
raise funds from direct investors unless he could commit the
time to it he should.”  Red Sox owners  John W. Henry  and  Tom Werner  completed the
purchase of Liverpool on Oct. 15, and Martin Broughton will stay
on as chairman temporarily to help the transition.  Broughton, a former chairman of  British American Tobacco
Plc , headed the company’s Formula One team and was also chairman
of the British Horse Racing Authority. His involvement in Sports
Investment Partners is the first time the father and son have
worked together.  ‘Batted Me Down’  “I have always wanted to work with him one way or the
other,” Michael Broughton said. “He’s always batted me down
and said no way and this idea kind of interested him.”  The new company has gotten pledges of about 200 million
pounds from private equity and is planning to raise more after a
series of investor presentations.  Broughton may need all his powers of persuasion to convince
investors to part with money as the global economy remains
sluggish following the 2008 financial crisis, according to Chris
Lee, head of Barclays’ sports business group.  “I don’t think the market for sport is fantastic at the
current time,” Lee said. “It’s a challenging area.”  Sports Investment Partners is planning to take significant
minority or majority stakes in small to medium-sized businesses
worth as much 100 million pounds. Couchman and Broughton refused
to name targets, saying they are looking at sports technology
suppliers, betting and gaming companies, support service
businesses and sports brands.  Teams Not Targeted  They don’t plan to buy stakes in teams. The majority of the
20 clubs in English soccer’s Premier League operate at a loss
even though the competition is richer than its European rivals.  Sports companies in the region have increased in value,
although executives haven’t really kept up, the men said.
Liverpool, the U.K.’s most successful soccer team, didn’t have a
commercial operation until former owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  bought the club in February 2007.  Still, costs remain an issue. Investors including  Robert Kraft , owner of the National Football League’s New England
Patriots, say they won’t buy into the English league because it
doesn’t have salary cap.  “That’s a difficult area of the sports marketplace,” said
Couchman, 45, who’s worked in 25 sports with clients including
Nike Inc., the International Olympic Committee and European
soccer’s governing body UEFA. “What we’re looking at are
frankly the much more sustainable business models in sports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  