-- Janus Overseas Turns to U.S. With Emerging Markets `Secret' Out
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/janus-overseas-s-lynn-looks-to-u-s-for-returns-to-rival-emerging-markets.html
Brent Lynn  has beaten 96 percent of
rivals since taking over the  Janus Overseas Fund  in 2003, in
part by investing in stocks from emerging markets such as India
and Brazil.  Now Lynn is finding attractive bets closer to home.  Delta
Air Lines Inc .,  Ford Motor Co.  and  Bank of America Corp . were
top 10 holdings as of Sept. 30 at the $13 billion mutual fund,
which more than doubled its weighting in U.S. stocks in the past
three years while cutting emerging-market holdings by a third.  “Some of the best investing opportunities may be in the
developed markets of the United States and Europe,” Lynn said
in a telephone interview from Denver, where  Janus Capital Group
Inc.  is based. “Growth may not be as exciting as it is in some
emerging countries, but there are interesting things going on
under the surface.”  Investors have poured cash into emerging-market equity
funds at a record rate in the past two years, lured by fast-
growing economies in Asia and Latin America and consumers and
governments free of the debt burdens faced by their counterparts
in the U.S., Europe or Japan. Lynn is one of a growing number of
money managers who say the rush into  emerging-market stocks  has
driven up their prices to the point where it’s hard to find
bargains.  “Investors in general have a very favorable view of those
markets,” Lynn said.  ‘Full’ Prices  “The emerging-market story is as great as it has ever
been, but the prices you are being asked to pay to participate
are increasingly full,” said  Simon Hallett , chief investment
officer at Harding Loevner LP in Somerville, New Jersey, whose
$10 billion in assets under management include $4 billion in
equities in developing countries.  Hallett shifted money into multinational companies, such as
Vevey, Switzerland-based foodmaker  Nestle SA , as a way to
capture some of the benefit of emerging-market growth at a lower
price, he said in a telephone interview.  “Emerging markets aren’t a secret,”  Jack Ablin , chief
investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. Ablin, who called the stock prices
“stretched,” helps oversee more than $55 billion.  Jeremy Grantham , the often-bearish chief investment
strategist at Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co., referred to
the popularity of emerging-market stocks in his quarterly
newsletter published Oct. 26.  “Everyone and his dog are now overweight emerging
equities,” Grantham wrote on the Boston firm’s website. He said
investor enthusiasm could propel the stocks higher, even with
the markets “fully priced.”  15% a Year  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 19 percent this year
through yesterday, including dividends, compared with an 11
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Emerging-
markets stocks jumped 79 percent in 2009, triple the 26 percent
return of the U.S. benchmark.  Janus Overseas averaged gains of 15 percent in the past
five years, Bloomberg data show. Since Lynn became manager, it
has returned about 19 percent a year, according to Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc .  Lynn, 46, joined Janus in 1991 and was an analyst for his
first 10 years. He has a bachelor’s degree as well as master’s
degrees in economics and industrial engineering from Stanford
University near Palo Alto, California. Before entering the fund
business he spent two years in the Peace Corps teaching English
and math in Nepal.  Emerging Markets  Lynn aims to invest in companies with strong franchises
whose stock prices don’t reflect their future earnings power.  From 2003 to 2007, Lynn said he found many of the best
franchises in emerging markets with companies such as Mumbai-
based  Tata Steel Ltd. , India’s largest steel producer. As of
Oct. 31, 2006, the fund had 39 percent of its assets in
emerging-market stocks, “at the high end of historical
trends,” according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  When the emerging-market index dropped 53 percent in 2008
as the global financial crisis dragged down smaller markets,
Janus Overseas lost the same amount, the worst year since it
opened in 1997.  “The fund will take its lumps in tough times,”  Greg Carlson , a Morningstar analyst, said in a telephone interview.  “This is a very humbling business,” Lynn said. “I was
taken by surprise by the complete financial meltdown.”  Survival Mode  In the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of
2009, he pared the number of stocks in the portfolio and put
most of his money into companies with the financial strength to
survive the crisis.  Among them were Hong Kong-based exporter  Li & Fung Ltd. ,
the biggest supplier to retailer Wal-Mart Stores Inc., and
Mumbai-based  Reliance Industries Ltd. , owner of the world’s
largest fuel-refining complex. The stocks, now Lynn’s two
biggest holdings, have been among the fund’s top positions for
the past four years, regulatory filings show.  As the companies tumbled in 2008, Lynn was convinced their
troubles were temporary and both could use the crisis to take
business away from weaker rivals. Li & Fung shares have more
than tripled since their October 2008 low; Reliance has more
than doubled, Bloomberg data show.  In the second quarter of 2009, Lynn bought companies in
what he calls special situations, those undergoing structural
changes that have yet to be recognized by other investors.  Special Situations  “It happens some of the most attractive special situations
were in the United States,” Lynn said.  As of Sept. 30, the portion of the fund in U.S. stocks rose
to almost 20 percent from less than 8 percent three years
earlier. Emerging-market stocks fell to 23 percent from 37
percent. European stocks, which weren’t reported separately in
earlier periods, accounted for 25 percent.  Janus Overseas is allowed to have as much as 20 percent of
its assets in U.S. equities, according to  James Aber , a
spokesman for the firm.  “Lynn has an extended leash to pursue opportunities,”
said Andre Fernandes, assistant portfolio manager of the $68.9
million  New Century International Portfolio , a mutual fund in
Wellesley, Massachusetts, that owns shares of Janus Overseas.  The airline industry fits Lynn’s definition of a business
undergoing a transformation. U.S. carriers have removed seating
capacity in the past few years “at a rate we believe is
unprecedented since World War II,” Lynn said. With fewer
tickets available, airlines can charge higher prices and
generate greater profits.  Airline Earnings  Earnings at the major carriers in the third quarter were
the highest since 2007’s second quarter. The  Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index  has climbed 35 percent this year.  Lynn owned stakes in Atlanta-based Delta and Houston-based
Continental Airlines as of June 30, Bloomberg data show. As of
Sept. 30, airlines accounted for 11 percent of the fund’s
assets, according to the Janus website. Continental merged with
United Airlines Inc. on Oct. 1, creating  United Continental
Holdings Inc.   Shares of Ford, Lynn’s fourth-largest holding, have gained
59 percent in 2010 as the Dearborn, Michigan-based company
grabbed market share from weaker rivals and commanded higher
prices from car buyers. The average price paid by consumers for
a Ford vehicle in September rose 10 percent from five years ago
to $30,000, according to Santa Monica, California-based
researcher Edmunds.com.  Refinery Business  Ford has the potential to capture a larger piece of the
small-car market, Lynn said.  Shares of  Valero Energy Corp ., another U.S. investment Lynn
made in 2009, haven’t done as well as Ford or the airlines. The
San Antonio-based refiner climbed 13 percent this year.  The refinery business is also undergoing change, which will
benefit strong firms such as Valero at the expense of rivals
that lack high-quality refineries, Lynn said.  “Margins will improve, but is difficult to say when,” he
said.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, still
faces economic and regulatory uncertainty, Lynn said.  “I believe those problems mask the company’s long-term
earnings power,” he wrote in an e-mail. Bank of America has
sunk 25 percent this year.  Janus Overseas had a quarter of its assets in Europe as of
Sept. 30, according to the firm’s website. The fund’s top 10
positions included  ASML Holding NV , the Veldhoven, Netherlands-
based semiconductor-equipment maker, and  ARM Holdings Plc , the
Cambridge, England-based designer of chips that power Apple
Inc.’s iPhone.  European Value  “Europe offers more compelling value than I have seen in
years,” Lynn said.  The economic fundamentals in countries such as India and
China are better than ever, given their strong banking systems,
governments with low debt burdens and consumers who are gaining
wealth, Lynn said.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect China to expand 10
percent, India 8.5 percent and the U.S. 2.7 percent in 2010, the
average forecast for each country.  Investors put $71.2 billion into emerging-market equity
funds this year through Oct. 27, after a record $83 billion in
net deposits during all of 2009, according to data from
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm  EPFR Global .  U.S. stock funds, by contrast, suffered withdrawals of
$55.5 billion through Oct. 27, EPFR data show.  In a world “starving” for growth,” investors have
gravitated to emerging markets, Lynn said. While he still has
“significant” holdings there, the popularity of those markets
has prompted him to look elsewhere.  “We want the most exciting opportunities around the world,
regardless of geography,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumbaertel@bloomberg.net  