-- Japan Investigating YouTube Video Showing Chinese Fishing Boat Collision
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-11-05T02:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/japan-investigating-youtube-video-showing-chinese-fishing-boat-collision.html
Japan is investigating a video
posted on YouTube that may show the September collision of a
Chinese fishing boat with Japanese Coast Guard vessels, the
government’s top spokesman said.  “We need to confirm the authenticity of the footage,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told reporters today in
Tokyo. Transport Minister  Sumio Mabuchi  said today that he is
leading the examination of the YouTube video, which shows a
fishing vessel hitting another boat. China has asked through
diplomatic channels whether the video was leaked, Sengoku said.  While Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government has shown the
Coast Guard’s video of the Sept. 7 incident to politicians, it
has resisted demands to release it to the public. The collision
near uninhabited islands claimed by Japan and China damaged ties
between Asia’s two biggest economies.  Coast Guard spokesman Shinichiro Tanaka said he can’t
confirm the footage and that the investigation is ongoing.  Kan is seeking a meeting with Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
when he hosts next week’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation in
Yokohama. Asked whether the video would hurt prospects for a Hu-
Kan summit, Sengoku said, “we hope this incident won’t have any
impact and hope the meeting will be held.”  Kan has come under fire for his administration’s handling
of the dispute. His popularity dropped to 36.4 percent from 48.5
percent last month, a Sankei newspaper poll published on Nov. 2
said, with almost three-fourths of respondents disapproving of
his response to the incident. A Nikkei newspaper poll the
previous day yielded similar findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  