-- Japan's 20-Year Government Bonds Fall as Stock Gains Reduce Refuge Demand
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-05T08:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/japanese-20-year-bonds-decline-as-global-stock-rally-curbs-safety-demand.html
Japanese 20-year  bonds  declined,
pushing yields up for a fifth week, after gains in stocks
worldwide reduced demand for the refuge of government debt.  Benchmark 20-year yields climbed toward the highest level
in six weeks after the Bank of Japan kept borrowing costs
unchanged and refrained from expanding its asset-purchase
programs. Bonds also fell before a report that economists said
will show European retail sales rose for a fifth month.  “The bond market is weak because of the gain in stocks,”
said  Makoto Noji , a Tokyo-based strategist at Mizuho Securities
Research & Consulting Co. “For yields to decline, there should
be prospects for further monetary easing by the central banks in
Japan and the U.S.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 20-year bonds added 2.5 basis
points to 1.825 percent as of 5:14 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
1.8 percent security due September 2030 fell 0.365 yen to 99.635.  Twenty-year yields rose to 1.86 percent on Oct. 28, a level
not seen since Sept. 21. Twenty-year yields have gained a basis
point since Oct. 29. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The benchmark 10-year yield gained half a basis point to
0.93 percent. Ten-year bond futures for December delivery
declined 0.17 to 143.11 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 2.9 percent, following
a 1.9 percent jump in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  in New
York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.6 percent.  European Data  Sales  in the 16-nation euro region increased 1.4 percent in
September from a year ago, according to economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg before the report is released today.
Japan’s exports to the European Union accounted for 11 percent
of the total by the value of products shipped during the first
half of 2010, a report from the Ministry of Finance showed.  “The gain in Japanese stocks is a selling catalyst for the
bond market,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in Tokyo
at Okasan Securities Co. “Investors are reluctant to move
before the U.S. job figures.”  The U.S. unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent in October
for a third month, according to economists’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg News before the report is released today.  Japan’s central bank today held the overnight call rate at
between zero and 0.1 percent. It also said in Tokyo that part of
its 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) asset fund will be used to
purchase Japanese real-estate investment trusts with credit
ratings of AA or higher.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa yesterday called the asset-
purchase fund an “unprecedented” and “extraordinary” step
for a central bank.  Inflation-Linked Debt  Tadashi Matsukawa , head of fixed income at PineBridge
Investments Japan Co., is buying Japanese inflation-linked bonds
as central bank asset purchases raise speculation that consumer
price gains will quicken worldwide.  The gap in yields between 30-year and five-year Treasuries
widened to a record 3.05 percentage points yesterday, a day
after the Federal Reserve said it will buy an additional $600
billion of U.S. government debt through June.  “Global deflation has been an investment theme, but
inflation will be the next one,” said Tokyo-based Matsukawa,
whose company managed 5.99 trillion yen in assets as of June 30.
“Because the world economy is interwoven, there will be a
gradual change in the trend of persistently negative consumer-
price growth in Japan.”  The so-called breakeven rate, or difference in yields
between inflation-linked bonds and conventional debt, has risen
in the U.S. faster than any other bond market since Sept. 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate shows traders
expect a 0.7 percent drop in Japan’s consumer prices annually
for the next eight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  