-- Japan Bonds Complete Weekly Decline on Stock Gain, Weakning of Yen
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-05T21:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/japan-bonds-complete-weekly-decline-on-stock-gain-weakning-of-yen.html
Japanese bonds completed a weekly
decline as gains in stocks and a weakening in the yen reduced
demand for the safety of government debt.  Benchmark 20-year yields neared the highest in six weeks
after the Bank of Japan kept borrowing costs unchanged and
refrained from expanding its asset-purchase programs. Bonds also
fell as the yen weakened against the dollar on a weekly basis
for the first time in almost two months.  “The bond market is weak because of the gain in stocks,”
said  Makoto Noji , a Tokyo-based strategist at Mizuho Securities
Research & Consulting Co. “For yields to decline, there should
be prospects for further monetary easing by the central banks in
Japan and the U.S.”  The  yield  on the 20-year note added a basis point this week
to 1.825 percent in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.8 percent
security due September 2030 fell 0.145 yen to 99.635. The yield
reached 1.86 percent on Oct. 28, a level not seen since Sept. 21.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The 10-year yield rose a basis point to 0.93 percent. Ten-
year bond futures for December delivery slid 0.09 to 143.11 at
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 4.6 percent this week,
the sharpest weekly advance this year.  European Data  “The gain in Japanese stocks is a selling catalyst for the
bond market,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in Tokyo
at Okasan Securities Co.  The yen depreciated 0.4 percent in the past five days to
80.73 per dollar, the first weekly retreat since Sept. 17. A
weaker yen boosts the value of overseas sales at Japanese
companies.  Japan’s central bank yesterday held its overnight call rate
at between zero and 0.1 percent. It also said that part of its 5
trillion yen ($62 billion) asset fund will be used to purchase
Japanese real-estate investment trusts with credit ratings of AA
or higher.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  on Nov. 4 called the asset-
purchase fund an “unprecedented” and “extraordinary” step
for a central bank.  Tadashi Matsukawa , head of fixed income at PineBridge
Investments Japan Co., is buying Japanese inflation-linked bonds
as central bank asset purchases raise speculation that consumer
price gains will quicken worldwide.  Global Inflation  The gap in yields between 30-year and five-year Treasuries
widened to a record 3.05 percentage points on Nov. 4, a day
after the Federal Reserve said it will buy an additional $600
billion of U.S. government debt through June.  “Global deflation has been an investment theme, but
inflation will be the next one,” said Tokyo-based Matsukawa,
whose company managed 5.99 trillion yen in assets as of June 30.
“Because the world economy is interwoven, there will be a
gradual change in the trend of persistently negative consumer-
price growth in Japan.”  The so-called breakeven rate, or difference in yields
between inflation-linked bonds and conventional debt, has risen
in the U.S. faster than any other bond market since Sept. 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate shows traders
expect a 0.7 percent drop in Japan’s consumer prices annually
for the next eight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  