-- Jefferies Hires Michael Judlowe for Real Estate in Capital Markets Group
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-11-05T11:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/jefferies-hires-citigroup-s-judlowe-as-real-estate-head-in-capital-markets.html
Jefferies Group Inc. , the New York
investment bank that expanded in equities research and mortgage
securities, hired  Michael L. Judlowe  as a managing director of
real estate for its global equity capital-markets group.  Judlowe, 44, was previously with Citigroup Inc. where he
worked on deals for large real estate investment trusts and was
a managing director and head of real estate and home-building
origination in equity-capital markets, according to an e-mailed
statement from Jefferies. On Nov. 2, Jefferies said it hired
 Douglas Wendell  from Citigroup as a managing director in the
technology investment-banking unit.  “Michael is a proven capital-markets investment banker in
the real estate sector,”  Benjamin D. Lorello , global head of
investment banking and capital markets at Jefferies, said in the
statement.  Jefferies raised half a billion dollars on Nov. 2 in a bond
sale to fund expansion of the New York-based firm and refinance
existing obligations. Jefferies  boosted  headcount 31 percent to
2,971 in less than two years. The firm is still hiring
“selectively” to build businesses ahead of an economic
recovery, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler , 49, said in
an interview after the bond sale.  Handler, who became CEO in 2001, has scooped up talent as
competitors cut staff in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008. Jefferies’ compensation costs
were 59 percent of revenue in the third quarter, compared with
56 percent a year earlier. Its target is 55 percent to 58
percent.  Markets have become “much healthier” for Jefferies since
the three months through August, Handler said in the interview.
In September, he characterized those months as “painfully
slow” for investment banks, helping drive down third-quarter
net income 46 percent and revenue 23 percent from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  