-- Dick Bove Says JPMorgan, Wells Fargo May Lift Dividends in 2011
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-05T17:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/jpmorgan-wells-fargo-among-banks-that-may-lift-payouts-in-2011-bove-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Wells Fargo
& Co. are among banks most likely to increase dividends as early
as the first quarter of 2011, according to  Dick Bove  of Rochdale
Securities LLC.  Financial stocks rallied today after a person familiar with
the matter told Bloomberg News that the Federal Reserve is
preparing guidelines for supervisors to use in assessing whether
banks are strong enough to boost payouts or buy back shares.
Banks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 3.7 percent
yesterday, leading the gauge to a two-year high.  “It now looks highly likely that the dividends for a
number of banks will be increased,” Bove, who is based in Lutz,
Florida, said in a telephone interview. “Do they have the
capacity to dramatically increase their dividends? The answer is
definitely yes. They have enormous capacity to increase their
earnings from a  balance sheet  standpoint.”  Earnings have topped estimates at 19 of the 24 banks in the
KBW Bank Index that have reported since Oct. 7, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan and Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender,
which last month reported third-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates, are among the most likely to boost their
payouts, according to Bove.  Bloomberg dividend forecasts show  JPMorgan , based in New
York, will quadruple its quarterly payout to 20 cents in
February, while San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo  will double its
to 10 cents in April.  ‘Top Priority’  Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer  Howard Atkins , 59, said
last month that an increase is a “top priority” for the bank.
JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, said he
was “reasonably hopeful” the firm will be able to raise its
payment in 2011’s first quarter and that regulators were open to
the idea.  Bove said other banks that may boost their dividends are
Bank of New York Mellon Corp., Northern Trust Corp., State
Street Corp., BB&T Corp., Comerica Inc., U.S. Bancorp and PNC
Financial Services Group Inc.  The analyst doesn’t expect the following banks to boost
their payouts: Citigroup Inc., First Horizon National Corp.,
Fifth Third Bancorp, KeyCorp, Marshall & Ilsley Corp., Regions
Financial Corp., SunTrust Banks Inc. and Zions Bancorporation.
He said it is unclear what Bank of America Corp. will do.  The U.S.  Treasury Department  forced Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America and Citigroup of New York to
slash their quarterly payments to no more than a penny as a
 condition  of receiving an additional $20 billion of bailout
money in late 2008 and early 2009. The banks had gotten $25
billion a few months earlier.  Europe, Regulation  The  S&P 500 Banks Index  fell 28 percent from this year’s
high on May 3 through Aug. 30 on concern that widening European
deficits and U.S. financial regulation would curb lending. Since
then, the index has risen 20 percent. The gauge rallied 3.7
percent at 1:14 p.m. in New York.  The results of Bove’s past predictions have been mixed. He
recommended selling  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  stock four
months before the securities firm collapsed, helping investors
avoid a 65 percent plunge in the shares. Bove raised it to
“buy” on Aug. 21, 2008. Lehman filed the world’s largest
bankruptcy three weeks later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 