-- Korean Won Posts Weekly Gain on Federal Reserve Easing, Economic Outlook
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-05T07:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/korean-won-set-for-weekly-gain-on-federal-reserve-easing-economic-outlook.html
South Korea’s won completed its first
five-day gain in three weeks after the Federal Reserve’s plan to
print more dollars spurred demand for higher-yielding assets.  Overseas investors bought $536 million more shares than
they sold since last week, boosting the  Kospi  stock index to a
three-year high. Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
an adviser to President  Barack Obama , said in Seoul today that
China and South Korea have bounced back from the financial
crisis faster, while the recovery in developed economies has
been unsatisfactory.  “With the Fed’s plans moving money into countries with
higher-yielding assets, a lot of that increased global liquidity
will come to South Korea,” said  Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist
at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “It has one of the fastest
growth recoveries in the region.”  The won rose 1.6 percent this week to close at 1,107.33 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,102.97 today, the strongest level since April 26, when
the currency reached a two-year high of 1,102.85.  The won has appreciated 9.4 percent since June, the best
performance among Asia’s emerging-market currencies, as near-
zero interest rates in the U.S. and other advanced countries
spurred demand for higher-yielding assets elsewhere. Nations
from South Korea to Brazil are preparing for stronger currencies
and asset-price inflation after the Fed said it will inject $600
billion into the financial system.  Capital Controls  South Korean government bonds fell this week. The yield on
the 3.75 percent bond due June 2013 climbed 36 basis points to
3.61 percent, the highest close in more than two months,
according to Korea Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “There probably won’t be a reason for bond yields to rise
dramatically until the first quarter of next year,” said  Yum Sang Hoon , a fixed-income analyst at SK Securities Co in Seoul.
“Authorities are going to implement taxes on foreigner bond
holdings and that will definitely hurt demand.”  South Korea will “actively consider” capital controls in
anticipation inflows will pick up,  Kim Ik Joo , a director
general of the finance ministry, said by telephone yesterday.
Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said Oct. 19 the country is
also considering whether to withdraw tax exemptions on
government bonds owned by foreign investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 