-- Kosovan Government Will Emerge Stronger After Early Elections, Shala Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2010-11-05T12:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/kosovan-government-will-emerge-stronger-after-early-elections-shala-says.html
Kosovo’s government will be
strengthened by early elections next month, helping the country
rebuild its economy and attract investors to state-asset sales,
Economy and Finance Minister  Ahmet Shala  said.  The government collapsed Nov. 2 when Parliament approved a
no-confidence motion in Premier  Hashim Thaci ’s Cabinet.
President  Fatmir Sejdiu  quit Sept. 27 after a court ruled he
breached the constitution. The turmoil, including a corruption
probe that led to central bank Governor  Hashim Rexhepi ’s arrest,
are the “birth pangs of a young democracy,” Shala said.  “In the short-term, the fall of the government could have
an impact on the economy, but in the longer term it will give
the new administration more legitimacy,” Shala, 49, said
yesterday in a phone interview from Pristina, the capital.
“Institutions are showing they respect the constitution and the
rule of law and are ready to fight irregularities.”  The Balkan nation, which declared independence from Serbia
in 2008, is hampered by poor infrastructure, including outdated
utilities and roads, and an undiversified economy, the
International Monetary Fund said in a July report. It also
suffers from unemployment as high as 50 percent, Shala said.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization troops bombed Kosovo in
1999 to stop the Serbian army from suppressing the largely
Albanian separatist province, the last outbreak of warfare that
engulfed the Balkans during the breakup of Yugoslavia.  Kosovo Independence  The U.S. and 68 other countries, including a majority of EU
members, recognize Kosovo’s sovereignty. Serbia has vowed never
to accept Kosovo’s independence and considers it cultural cradle
of the Balkan country, hindering Serbia’s efforts to eventually
join the European Union. Kosovo also wants to win EU membership
to strengthen its economy.  Gross domestic product,  which contracted last year during
the global recession, may expand 5 percent this year and more
than 6 percent in 2011, helping to attract in foreign investment
to the country of 1.8 million people, Shala said.  Next year’s budget deficit will probably be 3.5 percent of
GDP, though approval of the 2011 spending plan is on hold until
a new parliament is installed, he said.  Kosovo agreed in July on a 110 million-euro ($156 million)
aid package from the IMF. The total amount pledged by
international donors, including the World Bank and European
Commission, has increased to 320 million euros, Shala said.  “Well-thought policies are already in place to ensure the
economy continues to grow,” he said.  Asset Sales  Kosovo plans to speed up the sale of 75 percent of phone
company  Posta dhe Telekomunikacioni i Kosoves Sh.A.  and other
state assets to attract investors, Shala said. Proceeds would
finance improvements in energy infrastructure, roads, education
and health care, he said.  “I am optimistic that one of the first things in the new
parliament will be to back the sale, with the completion
foreseen sometime in June,” he said, adding that Bonn-based
 Deutsche Telekom AG , Croatia’s  T-Hrvatski Telekom d.d. and 
Istanbul-based  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS  are considering
bids.  Kosovo also plans to sell some of its power plants and is
seeking investors to help upgrade roads that are still damaged
since the 1999 NATO bombing campaign. While Serbia has shown an
unwillingness to accept independence of the province it
considers the cultural cradle of the Balkan country, the
government in Belgrade wants to continue talks with Kosovo.  “Whatever talks there are that would ease the movement of
capital, goods and ideas among equal neighbors are more than
welcome,” Shala said.  Deeper Integration  The U.S. wants Kosovo to make progress toward European
integration through changes at home and in talks with Serbia,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said during an Oct. 13 visit
to the two countries.  “If I would be sitting in Brussels or in Washington or in
London or in Paris my thoughts would be, ‘Let’s do it as soon as
possible,’ ” Shala said. “Let’s include all the Balkan nations
into the EU and not leave it to the bureaucrats to fight over a
coma or a semi-colon.  “There is also a responsibility of the international
institutions that have been running Kosovo for the last decade
to help us achieve this goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  