-- N.Z. Consumers Want Cheaper Smartphones, Telecom’s Reynolds Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-05T03:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/n-z-consumers-want-cheaper-smartphones-telecom-s-reynolds-says.html
New Zealand consumers are unwilling
to pay current prices for smartphones, limiting sales even amid
increased demand for applications offered by Facebook Inc.,
 Telecom Corp. ’s chief executive officer said.  About 25 percent of Telecom’s mobile device sales are
smartphones,  Paul Reynolds  said today on a conference call after
 New Zealand’s biggest phone company  announced its first-quarter
earnings. The share of overall sales lags behind other nations
such as the U.S. where penetration is about 70 percent, he said.  “We do find in the New Zealand market getting to those
sorts of penetrations requires the delivery of smartphones at
much lower price points,” he said. “In mobile and other
consumer segments in New Zealand things tend to be very price-
driven rather than just feature-driven.”  New Zealand’s economy expanded just 0.2 percent in the
second quarter and house prices are falling, prompting consumers
to curb spending as the recovery from the nation’s worst decade
in three falters. Consumer confidence fell to a 14-month low
last month, according to the ANZ-Roy Morgan index.  Sales of smartphones made by  Apple Inc. , Nokia Oyj and
others rose 95 percent in the third quarter from the same period
last year to 80.9 million units, analyst firm Canalys said in a
report on Nov. 1.  Telecom offers devices based on Goggle Inc.’s Android
software and will increase its offer of products with Microsoft
Corp.’s  Windows Phone 7  system, it said today. The company
expects sales, and average revenue per mobile customer, to
improve as demand for data access and applications grows while
the prices of devices fall, Reynolds said.  Facebook Driving Revenue  The revenue-per-user increases “are substantially driven
by kids doing Facebook on their new smartphones,” he said.
“There’s a myriad of stuff that comes out as new applications
when you move across. People are going to be using more and more
data.”  Reynolds expects smartphone prices will fall, sparking
greater sales.  “We are starting to see that with Nokia Symbian and others
delivering much lower-cost smartphone devices,” he said. “The
low-cost devices are coming through, so the number is only going
to rise.”  Telecom today said net income fell 37 percent to NZ$103
million ($82 million) in the first quarter from a year earlier.
Average revenue per mobile customer rose 2 percent, it said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  