-- Napoleon Dreamed of U.S., Flirted With Teenager: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/napoleon-in-exile-dreamed-of-u-s-flirted-with-teenager-lewis-lapham.html
When the British finally defeated a
resurgent Napoleon at Waterloo in 1815, they were taking no
chances. He was put on the HMS Northumberland and shipped 5,000
miles away to one of the most isolated spots in the world.  Disembarking on the volcanic island of  St. Helena , about
1,200 miles off the coast of Africa, the scourge of Europe
flirted with 13-year-old Betsy Balcombe, wrote his memoirs,
gardened and bore up under the insults of his custodian, who
addressed him as General Bonaparte, rather than the imperial
“Napoleon.”  He also dreamed of escaping to America, but freedom was
ever an illusion. On the 47-square-mile isle, with a population
of about 5,000, the British had stationed 2,000 troops, put guns
on every cliff top and barricaded every cove. Much as he longed
to, Napoleon could not repeat his escape from Elba and died on
St. Helena of stomach cancer in 1821.  Today, reachable only by boat, the island is largely
unchanged, boasting a perfect miniature castle, a tiny church, a
town square with a big shade tree brought from India, and rows
of Regency houses with iron trelliswork and sash windows.
Policemen have so little to do, they are called “the toys,”
and the rare prisoner is let out each afternoon for a refreshing
dip in the sea.  For  Simon Winchester , author of “ Atlantic ,” St. Helena
represents the perfect union of people and ocean. I spoke with
him on the following topics:  1. Israel Born in Atlantic  2. Humans Reach the Sea  3. Phoenicians Profit  4. From Fear to Disdain  5. Unique St. Helena  To listen to the podcast, click  here . To buy this book in
North America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 