-- Natural Gas Consumers in U.S. Miss Full Benefit of Drop in Futures Prices
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-11-05T19:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/natural-gas-consumers-in-u-s-missed-full-benefit-of-tumbling-2010-prices.html
U.S. households that use natural gas
for heating have missed out on part of a slump in futures this
year as utilities wait as long as six months to update prices.  Gas futures fell as much as 41 percent through the end of
October as production increases helped boost a stockpile
surplus. Residential price declines averaged about 23 percent in
the same period, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 15
utilities in the Northeast, Midwest and Texas.  The disparity between the drop in futures and household
costs exists because utilities try to limit price swings through
financial and physical contracts, sometimes years in advance,
said Ken Costello, a principal with the  National Regulatory
Research Institute  in Silver Spring, Maryland. Also, utilities
adjust their retail rates as infrequently as every six months,
depending on state regulations.  “Sometimes if the market price changes, the utility may
not be able to reflect that in its prices until months later,”
Costello said. “There are a lot of things going on that would
cause the retail price to deviate from the market price.”  Homeowners were paying about 6.09 cents a therm, or about
$6.09 per million British thermal units, for gas as of late
October, based on the average of utility prices in the survey,
down from $8.12 in January. A 41 percent drop would have put the
price at about $4.79.  Natural gas futures for December delivery rose 8.1 cents,
or 2.1 percent, to settle at $3.937 per million Btu today on the
New York Mercantile Exchange.  Futures prices fell as low as $3.212 on Oct. 27 after
touching $6.10 in early January, when colder-than-normal winter
weather boosted fuel use. Gas closed at a record $15.378 per
million Btu on Dec. 13, 2005, because of frigid weather across
much of the country.  Utility Costs  Utilities can do more to ensure that consumers benefit from
steep declines in natural gas prices, said David Bomke, the
executive director of  New York Energy Consumers Council  Inc., a
consumer advocacy group.  “Prices change daily, and fuel adjustments should be made
monthly to reflect market conditions,” Bomke said. “Utility
companies should develop a hedging strategy and then continue to
practice that strategy with rigor to gain some historical
perspective on whether it’s working or not.”  Utilities should also maintain a combination of long-term,
medium-term and short-term supply contracts, he said.  Utility gas costs partly reflect physical contracts that
are based on the wholesale price of gas for immediate delivery
at a point close to the utility’s service territory, said Robert
Ineson, senior director, North American natural gas for IHS
CERA, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based energy consulting
company.  Purchase Strategies  CenterPoint Energy, which provides natural gas to 3.2
million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas, buys about a third of its
supply through contracts that vary in length from as little as a
few months to as long as five years, according to  Alicia Dixon ,
a spokeswoman for the Houston-based company.  “This year, as we do each year, we purchased about one
third of our gas at the then-current monthly price, some of
which went to storage at prices above today’s levels,” Dixon
said. “One third is purchased using a hedge and the balance
comes from storage.”  If state regulators support it, utilities may also attempt
to limit price volatility by using financial contracts,
including futures, options and swaps.  Utility Hedging  “In theory you’re minimizing price swings, but these
tools are imperfect,” Ineson said.  Utilities hedge anywhere from 25 percent to 75 percent of
their peak winter gas supply, said  Chris McGill , the managing
director of policy analysis for the American Gas Association in
Washington. About 90 percent of natural-gas distribution
companies use financial contracts to limit price volatility,
McGill said.  Gas customers will see lower bills this winter as a result
of falling fuel costs, said Eileen Dixon, a spokeswoman for  DTE
Energy Co.  in Detroit. Prices for DTE residential customers will
be about 20 percent lower this winter, compared with a year
earlier, saving the average customer about $110, Dixon said.  Utilities pass the cost of buying natural gas, storing it
and transporting it via pipelines on to consumers in the form of
a charge called the purchased gas adjustment. In states with
regulated electric and gas industries, utilities are required to
seek periodic approval from regulators to change rates.  Cheaper Than 2009  The purchased gas adjustment includes transportation and
distribution costs, which usually don’t change significantly
from month to month, IHS CERA’s Ineson said.  Utilities purchase the bulk of their gas supply from April
through October, after the end of the peak-demand winter heating
season. If a gas company purchases quantities of the fuel in the
spring or summer and prices decline through the fall, customers’
rates may be higher than the market price, according to
CenterPoint’s Dixon.  “What a consumer is paying for gas through the local
utility is only partially reflective of today’s market price,”
said Bruce McDowell, a director of policy analysis in Washington
for the  American Gas Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  