-- Citigroup, Goffer, BHP, Oracle, SocGen in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-05T12:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/nomura-mizuho-goffer-kulterer-potash-pride-oracle-in-court-news.html
Citigroup Inc.  prevailed at trial
against a multibillion-dollar lawsuit by Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. and its Chairman Guy Hands, who claimed he was
tricked by the bank into overpaying for  EMI Group Ltd.  in 2007.  A federal jury in Manhattan federal court reached its 8-0
verdict yesterday after less than a day of deliberations and a 2
1/2-week trial. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who had narrowed
the range of possible real damages to $2.2 billion from $8.3
billion and ruled out punitive damages, called the suit “a
catfight between two rich companies” on Nov. 1.  Some analysts described the lawsuit as a last-ditch move by
Hands to hold on to EMI and said the verdict probably means he
will lose control and that Citigroup may break the company into
pieces and sell it off. Citigroup provided $4.8 billion in loans
to finance the EMI acquisition.  “It’s just a question of time before there’s a covenant
breach,” said Claire Enders, chief executive officer of Enders
Analysis Ltd., an entertainment-industry research firm based in
London. “I find it hard to believe that the Terra Firma
partners are really going to face with equanimity the prospect
of injecting capital into EMI, basically forever.”  Enders, who called the suit a “desperate” attempt to gain
leverage in negotiations with Citigroup to restructure EMI’s
finances, said Citigroup is now less likely to consider talking
with Hands about EMI.  In the trial, Hands, who testified for parts of four days,
claimed that Citigroup banker David Wormsley lied to him during
phone calls made the weekend before the auction, leading the
private-equity firm to overbid in a deal that lost money for all
involved. Citigroup denied the claims.  Ted Wells, a lawyer for the bank, hailed the verdict,
saying Wormsley had been put through a “terrible ordeal” and
that the case was “a travesty.”  Citigroup claimed that Wormsley never misled Hands. The New
York-based bank alleged the suit was an attempt by Hands to
shift responsibility for striking a bad bargain for EMI, the
113-year-old music company based in London.  “We are disappointed,” Terra Firma said in a statement
after the verdict. “We believe that this was an important
action to bring and that we had a responsibility to our
investors to bring it.” The firm said it reserves the right to
appeal.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits  Singapore Man Charged With Murder of Nomura Employee  A Singapore man was charged with the murder of a  Nomura
Holdings Inc.  employee who died from injuries sustained in the
city state last month.  Ang Hoe Meng Jack, 41, is accused of killing Takanori
Inada, 30, in an alley in Singapore’s Chinatown, according to a
police document. Ang is scheduled to next appear in a Singapore
court Nov. 11 and will remain in custody as the investigation
continues, the court heard yesterday.  Inada was found lying on the ground with multiple bruises
and pronounced dead in hospital on Oct. 23, Singapore police
said. Ang faces the death penalty if convicted, police said.  Eiji Miura, Nomura’s Tokyo-based spokesman, said Inada, who
was from Japan, was studying in Singapore.  “We extremely regret losing an employee of great
promise,” Miura said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
watching how the local investigation will progress.”  Ang, a housing broker with  PropNex , will have his contract
terminated, according to Adam Tan, a spokesman for Singapore’s
second-biggest property services firm by number of agents.  “We haven’t had access to him yet,” Ang’s lawyer Zaminder
Gill told reporters yesterday. Ang, who hasn’t been allowed bail
and didn’t enter a plea, may be brought to the crime scene as
part of the investigations, Gill said.  The case is Public Prosecutor v. Ang Hoe Meng Jack,
Singapore Subordinate Court, PIC 232/2010.  Mizuho Employee Arrested in U.K. Over Insider Trading  A Mizuho International Plc employee was one of two people
arrested as part of an insider-trading probe by the U.K.
financial regulator in at least two countries.  Mizuho Securities Co. spokesman Toshimitsu Okano said in a
telephone interview yesterday that the bank employee was
arrested. The U.K. Financial Services Authority said earlier
this week that it arrested a 37-year-old man and a 28-year-old
woman in London on suspicion of trading with insider
information.  “We understand that the FSA’s investigation relates to
actions carried out by the individual in a personal capacity,
and that it does not involve any conduct by” Mizuho or any of
its other employees, the bank said in an e-mailed statement,
which didn’t name the employee.  City of London Police and the FSA also searched two
addresses in London and worked with police and prosecutors in
Hesse, Germany, to conduct a search there. The FSA is currently
prosecuting 11 people for trading with insider information and
has convicted six men for the crime since March 2009.  Okano declined to provide further details because the
investigation by U.K. authorities is now under way. Mizuho
International is the London-based securities and investment
banking arm of the  Mizuho Financial Group Inc.   FSA spokeswoman Lucy Gaynor declined to comment. The case
isn’t related to any ongoing insider-trading investigations, the
regulator said.  Goffer Among Five Seeking Dismissal of Insider Case  Former Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer, who is accused
of leading an insider-trading ring, and four co-defendants urged
a judge to dismiss the government’s case, citing the inadequacy
of the evidence against them.  The men assailed “the government’s convoluted theory” of
insider trading in a filing yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan. The “alleged inside tips consist of material
information that is already public, or nonpublic information
that is not material,” according to the brief.  Joining Goffer were co-defendants Craig Drimal, Emanuel
Goffer and Michael Kimelman, all traders, and lawyer Jason
Goldfarb. They are among 21 people accused in two overlapping
insider-trading cases involving Galleon Group founder Raj
Rajaratnam.  Rajaratnam, who denies wrongdoing, was arrested in October
2009 as part of a first wave of charges accusing him and others
of trading on leaks from corporate officials, hedge fund
traders, and other insiders.  Goffer and his co-defendants were part of a second wave of
arrests last November. So far, 12 defendants have pleaded guilty
in the two cases.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Hypo Alpe Chief Kulterer Faces Charges in Austria  Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank International AG’s former Chief
Executive Officer Wolfgang Kulterer was charged by state
prosecutors with misuse of funds in a case that may not be the
last one against the banker.  The charge is linked to a 2 million-euro ($2.8 million)
loan to Styrian Airways AG, a carrier which later went bankrupt,
said Helmut Jamnig, spokesman for the Klagenfurt prosecutors’
office. It’s the result of a wider probe into Kulterer’s tenure
and prosecutors are still pursuing “numerous further
significant allegations”, Jamnig said in a statement. Kulterer
was arrested over the charges on Aug. 13 and remains in custody.  Austria nationalized Hypo Alpe last year to avert the
bank’s collapse after bad debts in the Balkans piled up.
Kulterer had presided over Hypo’s expansion in the former
Yugoslavia, which saw assets grow to more than 30 billion euros
in 2006 when he stepped down as CEO and became a non-executive
chairman. In 2008, Kulterer pleaded guilty to charges of false
accounting at Hypo and was fined 140,000 euros.  Kulterer is also being charged with false testimony to an
enquiry commission in Austria’s Province of Carinthia, Jamnig
said in the statement. Two others are also being charged with
misuse of funds, he said, declining to identify the others.  Kulterer rejects the allegations against him, his lawyer
Dieter Boehmdorfer said in a phone interview yesterday.  BHP Buyout Offer Confused Potash Investors, CEO Testifies  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  has confused the fertilizer producer’s
investors “since day one,” the Canadian company’s chief
executive officer told a U.S. judge.  CEO Bill Doyle was the first witness in a federal court
hearing in Chicago yesterday in which Potash Corp., the world’s
largest producer of fertilizer, seeks an order blocking BHP’s
$40 billion takeover plan.  The hearing came a day after the Canadian government said
 BHP ’s $130-a-share buyout wouldn’t provide a “net benefit” to
Canada and stopped the sale, giving BHP 30 days to appeal. U.S.
District Judge David H. Coar in Chicago allowed the hearing to
go forward while Melbourne-based BHP seeks to overturn the
Canadian decision.  BHP, the world’s  biggest mining company , has denied
Saskatoon-based Potash Corp.’s allegations that it made
misleading public  statements  about plans to develop a rival
potash mine near Jansen, Saskatchewan, and asked Coar to dismiss
the case.  BHP  said it has complied with U.S. disclosure
requirements and that  investors , not the courts, should resolve
the dispute.  Saskatchewan’s provincial government opposes the
transaction, saying it would cost the province jobs and tax
revenue.  Potash Corp. has suggested that BHP is using the threat of
the mine to drive down Potash Corp.’s  share price .  “I would say our shareholders have been confused since day
one,” about BHP’s intentions, Doyle told Thomas Moloney, an
attorney for the Australian company during cross-examination.
“I think it’s a smoke screen.”  Andrew Mackenzie, BHP’s chief for the unit that produces
diamonds, coal, aluminum and potash, testified that his company
was fully behind the project.  Coar said will hear final arguments on Nov. 8.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. v. BHP
Billiton Ltd., 10-cv-06024, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Oracle Ex-President Says SAP Ducked $5 Billion in Fees  Oracle Corp.  ex-President Charles Phillips, who resigned in
September, told a jury the company would have sought at least $5
billion in licensing fees from  SAP AG  for access to its
software.  Phillips, manager of marketing and large-customer relations
during more than seven years at  Oracle , testified yesterday at
the company’s trial over the amount of damages SAP should pay
because a now-defunct software-maintenance unit illegally
downloaded Oracle’s copyrighted programs.  Oracle claims  SAP  downloaded the software to avoid paying
licensing fees and to steal Oracle customers. Phillips said if
Oracle were negotiating with SAP over fees, the company would
seek at least $5 billion for software from companies it had
acquired whose customers SAP unit TomorrowNow would be
interested in obtaining.  “We compete fiercely but we don’t take each other’s
software,” Phillips said.  Oracle, the  second-largest maker  of software for business
applications behind SAP, sued its competitor in 2007. It seeks
at least $2.3 billion in damages for what a former SAP unit
acknowledges were fraudulent downloads of software that
infringed Oracle copyrights.  Former SAP executive Shai Agassi, testifying after
Phillips, said the Walldorf, Germany-based company had concerns
about the legality of TomorrowNow’s operations and knew Oracle
might sue.  “There’s always a risk Oracle would sue,” he said. Agassi
said he led the evaluation of the TomorrowNow acquisition, while
the “the sales effort” and a program called “Safe Passage”
were managed by Leo Apotheker, then an SAP executive. Safe
Passage was a program to lure customers from Oracle acquisitions
including PeopleSoft Inc. and J.D. Edwards & Co. by providing
software support.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  Ex-Societe Generale Programmer Trial Won’t Be Closed  The trial of Samarth Agrawal, the former  Societe Generale
SA  trader accused of stealing the bank’s computer code for high-
frequency trading, will remain open to the public after a judge
rejected prosecutors’ bid to seal it.  Prosecutors in New York asked U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff to close portions of the trial to the public when high-
frequency trading is discussed to protect the bank’s trade
secrets. The U.S. also asked that some of the transcript be
sealed when such testimony was discussed.  Agrawal was charged by federal prosecutors in April with
theft of trade secrets. The government said Agrawal, hired by
Societe Generale in New York in March 2007 to work as a
quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading group, made
copies of one part of the code he had been given access to and
another part he wasn’t allowed to have.  “My recollection of the constitutional protections include
an open court,” Rakoff said at a hearing yesterday. “That
protection cannot be overcome because it makes it more difficult
for the government to prove its case.”  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Daniel Levy told Rakoff
the government sought to seal the courtroom during parts of the
trial to prevent the public disclosure of proprietary Societe
Generale computer codes.  Ensuring that no secrets were accidentally disclosed,
“could cause some logistical headaches,” Levy said. “This
very much hamstrings the government’s ability to prove their
case.”  Levy told the judge that Agrawal was believed to have
printed out between 500 to 1,000 pages from Societe Generale’s
computers. Rakoff interrupted, saying, “The jury, I am sure,
has no interest in seeing 500 pages of a logarithm code.”  The judge said prosecutors can renew their request to close
the courtroom if they determine potential trade secrets might be
disclosed. He told lawyers to prepare to deliver opening
statements to the jury as early as Nov. 8.  Agrawal’s lawyer, Ivan Fisher, told the judge that the
defense had no intention of revealing details of any codes that
are part of the government’s case. “They are not in any part of
our defense strategy” Fisher said.  Rakoff said that if Fisher did disclose any trade secrets,
“he would run the risk of some unfortunate consequence, like
jail, like disbarment, or even worse, getting a tongue-lashing
from me.”  Agrawal, who faces as long as 10 years in prison if
convicted, pleaded not guilty to the charges. Agrawal was
promoted to trader in April 2009, according to the government.
Before he resigned last November, he deleted a computer folder
on his personal network drive that contained the code,
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors have said the code Agrawal is accused of
stealing cost millions of dollars to develop and generated
millions of dollars in revenue for Paris-based Societe Generale.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-CR-417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Brunei Prince Fights to Keep Sex Statues Out of New York Trial  A Brunei prince’s lawyers said details about his multiple
wives and statues of him having sex shouldn’t be presented to a
New York jury when his lawsuit against his former legal advisers
goes to court next week.  Prince Jefri Bolkiah, the younger brother of the Sultan of
Brunei, accused the advisers in a 2007 New York lawsuit of
engineering a scheme to control his assets and cheat him out of
millions of dollars.  Jefri asked a state court judge in Manhattan to exclude
evidence that he says could be prejudicial, including photos of
“erotic statues” that were once stored on the prince’s 28-acre
estate on Long Island east of New York City, according to court
papers.  The statues were sculpted by artist J. Seward Johnson and
depict Jefri having sex, said Mark Cymrot, a lawyer for one of
the defendants in the lawsuit.  The case is Casa De Meadows Inc. v. Faith F. Zaman, 601685-
2007, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Shell Bribes Among ‘Culture of Corruption,’ Panalpina Admits  Bribes paid on behalf of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ’s Nigerian
unit came from “a culture of corruption” that  Panalpina World
Transport Holding Ltd. , a Swiss freight forwarder, admitted in a
U.S. court yesterday.  Panalpina, Shell and five oil services companies agreed to
pay $236.5 million to settle probes by the U.S. Justice
Department and Securities and Exchange Commission. Panalpina,
which admitted to bribing government officials in seven nations,
will pay $81.5 million, and Shell will pay $48.1 million.  Prosecutors agreed to defer prosecution of five companies,
including Panalpina and Shell. Panalpina said it paid at least
$49 million in bribes to government officials in Angola,
Azerbaijan, Brazil, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Russia and
Turkmenistan. The bribes from 2002 to 2007 let its clients avoid
the customs process, pass off phony documents or smuggle
contraband including medicines and explosives, Panalpina said.  “Prior to 2007 a culture of corruption within Panalpina
emanated from senior level  management  in Switzerland who
tolerated bribery as business as usual,” the company said in a
34-page statement filed in federal court in Houston. “Dozens of
employees throughout the Panalpina organization were involved in
various schemes to pay bribes to foreign officials.”  The company said Shell’s Nigerian employees “specifically
requested Panalpina Nigeria to provide false invoices with line
items to mask the nature of the bribes.” Shell wanted to “hide
the nature of the payments to avoid suspicion if anyone audited
the invoices,” Panalpina said.  Shell separately admitted paying $2 million to Nigerian
subcontractors on its deepwater Bonga Project. Shell knew some
money would go as bribes to Nigerian officials to circumvent the
customs process and give the company “an improper advantage,”
according to its admission in federal court in Houston.  Prosecutors  charged Shell’s Nigerian subsidiary with
conspiring to violate the anti-bribery and books and records
provisions of the FCPA. The Justice Department will defer
prosecution for three years as long as the company makes
required reforms.  “Panalpina acknowledged and accepted responsibility for
misconduct, investigated and identified the nature and extent of
the misconduct,” and undertook a global remediation program,
said a court filing by Panalpina and prosecutors.  The company replaced most of its top  leaders , as well as
U.S. managers implicated in improper conduct, ended its Nigerian
business in 2007, and changed its operations in high-risk
countries, according to the filing.  “The settlement of these claims marks the closing of an
extremely burdensome chapter in Panalpina’s history and the end
of a very demanding three-year effort to address and eliminate
serious concerns,” Chief Executive Officer Monika Ribar said in
a statement yesterday.  The company also settled a lawsuit with the SEC.  The other companies that settled with the U.S. were
 Transocean Ltd. , Tidewater Marine International Inc.,  Pride
International Inc. ,  GlobalSantaFe Corp.  and  Noble Corp. 
GlobalSantaFe merged with Transocean in 2007. Transocean is the
world’s largest offshore drilling contractor. Tidewater is the
world’s biggest offshore energy support-services company.  Pride International will pay $56.1 million, Transocean will
pay $20.6 million, Tidewater will pay $15.7 million, Noble will
pay $8.1 million and GlobalSantaFe will pay $5.9 million,
authorities said.  The cases are SEC v. Noble Corp., 10-cv-4336; SEC v.
Panalpina Inc., 10-cv-4334; SEC v. Pride International, 10-cv-
4335, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston);
and SEC v. Transocean Inc., 10-cv-1891, U.S. District Court for
the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On the Docket  Oracle’s Ellison to Testify Nov. 8 at SAP Trial  Oracle Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison, who has said
the new head of rival Hewlett-Packard Co. oversaw “industrial
espionage” while he was at SAP AG, will testify Nov. 8 at a
trial between Oracle and SAP, a lawyer said in court.  Geoffrey Howard, an Oracle attorney, told U.S. District
Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland, California, that is his best
estimate for when he will call Ellison as a witness. Hamilton
asked about high-profile witnesses to make arrangements for
potential media interest.  Ellison said in an Oct. 26 statement that Oracle plans to
produce evidence that Hewlett-Packard Co. CEO Leo Apotheker was
involved in an effort to steal Oracle software while at SAP.  HP says Apotheker had a limited role in the SAP software
maintenance unit where the downloads took place, and claims
Ellison is seeking to harass him.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, the second-
largest maker of software for business applications behind SAP,
sued its competitor in 2007. It seeks at least $2.3 billion in
damages for what a former SAP unit acknowledges were fraudulent
downloads of Oracle software that infringed Oracle copyrights.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 