-- Obama Visits India With Focus on Mending U.S. Economy
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-11-06T09:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/obama-heads-for-india-with-his-main-focus-on-trying-to-repair-u-s-economy.html
President Barack Obama’s mission
overseas in his first two years in office was improving the U.S.
image abroad. His next round of travel is focused on repairing
the U.S. economy and his relationship with businesses at home.  Obama arrived in India today and during a 10-day, four-
nation trip he is peppering his schedule with events linked to
expanding U.S.  exports . On his first day in India, the president
will address the  U.S.-India Business Council  in Mumbai, India’s
financial capital, and huddle with a group of chief executive
officers including  Jeffrey Immelt  of  General Electric Co.  and
 Jim McNerney  of  Boeing Co.  to help push along multibillion-
dollar deals for U.S. companies.  “The primary purpose is to take a bunch of U.S. companies
and open up markets so that we can sell in Asia, in some of the
fastest-growing markets in the world,” Obama said Nov. 4 after
meeting with his Cabinet at the White House. In an opinion piece
published yesterday in the New York Times, he said companies
will announce contracts worth “billions of dollars” in India.  While planned long in advance around scheduled meetings of
the Group of 20 nations in South Korea and the  Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation  forum in Japan, Obama’s trip begins four
days after U.S. voters in midterm elections turned control of
the House of Representatives over to Republicans and narrowed
the Democratic Party’s Senate majority. Obama described his
party’s losses as a “shellacking.”  New Focus  The sluggish U.S. economy, a national jobless rate that has
been at or above 9.5 percent for 14 consecutive months and a
federal budget  deficit  forecast by the administration to hit
$1.4 trillion this year were top issues in the campaign.  Obama’s previous overseas trips focused on his vision for
U.S. relations with the world, said  Heather Conley , director of
Europe Program at the  Center for Strategic and International
Studies  in Washington.  “Post midterm election, it’s the balancing act of
addressing the domestic urgency at home and jobs and being
responsive to a very fast-paced international scene,” she said.  Obama said he wants to “show the connection between what
we’re doing overseas and what happens here at home when it comes
to job growth and economic growth.”  The Indian government is helping the president make his
case. “Our investment is creating, saving or supporting tens of
thousands of jobs in the United States,” Foreign Secretary
 Nirupama Rao  told reporters in New Delhi Nov. 4.  Longest Stay  Obama’s three-day stay in India will be his longest in a
foreign country as president. Asia’s third-biggest economy,
India offers a rapidly growing market for U.S. companies,
including Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc . and Fairfield, Connecticut-based  GE , the world’s biggest
maker of jet engines, power-plant turbines and locomotives.  GE last month won India’s biggest single order for gas and
steam turbines, a deal the company valued at more than $750
million, and is seeking nuclear plant contracts there.  Chicago-based  Boeing  expects to bid for $31 billion worth
of military contracts in the next 10 years as it competes with
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp.  and other
suppliers for orders following a tripling of India’s defense
budget.  India is the U.S.’s 12th-largest trading partner and
commerce between the two countries more than doubled to $37
billion in 2009 compared with 2003, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. In the first eight months of 2010, total trade
topped $32 billion.  High Priority  Obama has given closer relations with India a high priority,
as illustrated by his hosting of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
for the first state visit of his presidency.  Indian officials are looking for the Obama administration
to loosen restrictions on trade in high-technology goods,
especially those that may have both military and commercial uses,
and help in battling extremists, said S. Chandrasekaran,
director of the  South Asia Analysis Group , a policy-research
organization in India.  “It has to be two-way,” Chandrasekaran said. “India is
looking for access to dual-technology and better cooperation in
counterterrorism, while the U.S. wants business access in
India.”  Obama started his trip today with a visit to a memorial for
the victims of the November 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. He
said his stay at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, the scene of dozens
of deaths, was intended to send a “very clear message” that
the U.S. and India are united in their goal of protecting their
people.  Delhi Leg  Tomorrow he’s scheduled to leave for New Delhi, the capital,
where he will hold talks with Singh. Obama will address India’s
Parliament Nov. 8.  After India, he will squeeze in a twice-delayed trip to
Indonesia, where he lived as a boy, before heading to the G-20
summit in South Korea’s capital, Seoul, and the APEC meeting in
Yokohama, Japan. That portion of the trip also is focused on U.S.
economic concerns.  “We need to find new customers in new markets for
American-made goods,” Obama wrote in the New York Times. “Our
government, together with American businesses and workers, must
take steps to promote and sell our goods and services abroad --
particularly in Asia.”  “Obama in his international globetrotting now has to show
that he is creating benefits for American business,” said
 Steven Clemons , an analyst at the New America Foundation, a
Washington-based policy research group. “He is shifting from a
kinder, gentler, less unilateral stance in terms of foreign
policy to one where he needs to show bottom-line benefits from
American engagement abroad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
jrupert@@bloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 