-- Obama Says Jobs Report Is Encouraging for Recovery
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-11-05T15:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/obama-says-jobs-data-encouraging-any-idea-welcome-for-propelling-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  said today’s
employment report is a sign that the economy is recovering from
the “terrible damage” caused by the worst recession since the
Great Depression.  Still, recent increases in private sector employment are
“not good enough,” Obama said at the White House. “The
 unemployment rate  is still unacceptably high.”  Obama spoke before leaving for a 10-day trip through Asia
that is focused on trade and expanding U.S. exports. In remarks
directed at Congress, he said the U.S. can’t afford to get
“mired” in partisan battles over policy while countries such
as China move forward to expand their economies.  The Labor Department reported that the overall economy
added 151,000 jobs in October, exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The increase wasn’t large
enough to make a dent in the jobless rate, which held steady at
9.6 percent.  “We need to accelerate our economic growth so that we are
producing jobs at a faster pace,” he said. “I am open to any
idea, any proposal, any way we can get the economy growing
faster, so that people who need work can find it faster.”  The economy was the top issue in the Nov. 2 midterm
elections in which Republicans won a majority of seats in the
House of Representatives and narrowed the Democratic edge in the
Senate.  Tax Battle  Ohio Republican Representative  John Boehner , likely to be
the next House speaker, used the jobs report to renew the
Republican push for an extension of all income tax cuts approved
in 2001 and 2003, which are set to expire at the end of the
year. Obama has opposed keeping the tax cuts for individuals
making more than $200,000 a year and married couples earning
more than $250,000.  “Stopping these tax hikes -- and cutting spending to pre-
‘stimulus,’ pre-bailout levels -- would help eliminate the
uncertainty gripping small businesses,” Boehner said in a
statement.  The administration signaled yesterday that Obama is
“open” to negotiations for a temporary extension of all the
tax rates in order to win approval for keeping the lower rates
for middle-income taxpayers.  New Markets  One key to creating jobs is opening new markets, Obama
said, and that is a top item on the agenda for the Asia trip.  “I’m going to be talking about opening up additional
markets, in places like India, so that American businesses can
sell more products abroad in order to create more jobs here at
home,” the president said.  Obama has said he hopes to complete a revised free-trade
pact with South Korea, which has been stalled for three years,
to help reach his goal of doubling exports in five years to more
than $2 trillion. U.S. exports account for about one in five
manufacturing jobs, Obama said in a speech on March 11.  In India, he will meet with group of U.S. chief executive
officers, including  Jeffrey Immelt  of  General Electric Co.  and
 Jim McNerney  of  Boeing Co. , and plans to address the  U.S.-India
Business Council  tomorrow in Mumbai, India’s financial capital.  Other executives scheduled to meet with Obama in India are
 Honeywell International Inc . CEO  David Cote ,  PepsiCo Inc.  CEO
 Indra Nooyi  and  McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.  CEO  Terry McGraw III ,
according to  Jen Psaki , a White House spokeswoman.  United
Technologies Corp.  CEO  Louis Chenevert  also plans to attend, the
company said.  Economic Competition  The U.S. is locked in a competitive race with other
economies of the world, Obama said.  “Our success or failure in this race will depend on
whether we can come together as a nation. Our future depends on
putting politics aside,” he said.  Obama aims to announce new U.S. export business in India,
Asia’s third-largest economy, to show a link between sales
abroad and jobs and economic growth at home.  “All around the world, countries are moving,” Obama told
a Cabinet meeting yesterday. “They are serious about competing
with us not just on manufacturing but on services.”  Obama also will travel to Seoul, South Korea, for a meeting
of Group of 20 leaders and then to Yokohama, Japan, for the
annual  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  