-- Mobius Says Fed Plan to Boost Stocks, Push Commodities `Higher and Higher'
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   K e v i n   H a m l i n
-- 2010-11-05T22:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/mobius-citigroup-see-record-emerging-market-stock-rally-as-economies-grow.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed for a
seventh day as Citigroup Inc. predicted a “super-Goldilocks”
economy will send shares to  record highs  next year and investor
 Mark Mobius  said the rally faces no risks any time soon.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  will jump 30 percent to an
all-time high in 2011, Citigroup strategist  Geoffrey Dennis 
wrote in a Nov. 4 report. The Federal Reserve’s bond-purchase
plan will fuel a global stock rally and emerging markets are the
“bright spot,” Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion at
Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said in an interview.  “The weak, but not recessionary, macro situation in
developed countries is a ‘super-Goldilocks’ environment,”
Dennis, Citigroup’s New York-based emerging markets strategist,
wrote in the report. “The underlying conditions that have
driven markets higher over the past few months remain in place
and are likely to do so for several more quarters.”  The outlooks echo bullish forecasts from Traxis Partners
LLC’s  Barton Biggs  and Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s  Jim O’Neill  as surging economic growth prompts investors to pour
money into developing nations at a record pace.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped 3 basis points to 233,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  “This movement is mandated by the Federal Reserve and
quantitative easing. The liquidity flood is just out there
chasing yield,” said Enrique Alvarez, head of Latin America
fixed-income research at IDEAglobal in New York.  The benchmark MSCI emerging-markets index increased 0.4
percent to 1,155.94 at 5:27 p.m. in New York, bringing its  gain 
this week to 4.5 percent. The 21-country benchmark gauge has
advanced 17 percent this year, extending a record 75 percent
rally in 2009.  ‘Far From Bubble’  The index is valued at 13 times analysts’ 12-month earnings
 estimates  and 2.2 times net assets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with ratios of 14.9 and 2.9 when the
MSCI gauge peaked in October 2007, the data show.  Emerging-market stock valuations are “far from bubble
territory,” Dennis said. He predicted the MSCI gauge will climb
to 1,500, or 12 percent higher than its all-time high on Oct.
29, 2007. That would leave the gauge valued at about 13 times
estimated earnings and 2.8 times net assets, or book value,
Dennis wrote.  The rally may end when investors anticipate a tightening of
monetary policy by the Fed in 2012 with near-term risks
including a “double-dip” in the U.S. economy, “aggressive”
interest-rate increases by China and a rebound in the dollar,
Dennis said.  ‘Tata Motors, Gerdau’  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index 
rose 1.4 percent, completing a sixth weekly advance.  Jiangxi
Copper Co.  and Zijin Mining Group Co., the nation’s biggest
producers of the metals, advanced at least 4 percent in China.  India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  climbed to a
record close for a second straight day in a shortened trading
session, as investors increased their holdings amid expectations
the nation’s economic growth will boost corporate earnings.  Tata Motors Ltd. , the best performer on the benchmark index
this year, gained 0.9 percent to 1,244.95 rupees, its highest
close since at least January 1991.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell from a two-year high,
paring the biggest weekly gain in a month, after steelmaker
 Gerdau SA  reported a drop in earnings and fell 3.6 percent.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 