-- Mobius Says World Bull Market Faces No Risks `Any Time Soon'
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T07:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/mobius-says-fed-plan-to-boost-stocks-push-commodities-higher-and-higher-.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s bond
purchase plan will further drive the rally for global stocks and
push commodity prices “higher and higher,” said Templeton
Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius .  “We could have an optimistic scenario for quite some
time,” Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion, said in a
telephone interview from Beijing yesterday. “Commodities are
the big area for us. We are great believers in higher commodity
prices and therefore are investing in commodity companies.”  The  MSCI World Index  yesterday surged to a two-year high,
gold jumped to a record and crude oil advanced to a seven-month
high after the Fed announced Nov. 3 plans for $600 billion in
bond purchases through next June. Asian stocks rose today,
pushing a benchmark gauge to its best weekly advance this year,
on speculation the Fed will succeed in stoking growth in the
world’s biggest economy.  The liquidity flooding the global economy from the Fed’s
quantitative easing will extend record gains for commodities and
dollar depreciation cannot be avoided, said Mobius, 74, who is
also the chairman of Templeton’s emerging markets group.  The U.S. economy is growing and that will have a positive
effect on Europe and spread to other countries, Mobius said. The
“bright spot” is the emerging markets where demand continues
to grow, he said. Rising incomes in developing nations are
especially good for consumer stocks, he said.  Mobius joins Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s  Jim O’Neill 
in saying the Fed’s measures to boost the U.S. economy will spur
further gains for global equities. O’Neill, creator of the BRICs
acronym to describe the large emerging markets of Brazil, Russia,
India and China, said this week that while a new “bull market”
in global equities probably started in the past 15 months,
current valuations are far from a “bubble.”  China Bull  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has jumped 17 percent this
year, compared with an 8.4 percent advance for a measure of
 developed markets .  Mobius said he’s “very bullish” on China as the country
has “no big problems.” Even though  stock valuations  are not as
attractive as last year they are “not out of sight” and
Templeton funds are buying companies that are expanding in the
nation’s less developed regions, particularly consumer companies.  “It’s not as easy as it was but we’re still buying and
finding opportunities,” he said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  has rebounded 32 percent since
reaching this year’s low on July 5 on expectations central banks
around the world will inject more cash into their economies to
boost growth. It remains down 4.5 percent this year after the
government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed lending
growth to cool the economy.  ‘Wouldn’t Touch’  Demand is so strong in China that Mobius is now looking at
airline stocks, an industry that he said he normally “wouldn’t
touch” because of low profit margins.  Emerging markets may faces inflationary pressure from the
capital inflows spurred by the Fed’s measures, he said.  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bond funds, both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
started tracking them in 1995.  Central banks in  emerging markets  will buy dollars to
prevent their currencies from rising too fast and as their
foreign exchange reserves increase in size so they will appear
increasingly safe to investors looking for markets with higher
economic growth and yields, Mobius said.  “It’s a vicious cycle,” he said. “The consequences could
be not too good going forward. It’s something we have to watch
carefully.”  China Concern  The Fed needs to explain this week’s decision to purchase
bonds to pump money into the world’s biggest economy or risk
undermining the global recovery,  Cui Tiankai , China’s Vice
Foreign Minister, said at a press briefing in Beijing today.  Cui’s remarks echo concerns raised across Asia as countries
brace themselves for stronger currencies and possible asset-
price inflation. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
yesterday said the U.S. was creating problems for the world and
the subject would be raised during next week’s Group of 20
leaders’ summit in Seoul.  For now, capital inflows in emerging markets are being
counterbalanced by “hundreds of billions” of funds being
raised by new stock sales and secondary fund raisings, Mobius
said.  If funds keep pouring in and companies that have raised
cash begin using it to buy assets, prices will be pushed up in a
“snowball effect,” he said.  The worst-case outcome is a bubble that bursts after prices
rise too fast, with “people getting hurt” because they were
too optimistic, Mobius said.  If the U.S. government’s quantitative easing plan fails and
fiscal tightening follows, Western economies may be back into
recession,  Albert Edwards , Societe General SA’s London-based
strategist, wrote in a report yesterday. That will trigger a 60
percent drop in equity prices, he said.  Mobius said none of these outcomes is likely in the short
term and his funds are fully invested. “I’m pretty
optimistic,” he said. “I don’t see any risks any time soon.
These things can last for years and years.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  