-- Oil Rises to Highest Since October 2008 as Dollar Decline Spurs Purchases
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-05T12:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/oil-set-for-longest-rally-since-april-as-dollar-declines-on-fed-stimulus.html
Oil traded near its highest level in
two years in New York as the dollar headed for a weekly decline
against most major counterparts after the Federal Reserve’s
decision to purchase more debt to boost the U.S. economy.  Crude’s 6.6 percent rally this week, driven by the dollar’s
decline, may be about to end, according to a technical indicator
used by traders. The U.S. currency has fallen versus all but one
of its 16 most-traded peers since the Fed said Nov. 3 it will
buy about $75 billion of Treasuries every month through June.  “Underlying demand in the industrialized world is still
not enough to justify these price levels,” said  Eugen Weinberg ,
head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG. “But market
sentiment is so strong that if the weakness of the dollar
persists I couldn’t rule out higher prices.”  Oil for December delivery traded at $86.83 a barrel, up 34
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 12:51 p.m. London time. The contract earlier rose to $87.22,
the highest price since Oct. 9, 2008. Brent crude for December
settlement rose 16 cents to $88.16 after advancing to $88.80 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Futures advanced after a U.S. government report showed
payrolls rose more than forecast in October. Payrolls climbed
151,000, exceeding the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and following a revised 41,000 drop the prior
month that was smaller than initially estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The jobless rate
held at 9.6 percent, in line with forecasts.  Relative Strength Index  Crude’s relative strength index, a measure of how rapidly
prices advance or drop in a specific period, signals that the
rally may be close to dissipating. The 14-day RSI was last at
67.68. A reading of 70 and above is often interpreted as a sign
that prices are “overbought” and ready to decline.  Expectations for gains in crude have increased on
speculation the Fed’s stimulus program will weaken the U.S.
currency as economic growth accelerates, boosting the allure of
raw materials, which are priced in dollars.  The dollar has lost 1.2 percent versus the euro this week,
trading as low as $1.4282 yesterday, the weakest level since
Jan. 20. It has depreciated 2.5 percent against the Swiss franc
and 1.1 percent compared with the pound.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its average 2011 forecast for
New York-traded crude to $89.75 a barrel from $82.50, following
the Fed’s announcement of additional asset purchases, or
quantitative easing.  Game-Changers  “Quantitative easing and the comments from the Saudi oil
minister were definitely the game-changers,” according to
Weinberg at Commerzbank.  Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said on Nov. 1
that a range between $70 and $90 a barrel is satisfactory for
consumers. The kingdom had previously indicated a preferred
target of $75 a barrel.  Prices may climb to $100 or more next year for the first
time since the 2008 financial crisis as central banks pump cash
into economies to revive growth, JPMorgan and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said this week.  Investors should bet on gains in stocks rather than oil as
the Federal Reserve’s decision to extend its economic stimulus
program weakens the dollar, boosting the price of crude,
according to Petromatrix GmbH.  The Fed’s quantitative easing measures are “better played
in equities than in oil futures,”  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of Petromatrix in Zug, Switzerland, wrote in a report
received today. “Unresolved unemployment and rising oil prices
are not a positive for oil demand.”  OPEC Demand Outlook  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries upgraded
its estimates for global oil consumption through 2014, citing
growth in Asia. Demand will increase 5.1 percent to 89.9 million
barrels a day by 2014 from this year, 800,000 barrels a day more
than in last year’s forecast, OPEC said yesterday in its annual
outlook. Still, the 12-member group, which pumps 40 percent of
the world’s crude, is happy with prices of $70 to $85 a barrel,
Secretary-General  Abdulla El-Badri  said yesterday in Vienna.  “I don’t think we’ll see $100 oil in 2011,” el-Badri
said. The global economic recovery won’t be jeopardized if oil
rises to $90 a barrel, he said.  Commercially held  crude  inventories increased 1.95 million
barrels last week to 368.2 million, as refiners cut  operating
rates  to the lowest since March, the Energy Department in
Washington said on Nov. 3. Supplies were forecast to gain 1.5
million, according to the median estimate from 17 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Crude may still increase next week on the dollar’s
weakness, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Twenty-nine of 49
analysts and traders, or 59 percent, said oil will rise through
Nov. 12. Thirteen respondents, or 27 percent, predicted prices
will fall and seven estimate there would be little change. Last
week, 54 percent of respondents said futures would decline.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles fell last week as imports from
Europe dwindled after strikes in France shut refineries, cutting
the profit from shipping the fuel from Europe to a 20-month low.
Inventories were 164.9 million barrels, the lowest level in
almost a year, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  