-- Tokyo Traders' Lunch Break May Be Cut as Panel Reviews Plan Next Week
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 2010-11-05T05:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/tokyo-traders-lunch-break-may-be-shortened-to-one-hour-from-next-week.html
The Tokyo stock exchange is reviewing
whether to cut its 90-minute lunch break to 1 hour as it
considers longer trading hours for the first time since 1991.  A committee will study the proposal on Nov. 10, and if a
decision is reached, it will be submitted to the board for
ratification and made public on Nov. 24,  Naoya Takahashi , a
spokesman for the Tokyo exchange, said today by telephone.  “It’s bad for our health if the market is moving while we
eat our lunch,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. “For people like us who
trade face-to-face, it’s better to have some time to physically
meet clients. Many of them use the lunch break as an opportunity
to review their positions.”  Tokyo, where stocks trade from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 12:30
p.m. to 3 p.m., joins Hong Kong and Singapore among Asian
exchanges that are considering longer trading hours. Online
brokerages were the main proponents of cutting the Tokyo break,
and the bourse is surveying investors and intermediaries as part
of its review, Takahashi said in July.  Hong Kong’s bourse said yesterday it will discuss changing
its 10 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. and 2:30-4 p.m. sessions at a board
meeting this month and publish the conclusions by yearend.  Frankfurt, Paris and London are open for more than 8 hours
daily, while New York trades for 6 1/2 hours. Singapore is
proposing to boost its hours to eight from 6 1/2 by also cutting
its lunch break. The Tokyo exchange is open for 4 1/2 hours.  ‘Take a Breather’  “There will be less time for me to take a breather and
take time to think over things, or have meetings,”  Yoshifumi Kikuchi , head of the dealing division at Tokyo-based Nissan
Century Securities Co., said today by telephone.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 11 percent this year
to yesterday, the biggest drop among gauges for the world’s 40
largest equity markets, as the yen at a 15-year high against the
dollar threatened the nation’s export-driven economic recovery.  “The longer the trading hours, the better,” said  Takashi Hiroki , chief strategist at Monex Inc., a Tokyo-based brokerage.
“It’s better to scrap the lunch break. Market participants will
have an opportunity to trade more. People will probably start to
work in shifts and create more jobs.”  The value of China’s stock market surged above Japan’s to
become the second-biggest worldwide last month, behind the U.S.
China now has a capitalization of about $3.96 trillion compared
with Japan’s $3.65 trillion. Hong Kong surpassed Japan for the
first time as Asia’s most-lucrative market for stock lenders,
boosted by investor demand for Chinese securities to be used in
short sales.  “It is not by having longer hours that you will increase
investors’ appetite for Japanese equities, just like a
restaurant doesn’t necessarily have more customers by staying
open between lunch and dinner time,” said  Mattia Ciancaleoni ,
director of equity sales in Tokyo at Citigroup Inc. “I do not
think that shortening the lunch-break hour will lead to any
substantial increase in volumes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 