-- MSNBC's Olbermann Suspended for Political Donations
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-11-05T22:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/olbermann-suspended-by-nbc-after-making-politicial-donations-to-democrats.html
MSNBC host  Keith Olbermann  was
suspended indefinitely without pay for making political
donations in violation of NBC News policies.  “I became aware of Keith’s political contributions late
last night,”  Phil Griffin , president of MSNBC, said today in an
e-mail. “Mindful of NBC News policy and standards, I have
suspended him indefinitely without pay.”  Olbermann contributed the maximum $2,400 to three
Democrats. Arizona Representatives  Raul Grijalva  and  Gabrielle Giffords  received payments on Oct. 28, the day Grijalva appeared
on “Countdown with Keith Olbermann,” the network’s most-
watched show. Olbermann also donated to U.S. Senate candidate
 Jack Conway  of Kentucky, who lost to Republican  Rand Paul .  The episode highlights the blurring line between private
actions and journalistic responsibilities as news networks such
as MSNBC and Fox try to attract viewers with partisan hosts.
Some news organizations allow political donations while others
ban them.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., the owner of Fox News,
makes contributions to political groups.  “Journalists who work for a news organization have an
ethical responsibility to honor their guidelines and
standards,” said  Bob Steele , who teaches journalism ethics at
Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. “If NBC and MSNBC
spelled out those guidelines clearly and Olbermann violated
those guidelines, then he should pay the price.”  MSNBC Shift  Thomas Roberts, an MSNBC anchor, will host “Countdown”
tonight,  Jeremy Gaines , a network spokesman, said in an e-mail.
The network had initially named Chris Hayes, Washington editor
of The Nation and an MSNBC contributor.  “Anyone working for NBC News who takes part in civic or
other outside activities may find that these activities
jeopardize his or her standing as an impartial journalist
because they may create the appearance of a conflict of
interest,” a statement at the network’s  website  said. “Such
activities may include participation in or contributions to
political campaigns or groups that espouse controversial
positions. You should report any such potential conflicts in
advance to, and obtain prior approval of, the president of NBC
News or his designee.”  Olbermann confirmed the donations to Politico, which
reported the suspension earlier today. Michael Price, a press
contact for Olbermann, didn’t respond to requests for comment.
Hayes has also made contributions to Democrats, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics in Washington.  Olbermann Statement  “I did not privately or publicly encourage anyone else to
donate to these campaigns, nor to any others in this election or
any previous ones, nor have I previously donated to any
political campaign at any level,” Olbermann said in a statement
released to Politico.  MSNBC has shifted to the political left in recent years to
compete with Fox News, which has become the leader on cable with
a conservative tilt, said  Brad Adgate , director of research at
Horizon Media, an advertising company in New York. CNN aims for
a more middle ground, he said.  MSNBC’s lineup, led by liberal voices such as Olbermann and
 Rachel Maddow , has helped the network gain in the ratings,
beating CNN for four straight months, Adgate said.  “Countdown” runs weeknights at 8 p.m. New York time. This
year, Olbermann has averaged 1.03 million viewers a night,
according to data from Nielsen Co.  “The O’Reilly Factor” on Fox News was the most-watched
cable news program last week with more than 3.2 million viewers
a night, Nielsen data show.  Donation Policies  Donation policies vary among news organizations. The New
York Times and Washington Post forbid newsroom employees from
contributing, according to  Robert Christie , a spokesman for the
Times, and  Rima Calderon , a spokeswoman from the Post.  Steele said he opposes policies that allow hosts to make
donations to political parties, candidates or causes.  “It’s an issue of journalistic credibility,” Steele said.
“If someone participates in news programs on a news network,
then there is a journalistic responsibility and ethical
standards that applies.”  News Corp. forbids employees to use company resources for
political purposes, expect when approved by the general counsel,
a Fox News spokesperson said in an interview. Employees are
permitted to make personal donations.  News Corp. Donations  News Corp. gave $1 million to the Republican Governors
Association in June, and contributed $65,000 to a committee
trying to elect Republicans to state legislatures and other
state offices. The New York-based company also gave $1 million
to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, according to the Nathan
Cummings Foundation, a Jewish non-profit organization that
supports social justice and health care.  News Corp.’s political action committee had given $180,200
to federal candidates for the 2010 elections as of mid-October,
with Democrats receiving 58 percent of that amount, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics.  Journalists who cover government and politics at Bloomberg
News may not make political donations or engage in activities
that create the appearance of a conflict of interest.  Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S. cable television company,
is poised to take control of MSNBC as part of its proposed
purchase of NBC Universal from General Electric Co. The deal is
awaiting regulatory approval.  Career History  Olbermann began his career with NBC in 1997, when he was an
anchor for NBC Sports, according to his MSNBC  website bio . He
was also host of two primetime news programs on MSNBC, “The Big
Show” and “White House In Crisis.”  In 2003, Olbermann became a substitute host on “Nachman”
and an anchor for MSNBC’s coverage of the Iraq war before
starting “Countdown” in April, according to the website.  Grijalva, the son of a Mexican immigrant, won re-election
49 percent to 45 percent against Republican opponent Ruth
McClung. Giffords, whose district includes the University of
Arizona, is ahead by about 3,000 votes with absentee ballots
still being counted in a race that hasn’t been called.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  