-- Molycorp to Supply Grace With Rare Earths Used to Make Petroleum Catalysts
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-11-05T20:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/molycorp-to-supply-grace-with-rare-earths-used-to-make-petroleum-catalysts.html
Molycorp Inc. , owner of the world’s
largest non-Chinese deposit of rare-earth metals, agreed to
supply U.S. chemical producer W. R. Grace & Co. for as long as
eight years with an element used in petroleum processing.  Grace will receive “a significant amount” of rare-earth
production from the Mountain Pass mine in California through
2012, Greenwood Village, Colorado-based Molycorp said today in a
statement. Grace subsequently will get more than 75 percent of
lanthanum output from a new facility at the site through 2015,
Molycorp said. Grace can extend the agreement through 2018.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Lanthanum is used in catalysts for breaking down petroleum
into gasoline and other products in a process called fluid
catalytic cracking, the largest application for rare earths. The
minerals are also used to make computer disk drives, military
radar, missile-guidance systems and electric-vehicle batteries.  Prices of rare earths have climbed as much as sevenfold in
the past six months as China in July reduced its second-half
export quota for the minerals by 72 percent. China accounts for
97 percent of global rare-earths supply.  Molycorp  fell  $1, or 2.7 percent, to $35.51 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have more
than doubled since the company’s initial public offering in
July.  Grace gets most of its lanthanum from companies in China
and hasn’t yet had any supply problems,  Hudson La  Force, chief
financial officer of Columbia, Maryland-based Grace, said in an
Oct. 21 telephone interview.  Pentagon Study  Rare earths comprise a group of 17 metals including
neodymium, lanthanum, cerium and europium. While the elements
aren’t as rare in nature as the name implies, they are difficult
to find in profitable concentrations, expensive for Western
producers to extract and are often laced with radioactive
elements.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, warned in April of
“vulnerabilities” for the military because of the lack of
domestic suppliers of rare-earth materials used in weapons
systems.  The U.S. Defense Department concluded that China’s monopoly
on rare earths poses no threat to national security, a person
familiar with a yearlong study by the Pentagon said Oct. 31. The
report notes that rising prices and supply uncertainties are
spurring private investment in new mining operations outside of
China.  Molycorp said Nov. 1 it has begun processing rare-earth
materials from its stockpile of previously mined ores and will
produce about 3,000 tons this year. Its capacity will go up to
20,000 tons by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 