-- OM Group-Controlled Congolese Venture Faces Another Injunction in Jersey
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-11-05T14:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/om-group-controlled-congolese-venture-faces-another-injunction-in-jersey.html
OM Group Inc. , the world’s largest
cobalt producer, said a joint venture it controls in the
Democratic Republic of Congo faces a second injunction in
Jersey, Channel Islands for a 14.5 million-pound ($23.5 million)
debt owed by Gecamines, the state-owned Congolese miner.  Marange Investments Ltd. won the court order last month
against payments by Groupement du Terril de Lubumbashi to
Gecamines pending the outcome of a case against Marange in South
Africa’s Supreme Court. GTL, registered in Jersey, is already
facing a garnishment on payments to Gecamines over a Congolese
state debt worth more than $116 million dollars.  While it isn’t clear what the outcome of both matters will
be, they “will not have a material adverse effect upon its
financial condition or results of operations,” OM Group said in
its third-quarter report yesterday.  GTL, which is also owned by Gecamines and George Forrest
Group, operates a smelter in Congo that is OM Group’s primary
source of cobalt. As of Sept. 30, the venture owed Gecamines
$63.8 million under its contractual agreements, OM Group said.  The company filing didn’t give details about Marange or its
debt claim, and Royal Court of Jersey and South African Supreme
Court documents weren’t immediately available. Bloomberg was
unable to find any contact details for Marange to seek comment.  The Marange injunction came before GTL, Gecamines and Congo
lost an appeal at the Royal Court on Oct. 27 over a debt claim
by FG Hemisphere Associates LLC, a New York-based distressed-
debt investor. FG Hemisphere is trying to collect on debts owed
by Congo that the firm bought in 2004 from Energoinvest d.d., a
Sarajevo-based company that won two arbitration cases against
the central African country at the International Chamber of
Commerce in 2003 over unpaid loans in the 1980s.  ‘Organ of State’  The Royal Court found that FG Hemisphere could collect the
money through Gecamines because it is “an organ of the state” of
the  Congo , according to documents e-mailed by the court.  GTL is appealing the ruling, according to the OM Group
filing. All payments to Gecamines up to the amount of the debt
owed will be deposited with the Royal Court pending the outcome
of the appeal, OM Group said.  The FG Hemisphere injunction is also preventing GTL from
paying $500,000 a month in debt service to Katanga province,
where GTL’s smelter is situated, according to the Royal Court
documents.  In December 2009, the governor of Katanga temporarily
blocked GTL’s cobalt exports because of non-payment, according
to the documents. GTL requested relief from the injunction at
the Royal Court, saying the blockage may affect their revenue
stream and cause the joint venture to “fail,” the court
documents said.  The Royal Court denied the request in April after looking
over OM Group’s financial statements and finding the injunctions
had not “created any problems over the last 12 months.”  Troy Dewar , director of OM Group’s investor relations,
referred Bloomberg to the company’s third-quarter filing and
declined to comment on the matter in a Nov. 3 e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Lubumbashi on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 