-- London Firefighters Call Off Plans to Strike on Bonfire Night on Mediation
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2010-11-05T00:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/london-firefighters-union-calls-off-plan-to-hold-a-strike-on-bonfire-night.html
A strike in London by members of the
 Fire Brigades Union , planned to coincide with Britain’s Bonfire
Night, has been canceled.  The union called off the 47-hour strike, which was planned
to start today, spokeswoman Helen Hague said by telephone
yesterday.  London Fire Brigade  said it agreed to go to a Nov. 16
meeting of an independently chaired panel able to make
recommendations that would resolve the dispute with the union.  “My intention has always been to reach an agreement on
proposals that will make Londoners safer and firefighters
safer,” London Fire Commissioner Ron Dobson said in an e-mailed
statement from the LFB. “Going to an independently chaired body
to help us seek a way forward is a step in the right
direction.”  As many as 5,500 firefighters originally planned to stop
work from 10 a.m. local time in a strike that would have
coincided with annual Bonfire Night celebrations. Fire crews
typically attend twice as many calls on Bonfire Night compared
with an average day, according to the LFB.  “We have listened to the concerns around public safety,”
FBU general secretary Matt Wrack told Sky News yesterday.  The fire brigade is seeking to terminate firefighters’
existing contracts and offer new ones, which it says will allow
the introduction of new shift patterns. The FBU has said this
process is aimed at cutting about 5,557 uniformed and 41 non-
operational firefighters.  Britain’s Bonfire Night marks the anniversary of a failed
plot by Guy Fawkes and his co-conspirators on Nov. 5, 1605, to
assassinate King James I of England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net . 