-- Loonie Climbs to Parity After Reports Show North American Job Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-05T21:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/loonie-drops-first-time-in-seven-days-after-fewer-than-forecast-jobs-added.html
Canada’s dollar was worth more than
its U.S. counterpart for the first time in three weeks after
reports showing that each of the nations’ economies added jobs
last month bolstered global growth optimism.  The loonie, as the currency is called because of the
aquatic bird on the one-dollar coin, rose for a seventh day and
gained versus the euro and yen. The legal tender gained 1.9
percent this week for the fifth-best performance among the 16
most-traded currencies. Fellow commodity exporters Australia and
New Zealand are the two the top three gainers, after crude oil
rose to the highest in more than two years.  The dollar “will get an extra kick from this because it
has the benefit of being both a commodity complex currency and a
North American story,”  Boris Schlossberg , director of research
at online currency trader GFT Forex, said by phone from New
York, referring to the U.S. jobs report.  The currency rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0001 per  U.S. dollar 
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0022 yesterday, after rising to
99.92 Canadian cents. That’s the highest level since Oct. 14. It
rose 1.4 percent to C$1.4037 per euro, and strengthened 0.8
percent to 81.24 yen.  “People care more about the year-to-date range than
parity, but parity is a large psychological barrier,”  Camilla Sutton , director of currency strategy in Toronto at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote via e-mail.  Employment rose by 3,000 in October after a decline of
6,600 in September, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The
jobless rate declined to 7.9 percent from 8 percent as the labor
force shrank. Economists forecast net job growth of 15,000 and
an 8 percent unemployment rate, according to the median
estimates of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Economic Laggard  U.S. employers added jobs last month for the first time
since May. Payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and following
a revised 41,000 drop the prior month that was smaller than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington.  “North America was the laggard in the global recovery
story and now it’s finally starting to catch up so it should
benefit Canada and the U.S.,” Schlossberg said.  The yield on Canada’s two-year bond rose seven basis points
to 1.47 percent as the price of the 2 percent security due in
December 2012 dropped 13 cents to C$100.06, on bets a stronger
economy makes it more likely the Bank of Canada will raise
interest rates. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  raised the
overnight target rate three times starting in June to 1 percent,
before standing pat last month.  Loonie Rally  The U.S. currency has dropped against all of its major
counterparts except the yen this week as traders speculated that
the Federal Reserve’s plan to buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June will debase the currency. The greenback
rose against 9 of its 16 most-traded counterparts today.  Canada’s dollar has appreciated versus the U.S. dollar in
nine of the 10 weeks since Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben. S. Bernanke  signaled in a speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that the
U.S. central bank might add more stimulus to the economy through
quantitative easing.  Gold for immediate delivery rose to a record $1,397.35 on
bets the Fed’s stimulus plan will erode the value of the dollar,
boosting demand for precious metals as alternative assets. Crude
oil futures touched $87.22, the highest since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  