-- Los Angeles Airport Leads Rush to Capture Expiring Tax Break: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-05T15:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/los-angeles-airport-leads-rush-to-capture-expiring-tax-break-muni-credit.html
Airports from JFK in New York City to
Los Angeles International are trying to complete bond sales and
take advantage of a tax break scheduled to expire at year-end.  An $875.8 million issue by the Los Angeles Department of
Airports set for next week follows offerings this week of $588
million by Atlanta and $310 million by Love Field in Dallas. The
Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, which is expanding the
international arrivals terminal at  John F. Kennedy
International , plans an $840 million sale, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s been a large increase in airport issuance because
of the temporary suspension of the alternative-minimum tax,”
said  Howard Cure , director of municipal research at Evercore
Wealth Management LLC in New York, which has about $2 billion of
assets under management.  As part of last year’s economic-stimulus package, Congress
helped airports borrow more cheaply by allowing them to sell
bonds whose interest is fully tax-exempt, rather than subject to
the alternative-minimum tax. For individuals who must pay that
 levy , interest on many bonds issued for the benefit of
corporations, including those sold by airports, is taxable. That
requires the debt to carry higher yields.  ‘Lot of Opportunity’  About 3.9 million taxpayers were subject to the
alternative-minimum tax in 2008, and 6.3 million reported
receiving tax-exempt income, according to Internal Revenue
Service  data.   The crowded calendar of airport bond sales means “you can
find a lot of opportunity right now,” said  Daniel Solender,  who
oversees $15 billion as head of municipal bond management at
Jersey City, New Jersey-based Lord Abbett & Co.  The JFK issue next week will finance expansion of the
international arrivals terminal. It is backed by rental payments
from retail concessions and airlines, including the anchor
tenant,  Delta Air Lines , according a Fitch Ratings Nov. 3
report.  “There’s a glut coming,” said  Kenneth Cushine , principal
at  Frasca & Associates LLC , a New York-based financial adviser
to airports, including four that sold debt in the past week.
Airports are also taking advantage of low interest rates to pay
for expansion they have been planning for years, said  Doreen Frasca  of the advisory firm.  “Everybody is looking week to week to see whether supply
and demand might get out of whack and result in a penalty for
airports,” Cushine said. So far airports haven’t paid higher
rates due to the volume of offerings, though they continue to
pay higher rates than other borrowers because of the volatility
of their business, he said.  Atlanta Sale  Atlanta’s financing included a 3.53 percent yield for bonds
due in January 2020 and rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
according to tentative yields announced by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
A Bloomberg  index  of comparably rated general-obligation
government debt stood at 3.28 percent yesterday.  Los Angeles International wants to sell bonds before year-
end to benefit from the lower yields on bonds not subject to the
alternative-minimum tax, said  Ryan Yakubik , director of capital
development and budget at Los Angeles World Airports, which
oversees the city’s aviation facilities.  “There’s a significant savings from selling bonds on a
fully tax-exempt basis and not subject to the AMT,” said  Seth Lehman , an analyst at Fitch. As much as $5 billion of issues are
in the pipeline, including airports in San Francisco, Detroit,
Indianapolis and San Antonio, he said in an interview.  Philadelphia last week sold AMT bonds backed by revenue
from the city’s airport due June 2020 at 4.19 percent, or 0.70
percentage point more than the 3.49 percent yield for its fully
tax-exempt notes.  $20 Billion  Bond sales by airports average between $8 billion and $10
billion most years, “but this year is likely to come in around
$20 billion” according to  Justin Perras,  a spokesman for
JPMorgan, underwriter for the issues by Atlanta and Los Angeles.  “One of the primary reasons we are going to market with
the special project bonds at the end of this month is to beat
the federal tax-law changes,” said  Steve Coleman,  a spokesman
for the  Port Authority of New York & New Jersey .  Year-End Rush  The push to borrow before year-end is leading the Port
Authority to issue notes before construction contracts have been
signed for adding nine new gates to the international arrivals
building for use by Delta, Coleman said.  The risk that costs of unsigned contracts for the JFK
expansion could exceed estimates, and increased borrowing, led
analysts at Fitch to assign a BB or speculative-grade rating to
the new debt. It also lowered to BB from BBB its rating on
existing bonds backed by revenue from airlines using the
international arrivals terminal.  The Fitch report said the credit rating could “migrate
upward” if construction and usage of the new terminal meet
projections. The revenue from the terminal, estimated at 1.8
times annual cost of debt payments, is enough to justify a
higher rating than the B- grade on Delta’s existing  debt , the
report said.  “We’re confident in our cost estimates and are ready to
proceed,” said Heather Faulkner, a spokeswoman for Delta, in a
statement. “We are targeting an issuance before the change in
tax law to take advantage of the current rate environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 