-- Berger Group Charged With Fraud in Iraq, Afghanistan
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-11-05T20:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/louis-berger-group-charged-with-fraud-over-contracts-in-iraq-afghanistan.html
Louis Berger Group Inc., a New Jersey
engineering consulting firm, agreed to pay $69.3 million to
resolve criminal and civil probes related to overbilling for
reconstruction contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan and other work.  The U.S. Justice Department agreed to defer prosecution of
the case against the company, which pledged to reform its
practices under a monitor. Prosecutors, who today filed criminal
charges of overbilling from 1999 to 2007, will dismiss the case
in two years if the company tightens internal controls and
fulfills other promises. Two former executives pleaded guilty in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  “This fraud is about more than playing with the numbers to
rip off the government,”  Paul Fishman , the U.S. attorney in New
Jersey, said in a phone interview. “Funds that could have
raised hope from the rubble instead padded the bottom line.”  As part of its settlement, the company, based in
Morristown, New Jersey, admitted submitting claims for more than
$10 million in inflated overhead rates to the U.S. Agency for
International Development. The company will pay an $18.7 million
criminal penalty and $50.6 million to resolve civil claims,
including allegations it violated the False Claims Act. The U.S.
examined billings over a 17-year period.  Manipulated Formula  “They manipulated the formula for allocating indirect
costs of their work on the invoices they submitted for the
reconstruction projects in Afghanistan and Iraq,” Fishman said.  USAID supports economic growth, agriculture, trade and
humanitarian assistance in developing countries. The agency
awarded several multi-million dollar contracts for
reconstruction work in Iraq and Afghanistan, according to
authorities.  USAID agreed not to bar the company from future contracts
based on its remedial efforts, Fishman said.  Salvatore Pepe, 58, LBG’s former chief financial officer
and Precy Pellettieri, 54, the former controller, pleaded guilty
to conspiring to defraud USAID by inflating overhead rates. They
admitted that they classified non-federal work overhead as
federal overhead.  “LBG is a stronger company today as a result of this
settlement as well as the company’s corporate improvement
program,” Larry D. Walker, president of LBG, said in a
statement. “The improvements made to our systems, policies and
structures over the past four years have paved the way for a
sustainable future.”  Dam Project  Louis Berger International, a unit of Louis Berger Group,
got about $736 million to modernize a power system and
rehabilitate the Kajakai Dam in Afghanistan. The company won the
second-most contracts for reconstruction work in Afghanistan
over a three-year period ended in 2009, according to an Oct. 27
report by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan
Reconstruction.  From 1999 to 2007, former executives submitted “false,
fictitious and fraudulent overhead rates for indirect costs and
correspondingly resulted in overpayments by the government in
excess of $10 million,” the company admitted as part of its
deferred-prosecution agreement.  The closely held company had revenue of $694 million last
year and has 5,000 employees in 60 countries, according to its
website.  The government also settled a False Claims Act lawsuit
filed in 2006 by Harold Salomon, who was a senior financial
analyst and auditor at the company. The law lets people sue on
behalf of the government and share in any recovery.  Whistleblower’s Claim  Salomon’s reward hasn’t been determined yet, according to
his law firm, Phillips & Cohen LLP in Washington.  Louis Berger’s fraud hurt the U.S. war effort, Salomon’s
attorney,  Tim McCormack , said in a statement.  “Money that should have been used to build roads, clinics
and schools in Afghanistan to win support of the Afghan people
was used instead to build Louis Berger’s profits,” he said.  Salomon plans to donate some of his reward to the American-
Haitian Association for Medical Economic & Educational Support,
a non-profit group he founded to provide healthcare and fund
economic development projects in Haiti, according to a law firm
statement.  The case is U.S. v. The Louis Berger Group Inc., 10-mj-
3198, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark). The
whistleblower case is United States ex. rel. Harold Salomon v.
The Louis Berger Group Inc., 06-cv-1970, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Baltimore).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 