-- Toyota Raises Full-Year Forecast, Predicts Second-Half Plunge
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-11-05T11:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/toyota-increases-forecast-as-sales-gains-outweigh-impact-of-stronger-yen.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s
largest carmaker, raised its full-year profit forecast as sales
in Asia helped the company beat its first-half plan.  Net income may total 350 billion yen ($4.3 billion) for the
12 months ending March 31, compared with an earlier  estimate  of
340 billion yen, the Toyota City, Japan-based company said in a
statement today.  Toyota follows  Honda Motor Co.  and  Nissan Motor Co.  in
boosting earnings forecasts as economic growth in Asia spurs
sales. That’s helping President  Akio Toyoda , grandson of the
company’s founder, withstand the yen’s advance to near a 15-year
high against the U.S. dollar and the lingering effects of record
vehicle recalls for defects tied to unintended acceleration.  “Toyota’s double-digit sales growth in Japan, China and
Southeast Asia drove the profit gain” in the first half, said
 Koji Endo , an auto analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.
“The second half looks shockingly bad. I don’t see the road map
to recovery.”  Toyota predicted profit will plunge 77 percent for the
remainder of the year. Based on the forecast, second-half net
income may fall to 61 billion yen from 265 billion yen a year
earlier.  The carmaker’s  shares  rose 1.9 percent to close at 2,964
yen in Tokyo trading before the earnings announcement. The stock
has declined 24 percent this year, compared with Honda’s 7
percent drop and a 50 percent gain for South Korea’s  Hyundai
Motor Co.   Yen Outlook  The company revised its outlook for the Japanese currency
to 85 yen against the dollar from 90 yen. A stronger yen erodes
profit by reducing the repatriated value of overseas sales. The
yen touched 80.22 against the dollar on Nov. 1, the highest
level since April 1995.  “If the yen stays at this level in the mid- to long-term,
this is an extremely painful prospect,” Toyota Executive Vice
President  Satoshi Ozawa  said today. The company is aiming to
maintain about 3 million units of domestic production capacity
to protect jobs, he said.  Toyota is raising prices for some models and will aim to
increase sales of models with few competitors such as the Land
Cruiser sport-utility vehicle to counter the yen, Ozawa said.  The automaker is also adding “limited” capacity to some
plants to increase production of larger models that lag behind
demand, Executive Vice President  Yukitoshi Funo  said today.  Vehicle Recalls  As  Toyoda , 54, tries to regain customers’ trust after the
acceleration-related problems, the company has continued to
recall models for separate faults. Yesterday, Toyota said it
will recall about 135,600 Passo and iQ cars in Japan and Europe
to fix the vehicles’ electronic power-steering system.  The carmaker also faces falling demand in Japan after a
government subsidy program ended Sept. 8. Toyota’s domestic
sales plunged 24 percent in October.  “What worries me more than the recalls is a shaky global
economy and fallout from the end of government subsidies,” said
 Yuuki Sakurai , who helps oversee the equivalent of $8.7 billion
as chief executive officer and president at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in Tokyo.  In the U.S., traditionally Toyota’s most profitable market,
unemployment near 10 percent forced the Federal Reserve to
announce a plan on Nov. 3 to buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to boost economic growth through lower
borrowing costs.  For the full fiscal year, vehicle sales in North America
may decline to 2.09 million from 2.098 million, compared with an
earlier estimate of 2.17 million, Toyota said.  Slow U.S. Recovery  “Recovery in the U.S. is slow,” Funo said. “Passenger
car sales are weak, and this situation will continue for some
time.’”  While industrywide U.S. sales in October rose to the
fastest annual rate since August 2009, Toyota’s deliveries
dropped 4.4 percent as demand shifted to light trucks from cars,
such as its Camry and Corolla models, said  Bob Carter , the
company’s U.S. group vice president. Honda and Nissan each
posted sales gains in the nation while U.S.-based carmakers
reported a combined sales increase of 15 percent for the month.  Toyota will start selling a new low-cost model for emerging
markets starting with India in December. The Etios model will
target local market leader  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.’s  Swift
compact in price, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  