-- U.S. Payrolls Could Have Been Up About 240,000, Greenlaw Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2010-11-05T16:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/payroll-data-manipulation-may-have-hid-gain-of-240-000-jobs-greenlaw-says.html
Government efforts to smooth U.S.
payroll changes from month to month may have masked an even
bigger gain in October than the 151,000 reported today,
according to Morgan Stanley’s  David Greenlaw .  “This number today could have been 240,000,” Greenlaw,
the investment bank’s chief fixed-income economist in New York,
said in an interview. “Today’s report is a very positive signal
and an indication that we are heading in the right direction.”  The August and September job counts were revised higher by
a combined 110,000 workers, a report from the Labor Department
in Washington showed. About 86,000 of the update was borrowed
from October, which showed a bigger jump than the month normally
does, Greenlaw said.  Combined with increases in the workweek and hourly
earnings, the employment gain points to an economy that is
strengthening into the end of the year. Economists at Morgan
Stanley raised their tracking estimate for fourth-quarter growth
to 3.5 percent from 2.5 percent today, in part due to an
improving outlook for  consumer spending .  Before adjusting for seasonal variations, the payroll count
last month climbed by 919,000, the biggest October gain since
2004, today’s report showed.  “The October gain is the biggest we’ve seen in a while, so
that strength was spread back to August and September,” Chris
Manning, the national benchmark branch chief at the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, said today in an interview. “If you reflected
it all in October, it would have appeared that you had a big
jump.”  Smoothing Operations  The  government’s model  used to adjust the data for seasonal
variations, like the normal buildup in retail hiring ahead of
the year-end holidays or the swings in education payrolls
associated with the start and end of school, also tries to
prevent any single month from showing too large a gain or loss.
Revisions to prior months are used to account for part of those
unexpected variations.  “Is that a true jump, or a more gradual buildup?” asked
Manning. The breakdown of the data didn’t flag any industry as
having a particularly large gain last month, said Manning,
indicating there were no unusual events to explain the increase
and bolstering the case for a more gradual buildup.  What the model gives when employment is improving, it also
takes away when times are bad. By that token, the plunge in
payrolls in late 2008 and early 2009 following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Inc. was also smoothed over several months, said
Greenlaw. The government’s so-called concurrent approach to
adjusting the data for seasonal variations came into effect in
mid 2003, he said.  Prior Slowdown  Rather than raising questions about what happened in
October to spur employment, today’s report made Greenlaw wonder
what happened earlier in the year.  “The more puzzling question to me is what happened in May
and June,” he said. “Things were going pretty swimmingly
through April, everything was going in the right direction. I
really don’t understand what happened as far as the summer
slowdown goes.”  Gross domestic product expanded at an average 1.9 percent
annual pace in the six months ended in September, compared with
4.4 percent in the previous two quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  