-- Pelosi Wants to Remain U.S. House Democratic Leader After Party's Losses
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/pelosi-says-she-ll-run-for-u-s-house-minority-leader.html
U.S. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said
she would seek to remain leader of the chamber’s Democrats,
rejecting calls to step aside after her party lost at least 60
seats and its House majority in midterm elections.  Pelosi’s announcement came in a letter yesterday to all
House Democrats and a Twitter message to other followers. “Our
work is far from finished,” Pelosi said in the letter.  A growing number of her colleagues argue that the
California Democrat isn’t the right person to lead them after
House Republicans scored their  biggest gains  since 1938. Still,
one of those planning to vote against her said Pelosi probably
has the support to win the job of minority leader.  “The caucus lost a majority of the moderates and the
conservatives who as a group would have voted against her,”
said Representative  Jason Altmire , a Pennsylvania Democrat.
“The outcome is not in doubt, but I don’t plan to vote for
her.”  Pennsylvania was among the states where Democrats suffered
their most extensive defeats in the Nov. 2 vote, losing five
House seats, a U.S. Senate seat and the governorship that they
had held.  Whip Battle  Pelosi’s decision may set up a contest for Democratic whip
-- which will be the party’s No. 2 post in the reconfigured
House -- between her one-time rival, Representative  Steny Hoyer 
of Maryland, and Representative  James Clyburn  of South Carolina.
Under Pelosi’s speakership, Hoyer has served as majority leader,
the second-in-command, while Clyburn has been whip.  Clyburn said yesterday he would run to retain his job.
Hoyer said in a statement he will decide over the next several
days whether to run for whip.  President  Barack Obama  and his aides will steer clear of
the leadership battles, at least publicly. “The White House
does not comment or get involved in leadership elections, but as
the president has said before he appreciates the work of the
speaker and the entire House Democratic leadership team who have
been great partners in moving the country forward,” Obama’s
press secretary,  Robert Gibbs , said in a statement.  The calls for Pelosi to let someone else guide House
Democrats were building just hours before she first disclosed
her decision to do otherwise in a message on Twitter.com. She
said she was running to protect the health-care overhaul and
other legislative achievements by the Democratic-controlled
Congress.  With opponents “going public,” Pelosi “had to shut it
down” so she made the announcement of her candidacy, Ronald
Peters, political scientist at the University of Oklahoma, said
in an e-mail. “She no doubt has the votes. Some conservative
will run against her to give them a place to park.”  No Opponent Yet  So far, no opponent has emerged amid the discontent
expressed by some Democrats about Pelosi staying as their
leader.  Altmire said he will oppose Pelosi’s bid because having her
as minority leader would be sending the message that “we’re
going to keep doing exactly what we were doing” before
Democrats “got crushed” in the elections.  Indiana Democrat  Joe Donnelly , who held onto his House seat
by one percentage point in the elections, said in a statement he
was “disappointed” by Pelosi’s decision because “we need a
change in leadership to reflect the desires of millions of
people who cast votes.” Donnelly said he won’t support Pelosi.  ‘Shake Things Up’  “We need to shake things up,” Representative  Jim Matheson , a Utah Democrat and co-chairman of the fiscally
conservative  House Blue Dog Coalition , said in an Oct. 4
interview.  Representative  Heath Shuler , a North Carolina Democrat,
said the party’s losses were too steep to keep Pelosi, 70, at
the helm.  Hoyer, 71, announced he wouldn’t challenge Pelosi for the
top job, a vote expected to take place shortly after lawmakers
return to Washington next week for a lame-duck congressional
session.  Hoyer said in a Twitter message that he’ll “spend the next
few days getting” thoughts from other Democrats on whether to
run for minority whip.  Hoyer is likely “counting votes before declaring” his
candidacy, Peters said in his e-mail.  Clyburn, 70, in a letter to colleagues said “our caucus is
at a crossroads.” Clyburn also said he was confident the party
can rebuild “the coalition that carried Democrats” and
President  Barack Obama  into office in 2008 and that “it will
lead us on the road back to the majority in 2012.”  Senate Gains  Republicans, who lost the House and Senate majorities in
the 2006 elections, also picked up six Senate seats in this
week’s vote, short of the 10 they needed for a majority.  House Minority Leader  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, is
in line to become House speaker when his party takes control of
the chamber.  House Education and Labor Committee Chairman  George Miller ,
a California Democrat and a close Pelosi ally, said in a
statement that she “has accomplished more than any other
speaker in history” and isn’t to blame for party losses. The
economy is the cause, he said.  “The fact is, Nancy Pelosi is the single most effective
member of Congress, period,” Miller said in a statement.  In her Twitter message, Pelosi said, “Driven by the
urgency of creating jobs & protecting” such measures as the
health-care overhaul and the stricter regulation of financial
institutions that passed Congress earlier this year, “I am
running for Dem Leader.”  Poll Ratings  She is leaving the speaker’s office with her favorability
rating in tatters and the public divided over many of her
legislative achievements. A recent  Gallup tracking poll  of 1,029
adults, conducted Oct. 14-17, found that just 29 percent viewed
her favorably, her lowest approval number ever, and 56 percent
had an unfavorable impression of her.  By contrast, a similar Gallup poll taken Jan. 5-7, 2007 --
the week she first held the gavel as speaker, her grandchildren
at her side -- gave her a 44 percent favorable rating and 22
percent unfavorable.  Pelosi and Hoyer ran against one another for minority whip
in 2001. Pelosi won that race, her initial rise into the
leadership ranks.  The two later worked together when Pelosi rose to become
minority leader in 2003, replacing Representative  Dick Gephardt 
of Missouri when he stepped aside to run for president, and
Hoyer served as whip. Yet when Democrats won the House in 2006,
Pelosi worked to edge out Hoyer from the leadership team,
endorsing Representative  John Murtha  of Pennsylvania for
majority leader.  Murtha, who died in February, lost to Hoyer in an
embarrassing defeat for Pelosi that occurred the same day she
was elevated to become the first female speaker in U.S. history.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net  and
To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
jarowleybloomberg.net. 