-- Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Fell 1.8% in September
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-05T16:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/pending-u-s-home-resales-unexpectedly-fell-1-8-in-september-index-shows.html
Pending sales of U.S. existing homes
unexpectedly declined in September, a sign the housing market
will take a long time to mend.  The National Association of Realtors’ index of  pending home 
resales dropped 1.8 percent after a revised 4.4 percent gain the
prior month. Compared with the same month a year ago, pending
sales were down 25 percent. Moratoriums on foreclosure and
stricter lending are limiting progress, the group said.  Purchases have steadied after a  32 percent plunge  in the
months following the April expiration of a government homebuyer
tax credit. Mortgage rates near a record low have failed to
stoke demand because foreclosures are depressing prices and
 unemployment  is stuck above 9 percent.  The market “still shows a pretty slow rate of activity,”
 Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Research in New York, said before the report. “The
trajectory of the housing market remains very much tied to the
labor market.”  Companies may be starting to step up hiring, a report from
the Labor Department showed today. Payrolls in October climbed
151,000, exceeding the most optimistic estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. The unemployment rate held at 9.6
percent. The report also showed gains in hours worked and wages.  Treasuries fell and the dollar rose after the reports. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to its
price, rose to 2.53 percent at 12:47 p.m. in New York from 2.49
percent late yesterday. The dollar strengthened to $1.4062 per
euro from $1.4207. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2
percent to 1,223.11.  Median Forecast  Economists forecast pending home sales would increase 3
percent, according to the median of 40 projections in a
Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 1 percent to
an increase of 5 percent.  Contract signings fell in three of four regions in
September, led by a 5.7 percent drop in the Midwest. There were
also declines in the South and Northeast.  “The foreclosure moratorium is likely to cause some
disruption and contribute to an uneven sales performance in the
months ahead,”  Lawrence Yun , the Realtors group’s chief
economist, said in a statement. “Tight credit and appraisals
coming in below a negotiated price continue to constrain the
market.”  Foreclosure Moratoriums  The  foreclosure  moratoriums at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
other banks threaten to prolong the time it takes for the
housing market and prices to fully recover as properties slated
for repossession take longer to come to market.  In Arizona, California and Nevada, foreclosure auctions on
courthouse steps, known as trustee sales, are down 42 percent
since Sept. 20, according to ForeclosureRadar, a real estate
tracking service in Discovery Bay, California.  “If what’s a hiatus turns into a moratorium, that’s quite
problematic,”  Stan Humphries , chief economist for Zillow Inc.,
a Seattle-based real estate data provider, said in an interview.
“It will delay the ultimate bottoming process in the market.”  The labor market is also restraining the housing market.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month forecast the
unemployment rate will hold above 9 percent through next year.
The last time joblessness exceeded that level for three
consecutive years was from 1939 to 1941.  At the same time,  financing costs  are making it cheaper for
homebuyers. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to
a record-low 4.19 percent in the week ended Oct. 14, according
to Freddie Mac.  Federal Reserve  The Federal Reserve’s announcement on Nov. 3 that it would
purchase another $600 billion in Treasury securities through
June may help keep rates low in coming months. Central bankers
in a statement said that progress in cutting the unemployment
rate and boosting the economy has been “disappointingly slow.”  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Existing home sales are
tabulated when a contract is closed, which typically occurs a
month or two later.  Home  resales , which account for more than 90 percent of the
housing market, rose 10 percent to a 4.53 million rate in
September, the Realtors’ group said Oct. 25.  Pulte Group Inc ., the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
said Nov. 3 orders for the third quarter were down about 12
percent from the same period a year earlier. The company also
closed on 3,865 homes in the quarter, down 7 percent.  “Even as low home prices and record low interest rates
combined to create unprecedented affordability, potential buyers
are hesitant, given weak economic conditions, limited job growth
and overall uncertainty about near-term opportunities,” Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  