-- Peruvian Judge Orders Lori Berenson Freed From Prison, Grants Her Parole
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-11-05T23:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/peruvian-judge-orders-lori-berenson-freed-from-prison-grants-her-parole.html
Lori Berenson , who is serving a 20-
year prison sentence in Peru for aiding Marxist rebels, was
granted parole for a second time.  Berenson is entitled to parole as she has served more than
three quarters of her 20-year sentence for helping plan an
attack on Peru’s Congress, Judge Jessica Leon ruled.  Berenson has apologized for her actions and acknowledged
that the violence carried out by the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary
Movement had been “harmful” to Peru, the judge said in a
televised ruling from the Santa Monica women’s jail in Lima.  Berenson, 40, was granted parole in May, but Leon suspended
the parole order in August, saying police had failed to inspect
the apartment in Lima where she would be staying. Berenson was
returned to Santa Monica carrying Salvador, her 17-month-old
son.  The government’s terrorism prosecutor Julio Galindo said
Berenson should remain in jail because she hasn’t served three-
quarters of her sentence. The government will appeal, he told
reporters in Lima. Berenson’s lawyer Anibal Apari said she will
leave prison within 24 hours.  “In spite of all the pressure, the judge has maintained
her independence,” said Apari in an interview with Lima-based
Canal N. “One by one, she’s categorically struck down the
arguments coming from the prosecutor.”  Berenson was flanked by two prison guards as she listened
impassively to the judge’s hour-long ruling.  1995  Berenson, a New York native and former Massachusetts
Institute of Technology student, was sentenced to life in prison
by a military court after her capture in 1995 for being a member
of the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement.  The sentence was later nullified by the military supreme
court and she was tried and sentenced by a civilian court to 20
years in jail.  In 2003, Berenson married Apari, a former guerrilla. She
gave birth to their son in prison in May last year.  Once released, Berenson will spend her time working as a
translator, studying and raising Salvador, Apari said.  President  Alan Garcia  has said he will consider Berenson’s
request for her sentence to be commuted so that she can return
with her family to the U.S. Berenson doesn’t pose a threat to
Peru, Garcia said in a Sept. 4 interview with CNN.  Berenson told an Aug. 16 Appeals Court hearing that she
regretted if her acts “contributed to the violence in
society.”  “If my coming to Peru has meant harm to the country, I am
sorry and I am remorseful for that,” Berenson said, according
to a copy of her statement to the Appeals Court reproduced on
the  website  of the Committee to Free Lori Berenson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  