-- Peru's Sol Posts the Biggest Weekly Gain Since August on Fed Stimulus Plan
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-11-05T19:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/peru-s-sol-posts-the-biggest-weekly-gain-since-august-on-fed-stimulus-plan.html
Peru’s sol had its biggest weekly
rise since August as the Federal Reserve’s measures to boost the
U.S. economy lifted commodity prices and fueled demand for
higher-yielding, emerging-market currencies.  The sol strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.7925 per U.S. dollar
at 3:06 p.m. New York time, from 2.7985 on Oct. 29. The currency
gained 0.1 percent today. It increased 0.7 percent during the
week ended Aug. 6.  The Fed’s plan to buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries to boost liquidity has weakened the dollar and
boosted demand prospects for commodities, which account for
three quarters of Peru’s exports, said  Mike Moran , a currency
strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York. Prices for
copper and gold, Peru’s top exports, rose.  “We are edging back towards this weak-dollar environment,
at least for the next month,” Moran said.  Peruvian policy makers are “tinkering” with
administrative measures to stem a possible surge in dollar
inflows as investors seek higher yields in fast-growing
economies, Moran said. The measures are likely to prevent the
sol from strengthening beyond 2.78 per dollar this year, he
said.  ‘Hard to Break’  “They’re going to experiment. They’re going to tinker to
get the right blend,” Moran said. “Around 2.78 will be very
hard to break.”  Peru’s central bank began issuing certificates of deposit
redeemable in dollars last month to give investors a way to
benefit from higher interest rates without fueling demand for
the sol. The bank sold 320 million soles ($114.6 million) of
three-month certificates this week, including 150 million soles
today.  The bank has bought almost $9 billion this year in the
foreign exchange market to ease gains in the sol. It hasn’t
bought dollars since it began issuing the new securities on Oct.
20. The currency has strengthened 3.4 percent this year.  The banking regulator will introduce a cap on local banks’
dollar forward holdings this month to stem foreign inflows and
limit currency volatility, Bank Superintendent  Felipe Tam Fox 
said last week.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 rose 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, today to 4.83 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s
local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  