-- Philippine Inflation Eases to 11-Month Low, Providing Scope to Hold Rate
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   A l c u a z   J r .   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2010-11-05T01:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/philippine-inflation-eases-to-11-month-low-providing-scope-to-hold-rate.html
Philippine  inflation  eased in
October to its slowest pace in 11 months, giving the central
bank scope to leave borrowing costs at a record low.  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier, after
a 3.5 percent gain in September, the National Statistics Office
said in Manila today. That compares with the 3.3 percent median
estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Prices
declined 0.2 percent from September.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 4 percent for more than a year as inflation
stayed within policy makers’ target and capital flowing into
emerging markets boosted the peso, bonds and stocks. In contrast,
counterparts from India to Australia have raised borrowing costs
in 2010 to tackle price pressures.  “We really expect deceleration this whole fourth
quarter,” partly because typhoons caused less destruction in
2010 than last year, helping to cap increases in prices of goods
such as food,  Emilio Neri , an economist at Bank of the
Philippine Islands in Manila, said before the release. He
expects an interest-rate increase in the middle of 2011.  The central bank last week estimated October inflation at
2.6 percent to 3.5 percent, citing the rising peso, which helps
to cool import prices, and lower electricity costs.  The peso reached 42.47 yesterday, the strongest level since
May 2008, while the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  rose for a
fourth day.  “Barring unforeseen sudden price spikes and demand
pressures in the near term, the inflation path should lead
firmly to within-target inflation over the policy horizon,”
central bank Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in a mobile-phone
text message today. “This confirms that the current BSP policy
stance remains appropriate.”  Policy makers will meet Nov. 18 to decide on the  benchmark
rate , which has been held at its current level since July 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
 Max Estayo  in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  