-- Philippines Preparing Measures to Combat Peso Gains, President Aquino Says
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2010-11-05T08:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/philippines-preparing-measures-to-combat-peso-gains-president-aquino-says.html
The Philippines is preparing measures
to cool peso gains that erode the competitiveness of exports and
reduce the local-currency value of remittances from overseas
workers, President  Benigno Aquino  said today.  “This could be a good time to purchase capital goods to
address the balance between the peso and the dollar,” Aquino
told reporters in Manila today. “You want to try and remove the
excess volumes of dollars in the country.”  The peso has strengthened 8.1 percent so far in 2010 and
today touched a two-year high of 42.47 per dollar. It closed 0.3
percent weaker at 42.64, paring this week’s advance to 0.9
percent, according to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc.  The Philippine central bank on Oct. 28 eased rules on
foreign-exchange outflows as it joined other nations that have
signaled they will slow gains in their currencies to protect
their economies as monetary easing in the U.S. batters the
dollar.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the U.S. currency’s strength,
yesterday sank to its lowest level in almost 11 months after the
Federal Reserve said it will inject $600 billion more into the
financial system to help sustain growth in the world’s largest
economy.  International Monetary Fund Chief Economist Olivier
Blanchard said yesterday the Fed’s stimulus may spur capital
flows to emerging economies and cause the U.S. dollar to
depreciate.  Infrastructure Projects  The government must “strategically invest” inflows coming
into the country and may use them to fund infrastructure
projects, Economic Planning Secretary  Cayetano Paderanga  said in
a statement today.  Central banks in Asia have at recent meetings “zeroed in
on the common concern we have of a surge in foreign-exchange
inflows,” Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor  Amando Tetangco 
said in an e-mailed reply today to a question on whether policy
makers in the region are coordinating action to prevent currency
gains.  “The policy moves in the region, although country-specific,
have leaned towards the use of a policy mix,” he said. “Like
the BSP, most central banks in the region have used a broader
set of tools instead of simply relying on the interest rate as
the sole tool to stem appreciation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  at   cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Guinto  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Victoria Batchelor at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net  