-- PineBridge's Matsukawa Buys Japan Linkers on Fed to Spark Global Inflation
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-05T06:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/pinebridge-s-matsukawa-buys-japan-linkers-on-fed-to-spark-global-inflation.html
Tadashi Matsukawa , head of fixed
income at PineBridge Investments Japan Co., is buying Japanese
inflation-linked bonds as central bank asset purchases raise
speculation that consumer price gains will quicken worldwide.  The gap in yields between 30-year and five-year Treasuries
widened to a record 3.05 percentage points yesterday, a day
after the Federal Reserve said it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June. The Bank of Japan today
released the details of its program aimed to bolster prices for
real estate and stocks.  “Global deflation has been an investment theme, but
inflation will be the next one,” said Tokyo-based Matsukawa,
whose company managed 5.99 trillion yen ($74.2 billion) in
assets as of June 30. “Because the world economy is interwoven,
there will be a gradual change in the trend of persistently
negative consumer-price growth in Japan.”  The so-called breakeven rate, or difference in yields
between inflation-linked bonds and conventional debt, has risen
in the U.S. faster than any other bond market since Sept. 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate shows traders
expect a 0.7 percent drop in Japan’s consumer prices annually
for the next eight years.  “The BOJ and Fed are taking measures that spur
inflation,” said  Makoto Noji , a Tokyo-based strategist at
Mizuho Securities Research & Consulting Co. “Thinking of
whether consumer prices will continue to fall 0.7 percent year-
on-year for the next seven or eight years, you may want to bet
they won’t.”  Portfolio Duration  The 1.4 percent inflation-linked security due March 2018
traded at 101.10 yen today, giving a yield of 1.236 percent.  Inflation, or a general increase in prices, reduces the
purchasing power of the fixed payment from debt. The principal
of an inflation-linked bond, known as a linker, is altered
according to the change in consumer prices.  Matsukawa said he has started to increase holdings of
Japanese inflation-linked debt and shorten the duration of his
portfolio. Keeping 10-year bonds while selling super-long
securities is an option to reduce duration, he said.  Duration is a measure of the sensitivity of a bond’s price
to changes in interest rates. Debt securities with longer
durations have greater price decreases for each incremental rise
in yield than those with shorter durations.  Commodity Prices  The  consumer price index  in Tokyo rose 0.3 percent in
October from a year earlier, the first increase since March
2009, according to a government report. Between March 2009 and
October, oil prices climbed 67 percent, while the  London Metals
Index  doubled.  “Once commodity prices start to rise, deflation will
gradually ease,” Matsukawa said. “Japan will lag behind other
nations, but its consumer prices will eventually increase.”  The Bank of Japan today said it will buy Japanese real
estate investment trusts with credit ratings of AA or higher and
exchange-traded funds that track the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
and the Topix index. The bank brought forward the two-day
gathering by more than a week so it could complete details about
the 5 trillion yen fund unveiled last month that will also buy
government and corporate debt.  Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said last month that Fed Treasury
purchases will likely spur global inflation while failing to
lower U.S. unemployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  