-- Portuguese Budget Pact Fails to Cap National Borrowing Costs: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-11-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/portuguese-budget-pact-fails-to-cap-national-borrowing-costs-euro-credit.html
Portugal is suffering higher
borrowing costs after agreeing to an austerity package that may
do as much to choke an economic recovery as tame its deficit.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Portuguese debt
rather than German bunds widened for a seventh day yesterday to
the highest level in five weeks. The premium rose even after the
minority government on Nov. 3 passed a budget plan that features
wage and spending reductions to trim the euro region’s fourth-
largest deficit from 9.3 percent of 2009 gross domestic product.  Portugal’s efforts aren’t being rewarded as the biggest
spending cuts since the 1970s threaten to hurt an economy that
barely expanded in the past decade. German calls for bondholders
to share the burden of any future debt restructuring have also
made investors wary of lending to Europe’s most-indebted
nations, with Ireland’s yield premium to bunds rising to a
record yesterday.  “There is a bit of a crisis of confidence,” said Filipe
Silva, who manages 60 million euros ($85 million), including
Portuguese bonds, at Banco Carregosa SA in Oporto, Portugal.
“Even with the budget approved, political parties aren’t able
to speak with one voice to the external audience. We are seeing
volatility that isn’t supposed to exist in the sovereign debt
market.”  The Portuguese Treasury is feeling the jump in borrowing
costs. The yield at a Nov. 3 auction of 1.03 billion euros of
three- and 12-month bills climbed and demand declined for the
securities. Portugal paid 3.26 percent for the 12-month debt, up
from 2.886 percent on Oct. 6. Portugal plans to sell as much as
1.25 billion euros of bonds due 2016 and 2020 on Nov. 10.  EDP Financing  The rising yields contrast with declining costs for
corporate issuers. On the same day as the bill sale, utility
EDP-Energias de Portugal SA signed a 2 billion-euro revolving
credit line that will  cost  the company 90 basis points more than
benchmark money-market rates, below the 150 basis-point premium
it paid for a credit line last year.  Portugal may look beyond Europe to shore up demand for its
debt. Chinese President  Hu Jintao  starts a two-day visit to the
country tomorrow. China “has always given positive and
favorable consideration” to bond purchases when making state
visits, Vice Foreign Minister  Fu Ying  said on Oct. 28.  “I would be shocked if he doesn’t say something nice about
Portugal and about China’s intention to buy Portuguese bonds in
the future,”  Erik Nielsen , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief
European economist, said in an Oct. 31 note to clients.  Austerity Measures  Portugal’s budget plan calls for lowering the wage bill 5
percent for public-sector workers earning more than 1,500 euros
a month, freezing public hiring and raising the value-added tax
by 2 percentage points to 23 percent. The measures are needed
for the government to reach its target of trimming the  deficit 
to 4.6 percent of GDP next year. The risk is they choke a
recovery for an economy where annual growth averaged less than 1
percent for the past decade.  “The government is very conscious that it cannot soften
the fiscal stance,” said  Tullia Bucco , an economist at
UniCredit SpA in Milan. Bucco cut her forecast for 2011 GDP to a
1.3 percent contraction due to the austerity measures.  Standard & Poor’s, which has cut its rating on the country
three times in the past two years, to A-, said Oct. 4 that the
economic outlook may make it more difficult to meet debt goals.
S&P expects Portugal’s economy to shrink 1.8 percent next year
and stagnate in 2012.  Bailout Risk  “The increase in borrowing costs is owed to the fact that
there still isn’t complete confidence about Portugal’s capacity
to realize its budget consolidation effort,” European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said Nov. 3 in Lisbon.  Bonds of Europe’s so-called peripheral countries have been
hurt this week by Germany’s effort to ensure that a permanent EU
bailout mechanism forces bond investors to assume part of the
costs of any debt restructuring. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Nov. 3 that the euro’s stability depends
on making investors responsible, underscoring Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s push to shield the nation’s taxpayers from further
bailout risk.  Portugal’s benchmark 10-year bond yields 6.748 percent and
Irish yields are more than 7.8 percent, exceeding the 5 percent
rate that Greece pays on loans from a 110 billion-euro bailout
package crafted by the EU and the International Monetary Fund in
May to prevent the euro-zone’s first default. The Greek program
was the blueprint for the European Financial Stability Facility,
the 750 billion-euro lifeline set up by the EU in June that’s
due for conversion into a permanent mechanism.  The fiscal and political standings of Portugal and Ireland
“remain precarious to say the least,”  Jonathan Loynes , chief
economist for Capital Economics in London, wrote in a note to
investors. “Further rises in bond yields would clearly increase
the likelihood that they have to turn to the EFSF, while it
still exists, or eventually engage in some form of debt
restructuring. Bondholders will presumably strongly prefer the
former.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 