-- Pratt & Whitney Sues to Block Rolls-Royce Engines
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-11-05T20:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/pratt-whitney-sues-to-block-rolls-royce-engines.html
United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt &
Whitney jet-engine unit filed patent-infringement complaints
against  Rolls-Royce Group Plc , a counterpunch in a dispute that
may affect delivery of Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner airplanes.  Pratt & Whitney claims the Trent 900 and Trent 1000 engines
made by London-based Rolls-Royce are infringing a patent for a
swept-fan blade, according to a filing today at the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington. A complaint making
similar allegations was submitted at the U.K. High Court, East
Hartford, Connecticut-based Pratt & Whitney said.  A ruling in favor of Pratt & Whitney by the ITC would block
Rolls-Royce from shipping Trent 1000 engines into the U.S. for
the Dreamliner, Boeing’s newest passenger jet that has been
delayed six times. The U.K. lawsuit may limit shipments of the
Trent 900 for the Airbus SAS A380, now in use by international
carriers including  Qantas Airways Ltd. , and the Airbus A350XWB
model powered by another version of the Trent engine.  “Pratt & Whitney’s case is very strong and we were left
with no choice but to take these actions in light of Rolls-
Royce’s aggression,” said Katy Padgett, a company spokeswoman.
“We regret that these actions are necessary, and we continue to
be willing to discuss a mutually acceptable resolution.”  A spokesman for Rolls-Royce declined to comment.  Airlines that ordered the 787 Dreamliner, which is almost
three years late for its first delivery, have a choice of the
Rolls-Royce engine or the GEnx from  General Electric Co.   Escalating Battle  The complaints escalate a battle that started when Rolls-
Royce sued Pratt & Whitney in May, claiming the GP7200 Fan Stage
infringed a patent for a design that gives the largest part of a
jet engine greater resistance to damage by foreign objects, more
stability and lower noise levels. The Trent engine that powers
the A380 competes with the GP7200 built by a venture between
Pratt & Whitney and GE, the world’s biggest jet-engine maker.  Rolls-Royce later added to its complaint Pratt & Whitney’s
Geared TurboFan engines, as Airbus and Boeing consider getting
more efficient engines on the best-selling A320 and 737 planes.  Pratt & Whitney countered with a lawsuit in September in
federal court in New Haven, Connecticut, accusing Rolls-Royce of
trying to interfere with potential business and unfair business
practices. It amended that complaint today to add the patent-
infringement claim.  “This is a matter between the engine makers and it would
be inappropriate for us to comment,” said a Boeing spokesman,
 Jim Proulx . An Airbus spokesman,  Stefan Schaffrath , also
declined to comment.  Rolls Engine Blowouts  United Technologies  rose  51 cents to $76.75 at 4:03 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Boeing  climbed 
42 cents to $71.27. GE rose 22 cents to $16.73.  Rolls-Royce  fell  4.9 percent to 591 pence in London trading
following a 5 percent drop yesterday after Qantas Airways said a
design flaw or material failure was probably to blame for a
Trent 900 engine failure that forced one of its commercial
flights to make an emergency landing.  In a separate incident Aug. 2, an engine blowout at Rolls-
Royce’s Trent test site in Derby, England, flung debris at high
speed, piercing the housing of the device. The company shuttered
the plant for repairs, and Boeing said it would have to delay
the Dreamliner’s first delivery planned for that month.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency set up to protect U.S.
markets from unfair trade practices. It has the power to ban
imports of products that infringe U.S. patents. It if agrees to
investigate a complaint, a ruling is given in about 15 months.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Turbomachinery
Blades and Engines, Complaint No. 2769, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  The September case is United Technologies Corp. v. Rolls-
Royce Plc, 10cv1523, U.S. District Court for the District of
Connecticut (New Haven). The earlier case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.
United Technologies Corp., 10cv457, U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 