-- Producer Prices Jumped the Most in Six Months in October on Gasoline, Food
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-05T09:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/producer-prices-jumped-the-most-in-six-months-in-october-on-gasoline-food.html
U.K.  producer prices  jumped in
October by the most in six months as higher gasoline and food
costs fed inflation pressures into the economy.  The cost of goods at factory gates rose by 0.6 percent on
the month, compared with no change in September, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. All the data is now
based on a revised methodology stripping out volatile components
such as scrap metal. The median forecast of 16 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey  was for a 0.3 percent gain.  With the U.K. economy experiencing a seven-month bout of
inflation above the 3 percent limit and the strongest two
consecutive quarters of growth in a decade, Bank of England
policy makers yesterday refrained from expanding stimulus.
Officials have split on whether to combat consumer prices or
support the recovery before the government’s budget squeeze.  “It is quite a substantial increase but I just don’t see
how businesses are going to be passing these cost increases
on,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Financial
Markets in London. “I don’t see the inflation threat taking off
in any significant way, especially with headwinds of fiscal
austerity.”  The pound was little changed after the data, trading at
$1.6203 as of 9:52 a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark
two-year government bond was up 1 basis point today at 0.635
percent.  EU Standards  All but one of the 10 categories of producer prices
increased on the month. On the year, producer prices rose 4
percent, up from a 3.8 percent increase in September. Officials
have revised the whole producer price index to align it with
European Union standards, the statistics office said.  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, climbed by 0.4 percent on the month, the
statistics office said. From a year earlier, they increased 3.3
percent, the least in five months.  Mondi Group, Europe’s largest maker of office paper, said
on Nov. 1 that price increases at its corrugated packing
material and paper operations in the region were offset by
rising raw material costs, including for pulp paper. Mondi is
dual-listed in London and Johannesburg.  The increase in raw material costs on the month was 2.1
percent, the most since March, the statistics office said. From
a year earlier, they rose 8 percent, the least since February.  The strength of inflation is a concern for some officials.
Annual consumer-price growth was 3.1 percent in September.
Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has voted since June to increased
the benchmark interest rate from a record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  