-- Qantas 747 Jet Suffers Engine Flameout a Day After A380 Blowout
-- B y   A n a n d   K r i s h n a m o o r t h y   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-06T06:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/qantas-jet-returns-to-singapore-airport-with-engine-problem-official-says.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. , Australia’s
largest carrier, juggled aircraft to maintain schedules after a
second engine flameout in as many days, as it continues safety
checks of its grounded Airbus SAS A380 fleet.  Today’s Sydney-London flight, normally an A380 plane, will
begin on an “alternative aircraft” for the first leg to
Singapore and a British Airways Plc jetliner will complete the
journey, Qantas said in a  statement . A 747’s return to Singapore
yesterday after an engine failure was “unrelated” to the
engine explosion on an A380 a day earlier, spokeswoman  Olivia Wirth  said by phone today.  Qantas is working with Rolls-Royce Group Plc to check its
six grounded A380s, which represent about 17 percent of its
international capacity, before deciding whether to return them
to service. The airline has been using some of its 27 Boeing
jumbo jets to replace those Airbus planes.  “It was like the afterburner of a fighter jet,” said
Andrew Jenkins, 43, a passenger who is based in London and was
flying to Sydney on the 747 yesterday for work. “The captain
explained that the problem was contained. He shut the engine
down and it didn’t look like anything beyond that.”  The pilot of the  Boeing Co. jet , which departed Singapore
as flight QF6 bound for Sydney yesterday with 412 passengers on
board, shut down one engine after flames erupted shortly after
takeoff, dumped fuel and flew for about an hour before landing,
Wirth said. Engineers are inspecting the plane.  Qantas flight QF32, an A380 carrying 466 passengers and
crew, returned to Singapore for an emergency landing on Nov. 4
after one of its Trent 900 engines blew out.  “Entirely Unrelated”  While both problems involved Rolls-Royce engines, the
incidents were “entirely unrelated” and they were serviced by
different shops in Australia and Germany, Wirth said. No
passengers from QF32 were on yesterday’s 747 flight, she said.  A spokesman at the Rolls-Royce civil aerospace business in
Derby, England, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Anaita Talkhan, 40, a Sydney resident and passenger on the
747, said flight attendants told everyone to get into emergency
landing positions.  “There was a quick flash of light and I could hear ‘brace,
brace, brace’ from one side and ‘head down, head down, head
down,’ from the other,” she said. “After that the captain came
on line and asked everyone to stay calm. He said an engine had
overheated and we have three perfectly good ones otherwise.”  Jim Proulx , a Boeing spokesman in Seattle, said the company
doesn’t typically comment on operational issues, and referred
calls to Qantas.  Flying Debris  The engine involved in the Nov. 4 A380 incident had what
appeared to be an “uncontained failure,” where pieces of
debris were flung out at high speed, piercing the casing, or
nacelle, Qantas Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  said
yesterday. A design flaw or material failure was probably to
blame, he said.  The company’s A380s may return to service before the end of
the weekend if checks by Qantas and Rolls-Royce clear the
engines for use, Joyce said.  Rolls-Royce shares fell 4.9 percent to 591 pence yesterday,
adding to a 5 percent slide on Nov. 4. The company has lost 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion) of market value since the first
Qantas incident.  Qantas shares dropped 1 percent to A$2.86 ($2.91) yesterday.  There’s no suggestion of foul play in the A380 explosion,
said Ian Sangston, general manager of aviation safety
investigations at the  Australian Transport Safety Bureau .  Engine Shutdowns  “Engine shutdowns do happen,” said  Hans Weber , chief
executive officer of Tecop International, an aviation firm in
San Diego. “Except for uncontained failures, engine shutdowns
don’t normally get any attention. Airplanes are all certificated
to be able to fly with one engine out.”  Passengers on the grounded 747 said they’ll think twice
about flying with Qantas again.  “We all panicked,” said Jeremy Lee, who was heading to
Queenstown, New Zealand, on vacation. “I could smell fumes and
there was some shouting and noise. Qantas hasn’t said when we’ll
fly again, but I’m tired of this. I won’t fly with them and I’m
asking for a refund. I am only 35 and I have a long way to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anand Krishnamoorthy  in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  