-- Trafigura Wins U.K. Court Ruling Threatening Emarat Manager With Jail Term
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-05T11:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/trafigura-wins-u-k-court-ruling-threatening-emarat-manager-with-jail-term.html
The general manager of Emarat, the
United Arab Emirates’ state-owned fuel retailer, was ordered by
a U.K. judge to spend a year in a jail for breaching court
orders in a civil lawsuit filed by Trafigura Beheer BV.  Jamal Al Midfa , who isn’t in custody, failed to supply data
about Emarat’s assets after the Dubai-based company lost a trial
in January over $83 million in unpaid gasoil shipments, Judge
 Nigel Teare  ruled in London yesterday. Emarat has challenged the
court’s jurisdiction in the case and lawyers for the company and
Al Midfa weren’t at the hearing.  Al Midfa “has been fully aware of the orders which have
been made,” Teare said at yesterday’s hearing. The judge also
ordered the seizure of Emarat assets.  Trafigura, an Amsterdam-based commodities trader, sued
Emarat in 2009 after it refused to fully pay for two cargoes of
oil shipped the previous year. Trafigura had given Emarat an
extension on the payment because the company needed an infusion
of cash from the government, according to a Jan. 26 ruling in
the case.  Emarat didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment, and calls
to the company’s switchboard went unanswered. Trafigura
spokesman Mark Eadie declined to comment as did the company’s
lawyer,  Kyri Evagora  at the firm Reed Smith LLP in London.  Emarat now owes $90 million including interest, Teare said
at the hearing yesterday, and a worldwide freezing order was
issued by the U.K. court against the company in February.  Emarat argued the contract was invalid because it was
signed improperly or contained forged signatures, according to
the January ruling. The company also claimed the oil didn’t meet
certain quality requirements, exempting it from full payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 