-- Travelport Sues to Stop American From Dropping Orbitz
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-06T02:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/travelport-sues-to-block-american-airlines-from-ending-orbitz-ticketing.html
Travelport LP, the travel-reservation
systems provider, sued to block  American Airlines Inc.  from
terminating online travel agency  Orbitz Worldwide Inc.’s  ability
to sell tickets on American’s flights.  Travelport, whose affiliate owns 48 percent of Orbitz’s
stock, would suffer substantial harm if American stops providing
fare data to Orbitz, a possibility that Orbitz disclosed in a
regulatory filing yesterday, according to the complaint filed in
chancery court in Chicago today. The termination would be a
breach of American’s contract with Travelport, the company said
in its complaint.  Orbitz stock fell yesterday the most since March 2009 after
American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, said it would stop
providing fare data. American is pushing online travel agencies
to obtain flight and fare information directly from it instead
of through global distribution systems such as Travelport’s
Galileo and Worldspan, Orbtiz chief executive  Barney Harford 
said yesterday in a conference call with analysts.  Travelport said in the complaint that it lost $50 million
in share value when Orbitz fell. The company has a 2006
agreement with American Airlines to obtain “full and complete”
access to information about its flights, air fares and other
information. The airline hasn’t honored Travelport’s request to
withdraw its termination notice, according to the complaint.  ‘Coercing Orbitz’  “AA is coercing Orbitz into changing its existing business
model to one that AA believes will more thoroughly stuff AA’s
pockets,” Travelport said in the complaint.  Travelport is seeking a court order stopping American from
terminating Orbitz ticket sales until the case can be decided by
a judge.  “We received a letter threatening various claims, which
are groundless in our view, over the contract action we had
taken and we are seeking a declaratory judgment to protect our
existing rights,”  Mary Sanderson , a spokeswoman for Fort Worth,
Texas-based American, said in an e-mail.  The case is Travelport v. American Airlines, 10CH4808,
Circuit Court of Cook County, Chancery Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 