-- RBS Targets 70% Structured-Note Sales Rise in 5 Years
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-11-08T09:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/rbs-targets-70-percent-boost-in-structured-note-sales-in-next-five-years.html
(Corrects amount of bonds traded in final paragraph of
story published Nov. 5.)  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  aims
to grow sales of European structured notes by 70 percent in the
next five years following its takeover of ABN Amro Group NV,
said  Beat Von Gunten , global head of sales for equities and
structured retail products.  Since the 2007 merger, RBS’s issuer ranking has jumped to
fourth place from 11th and its market share has almost doubled
to 5.8 percent, according to Bloomberg data that doesn’t include
equity-linked notes. The Edinburgh-based bank aims to expand in
Swiss and French markets and boost sales of over-the-counter
products, Von Gunten said.  “The integration of the two businesses was very effective
given their complementary nature,” said Von Gunten, who joined
from JPMorgan Chase & Co. in August. “ABN’s strength was in
simple pay-off driven products and market access, whilst RBS was
stronger in quantitative and dynamic strategies.”  RBS led a group that paid 72 billion euros ($102 billion)
for ABN Amro three years ago, a deal that saddled RBS with bad
debt and depleted its cash reserves as the credit crisis
started. The bank received a 45.5 billion-pound ($52 billion)
bailout from the U.K. government, and has cut more than 26,000
jobs since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt is Europe’s top-ranked structured-
note issuer by volume this year, and Deutsche Bank AG is second,
Bloomberg data show. Both standings are unchanged from 2009.  “Some market participants thought that the business would
disappear during the financial crisis, but in fact it was
relatively resilient and bounced back sharply,” Von Gunten
said.  The bank issued two interest-rate and inflation-linked
notes on the London Stock Exchange Group Plc this week, the
exchange’s first structured bond securities aimed at individual
investors. RBS, which listed its first LSE notes in 2008, is now
the exchange’s second-biggest issuer with a 33 percent market
share. Investors traded 985 million pounds of RBS structured
notes this year, double last year’s total, LSE data show.  About 1.9 billion euros of RBS structured bonds were traded
on Borsa Italiana SpA this year as of Sept. 30, according to
data provided by the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  