-- RBS Faces `Long, Hard Slog' as Hester Forecasts Reduced Loss
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-11-05T16:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/rbs-third-quarter-loss-narrows-to-1-87-billion-as-bad-loan-charge-falls.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, faces a “long, hard
slog” as it forecast a reduced loss in 2010.  The loss for the year will be “nominal,” Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Hester , 49, said on a conference call with
journalists today, following a 3.6 billion-pound ($5.8 billion)
loss in 2009. The third quarter net loss narrowed by 36 percent
to 1.15 billion pounds from 1.8 billion pounds in the year-
earlier period as impairments fell, RBS said in a statement.  RBS faces “a long, hard slog,” according to  Ian Gordon , a
banking analyst at Exane BNP Paribas SA in London, in a note to
clients. “Management deserves credit for the good progress that
has been made but it remains a long journey of rehabilitation.”  Hester is part way through a plan to shrink the Edinburgh-
based bank by selling assets and cutting jobs, a process he
described in May as the most complicated restructuring of any
company in history.  RBS  received the biggest taxpayer-funded
bailout in the world in 2008.  “There are inevitably clouds still out there on the
horizon,” Hester said. “We still have our raincoats on.”  HSBC Holdings Plc, the U.K.’s biggest bank, said today that
profit growth slowed in the third quarter and that recovery in
emerging markets may be faltering.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, posted a decline in
impairments this week, while Barclays Plc reports next week.  Impairments Decline  RBS  lost  4.5 percent to 45 pence at the close of trading in
London, for a market value of about 49 billion pounds. RBS
shares gained about 14 percent in the third quarter, while HSBC
rose 4.8 percent and  Barclays  10.7 percent.  Impairments fell 40 percent to 1.95 billion pounds in the
period, beating the 2.5 billion-pound median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That decline helped cushion a
decline in revenue at the RBS’s investment-banking unit, run by
 John Hourican .  Operating profit from the investment bank, excluding losses
linked to revaluations of RBS’s own debt, shrank 8 percent from
the year-earlier period to 589 million pounds amid “tough”
trading conditions, the bank said. The outlook for the unit in
the fourth quarter will “remain challenging,” it said.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, reported a 406 million
Swiss franc ($423 million) third-quarter loss at its investment
bank compared with a loss of 1.37 billion francs a year ago.
 Credit Suisse Group AG , the No. 2 Swiss bank, posted a 395
million franc profit at its securities unit during the period
from 1.75 billion francs a year ago.  Consumer Bank Profit  Operating profit at the U.K. consumer banking unit rose to
398 million pounds from 64 million pounds. Profit rose 11
percent to 422 million pounds at the British corporate lending
division.  The bank’s insurance unit posted a loss of 33 million
pounds compared with a profit of 11 million pounds. RBS said
today it is planning an initial public offering of the unit in
the second half of 2012.  Operating profit at RBS’s core units, those parts the bank
plans to keep, rose by 6.8 percent to 1.73 billion pounds. The
lender recorded a loss of 858 million pounds on the fair value
of its own debt and took an 825 million pound charge related to
its use of the government’s  Asset Protection Scheme . Banks,
which were able to book gains on the value of their bonds during
the credit crisis, have to cut the value the same securities as
the company’s creditworthiness improves under accounting rules.  After those deductions, the lender logged a 132 million-
pound operating loss, less than a tenth of the loss in the year-
earlier period.  U.K. Bank Levy  The operating loss at the “non-core” division, those
units the bank wants to sell, narrowed to 1 billion pounds from
a loss of 2.66 billion pounds.  The U.K. bank levy will cost RBS as much as 250 million
pounds next year, rising to about 400 million pounds by the end
of 2012, RBS said. The tax will be based on revenue from U.K.
banks’ global businesses and from the British-based units of
foreign banks.  The lender said it doesn’t need to raise capital from
shareholders to meet the latest Basel rules on bank capital. The
bank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength, stood
at 10.2 percent on Sept. 30, down from 11 percent on Dec. 31.  RBS , 83 percent government-owned, reported a 9 million-
pound profit in the first half of this year. The lender posted
losses of 26 billion pounds in 2008 and 2009 and needed 45.5
billion pounds of taxpayer aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  