-- Treasuries Decline as U.S. Employers Add More Jobs Than Analysts Forecast
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-05T20:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/treasuries-decline-as-u-s-employers-add-more-jobs-than-analysts-forecast.html
Treasuries declined, with  yields  on
five-year notes rising for the first time in seven days, after
the U.S. payrolls report showed employers added more jobs in
October than analysts forecast.  Five-year note yields had decreased to a  record low  this
week after the Federal Reserve said it would buy $600 billion of
U.S. debt to keep borrowing costs low and sustain the economic
recovery. Treasuries pared their  drop  today as investors
speculated that the central bank’s program of quantitative
easing will keep yields down.  “The employment number was strong, which has led to a
little selling, but the sell-off is being inhibited by the new
realities of quantitative easing,” said  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy in Stamford, Connecticut, at CRT
Capital Group LLC. “Investors aren’t going to be aggressive
sellers ahead of a big buyer. The market has a paradigm shift
that we need to contend with, and that is still the big story.”  The yield on the five-year note rose six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.09 percent at 4:06 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 1.25 percent
securities maturing in October 2015 fell 9/32, or $2.81 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 3/4.  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  rose for the first time in
four days, increasing three basis points to 2.52 percent, paring
their weekly drop to eight basis points. The two-year note yield
gained three basis points to 0.34 percent.  The five-year note  yield  was headed for a weekly drop of
eight basis points after falling yesterday to an all-time low of
1.0148 percent. Two-year note yields have gained two basis
points after dropping yesterday to a record 0.3118 percent.  Yield Spread  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold 30-year bonds
compared with 5-year notes rose to a record 3.03 percentage
points after the Fed said two days ago that it would buy fewer
longer-term securities than many investors anticipated. The 30-
year  bond  yield rose 13 basis points to 4.11 percent this week.  Employers added 151,000 jobs last month after a revised
decrease of 41,000 in September, the Labor Department reported
today, more than the 60,000 jobs expected according to the
median forecast of 83 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
unemployment rate stayed at 9.6 percent.  “At the end of the day the rate is still 9.6 percent,
which is by no means good and won’t break us out of our current
range,” said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates trading in
New York at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “Investors should buy on dips as
buyers are still long Treasuries with the Fed in the market.” A
long is a bet an asset will rise.  September Payrolls  Treasury two- and five-year note yields slid to  record lows 
on Oct. 8, when the U.S. payrolls report showed employers cut
more jobs in September than economists forecast.  Government debt yields will remain lower until there’s more
evidence that the U.S. economic recovery is gaining momentum,
according to some investors.  “We will need to see much higher numbers of job growth to
put any real dent in the employment picture, and we are clearly
not there yet,” said  Larry Milstein , managing director of
government and agency debt trading in New York at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “It’s important to note that the Fed
is still in the picture.”  Central bank policy makers said following their Nov. 2-3
meeting that the central bank will expand asset purchases at a
pace of about $75 billion a month through June to reduce
unemployment and avoid deflation.  Inflation Outlook  The difference between  yields  on 30-year bonds and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was 2.59 percentage points after rising on Nov.
3 to 2.74 percentage points, the highest level since May 2008.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  wrote this week in an opinion
piece in the Washington Post that resuming large-scale asset
purchases should boost economic growth through lower borrowing
costs and higher stock prices and that concern the strategy will
lead to significant increases in inflation is “overstated.”  China, the biggest foreign holder of U.S. debt, said the
Fed needs to explain this week’s decision to purchase bonds to
pump money into the world’s biggest economy or risk undermining
the global recovery.  “Many countries are worried about the impact of the policy
on their economies,” Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at
a press briefing in Beijing today. “It would be appropriate for
someone to step forward and give us an explanation. Otherwise
international confidence in the recovery and growth of the
global economy might be hurt.”  The 10-year note yield will end the year little changed at
2.48 percent, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 67 banks and securities companies, with the most
recent estimates given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  