-- U.S. 10-Year Yields to Reach 2% as Fed Buys, Deutsche Bank's Konstam Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-05T18:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/treasury-10-year-yields-to-decline-to-2-as-fed-buys-deutsche-bank-says.html
Treasury 10-year note  yields  will
drop to 2 percent as the Federal Reserve buys more debt to
support the U.S. economic recovery, according to  Dominic Konstam 
of Deutsche Bank AG.  The central bank said on Nov. 3 that it will buy an
additional $600 billion of U.S. debt through June to keep
borrowing costs low. The recovery of the job market will take
several years even as the Fed acts, Konstam, global head of
interest-rate research in New York at Deutsche Bank, said in a
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene .  “There is no way you can get the economy back on its feet
in a meaningful way until 2013 or 2014,” said Konstam, whose
firm is one of the 18 primary dealers that trade directly with
the central bank.  Policy makers said this week that the central bank will
expand asset purchases at a pace of about $75 billion a month
through June to reduce unemployment and avoid deflation.  The central bank will buy as much as 117 percent of the net
new Treasury issuance maturing from 7 to 10 years, according to
Konstam. To purchase at that level, the Fed will “force people
to sell the 10s that they currently own” by raising prices,
Konstam said.  The central bank’s debt buying is known as quantitative
easing because it aims to increase the quantity of money. The
latest action is the second round of quantitative easing and has
been dubbed “QE2” by analysts and investors.  Jobless Rate  The Fed is trying to spur lending and bring down an
unemployment rate that has been 9.5 percent or higher since July
2009. The Labor Department announced today that the jobless rate
stayed at 9.6 percent in October.  If banks don’t pick up lending after the latest round of
easing, the Fed may have to increase their asset purchases going
forward to as much as $4 trillion in fixed-income assets,
according to Konstam.  “Bernanke can’t afford to assume everything is good
because if it’s not things will get so bad that there won’t be
anything he can do to help us,” Konstam said. “You have to err
on the side of caution when you have the kind of deflation risk
that we may have.”  The 10-year note yield will end the year little changed at
2.48 percent, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 67 banks and securities companies, with the most
recent estimates given the heaviest weightings.  Treasury 10-year notes have returned almost 15 percent this
year, outperforming the 9.1 gain in the broader Treasury market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  