-- Record Profit Propels Vale Bonds Beyond BHP, Rio: Brazil Credit
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-11-05T21:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/record-profit-propels-vale-bonds-beyond-bhp-rio-brazil-credit.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-ore
producer, is beating BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group in
the bond market on speculation record earnings will give the
company enough cash to avoid borrowing.  Vale’s dollar bonds due in 2019 returned 3.8 percent since
the company reported that a doubling in iron-ore prices buoyed
its third-quarter earnings of $6 billion on Oct. 27, pushing
their gain to 17.4 percent this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. BHP bonds gained 2.2 percent since Oct. 27 while
Rio Tinto debt advanced 2 percent.  Vale has enough cash to carry out its $24 billion
investment plan, which Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli 
said will be a record for the mining industry, without boosting
debt levels, according to  Christopher Buck , a corporate debt
analyst with Barclays Plc. The Rio de Janeiro-based company had
net debt of $15.5 billion at the end of September, up from $8.1
billion a year earlier.  “It appears that the company wants to operate on a little
less leverage than they have now,” Buck said in a telephone
interview from New York. That “should be a positive for
bonds,” he said.  The rally in Vale’s 5.625 percent bonds since Oct. 27
compares with  corporate  bond returns of 1.2 percent for Brazil
and 0.9 percent for  emerging markets , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s CEMBI indexes.  Vale plans to finance its investment plan with cash
generation and will only tap the bond market if it sees an
opportunity to cut interest payments or extend the maturity of
debt, Chief Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti  said in an
interview Oct. 20.  ‘Bullish’  “Not issuing new bonds is bullish for Vale’s debt,”
according to  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets strategist at
RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. “There is a scarcity premium
for companies that have less debt while supply risk puts
pressure on spreads.”  Vale sold $2.78 billion of bonds in overseas markets this
year, the most by a Brazilian company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company will also use credit lines from the Export-
Import Bank of China, the Bank of China Ltd., Export Development
Canada and Brazil’s state development bank, known as BNDES, to
finance part of the investment program, Vale’s Cavalcanti said.  “Vale could reduce its debt burden by tendering short term
maturities and extending its maturity profile with newer and
cheaper bonds,” said  Gonzalo Borja , who manages about 500
million euros ($710 million) in fixed income assets, including
Vale bonds, at Clariden Leu in Zurich. “They would follow the
recent trend seen in the corporate bond market where companies
are taking advantage of historic low yield levels to replace
short-term maturities.”  Debt Issuance  Brazilian companies sold a record $33.6 billion of bonds
abroad this year as they sought to take advantage of record-low
borrowing costs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 173 at 5:03 p.m. New
York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose three basis points to 94, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Ratings  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2012 climbed seven basis points to 11.47 percent
today.  The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.6799 per dollar.  Vale shares are up 17 percent this year, compared with a
five percent advance for BHP and a 28 percent gain for Rio
Tinto.  Vale is rated  BBB+  by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, the
third-lowest investment grade, and one step below by Moody’s
Investors  Service at Baa2. London-based Rio Tinto is rated BBB+
by S&P and A- by Fitch.  BHP , in Melbourne, has an A+ rating from
S&P and an A1 ranking from Moody’s.  Ruban Yogarajah , a spokesman for BHP in London, declined to
comment. Rio Tinto spokesman  Tony Shaffer , also based in London,
declined to comment. A Vale official who declined to be named
citing corporate policy said the company had no comment.  Vale will almost double its investments next year as it
expands production of the steelmaking ingredient and boosts its
nickel, copper and fertilizer businesses, the company said on
Oct. 28.  Acquisition  “The capital expenditure is large but our rating already
contemplates pretty substantive capex,” said Moody’s analyst
 Carol Cowan  in an telephone interview from New York. “It does
not impact the rating in either direction.”  The investment plan is a positive for Vale’s bonds as it
reduces the risk of an acquisition, Barclays’s Buck said. BHP
earlier this year made a $40 billion hostile bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest fertilizer
producer. Canada blocked the bid on Nov. 3.  Vale’s third-quarter profit surged from $1.68 billion a
year earlier after iron-ore prices soared to $128.21 per ton
from $57.23 amid growing demand from China.  “The company just had tremendous earnings,” Buck said.
“It became a reality that the company was going to be able to
handle this capex program without much trouble. The capex plan
signals that the company is not looking to make any major
acquisition but rather develop their organic pipeline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  