-- Three Divas Founder in Pointless `Women on the Verge' Musical: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/three-divas-founder-in-pointless-women-on-the-verge-review.html
Heroic efforts from the remarkable
singing actresses  Laura Benanti ,  Patti LuPone  and  Sherie Rene Scott  and the equally accomplished  Brian Stokes Mitchell  can’t
disguise the fact that “Women on the Verge of a Nervous
Breakdown” is an unholy mess.  Along the way to Broadway from  Pedro Almodovar ’s off-beat
Madrid, inspiration suffered its own breakdown.  It may, of course, have been too much to ask for such
different sensibilities to have melded seamlessly. Yet neither
would one have supposed the adapted vehicle -- book by Jeffrey
Lane and score by David Yazbek -- would suffer four flat tires
on top of engine failure. But that’s what has happened to this
production, staged without much whimsy by Bartlett Sher.  For a practically nonexistent plot, the story of “Women on
the Verge” defies easy summary. Lucia (LuPone), a termagant who
has been away 19 years, partly in a mental hospital, has
returned to confront and sue her fickle husband Ivan (Mitchell),
a film director.  Also pursuing the elusive fellow is overwrought Pepa (Rene
Scott), his mistress, a voice-over actress. Candela (Benanti), a
dim model, is chasing Malik, a Shiite terrorist whom she has
just bedded and who is wanted by the police.  Magical Hack  There is also the Taxi Driver, who appears whenever Pepa
needs a ride, making one suspect that Madrid has only one cab.
Further, we get Ivan and Lucia’s son Carlos, a student now
engaged to Marisa, a pair managing to get in the way of all the
pursuers.  Along the way, we bump into two elderly concierges, flighty
young Ana and her motor-biking lover, Ambite, and Paulina,
Lucia’s sexy lawyer, who also ends up falling for Ivan’s
blandishments.  Diverse minor characters thicken the plot and thin the
oxygen. The result is a mix of traditional farce with surreal
touches, whereby persons materialize in places to which
credibility would not have granted them access. A free-for-all
then, in which everyone is mostly on the run, something the
camera can handle but the stage not so well -- despite Michael
Yeargan’s slick set design and Brian MacDevitt’s canny lighting.  Dull, Dated  It doesn’t help that Sven Ortel’s projections are at least
15 years behind the times and that neither the gifted special-
effects man Gregory Meeh, nor the worthy costumer  Catherine Zuber , is in top form here. Scott, especially, looks awkward in
her tight skirts. LuPone is topped off by an unfelicitous wig.  But the chief culprits are Lane’s scattershot book and
Yazbek’s ho-hum songs, not one of them memorable.  Major changes in the show were being made right up until
the last minute, to no avail. It is noteworthy that for a
musical about women, the creative team had not one on it.
Perhaps that was the first of many mistakes.  At the Belasco Theater, 111 W. 44th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: * 1/2  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 