-- Resona to Pay Back $11 Billion of Japan Bailout With Share Sale, Reserves
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2010-11-05T09:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/resona-plans-to-sell-as-much-as-7-4-billion-of-shares-to-repay-bailout.html
Resona Holdings Inc. , Japan’s fourth-
biggest bank, plans to repay as much as 900 billion yen
($11 billion) of government bailout funds using proceeds from a
share sale and internal reserves.  The Tokyo-based bank today registered to sell as much as
600 billion yen of common stock over the next year, according to
an exchange filing. It plans to use money from the sale, plus
300 billion yen of reserves, to buy back preferred stock from
the government and retire the  shares  to avoid potential dilution.  Resona tumbled 16 percent today on reports that it would
increase the volume of shares by selling new stock. The bank,
the second-worst performer on the  Topix Banks Index  this year,
is under pressure to repay a 2003 bailout to regain independence
and compete with its bigger rivals, which raised a combined 4.5
trillion yen in stock sales in the past two years.  “It’s not like Resona’s got infinite time, so capital-
raising may be pretty much their only option left” to repay
public funds and keep growing, said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-
based senior analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. “The
dilution effect may be limited if Resona decides to buy back the
shares and retire them.”  The bank plans to hire  Nomura Holdings Inc.  and Bank of
 America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit to underwrite the
shares, the statement said. Resona owes 1.7 trillion yen to the
government, including 1.4 trillion yen of preferred shares that
Chairman  Eiji Hosoya  aims to buy back over the next six years.  Dispel Uncertainty  “Investors’ desire to dispel uncertainty over Resona’s
management prospects was the main driving force that led us to
set out this repayment plan,” Hosoya said at a news conference
in Tokyo.  Under former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi , Japan
injected 1.96 trillion yen into Resona in 2003 after its capital
fell below minimum regulatory requirements. As well as preferred
shares, the state owns 42 percent of the firm’s common stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  “Resona is unloading their burden of public money, and
getting management freedom back from the government,”  Yoshinobu Yamada , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said before
the announcement. “A question seems to remain: why now, given
recent sluggish stock-market sentiment?”  Resona shares have lost 45 percent of their value this year.
The stock dropped the most since May 2003 today to its lowest
level in seven years. The Topix Banks Index climbed 1.3 percent.  The lender returned to profit in the year ended March 2005
and stayed profitable throughout the global financial crisis. It
said on Oct. 29 that  net income  fell 5.4 percent for the six
months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier as tax expenses
outweighed gains from bond sales and a decline in bad-loan costs.  The bank may struggle to lure investors to its sale, said
 Naoki Fujiwara , a fund manager in Tokyo who helps oversee $6
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co.  “Even if they do want to repay the public funds, they don’t
have to rush to do it,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , a fund manager in
Tokyo who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset Management
Co. “There are questions as to why they would sell shares when
the price is so low right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 