-- Resona Holdings Tumbles Most in Seven Years in Tokyo on Share-Issue Plan
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-11-05T03:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/resona-holdings-is-said-to-plan-share-sale-of-hundreds-of-billions-of-yen.html
Resona Holdings Inc.  fell the most in
more than seven years in Tokyo trading after reports said the
Japanese bank plans to sell shares to help repay government
bailout funds.  Resona slid 16 percent, or the 100-yen daily limit, to 512
yen at the 11 a.m. trading break, heading for the biggest
 decline  since May 19, 2003. Japan’s fourth-biggest bank is
preparing a public share offer of several hundred billions of
yen, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Tokyo-based lender is under pressure to speed up
repayment of public funds and strengthen its  balance sheet  to
better compete with larger rivals. Japan’s three biggest banks
led by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. raised about 4.5
trillion yen ($56 billion) by selling shares in the past two
years, as regulators called on lenders to hold more capital.  “It’s not like Resona’s got infinite time, so capital-
raising may be pretty much their only option left” to repay
public funds and continue growing, said  Takehito Yamanaka , a
Tokyo-based senior analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.
“The dilution effect may be limited if Resona decides to buy
back the shares and retire them.”  The plan is in the final stage and Resona will register the
offer with the Ministry of Finance, one of the people said on
condition of anonymity. The  bank  owes the government about 1.7
trillion yen from bailouts, the person said.  Nothing Decided  The Nikkei newspaper reported the share sale plan earlier
today. Reuters said that the lender may raise as much as 500
billion yen, citing three people with knowledge of the situation.  Resona released a statement today saying “at this point,
it’s not true that anything has been decided.”  Under former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi , the
government injected 1.96 trillion yen into Resona in 2003 after
its capital fell below minimum regulatory requirements. The
government owns 42 percent of Resona’s common stock, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News. It also holds preferred
shares that provide majority voting rights.  Resona is the second-worst performer on the 83-member Topix
Banks Index this year, having lost 45 percent of its value. The
index climbed 1.8 percent at the 11 a.m. break in Tokyo, paring
its loss this year to 16 percent.  Returned to Profit  Resona returned to profit in the year ended March 2005 and
stayed profitable throughout the global financial crisis. The
lender on Oct. 29 said  net income  fell 5.4 percent for the six
months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier as tax expenses eroded
gains from bond sales and a decline in bad-loan costs.  The market may be far from welcoming Resona’s proposed
share sales, said  Naoki Fujiwara , a fund manager in Tokyo who
helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co.  “The market feels a bit betrayed -- the timing isn’t very
good, Fujiwara said. “They never told us they would do this.
They haven’t explained how they plan to use this capital in a
way that is agreeable.”  Resona said in August that it would buy bank preferred
shares for 425.7 billion yen. “We will accelerate management
reform to secure funding for further repayments,”  Eiji Hosoya ,
chairman of the bank, said in a statement at the time.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said in
September it will require lenders to increase capital, giving
them almost a decade to fully comply. Banks will require common
equity equal to at least 7 percent of assets, including a 2.5
percent buffer to withstand future stress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  