-- RNC Chair Steele Says Party Should `Chill Out' on Palin's Rise
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-06T14:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/rnc-chairman-steele-says-his-party-needs-to-chill-out-over-palin-s-rise.html
Republican National Committee 
Chairman  Michael Steele , embracing former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin ’s ability to galvanize voters, urged the Republican Party
establishment to “chill out.”  “You know, in the words of  Bill Clinton , I feel her pain,
you know?” Steele said in an interview on “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television. “My
goal -- and I know Sarah’s goal has been -- let’s take the party
and put it on the streets.”  Steele, who said he will decide soon whether to try to stay
on as party chairman, countered criticism from Mississippi
Governor  Haley Barbour . The chairman of the  Republican Governors
Association  said on election night that his group and other
wings of the party had to “scramble around” this election
cycle to raise more money because the RNC wasn’t doing enough.  “He’s just flat-out wrong and he knows it,” Steele said.  Steele said Barbour is ignoring the donor limits the RNC
operated under while raising a total of $185 million in the
entire two-year election cycle. The nonpartisan  Center for
Responsive Politics  says the RNC raised $170.3 million through
Oct. 13, while the RGA raised $89.5 million.  “I appreciate the governor’s position,” Steele said.
“But Governor Barbour can raise unlimited cash for the RGA. I’m
limited by campaign finance laws to $30,000 max from any one
donor.”  Democratic Fundraising  The Democratic National Committee took in $195.3 million,
out-raising the RNC for the first time since the 1992 election
cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. In 2008,
the RNC raised $428 million and the DNC $260 million.  Steele, who stopped short of endorsing Palin in any
campaign for president, also said that prominent Republicans
such as Barbour and Republican fundraiser  Karl Rove  --  who has
suggested Palin may not be taken seriously enough by voters to
run for president -- haven’t shown enough appreciation for
grassroots politics and taking on institutions.  “You’ve seen their reactions to various things, how they,
you know, talk about the RNC and what we’re doing. We got on a
bus and went out to the country, because that’s where the party
needs to be. It doesn’t need to be stuck here in D.C. talking to
each other and talking amongst itself.  “That’s why you saw such a rise of grassroots activism,
from Tea Partiers and so forth, over the last year, because
political structures stop listening,” he said, adding that
Palin’s ability “in terms of galvanizing our ground game,
galvanizing our troops, moving people to actions -- that’s a
very powerful force in politics.”  Hefty Credit  Steele said the RNC can claim hefty credit in the outcome
of elections Nov. 2 that handed his party control of the House.
The RNC targeted 118 House races in the election, he said.  “I think (it was) a fairly big role,” Steele said. ‘I’ve
always referred to us as the Marines in politics. We go where no
one wants to go and do what no one else can do.”  Steele said the party’s gains in state legislatures and
governor’s races this week also will leave Republicans well-
positioned in the pivotal process of redrawing congressional
district boundaries for 2012 based on the 2010 Census.  With more legislatures controlled by Republicans next year,
he said, the party will have control over redistricting in an
additional 196 of the House’s 435 districts.  “You’re looking at solidifying the gains we made on
Tuesday and probably adding potentially another 10, 15 or so
seats,” Steele said.  Republicans picked up at least 60 House seats in the Nov. 2
election, the biggest gain for their party since 1938, and Tea
Party-endorsed candidates accounted for 28 of those pickups,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The party needed a gain
of 39 seats to take control of the chamber from Democrats.  The party added six seats in the Senate, short of the 10
needed to take that chamber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  