-- Tropical Storm Tomas Lashes Haiti, Cuba, Jamaica With Heavy Rain, Winds
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 2010-11-05T04:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/tropical-storm-tomas-lashes-haiti-cuba-jamaica-with-heavy-rain-winds.html
Tropical Storm Tomas strengthened
over the Caribbean, lashing parts of Haiti, Jamaica and Cuba
with strong winds and heavy rain after triggering landslides in
Costa Rica, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Tomas was about 160 kilometers (100 miles) east-southeast
of Kingston, Jamaica and about 370 kilometers west-southwest of
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, the center said in an  advisory  before 11
p.m. Miami time yesterday. The storm’s sustained winds increased
to 100 kilometers per hour from 85 kph earlier, the center said.  The storm may regain hurricane strength, with sustained
winds of at least 119 kph, later today as it moves north-
northeast over western Haiti and eastern Cuba toward the
Bahamas. Hurricane warnings are in effect for the southeastern
Bahamas, Haiti, the Turks and Caicos islands and the Cuban
province of Guantanamo, the center said.  As much as 38 centimeters (15 inches) of rain may fall in
parts of the Dominican Republic and Haiti, where more than 1
million people have lived in camps since an earthquake in
January that left 300,000 people dead and a cholera outbreak has
infected thousands and killed hundreds.  “These rains could cause life-threatening flash floods and
mudslides over mountainous terrain,” the center said.  A storm surge may raise water levels by as high as 0.9
meters (3 feet) above normal along the coast of Haiti and up to
1.5 meters along the southeastern coast of Cuba, the center
said.  Reluctant to Leave  Silvie Louchez, the Haiti director for the  American Refugee
Committee , said on Nov. 3 people were reluctant to evacuate
camps where they have been living since the quake. One camp,
Corail, which houses 7,000 people, is at risk because it was
built on a desert flood plain north of Port-au-Prince.  Two days of heavy rains triggered a landslide yesterday in
the suburbs of Costa Rica’s capital, San Jose, that killed at
least 20 people and left 27 missing, the country’s  National
Emergency Commission  said in an e-mailed statement.  Tomas swept through the Windward Islands as a hurricane
Oct. 29 to Oct. 31, damaging 500 homes in Barbados and 1,200 in
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and wiping out Saint Lucia’s
banana crop, the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency
said in a situation  report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 