-- HSBC Says Quarterly Profit Growth Slowed, Sees `Bumps' in Road
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-11-05T16:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/hsbc-profit-ahead-of-last-year-as-bad-debt-falls.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
bank, said profit growth slowed in the third quarter and that
recovery in emerging markets may be faltering.  The rate of profit growth declined from the first half, the
London-based lender said in a statement today. Third-quarter
profit was still “well ahead” of the year-earlier period as
bad-loan provisions in the U.S. declined, HSBC said. The lender
didn’t provide specific figures in the statement.  “Our latest data from emerging markets points to a
slowdown in the rate of recovery and the likelihood of some
bumps in the road ahead,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  said in the statement. “We believe the long-term
fundamentals for emerging economies are as compelling as ever.”  HSBC, which gets about two-thirds of its revenue from
outside Europe, said loan impairments dropped to their lowest
level since early 2007 after the bank shut its U.S. consumer-
finance unit. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc also reported lower provisions in the period.  Provisions at HSBC’s U.S. subsidiaries fell to $1.7 billion
from $3.1 billion in the third quarter of last year, according
to a U.S. filing. The bad-loan outlook is “fairly stable” in
the U.S. and the bank doesn’t expect provisions to return to the
levels of 2008 and 2009, Finance Director  Douglas Flint  said on
a conference call with reporters today. Lending at the U.S.
consumer-finance business that’s closed to new customers has
halved to $61.3 billion since the start of 2007, the bank said.  Shares Drop  HSBC fell 1.7 percent to 683 pence in London, giving the
bank a market value of 121 billion pounds ($196 billion). The
lender has gained 11 percent since the start of the third
quarter, lagging behind Standard Chartered Plc, a rival that
also makes much of its profit in Asia, which has climbed 23
percent.  China’s growth rate has “moderated” to 7 percent to 9
percent, Flint said. “It’s encouraging there is moderation from
the exuberance in some of the economies,” he said.  Pretax profit and trading activity was lower at the Global
Banking and Markets securities unit in the third quarter,
reflecting “more subdued market sentiment and conditions,” the
bank said, without providing numbers.  “This should be interpreted negatively and reinforces our
view that HSBC is a low-growth company which is already fully
valued,” said  Andrew Lim , a financial analyst at Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP with a “hold” rating on HSBC. “We would
expect downgrades to full-year 2010 estimates.”  Back in Profit  The bank in August said its North American unit returned to
profit for the first time in three years. Following a succession
struggle,  HSBC  named investment-banking head  Stuart Gulliver  as
CEO in September to replace Geoghegan, who will retire at the
end of the year.  HSBC said today it hasn’t delayed taking action against
householders amid the U.S. foreclosure crisis. Under pressure
from lawmakers, U.S. banks have delayed action to review filings
that some borrowers claim were marred by so-called robo-signing,
in which employees vouched for the accuracy of court statements
without personally checking loan records.  “We have found no systemic concerns with our foreclosure
processes, nor have we found instances of “robo-signing,’” the
London-based lender said in a statement today. “Officials are
requiring additional verification of information filed prior to
the foreclosure proceeding. If these trends continue there could
be an extended delay in the processing of foreclosures, which
could have an adverse impact upon housing prices.”  ‘Difficult’ to Hire  Tougher U.K. rules on remuneration for employees are
putting HSBC at a disadvantage to U.S. and local banks in
markets such as Brazil, India and China, Gulliver told reporters
on the conference call. It “makes it difficult to attract fresh
people” and to retain staff, he said. The bank is seeking a
“level playing field,” and was unable to recruit as many as 15
people to its investment bank in Hong Kong because it couldn’t
offer two-year compensation guarantees, he said.  HSBC doesn’t have any acquisitions planned, though
regulatory changes may provide “opportunities” toward the end
of next year, Flint said. The bank, which abandoned talks to buy
a controlling stake in South Africa’s Nedbank Group Ltd., hasn’t
held talks and doesn’t have any interest in buying Chicago-based
custody bank Northern Trust Corp., said Geoghegan. The Daily
Mail newspaper last month said the HSBC may make an offer to buy
the U.S. bank.  The bank’s Core Tier 1 ratio rose to 10.5 percent from 9.9
percent and HSBC is “comfortable” it will meet the Basel III
requirements without needing to raise equity.  “We see no reason and no need at this time to do a rights
issue,” Geoghegan said.  RBS, which is mostly owned by the government after the
global financial crisis, said today its third-quarter net loss
narrowed by 36 percent to 1.15 billion pounds. Impairments fell
40 percent in the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 