-- Schaeuble Rebuffs Trichet, Rebukes Bernanke as Germany Diverges
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-05T13:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/schaeuble-rejects-trichet-s-criticism-eu-debt-mechanism-may-roil-markets.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  swiped at European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke ,
distancing Europe’s biggest economy from policies born of the
financial crisis.  Speaking in Berlin today, Schaeuble said the Fed’s
injection of $600 billion was “clueless” and won’t revive
growth. He said he didn’t share Trichet’s concerns that making
investors pay for future euro-area crises risks roiling markets.  The comments, made five days before Chancellor  Angela Merkel  leaves for a summit of Group of 20 leaders in Seoul,
underscore the mounting friction between Germany and its G-20
partners as Merkel pushes for budget-deficit cuts and
regulations to avoid a repeat of the crisis.  “It’s our problem as well if the U.S. is no longer certain
that the old recipes don’t work anymore,” Schaeuble said. “We
don’t have the least reason for schadenfreude. We only have
reason to be worried.”  Schaeuble compared the Fed’s bond purchases to China’s
restrictions on its currency, saying the measure will contribute
to imbalances by driving down the dollar. He also rejected U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s proposal to end
currency conflicts by putting in place targets to shrink
current-account gaps -- a step that would affect Germany.  Neither did the German finance minister offer any succor
to fellow euro-area governments that are struggling to cut their
budget deficits and hold down their borrowing costs, saying that
taxpayers must not be called upon to shoulder bailouts alone.  ‘It’s Necessary’  “I don’t share the argument that the markets will be
unsettled” by such talk, Schaeuble said. “The markets know
that it’s necessary.”  Trichet signaled his concern yesterday that any attempt to
make bondholders contribute in the event of another debt crisis
risks driving up bond yields of high-deficit nations such as
Ireland and Greece. Ireland led a surge in the cost of insuring
sovereign debt to a record today.  Trichet’s “argument against a crisis mechanism is that it
will worsen the European competitive position for investors,”
Schaeuble said. “My argument is that this has long been taken
into consideration by markets and priced in.”  Merkel’s government this week stepped up its insistence
that bondholders rather than taxpayers are held to account as it
tries to put its stamp on a European Union permanent debt-crisis
procedure, which is to be drafted by mid-December. Merkel’s aim
is for governments to keep the upper hand in what she called in
May “a battle of the politicians against the markets.”  Merkel ‘Needs This’  Merkel, whose coalition trails the opposition in opinion
polls before six state elections next year, needs a success
after alienating German voters by supporting the bailout for
Greece in May, said  Carsten Brzeski , a senior economist at ING
Groep NV in Brussels. Her refusal to cut taxes even as revenue
jumps also contributes to her stance on the debt mechanism, he
said in a telephone interview.  “You cannot go around saying ‘All German citizens have to
be austere while we bail out the Greeks’,” said Brzeski, who
used to work at the European Commission, the EU’s executive
body. “The crisis resolution mechanism has to fly,” he said.
“To present herself as a powerful European figure, she needs
this success now.”  German attempts to shape the rule overhaul have been
challenged by European leaders including Spanish Prime Minister
 Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , who are concerned that Merkel’s
message will spook traders when markets are already volatile.  Irish Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds surpassed 200 basis points,
leading declines among peripheral bond markets in Europe. The
Irish spread widened seven basis points to a record 533 basis
points, according to Bloomberg generic data.  Credit-default swaps on Ireland rose for a ninth day,
soaring 27 basis points to an all-time high of 606, according to
data provider CMA. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index
rose 5 basis points to a record 170.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  “It’s not helpful to suggest Europe is going to
restructure other countries’ debts,” Irish Finance Minister
 Brian Lenihan  told reporters on Nov. 3, attributing the widening
bond spreads to talk of forcing bondholders to accept losses.
“Ireland has made it very clear we’ll honor our debt and
obligations. There is no question of restructuring our debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  