-- SEC: No Evidence Fast Cancellations Triggered May Crash
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-11-05T17:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/sec-finds-no-evidence-fast-cancellations-triggered-may-6-crash.html
U.S. regulators haven’t found
evidence that traders tried to profit during the May 6 stock-
market crash by overwhelming exchanges with orders, a Securities
and Exchange Commission official said.  There is no indication thus far that “one or more parties
flooded the market with quotes” to cause delays in exchange
feeds that list stock prices, Gregg Berman , a senior adviser to
the SEC’s trading and markets division, said today at a
Washington meeting to discuss the May 6 plunge.  Berman’s comments were at odds with speculation by  Nanex
LLC , a market-data provider, which said high-frequency traders
destabilized New York Stock Exchange trading by submitting and
then canceling thousands of rapid-fire orders. Executives at
Winnetka, Illinois-based Nanex have cast doubt on findings by
the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that sales
of futures contracts by a single mutual-fund firm started a
chain of selling that bled into stocks and exchange-traded
funds.  The  crash  erased $862 billion from the value of equities in
20 minutes before stocks mostly recovered their losses by the
end of the day.  Berman commented at a meeting of the SEC, CFTC and an
advisory panel tasked with making recommendations to the
regulators on how to prevent future crashes.  Better Access  Brooksley Born , a former CFTC chairman serving on the panel
advising the agencies, said investor confidence has been eroded
by concerns that high-frequency traders have better access to
markets and information.  Born said she sees “major problems” with the level of
order cancellations by high-frequency traders. She said she’s
worried that some firms submit “fraudulent” quotes to get a
sense of where asset prices are heading.  The events of May 6 prompted the SEC and CFTC to increase
scrutiny of computer-driven trading in which market participants
such as mutual and hedge funds employ algorithms provided by
brokers to execute larger orders through series of smaller buy
or sell requests. Algorithms are often designed to take into
account the prices at which a trader wants to execute, volume in
the security, historical data and market conditions.  Robert Cook , director of the SEC’s trading and markets
unit, said regulators are examining how brokers and other firms
create algorithms, how they test the computer programs and what
information is disclosed to customers about how they work. An
SEC task force began looking at algorithm use before the crash,
and it is an area of “further inquiry,” Cook said.  ‘Cascade’  Regulators are also examining whether a firm’s algorithm
could “cascade,” causing executions to affect market prices in
ways that trigger further action by the computerized-trading
system, said Andrei Kirilenko, a senior economist at the CFTC.  “That is a very active area of inquiry,” he said.  Regulators should consider placing restrictions on
algorithmic transactions and limiting how many contracts a
single firm can trade, said CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton .
Permitting high-frequency traders to buy and sell 10 percent of
a market 10 times in 10 seconds doesn’t seem to provide any
benefit to financial markets, he said.  “It seems there is a good argument that this type of
trading is, in essence, parasitical trading,” Chilton said.
“Given what we saw on May 6th, appropriate limits on financial
futures and robotic algos seems warranted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 