-- Seven-Year Note `Attractive' as Fed Buys Assets, Crescenzi Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-05T16:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/seven-year-note-attractive-as-fed-buys-assets-crescenzi-says-tom-keene.html
The most attractive part of the
Treasury market coincides with where the Federal Reserve will do
much of its buying, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co. bond strategist  Anthony Crescenzi .  “The area of the curve that the Federal Reserve is
purchasing securities in, which is around the  seven-year 
point,” offers the most value, Crescenzi said in a radio
interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“This is an area where managers are focusing on.”  Policy makers aim to buy assets with an average duration of
between five and six years, the New York Fed said Nov. 3 when
officials announced $600 billion in purchase of Treasuries. The
Fed plans to make about 86 percent of its purchases in
securities maturing from 2.5 years to 10 years. Duration, a
measure of a bond’s price sensitivity to interest-rate changes,
generally increases with maturity.  Treasuries declined, with yields on five-year  notes  rising
for the first time in seven days, after the U.S. payrolls report
today showed employers added more jobs in October than analysts
forecast. The central bank will expand asset purchases at a pace
of about $75 billion a month through June to reduce unemployment
and avert deflation.  “With these employment statistics looking a little better
today, it’s not a good time to be betting on continuous declines
in interest rates,” Crescenzi said from Pimco’s headquarters in
Newport Beach, California.  Roll-Down Trades  Rather than betting on a decline in yields, particularly
for longer-term securities, investors have been placing “roll-
down” trades, designed to benefit from the declines in yield
bonds experience as they move closer to maturity, he said.  Investors look for the widest gaps between different
maturities in order to determine “how much yield do you pick
up,” Crescenzi said. “A seven-year, when it becomes a six-year
in a year, its yield will decline by 30 basis points.”  The Fed’s decision to announce asset purchases until June
surprised investors whose expectations had been for a six-month
program, Crescenzi said.  “That lengthy eight-month period is another way of saying
we are going to keep rates low for an extended, extended period,
and that compressed the  yield curve  and helped to keep interest
rates low in the intermediate sector where the Fed said it will
purchase securities,” Crescenzi said.  The central bank has to resort to unconventional policies
such as asset purchases because it can’t push its  target rate 
below zero in order to boost asset prices and stimulate the
economy, Crescenzi said.  “It is the right prescription because the fiscal authority
is out of the game and the monetary authority has to pull all
the weight,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  