-- Shanghai Luxury Home Sales Volume Rises in September by Most in Five Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T03:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/shanghai-luxury-home-sales-by-volume-jump-to-five-year-high-in-october.html
Shanghai new luxury home sales volume
in October soared 82 percent from September, the highest monthly
gain in five years,  Century 21 Real Estate LLC  said in an e-
mailed statement.  Sales volume of homes costing more than 40,000 yuan ($6,000)
per square meter rose to 152,900 square meters (1.6 million
square feet) last month, according to the statement. Luxury
property prices fell 1.5 percent from September to an average
price of 56,200 yuan per square meter.  China has this year tightened down-payment requirements,
suspended loans for third-home purchases and pledged to speed
trials of a property tax that may be rolled out nationwide.
Policy makers may introduce more property tightening measures in
the fourth quarter amid signs of a price recovery, according to
Nomura Securities Co. The likely policies are a property tax and
the enforcement of the so-called land added-value tax in the
“overheated cities,” Nomura said in a Nov. 4 report.  “Against the backdrop of government curbs, buyers with
deep pockets would rather buy one expensive home, rather than a
couple of cheaper ones,” said  Lu Qiling , a researcher at UWin
Real Estate Information Services Co. in Shanghai.  Luxury property sales drove a 3.1 percent gain in Shanghai
home prices in October from the previous month, according to
UWin.  Property Tax  The introduction of a property tax may cause housing prices
to drop between 15 percent and 20 percent, Citic Securities Co.
said Nov. 3. The tax may affect economic growth by 0.48
percentage point to 0.64 percentage point by slowing real-estate
investment, analysts led by  Zhu Jianfang  wrote in the note.  China’s home price growth will slow in October to 8.9
percent, according to the median of six economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices in 70 cities gained 9.1 percent in
September, according to data from the statistics bureau, which
is due to report last month’s figures Nov. 10.  China’s property prices are “unlikely to be contained for
long” because of rapid urbanization, income growth and low
interest rates, the World Bank said in its quarterly report
released Nov. 3.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Andreea Papuc ,  Tomoko Yamazaki   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  