-- Shanghai Exchange to Curb `Abnormal' Trading After Prices Surge to Records
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T10:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/shanghai-exchange-to-curb-abnormal-trading-after-prices-surge-to-records.html
China’s  Shanghai Futures Exchange 
issued rules today to prevent “abnormal” trading following a
similar move by the Zhengzhou bourse to curb speculation as
commodity prices trade at record levels.  The exchange will alert the securities regulator if
investors are found trading between their own accounts or
frequently placing and canceling orders, which can mislead the
market, it said in a statement on its website today. Investors
should also not use related accounts to hold positions that
exceed limits for individual investors, the bourse said.  Domestic prices of rubber, cotton and sugar climbed to
records today on speculative buying and supply shortages.
China’s consumer price index rose to a 23-month high in October,
spurring the state reserves regulator to sell sugar, cotton,
corn, aluminum, and zinc to cool prices.  “This is clearly aimed at curbing excessive speculation,”
Lin Hui, deputy director of the research department at the
Orient Securities Futures Co.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, where copper, aluminum,
zinc, natural rubber, steel, and fuel oil futures are traded,
said it will take measures ranging from verbal warnings to
submitting cases to the China Securities Regulatory Commission
to probe any “abnormal trading”.  “Speculative money has been flowing into commodities,
partly because of strong inflation expectations,” said Axl
Wang, an analyst at Wanda Futures on Oct. 29.  Copper for February delivery on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange gained 4.2 percent to close at 67,390 yuan ($10,120).  -- Helen Sun . Editor: Richard Dobson.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  