-- Shell Closes Book on 2004 Reserves Scandal as Claims Deadline Passes
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2010-11-05T08:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/shell-closes-book-on-2004-reserves-scandal-as-claims-deadline-passes.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
largest oil company, will finally be able to turn the page of
its reserves scandal when a deadline for investors to make
claims passes today.  Non-U.S. investors have until today to be part of the
$352.6 million settlement, made after the company restated
reserves in 2004. Shell, whose  shares  are trading near a two-
year high, slashed its proven oil and gas reserve estimates in
January 2004, leading to fines, investor lawsuits and the
departure of the company’s top three executives. The Anglo-Dutch
joint venture Royal Dutch/Shell Group was unified in 2005 as a
single Hague-based company, Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Jeroen van der Veer , who became chief executive officer in
2004, turned his focus to raising production investing in oil
sands reserves in Canada, the Sakhalin project in Russia and a
gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar. Those projects are now helping to
meet Shell’s target of an 11 percent increase in production by
2012 to 3.5 million barrels of oil equivalent a day.  “If Shell hadn’t closed the book already, they can do it
now,”  Paul Coenen , head of legal affairs at the investor lobby
group VEB that helped process the claims, said in an interview
yesterday.  The company’s class-A shares, traded in London, on Nov. 2
reached the highest level in over two years at 2,100 pence and
have risen about 13 percent since the unification of the company
was completed in July 2005. The shares gained as much as 0.4
percent to 2,097 pence in London today.  “Shell looks like a good choice and now seems to be within
the horizon of investors that look at the growth,”  Gudmund Halle Isfeldt , an Oslo-based analyst at DnB NOR Markets, said in
an interview yesterday. “The cash flow is increasing, there’s
good momentum as they seem to be delivering on many different
areas at the moment.” He rates the stock a “buy.”  ‘Delivery Window’  Current Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser , who took over
last year, said Oct. 28 Shell is in a “delivery window” for
growth after expanding an oil sands venture and taking final
investment decisions on deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico
and Brazil. The company last month posted earnings that beat
analyst estimates for the third straight quarter.  The settlement compensates shareholders who bought Shell
shares on any stock exchange outside the U.S. from April 8,
1999, through March 18, 2004, according to the Shell Reserves
Compensation Foundation, set up to administer the reparation.
The settlement involves institutional investors and shareholder
associations in nine European nations. The company agreed in
2007 to pay the final settlement to European and other non-U.S.
investors.  Shell had already settled with the U.S. Securities and
Exchanges Commission, or SEC, for $120 million as well as paying
$89.5 million in a class-action suit. The sum for non-U.S.
investors includes $12.5 million to be distributed equally to
all shareholders who submit a valid claim, regardless of the
number of shares held, according to a statement from the Shell
Reserves Compensation Foundation in May last year.  Shell declined to comment when contacted by phone
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  