-- Shell Bribes Among `Culture of Corruption,' Panalpina Admits
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/shell-bribes-among-culture-of-corruption-panalpina-admits.html
Bribes paid on behalf of  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc ’s Nigerian unit came from “a culture of corruption”
that Swiss freight forwarder  Panalpina World Transport Holding
Ltd.  admitted in a U.S. court yesterday.  Panalpina, Shell and five oil services companies agreed to
pay $236.5 million to settle probes by the U.S. Justice
Department and Securities and Exchange Commission. Panalpina,
which admitted to bribing government officials in hundreds of
ways in seven nations, will pay $81.5 million. Shell will pay
$48.1 million.  Prosecutors agreed to defer prosecution of five companies,
including Panalpina and Shell. Panalpina said it paid at least
$49 million in bribes to government officials in Angola,
Azerbaijan, Brazil, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Russia and
Turkmenistan. The bribes from 2002 to 2007 let its clients avoid
the customs process, pass off phony documents or smuggle
contraband including medicines and explosives, Panalpina said.  “Prior to 2007 a culture of corruption within Panalpina
emanated from senior level  management  in Switzerland who
tolerated bribery as business as usual,” the company said in a
34-page statement filed in federal court in Houston. “Dozens of
employees throughout the Panalpina organization were involved in
various schemes to pay bribes to foreign officials.”  The company said Shell’s Nigerian employees “specifically
requested Panalpina Nigeria to provide false invoices with line
items to mask the nature of the bribes.” Shell wanted to “hide
the nature of the payments to avoid suspicion if anyone audited
the invoices,” Panalpina said.  Panalpina, based in Basel, Switzerland,  dropped  4.1 percent
to 123.2 francs ($128.63) yesterday, ending an eight-day rise.  Shell Bribes  Shell separately admitted paying $2 million to Nigerian
subcontractors on its deepwater Bonga Project. Shell knew some
money would go as bribes to Nigerian officials to circumvent the
customs process and give the company “an improper advantage,”
according to its admission in federal court in Houston.  Prosecutors  charged Shell’s Nigerian subsidiary with
conspiring to violate the anti-bribery and books and records
provisions of the FCPA. The Justice Department will defer
prosecution for three years as long as the company makes
required reforms.  The  SEC  said Shell, based in The Hague, reaped about
$14 million in profit as a result of the payments related to the
Bonga Project.  Panalpina helped oil and gas industry customers move rigs,
ships, workboats and other equipment in Nigeria. Its workers
there had 160 different terms for bribes, like “evacuations”
and “export formalities,” while its Kazakh workers called them
“sunshine” and “black cash,” Panalpina said.  Throughout Government  The bribes in Nigeria were spread throughout the government
for specific transactions, while some were weekly or monthly
allowances to ensure “officials would provide preferential
treatment to Panalpina and its customers,” the company said.  Knowledge of the bribes reached the directors, where a
former chairman “actively resisted” an outside auditor’s
proposal in 2001 to adopt a code of ethics with an anti-bribery
provision, according to the statement.  The criminal probe of Panalpina, which had 15,000 workers
in 80 countries, began in 2006, and the company’s cooperation
after 2007 was “exemplary,” according to a Justice Department
filing yesterday.  “Panalpina acknowledged and accepted responsibility for
misconduct, investigated and identified the nature and extent of
the misconduct,” and undertook a global remediation program,
said a court filing by Panalpina and prosecutors.  New Management  The company replaced most of its top  leaders , as well as
U.S. managers implicated in improper conduct, ended its Nigerian
business in 2007, and changed its operations in high-risk
countries, according to the filing.  “The settlement of these claims marks the closing of an
extremely burdensome chapter in Panalpina’s history and the end
of a very demanding three-year effort to address and eliminate
serious concerns,” Chief Executive Officer  Monika Ribar  said in
a statement yesterday.  Prosecutors filed a two-count criminal charge accusing
Panalpina World Transport of conspiracy to violate the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and a violation of the law’s anti-bribery
provisions. Panalpina U.S. will plead guilty to conspiracy to
falsify books and records and to aiding and abetting those
violations of the FCPA.  The company also settled a lawsuit with the SEC.  Bribed Shipments  In Nigeria, the company established Pancourier Inc., which
used distinctive packaging to alert Nigerian customs officials
to bribed shipments. As a result of bribes, the unit’s shipments
sailed through customs without required paperwork or a pre-
inspection process that “could take weeks to complete,”
according to the SEC.  Bribes were paid to sidestep Angolan immigration laws, the
SEC said. Angolan officials were bribed to fake employees’ exit
and entrance documents, overlook visa inspections, and avoid
deporting employees who overstayed visas, the agency said.  One scheme involved bribing Angolan military officers so
customers could “use military cargo aircraft to transport their
commercial goods,” according to the SEC.  The other companies that settled with the U.S. were
 Transocean Ltd. , Tidewater Marine International Inc.,  Pride
International Inc. ,  GlobalSantaFe Corp.  and  Noble Corp. 
GlobalSantaFe merged with Transocean in 2007. Transocean is the
world’s largest offshore drilling contractor. Tidewater is the
world’s largest offshore energy support-services company.  Pride International will pay $56.1 million; Transocean will
pay $20.6 million; Tidewater will pay $15.7 million; Noble will
pay $8.1 million; and GlobalSantaFe will pay $5.9 million,
authorities said.  The cases are SEC v. Noble Corp., 10-cv-4336; SEC v.
Panalpina Inc., 10-cv-4334; SEC v. Pride International,
10-cv-4335, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston); and SEC v. Transocean Inc., 10-cv-1891, U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 