-- Siblings in N.Y. Counterfeit Ring Sentenced to Prison
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-05T18:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/siblings-in-new-york-counterfeit-ring-are-sentenced-to-prison.html
A brother and sister were sentenced
to prison for their roles in a counterfeiting ring that brought
more than a million fake Trojan condoms into New York City.  Jian Hu, of Queens, New York, was sentenced today to 18
months in prison and three years of supervised release. His
sister, Lin Hu, 37, of Temple City, California, was sentenced to
24 months in prison and three years of supervised release.  The siblings pleaded guilty last year before U.S. District
Judge Brian Cogan  in Brooklyn, New York, to trafficking in
counterfeit goods including clothing, power cords and other
items. They denied dealing in the counterfeit condoms that other
ring members had pleaded guilty to selling.  “This is a major counterfeit operation even without the
condoms,” Cogan said. “We’re awash in this country in
counterfeit goods. You can go out to Canal Street and see it.”  Cogan said he weighed the public safety risks posed by
counterfeit electric cords the siblings had trafficked in and
the economic harm posed by fake goods against pleas for leniency
based on the fact that the pair were brought into the ring by an
older brother, Jian Zhong Hu, who remains a fugitive in China.  “I was stupid and I was blind,” a sobbing Lin told Cogan,
saying she regretted the dangers and damages she caused society.  Cogan had sentenced Jian “Jimmy” Wang on Aug. 11 to 37
months in prison for trafficking in more than a million
counterfeit Trojan condoms. He was the first of the seven
defendants in the case to be sentenced. All pleaded guilty
except Jian Zhong Hu, also known as Andy.  Restitution  The siblings were ordered to pay $14,425.91 in restitution
to  Polo Ralph Lauren , and $495 to CAPS, Coalition to Advance the
Protection of Sports Logos, and barred from working in business
involving import-export.  The two were part of a six-year trafficking operation that
specialized in counterfeit goods, according to prosecutors in
the office of U.S. Attorney  Loretta Lynch  in Brooklyn. They were
listed as owners of ZX Trading Corp. in Queens, a sham company
used to evade U.S. customs officials, prosecutors said.  Jian Hu and Lin Hu faced maximum sentences of 10 years in
prison, said  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch. Lawyers for
both defendants requested leniency, asking for either home
detention or a prison term of no more than eight months.  Cogan said today that the government had failed to prove
the siblings had knowledge that their ring was involved in
counterfeit condoms, which were at a separate warehouse from
that used by ZX Trading.  Church & Dwight  Cogan also said Church & Dwight Co., which makes Trojan
condoms in Virginia, couldn’t prove it was a victim of the
siblings. The company can bring a separate case, he noted.  Geoffrey Potter, a lawyer for Church & Dwight, declined to
comment.  “I cannot find by a preponderance of evidence that these
defendants traded in counterfeit condoms,” the judge said in
court today, noting that there was a problem with the
government’s evidence and witnesses to support that point.  The case is U.S. v. Hu, 08-cr-425, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 