-- Qantas May Resume A380 Flights Within Days After Engine Checks
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-05T08:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/singapore-air-resumes-a380-flights-after-precautionary-checks-on-engines.html
Qantas Airways Ltd.  said it may
resume Airbus SAS A380 services within two days after conducting
checks following a midair engine explosion.  The blowout, which forced a plane carrying 466 people to
make an emergency landing in Singapore yesterday, most likely
was the result of a “material failure or a design issue,”
Qantas Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  told reporters today.  “This issue does not relate to maintenance,” he said.
“This is an engine issue.”  Qantas is working with  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  to inspect the
planes’ Trent 900 engines, he said. Roger Hunt, a Sydney-based
spokesman for the engine-maker, declined to comment, citing the
ongoing investigation.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the only
other Trent 900 operators, already resumed A380 flights after
grounding planes overnight to conduct checks recommended by
Rolls-Royce and Airbus. Sydney-based Qantas is temporarily
replacing its six superjumbos with  Boeing Co . jets as it
investigates the blow-out.  The financial effect of the A380 grounding will likely be a
“lot less” for  Qantas  than the closure of European airspace
amid volcanic-ash clouds earlier this year, Joyce said. Those
disruptions cost the carrier about A$2 million ($2 million) a
day, it said at the time.  Qantas  fell 1 percent to A$2.86 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading today, compared with a 1.2 percent gain by the
benchmark ASX 200 Index.  Rolls-Royce  dropped as much as 3
percent at 8:14 a.m. in London trading today. Yesterday, it
slumped 5 percent, the biggest decline in more than six months.  A380 Order  Airbus sent a six-person team to Singapore to help with the
investigation, Christopher Buckley, executive vice president for
Europe, Asia and Pacific, said in an interview in Brunei today.  The planemaker also expects to win a new A380 customer from
Asia within six months, he said. The initial order likely will
be for less than 10 planes, he said. The company sold a total of
234 A380s, of which 38 have been delivered.  Seven Qantas flights were affected by the A380 grounding,
including four that were delayed by 24 hours. The carrier
replaced superjumbos with 747-400s on two other flights from
Sydney, and it chartered a 777 from  British Airways Plc  for a
flight from London to Singapore.  The Australian carrier typically operates 50 A380
departures a week, representing 17 percent of its international
schedule, Joyce said. Three of its A380s are in Los Angeles, one
is in Singapore and another is in Sydney, according to  Simon Rushton , a spokesman. The sixth is undergoing scheduled
maintenance in Germany.  ‘Uncontained Failure’  The engine involved in yesterday’s incident suffered what
appeared to be an “uncontained failure,” where pieces of
debris were flung out at high speed, piercing the casing, or
nacelle, Joyce said.  There are no suggestions of “foul play” in the explosion,
Ian Sangston, general manager of aviation safety investigations
at the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, said in Canberra.  The regulator is probing the incident along with
authorities in the U.K., France and Singapore, he said. The
investigation may take up to a year, with a preliminary report
available within 30 days, he said.  Singapore Airlines  dispatched nine A380 flights since late
yesterday, all of which were delayed because of extra checks, it
said on its website. The carrier used Boeing 777s instead of
A380s on two other flights, it said.  Lufthansa used an Airbus A340 instead of an A380 on a
Frankfurt-to-Johannesburg flight last night because there wasn’t
time to complete the extra checks before takeoff,  Boris Ogursky ,
a spokesman, said by phone today. An A380 flight from Tokyo will
be delayed by about 20 hours, according to a statement.  Emirates Airline, the largest customer for the A380, and
Air France-KLM Group, use powerplants from Engine Alliance on
their superjumbos. The engine-maker is a venture between  General
Electric Co . and Pratt & Whitney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  