-- SocGen to Move U.S. Headquarters to 245 Park Ave.
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-11-05T23:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/socgen-signs-biggest-new-york-office-deal-of-year-in-move-to-245-park-ave-.html
Societe Generale SA, France’s second-
largest bank, signed an agreement to move its U.S. headquarters
to 245 Park Ave. in New York’s biggest  office  leasing this year.  Societe Generale sent a memorandum today to its New York
employees announcing the decision, said  Jim Galvin , a spokesman
for the Paris-based company. The move will occur in 2013, when
the bank’s lease at 1221 Avenue of the Americas expires.  The company plans to take the third through 12th floors,
about 442,000 square feet (41,000 square meters), and 110,400
square feet on floors 13, 14 and 15 for potential expansion,
Galvin said in an e-mail. The tower, majority owned by New York-
based Brookfield Office Properties Corp., is 44 stories and 1.8
million  square feet . It’s located between 46th and 47th streets,
two blocks north of Grand Central Terminal.  The deal would be the biggest New York office lease by
square foot this year, according to CoStar Group Inc., a
Bethesda, Maryland-based real estate data service. The largest
through the first three quarters was the law firm Proskauer Rose
LLP’s 406,399-square-foot deal at 11 Times Square, a new
building on Eighth Avenue and West 42nd Street.  Subleasing From JPMorgan  Societe Generale will sublease the space from the current
tenant, JPMorgan Chase & Co., for 10 years, Galvin said. It will
then lease directly from Brookfield for another decade. He
didn’t disclose the financial terms.  “We took into consideration a number of factors in
deciding to move to 245 Park, including technology and
infrastructure needs and importantly the opportunity to enhance
our space and to build new state-of-the-art trading floors,”
Galvin said. The company is France’s biggest bank after BNP
Paribas SA.  Matt Cherry , a Brookfield spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment.  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., the world’s biggest commercial
real estate brokerage, negotiated the deal for both Societe
Generale and JPMorgan, said  Robert McGrath , a spokesman for the
firm.  Rockefeller Group Inc. holds the majority interest in 1221
Avenue of the Americas, Societe Generale’s current headquarters
building, which is also known as the McGraw Hill Building. Brian
Mahoney, a spokesman for Rockefeller Group in New York, declined
to comment.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board paid about $576
million for a 45 percent interest in 1221 Avenue of the Americas
in May. The seller was SL Green Realty Corp., New York’s biggest
owner of office buildings.  Along with JPMorgan, 245 Park also houses the headquarters
of Major League Baseball.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  