-- Bank Tax, CO2 Auctions Recommended by Soros Panel to Help Climate Efforts
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-05T16:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/soros-panel-draft-says-bank-taxes-c02-auctions-can-fund-climate-aid.html
At least $65 billion might be raised
by taxing foreign-exchange transactions and auctioning pollution
permits, a United Nations panel said today in a report
recommending ways to finance aid for fighting global warming.  The panel, which includes billionaire investor  George Soros 
and  Larry Summers , director of President  Barack Obama ’s National
Economic Council, said selling carbon-emissions permits would
generate $38 billion and a financial transactions tax an
additional $27 billion, according to the report released today.  The findings are intended to guide envoys at UN climate
talks that start this month in Mexico as they seek ways to pay
for $100 billion in climate aid that was pledged by 2020 to poor
nations at last year’s summit in Copenhagen. The report found
that the goal is “challenging but feasible” to achieve.  “Without agreement on finance, we will not be able to
reach agreement on other issues for climate change,”  Jens Stoltenberg , Norway’s prime minister and co-chairman of the
advisory group, said at a press conference in New York. “Now we
need the political will to take the decisions.”  UN Secretary General  Ban Ki-moon  appointed the panel,
called the  High-Level Advisory Group on Climate Change
Financing , in February. It’s led by Stoltenberg and Ethiopian
Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi . The 21-member group also includes
Soros, Summers and  Deutsche Bank AG  Vice Chairman  Caio Koch- Weser .  The report didn’t specify what financial transactions would
be covered by the tax beyond saying the focus would be on
international currency sales.  ‘Court Of Government’  “The ball is really now in the court of governments to
move forward on generating these resources,”  David Waskow ,
senior adviser on climate finance for the development charity
Oxfam International, said in a telephone interview from
Washington. “One can raise substantial public finance from
public sources and do it in a way that’s not going to place
additional pressure on national budgets and taxpayers.”  The findings would add to the weight behind calls for a tax
on financial speculation, sometimes termed a Tobin tax after
 James Tobin , the Nobel Prize-winning U.S. economist who first
suggested the idea in 1971.  Former U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and labor groups including the U.K. Trades Union
Congress have supported the idea. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration opposes it. A tax of 0.05 percent on financial
transactions may raise as much as $700 billion a year, according
to WWF, a Washington-based global environmental activist group.  A financial transactions tax would be “difficult to
implement universally” and therefore “only feasible to
implement among interested countries,” the panel said in its
report.  ‘Most Exposed’  Developing nations are “the most exposed” to the impacts
of warming,  Nicholas Stern , former chief adviser on climate
change to the U.K. government and a member of the advisory
panel, said in a statement. The UN in 2007 found that while
developing countries have contributed the least to the buildup
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, they’re the most at risk
from the effects of climate change, especially small, island
states and nations in Sub-Saharan Africa.  “As Africans, we’ve contributed virtually nothing to the
environmental mess our planet is in,” Meles said at the press
conference by telephone from Ethiopia. “We will, however,
suffer the most.”  The panel assumed a carbon price of as much as $25 a ton on
emissions in the levy it suggested. An additional $5 billion
might be gained from a tax on carbon offsets in the UN’s Clean
Development Mechanism, which polluters buy to make up for
emissions elsewhere, according to the study. Private offsets may
generate as much as $14 billion.  ‘Necessary Transformation’  “Concerted global action and a carbon price of at least
$25 is required to achieve the necessary transformation in the
global economy,” U.K. Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  said in a statement. Huhne is a member of the advisory
group.  An additional $12 billion would come from a levy on
shipping and aviation, the report showed. Waskow said the levies
on transportation need to be structured so as not to harm
developing nations.  Sources of finance identified in the report included direct
contributions from government budgets, a measure it said may
generate the full $100 billion while being politically
“challenging.”  The panel also looked at a “wires charge” on electricity
generation, which it said might provide $5 billion; the removal
of fossil fuel-subsidies, which may raise $8 billion; and a
carbon tax, which would garner $10 billion. Private finance
could provide a net $24 billion, it said.  Soros Proposal Shelved  A proposal Soros made at last year’s climate summit in
Copenhagen, that the richest nations use $100 billion of
foreign-exchange reserves to help developing nations fight
climate change, was deemed not “politically acceptable” by the
panel. The money is denominated in what are called special
drawing rights, the IMF unit of accounting based on the dollar,
yen, pound and euro.  Special drawing rights, created in 1969 to replace gold for
large cross-border exchanges, are used by the IMF and other
international organizations to account for financial
transactions in different countries.  “We are simply asking those who created the problem to
stop before it becomes too late,” Meles said. “The prospects
for sanity and justice do not appear good, but I refuse to give
up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 liebert@bloomberg.net . 