-- South Africa's Central Bank Boosts Reserves to Help Curb Strength of Rand
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-11-05T08:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/south-africa-s-central-bank-boosts-reserves-to-help-curb-strength-of-rand.html
South Africa’s gross reserves rose
for a second month in October as the central bank absorbed
foreign currency flows from a Japanese takeover of  Dimension
Data Plc , helping to curb the rand’s gains.  Gold and foreign currency  reserves  increased 0.3 percent to
$44.2 billion, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said on its
website today. Net reserves rose to $43.1 billion from $40.9
billion.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said last week that the
government will use some of this year’s tax receipts, which were
higher than previously expected, to build foreign reserves and
help weaken the rand. Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on
the same day the rand is “overvalued” and the bank will
consider ways it can combat that.  “Sterilizing foreign direct investment inflows is a form
of intervention,” said  Jeffrey Schultz , a macro strategist at
Johannesburg-based Absa Group Ltd., South Africa’s third-largest
bank. “It’s an attempt to stem the tide of currency
appreciation. The Reserve Bank will want to take advantage while
market conditions permit it to do so.”  The rand has surged 13 percent against the dollar since
June 1 as near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and other
developed countries spurred demand for high-yielding assets in
emerging markets. South Africa’s benchmark  interest rate  is 6
percent.  The rand was at 6.7969 against the dollar as of 9:08 a.m.
in Johannesburg from 6.8125 before the data was released.  Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.’s, Japan’s largest
phone company, agreed to buy Dimension Data for 2.1 billion
pounds ($3.4 billion) on July 15. The central bank absorbed the
inflows from the takeover in line with its policy to purchase
foreign direct investment proceeds.  “We are building reserves steadily,” Marcus said on Oct.
27. “It will continue to grow.”  Gold reserves climbed 2.8 percent to $5.4 billion as the
price of bullion gained 3.9 percent to an average of $1,343.13
an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  