-- Rand Extends Weekly Gain on Record Gold, Better-Than-Estimated Jobs Data
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-05T15:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/south-african-bonds-extend-a-weekly-advance-on-country-s-high-yield-appeal.html
The rand strengthened against the
dollar, extending the biggest weekly advance in eight months, as
gold surged to a record and a report showed U.S. jobs growth
rose more than analysts estimated, bolstering investor
sentiment.  The currency appreciated as much as 0.6 percent to 6.7680
per dollar and traded at 6.7725 by 4:35 p.m. in Johannesburg,
from a previous close of 6.8089. That extended the rand’s first
weekly advance in four to 3.2 percent, the biggest since the
five days ended March 5.  Gold, which along with platinum accounts for about a fifth
of South Africa’s exports, climbed to a record $1,394.41 an
ounce in London. A report today showed U.S. payrolls increased
151,000 in October, exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey and boosting optimism an improvement in the labor market
will stimulate household spending.  “The gold price is really supportive of the rand,”
 Elisabeth Gruie , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA,
France’s biggest bank, said in a telephone interview from
London. “Stocks are up quite strongly after the payrolls data,
which also helps from a sentiment point of view.”  Stocks gained from London to New York as the U.S. jobs data
added to signs a recovery in the world’s biggest economy may be
taking hold. Fed policy makers this week kept their  benchmark
interest rate  near zero, where it has been since December 2008,
and pledged to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June to bolster the world’s biggest economy.  Against the euro, the rand climbed 1.3 percent to 9.5432
for a second day of gains and a weekly advance of 2.2 percent.  Reserves  A report released earlier today showed South Africa’s net
reserves increased last month as the central bank absorbed
foreign-currency inflows from a Japanese takeover to stem
currency appreciation. The report sent the rand as much as 0.6
percent weaker to 6.8506 per dollar.  Net gold and currency reserves rose to $43.1 billion in
October from $40.9 billion in September, the  Reserve Bank  said
on its website. The increase was mainly from the bank’s
absorption of funds from Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.’s
2.1 billion-pound ($3.4 billion) takeover of Johannesburg-based
Dimension Data Plc.  “The South African Reserve Bank has become a lot more
aggressive in its intervention tactics,”  John Cairns , head of
foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in a research note.  Rand Rally  The rand has rallied 39 percent since the start of 2009 as
central-bank rates in developed nations fell to near-zero
levels, compared with  6 percent  in South Africa at present,
giving its assets a yield advantage. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Oct. 27 that the government will use some of
this year’s tax receipts to build foreign reserves and help
weaken the rand. Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on the
same day the rand is “overvalued.”  Government bonds fell, with the benchmark 13.5 percent
government security due September 2015 dropping 10 cents to
126.66 rand, raising the yield by 2 basis points to 6.93
percent. The bond rose 64 cents in the week, reducing the yield
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage points.  Forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, showed money-market
investors maintained bets the Reserve Bank will reduce the main
interest rate when it announces its next decision on Nov. 18.
The cost of  three-month contracts for cash due in one month  was
steady at 5.69 percent, the lowest since the central bank first
introduced the repurchase rate in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  