-- Spain GDP Stagnates as Austerity Bites, Bank of Spain Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-05T10:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/spanish-growth-stagnates-as-austerity-measures-bite-bank-of-spain-reports.html
Spain’s  economy  stalled in the third
quarter, the Bank of Spain estimated, as the deepest austerity
measures in three decades undermined the recovery.  Gross domestic product was unchanged from the previous
three months and expanded 0.2 percent from a year earlier, the
central bank in Madrid estimated in its monthly bulletin today.
The economy grew 0.2 percent from April to June, as consumers
brought forward purchases ahead of a sales-tax increase in July.  Spain’s Socialist government faces widespread opposition as
it seeks to implement the deepest  budget cuts  since at least
1980 and trim the euro area’s third-largest budget gap by half
in two years. Today’s data highlight the divergence between
booming business in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, and a
continued slump in smaller euro-region economies such as Spain.  “It is to be expected that the stagnation in the third
quarter is transitory,” the Bank of Spain said. Once the one-
off effects linked to the value-added tax increase have passed,
the economy will “return to the path of smooth recovery.”  The stagnation in Spain, which has the highest  unemployment 
rate in Europe, comes as German GDP is expected to expand 0.8
percent in three months through September, according to a
Bloomberg News survey, decelerating from 2.2 percent in the
second quarter.  Diageo Plc , the world’s largest spirits maker,
said Oct. 14 that sales in Spain fell “markedly” in the three
months to Sept. 30 from a year earlier, even as overall revenue
increased.  Recession Risk  “We still think there’s a good chance of the Spanish
economy falling back into recession,” said  Ben May , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “The
fundamentals still look pretty weak.”  Industrial production  fell the most in seven months in
September, a separate report showed today. Output contracted an
annual 1.4 percent, compounding an annual decline of 12.7
percent in the same month last year, the National Statistics
Institute said.  “This was an exceedingly poor outcome given that
industrial output had fallen by 12.7 percent year-on-year in
September 2009,”  Raj Badiani , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London, said in a note. It “suggests the sector is
struggling to regain its pre-crisis levels.”  Spain’s government, which expects GDP to fall 0.3 percent
in 2010 in a second year of contraction, slashed public workers’
pay by 5 percent in June and raised value-added tax to 18
percent from 16 percent in July. The measures, passed as
contagion from Greece’s debt crisis swept through the southern
euro region in May, aim to cut the deficit to 6 percent of GDP
in 2011 from 11.1 percent last year.  Zapatero’s Popularity  Efforts to contain the shortfall and restore growth may
come under renewed pressure as the extra yield investors demand
to hold  Spanish  debt rather than German equivalents climbs. As
Irish borrowing costs rose to a euro-era high, the Spanish
spread widened to a four-month high of 203 basis points from 194
basis points yesterday. It reached a euro-era high of 221 basis
points on June 16.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  has repeatedly ruled out any
contraction in quarterly  GDP  this year after the economy emerged
from a recession in the first quarter. The government forecasts
unemployment, at 19.8 percent in the third quarter, will fall to
19.3 percent in 2011.  Support for Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  has
been eroded by the doubling of the  jobless  rate since the 2007
peak of Spain’s building boom and the austerity measures. The
opposition People’s Party has a 9.8 percentage-point lead over
his Socialist party, a poll published in La Vanguardia on Oct.
31 showed.  The National Statistics Institute is scheduled to publish
its third-quarter GDP estimate on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  