-- Storm Winds Batter Haiti as Tomas Strengthens to Hurricane Over Caribbean
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-05T12:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/storm-winds-batter-haiti-as-tomas-strengthens-to-hurricane-over-caribbean.html
Tomas strengthened into a hurricane
over the Caribbean and is battering cholera and earthquake-
stricken Haiti, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  The system’s sustained winds accelerated to 85 miles (135
kilometers an hour, up from 65 mph six hours earlier, the center
said in an  advisory  on its website at about 8 a.m. Miami time.
Tomas was near Haiti’s southwestern peninsula and 160 miles west
of the capital, Port au Prince, heading northeast at 10 mph.  “Hurricane conditions are likely occurring over portions
of the southwestern peninsula of Haiti,” the center said.
Tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph “will spread
northward across other portions of eastern Cuba today and should
spread across the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos
islands later today or tonight,” it said.  Tomas, which a week ago devastated Barbados, Saint Lucia
and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, threatens to bring
torrential rains to Haiti, with the potential to cause flash
floods and mudslides to a country already suffering from a
cholera outbreak and the after-effects of an earthquake in
January that’s left more than a million people living in camps.  As much as 15 inches (38 centimeters) of rain may fall on
parts of Haiti and the Dominican Republic, according to the U.S.
center. Three inches of rain may fall on Jamaica, and 6 inches
over eastern Cuba, the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and
Caicos islands, it said.  The whole of Haiti, the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks
and Caicos Islands are under a hurricane warning, while Jamaica
and the Cuban provinces of Santiago de Cuba and Holguin are
under a tropical storm warning, the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 