-- Sweden's Krona Weakens, Erasing Yesterday's Advance, on Short Trading Day
-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-05T12:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/sweden-s-krona-weakens-erasing-yesterday-s-advance-on-short-trading-day.html
Sweden’s krona slumped today as
investors sold the currency to lock in yesterday’s gains and as
a half-day of trading in the Nordic country kept volumes low.  The krona dropped 1.1 percent against the dollar to trade
at 6.5982 at 12:53 p.m. in Stockholm, making it the biggest
loser of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg today.
Against the euro, the krona dropped 0.6 percent to 9.3201, and
was the only loser against Europe’s single currency.  “Most of the declines happened in the Asian session and
there simply hasn’t been enough liquidity on this half trading
day in Sweden to make up the losses,” said  Richard Falkenhall ,
a currency strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm, in a telephone
interview. “Part of this could be profit-taking after yesterday,
but the fundamentals of the Swedish krona haven’t changed and we
still see it appreciating.”  The krona and other higher-yielding currencies surged
against the dollar yesterday after the Fed announced it will buy
$600 billion in Treasury securities through next June in a bid
to further reduce long-term borrowing costs and keep prices from
falling. Today’s decline in the krona doesn’t reflect the
strength of the Swedish economy, which is poised to deliver the
biggest rebound in the European Union this year, Falkenhall said.  SEB expects the krona to strengthen to about 9 against the
euro and to reach 6.3 against the dollar by the end of this year.  “We don’t see the weakening today as a trend but rather as
the result of temporary flows overnight that have had a larger
impact because of the lack of liquidity,” said  Knut Hallberg ,
an analyst at Swedbank AB in Stockholm. “The energy or the
volumes necessary to strengthen the krona don’t exist today
because of the half-day holiday in Sweden; we believe the krona
will continue to strengthen next week.”  Sweden’s Riksbank last month raised its benchmark repo rate
a quarter point to 1 percent and said the rate may reach 2
percent by the end of next year. The largest Nordic economy will
grow 4.8 percent this year, the government estimates, recouping
most of last year’s 5.1 percent contraction.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Tasneem Brogger  at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at 
 ckirkham@bloomberg.net  