-- Swiss Stocks Fluctuate; Gategroup, Sika Slide, Swiss Re Rises in Zurich
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-11-05T17:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-gategroup-retreats-as-transocean-climbs.html
Swiss stocks were little changed as
gains in Adecco SA and Swiss Reinsurance Co. offset losses in
 Gategroup Holding AG  and Sika AG.  Adecco gained after a report showed higher-than-expected
job creation in the U.S. Swiss Reinsurance Co. rose after
analysts recommended the stock. Gategroup fell 1.5 percent after
it sold shares, while Sika slipped after saying its gross profit
remains under pressure.  The  Swiss Market Index  slipped 0.1 percent to 6,587.72 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, paring the gain this week to 1.8
percent. The gauge has advanced 11 percent since July as
investors speculated that policy makers in the U.S. and
elsewhere will seek to stimulate economic growth through bond
purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing. The broader
 Swiss Performance Index  also fell 0.1 percent today.  Employment in the U.S. rose in October for the first time
in five months, a sign businesses may be starting to gain
confidence in the prospects for a faster pace of growth.  Nonfarm payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding all estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and following a revised
41,000 drop the prior month that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Private payrolls expanded the most since April, while the
jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  “One positive NFP is good news but we would have to see
several months of significant job creations to change the Fed’s
minds,” Philippe Meyer and Carole Laulhere, economists at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in a report after the payrolls
release.  Adecco, Swiss Re  Adecco, the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers,
rose 0.8 percent to 58.7 francs.  Swiss Re  climbed 0.4 percent to 50.7 francs, extending
yesterday’s 6.4 percent jump. Vontobel Holding AG added the
world’s second-largest reinsurer to its “Alpha List” of large-
cap stocks.  Helvea raised the stock to “buy” from “accumulate”
after Swiss Re reported Nov. 4 that quarterly profit doubled and
it agreed to repay the capital injected last year by Warren
Buffett.  Transocean Ltd. advanced 0.6 percent to 61.65 francs after
Vontobel raised its price estimate for the drilling contractor
to 70 francs a share from 65 francs.  “Day rates and utilization rates have stabilized in the
offshore rig industry and there is a good chance of increasing
market dynamics in 2011 should the oil price continue to trend
upwards,” Vontobel analyst  Fabian Haecki  said in a note.  Gategroup  slipped 1.5 percent to 44.8 Swiss francs, paring
yesterday’s increase as the Zurich-based company specializing in
catering and hospitality services for airlines completed the
share sale that it announced on Sept. 30, raising 219.3 million
francs ($228.6 million) from existing and new investors.  Sika , Europe’s biggest maker of chemicals used in
construction, slumped 3.7 percent to 1,900 francs. The company
predicted that gross profit will remain under pressure this
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 