-- U.K. Home Prices Won't Return to Peak Until 2016, Savills Says
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-11-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/u-k-home-prices-won-t-return-to-peak-levels-until-2016-savills-predicts.html
U.K. home prices  may take longer than
expected to return to peak levels as tax increases and job cuts
cause values to drop through next year,  Savills Plc  said.  It will probably take until 2016 for prices to get back to
where they were in 2007, according to a  report released today .
That’s two years later than the London-based broker predicted in
November 2009. Savills expects average U.K. values to fall 3
percent next year and start to gain in 2012.  The speed and scale of recovery will vary by area,
depending on availability of  mortgage lending , tax increases and
 employment  prospects. Worst affected will be regions that depend
on government jobs as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
administration cuts a record peacetime deficit. Luxury-home
prices in central London may bounce back fastest, returning to
2007 levels in late 2012 or early 2013, Savills said.  “We are not forecasting a deep double-dip,” said  Yolande Barnes , Savills’s head of residential research. “There will be
tiers of the market -- like Grade A prime London properties --
that may well escape the downturn virtually unscathed.”  Luxury homes in London neighborhoods such as Chelsea,
Knightsbridge and Belgravia may depreciate by just 1 percent
next year after a 2 percent gain in 2010, Savills said. Few
buyers in these districts rely on bank loans  The combination of a return of financial-services bonus
money and the  weak pound  supporting demand from overseas buyers
will fuel a 33 percent jump in high-end central London prices
through 2015, Savills said. That’s almost triple the 12 percent
growth the adviser predicts for the U.K. market as a whole.  Savills expects average prices to fall 7.3 percent
nationwide from mid-2010 through next year.  Bonuses Return  More than 300,000 Londoners work in financial services and
bonus-earners usually account for about half the purchases of
homes costing at least 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) in the
British capital, according to Savills.  In response to a government and regulatory clampdown, banks
are deferring bonuses or paying in shares, meaning “there may
be a lull next year before the money flows into the market in
2012,” said  Lucian Cook , a Savills research director.  Savills predicts five-year gains of 0.7 percent in
northeast England and 1.7 percent in the Yorkshire and
Humberside region.  The disparity between lower-income parts of the country,
such as the northeast, and wealthier areas such as London and
the southeast has left the housing market more fragmented than
ever before, Savills said.  “This marks a significant and permanent structural change
in the U.K. residential market,” Barnes said. House prices in
areas with high levels of renting will be determined by demand
from buy-to-rent investors as long as mortgage lending remains
curtailed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  