-- U.K. 30-Year Government Bonds Decline as Producer Price Inflation Climbs
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-05T14:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/u-k-gilts-set-for-weekly-gain-on-safety-bid-bets-for-easing-through-2011.html
Gilts fell, led by 30-year bonds, as
a report showed prices of goods leaving U.K. factories jumped by
the most in six months in October, deepening concern that
inflation is feeding into the economy.  Bonds extended their declines and the pound slipped versus
the dollar as data revealed the U.S. economy added more jobs
than forecast in October. U.K. producer prices rose 0.6 percent,
compared with no change in September, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London.  “The idea that inflation is prevalent in the U.K. is going
to hurt long-dated bonds,” said  David Page , a fixed-income
strategist at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in London. “Recent data
suggest inflation will remain elevated relative to the Bank of
England’s target in the near term.”  The yield on the 30-year bond climbed six basis points to
4.15 percent as of 1:25 p.m. in London. The 4.25 percent gilt
due September 2039 fell 1.05, or 10.50 pounds, per 1,000-pound
($1,623) face amount, to 101.78. Ten-year yields advanced five
basis points to 3 percent.  The Bank of England refrained from resuming its debt-buying
program of additional monetary stimulus this week, while the
Federal Reserve said it would purchase $600 billion of
Treasuries through June.  The pound extended losses against the dollar, falling 0.3
percent to $1.6218. Sterling appreciated 0.6 percent to 86.82
pence per euro, leaving it little changed in the week versus the
single European currency.  Producer Prices  U.K. core producer prices, which exclude costs of food,
alcohol, tobacco and petroleum, climbed by 0.4 percent on the
month, the statistics office said. From a year earlier, they
increased 3.3 percent, the least in five months.  With the U.K. economy experiencing a seven-month bout of
inflation above the 3 percent limit and the strongest two
consecutive quarters of growth in a decade, the central bank
yesterday refrained from expanding stimulus. Policy makers have
split on whether to combat consumer price gains or support the
recovery before the government’s budget squeeze. The central
bank kept its key interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent.  Gilts have  returned  9.3 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. That compares with an 8.7 percent
gain for German bonds and a 9.2 percent increase for Treasuries,
the indexes show.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Private payrolls that exclude
government agencies also gained more than forecast, while the
jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  U.K. gilts outperformed Treasuries, tightening their 10-
year yield spread to 44 basis points from 46 basis points
yesterday. The 10-year U.K. breakeven rate, a market gauge of
inflation expectations, rose one basis point to 2.84 percent.  The U.S. job figure trimmed the pound’s weekly gain against
the dollar to 1.1 percent. The currency has risen 3.2 percent
against the dollar since the end of September.  “Recent better economic news out of the U.S. makes it a
little harder to short the dollar, notwithstanding the
deliberate debasement of the currency by U.S. officials,” said
 Michael Derks , the head of currency strategy at FXPro Financial
Services in London. “Some dollar shorts may close out over the
course of this afternoon after a profitable couple of days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at  