-- U.S. Economy: Payrolls Increase for First Time in Five Months
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-05T20:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/u-s-added-151-000-jobs-in-october-exceeding-forecasts-unemployment-9-6-.html
Employment in the U.S. rose in
October for the first time in five months, a sign businesses may
be starting to gain confidence in the prospects for a faster
pace of growth.  Payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists and following a revised
41,000 drop the prior month that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Private payrolls expanded the most since April, while the
 jobless  rate held at 9.6 percent.  Stocks and the  dollar  climbed and Treasuries declined as
gains in hours worked and earnings added to optimism that an
improvement in the labor market will boost household spending.
Federal Reserve policy makers this week announced a second round
of large-scale asset purchases in a bid to boost growth, even as
recent reports showed larger-than-forecast gains in retail sales
and manufacturing.  “Business is gradually starting to hire more,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York. “Income is starting to grow for the household sector,
which is good for consumer spending.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased for a fifth
straight day, capping a five-week stock rally with a gain of 0.4
percent to 1,225.85 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to
its price, rose to 2.54 percent from 2.49 percent late
yesterday. The dollar strengthened to $1.4037 per euro from
$1.4207.  ‘Terrible Damage’  President  Barack Obama  said today’s employment report is a
sign that the economy is recovering from the “terrible damage”
caused by the worst recession since the 1930s. Even so, “the
unemployment rate is still unacceptably high,” he said.  The loss of more than 8 million jobs, as a result of the
18-month recession that ended in June 2009, fueled Americans’
discontent with the economy, a central issue in the Nov. 2
elections that gave Republicans a majority in the House of
Representatives. Democrats lost seats in the Senate while
retaining control.  “It’s just going to take a long time to bring the
unemployment rate down to more acceptable levels,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut, who had the highest estimate for payroll gains at
125,000.  Pending Home Resales  A report today from the National Association of Realtors
showed that pending sales of existing homes unexpectedly
declined in September, a sign the housing market at the center
of the crisis remains a weak spot for the economy. The group’s
index of pending home resales dropped 1.8 percent after a
revised 4.4 percent gain the prior month.  The unemployment rate was forecast to stay at 9.6 percent,
according to the median prediction of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Estimates ranged from 9.5 percent to 9.7 percent. The
rate was 7.7 percent in January 2009, when Obama took office.  Employment at service-providers increased 146,000, the
first gain since May. Construction companies added 5,000
workers, mainly reflecting stronger employment in civil
construction. Manufacturing payrolls unexpectedly decreased by
7,000 last month. Economists had projected a gain of 5,000.  Retailers took on 27,900 workers as they prepared for the
holiday shopping season starting this month. Department store
chain Kohl’s Corp. had plans to hire about 40,000 people for the
holiday period, 21 percent more than last year.  Toys “R” Us
Inc.  said it may add about 45,000 employees for the season,
including 10,000 at its temporary stores.  Overall Payrolls  Overall payrolls, which increased for the first time since
May, were forecast to climb by 60,000, according to the survey
median. The Labor Department revised up payrolls by 110,000 in
September and August. With the revisions, employment during the
two months declined 42,000.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose
159,000 in October after a 107,000 gain. Economists projected an
80,000 increase, the survey showed.  Rockwell Collins Inc. , a Cedar Rapids, Iowa-based maker of
cockpit instruments and radios, on Oct. 29 said it will hire 800
people, boosting staff by 4 percent during the next 12 months.
 Ford Motor Co. , the second-largest U.S. automaker, plans to add
1,200 jobs in Michigan by 2013 as sales rebound.  Average hourly earnings increased 1.7 percent in October
from the same month last year. Earnings rose to $22.73 from
$22.68 in the prior month.  The average work week for all workers rose to 34.3 hours,
from 34.2 hours.  Government Payrolls  Government payrolls decreased by 8,000. State and local
governments reduced employment by 7,000, while the federal
government trimmed 1,000 jobs.  Fed policy makers this week announced a program of $600
billion in Treasury securities purchases through next June in a
bid to lower the rate of unemployment. The central bank has
already cut  interest rates  almost to zero and bought $1.7
trillion in securities.  “The pace of recovery in output and employment continues
to be slow,” the Federal Open Market Committee said in a
statement on Nov. 3. “Employers remain reluctant to add to
payrolls,” and “the unemployment rate is elevated.”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said the Fed may not need to
complete the entire program of bond purchases if job growth
continues at October’s pace.  Interest Rates  “Jobs are picking up speed,” he said. “All we need to
see is a little uptick in inflation, most likely next spring,
and the Fed might need to start the process of normalizing
interest rates next year quicker than the market is
anticipating.”  Policy makers are concerned that a falling inflation rate
increases the risk of deflation, or a general fall in prices
that increases the burden of debt in real terms and erodes
corporate profits.  Today’s report adds to signs the world’s largest economy
may be picking up speed after growing at a 2 percent annual pace
in the third quarter.  Retail sales climbed 0.6 percent in September, more than
forecast. Services expanded in October at the fastest pace in
three months, while manufacturing grew at the strongest rate in
five months, according to reports this week from the Institute
for Supply Management.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York today raised their
tracking forecast for U.S. economic growth in the fourth quarter
to 3.5 percent from 2.5 percent, in part because of the jobs
report.  ‘Modest Expansion’  “The October jobs report suggests that labor market
conditions are improving,” Morgan Stanley economists  David Greenlaw  and  Ted Wieseman  said in a note to clients.  “We
believe this reflects a transition from a productivity-led
recovery to a modest expansion that is sustained by job and
income growth.”  The underemployment rate -- which includes part-time
workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who want
work but have given up looking -- was little changed at 17
percent after 17.1 percent in the prior month, today’s report
showed. The number of people unemployed for 27 weeks or more
increased as a percentage of all jobless, to 41.8 percent.  The number of temporary workers increased 34,900. Payrolls
at temporary-help agencies often slow as companies seeing a
steady increase in demand take on permanent staff.  Census Workers  Today’s report was the first this year in which changes in
temporary government staffing for the decennial census played
almost no role. About 6,000 workers remained on the federal
payroll as the population count wound down during the September
employment survey week, down from a peak of 586,000 in May.  One reason why hiring isn’t increasing even more is the
economy’s inability to sustain the recovery’s early pace of
growth. Gross domestic product expanded at an average 1.9
percent annual rate in the six months ended in September,
compared with 4.4 percent in the previous two quarters.  Growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
the Fed’s long-term forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  