-- U.S., States Clash Over Obama Health-Care Law in Florida Lawsuit Filings
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-05T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/u-s-states-clash-over-obama-health-care-law-in-florida-lawsuit-filings.html
Both sides in a constitutional
challenge to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul asked
a federal judge to rule in their favor.  Twenty states, led by Florida, claimed yesterday in court
papers that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or
 ACA , is unconstitutional because it forces individuals to buy
health insurance and forces states to participate in a “greatly
expanded and fundamentally transformed Medicaid program.”  The states are asking U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in
Pensacola, Florida, to strike down the law.  “The ACA constitutes an unprecedented intrusion on the
sovereignty of the states and the freedom of their citizens,”
the states argued in their filing.  The federal government asked Vinson to reject the states’
arguments and rule that the law is consistent with the
Constitution. The individual mandates are justified by the
Commerce Clause, which permits Congress to regulate interstate
trade, the government said. No court has invalidated a federal
spending program on the ground that it is too coercive, it said.  “Plaintiffs bear the heavy burden of showing that there
are no possible circumstances in which the challenged provisions
could be constitutionally applied,” the U.S. said in its brief.
“They cannot meet this burden.”  Vinson has scheduled oral arguments for Dec. 16.  States in Case  Joining Florida in the suit are Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington. The National
Federation of Independent Business, a small-business lobbying
group, also joined.  The Florida suit and another in Virginia were filed in
March within minutes of Obama’s signing of the legislation.  The health-care overhaul will extend Medicaid coverage to
16 million more Americans, according to the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office. It will cost the states billions of
dollars to administer, the ones suing claim.  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 3:10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 