-- U.S. Defends Its Human-Rights Record Before UN Council
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-11-05T12:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/u-s-defends-its-human-rights-record-admits-that-imperfection-remains.html
The U.S. defended its human-rights
record at home and abroad, saying the Obama administration has
shown its commitment to closing the Guantanamo Bay detention
center and ending discrimination, though more work must be done.  “We acknowledge imperfection,”  Michael Posner , assistant
secretary for democracy, human rights and labor, told the United
Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva today. “We debate it. We
welcome and encourage the involvement of our civil society.
Though we are proud of our achievements, we are not satisfied
with the status quo.”  Posner made the remarks at the start of a three-hour public
debate on the U.S.’s human-rights record, the first time the
government has subjected itself to the Human Rights Council’s
scrutiny. The Bush administration spurned the 47-member council
because of the participation of what it deemed oppressive
governments and the group’s constant criticism of Israel.  Countries from Iran, Russia, Ecuador, China and Egypt
pressed the U.S. to close the Guantanamo Bay prison, as Obama
promised when he was elected, and to ratify international human-
rights conventions. State Department legal adviser  Harold Koh 
said the U.S. is working hard to close the facility and noted
that through “diligent efforts,” the number of detainees has
dropped to 174 from 242 when Obama took office.  ‘Intensive Efforts’  “President Obama has clearly and unequivocally ordered and
remains committed to the closure of Guantanamo as a facility,”
Koh said. “He cannot close Guantanamo alone. That also involves
our allies, the courts and our Congress. Our intensive efforts
to close Guantanamo go on every day.”  Posner said the U.S. is “strongly committed” to adopting
certain treaties aimed at fighting discrimination though, unlike
other countries, it ensures domestic compliance before seeking
ratification. A further constraint is the need for two-thirds of
the Senate to back ratification, he said.  The U.S. is “committed to complying with the Constitution
and all applicable domestic and international law, and to the
idea that there are no ‘law-free zones,’” Posner said.  Ambassadors from Nicaragua, Venezuela and Bolivia accused
the U.S. of not cracking down on torture, with Cuba’s Rodolfo
Reyes Rodriguez saying the Obama administration had failed to
“halt war crimes and the killing of civilians.” Koh dismissed
their claims, saying: “Let there be no doubt. The U.S. does not
torture and it will not torture.”  Death Penalty  Today’s review comes just two weeks after  WikiLeaks.org 
published 400,000 classified U.S. military documents on the Iraq
war, renewing concern about allegations of torture and abuse
stretching back to the Bush administration.  Delegates from most European Union nations, as well as
Australia and Turkey, pressed the U.S. to impose a moratorium on
executions and abolish the death penalty. The Swiss and Belgian
ambassadors were among those who called for the U.S. to scrap
life sentences without the possibility of parole for criminals
who were minors when they committed a homicide.  Hillel Neuer, executive director of  UN Watch , a Geneva-
based non-governmental monitoring group, said non-democracies
were allowed to “hijack the session for political propaganda
and to drum up anti-American sentiment worldwide” by
“stacking” the speakers list with “rogue regimes and other
vehement critics.”  The roughly 30-strong U.S. delegation included senior
officials from 11 departments and agencies and advisers from
civil society groups, said Assistant Secretary of State  Esther Brimmer , who is also the American ambassador to the UN council.  Sign-Up List  UN Watch said it discovered that Cuba had circulated an
advance sign-up sheet so critics of Washington would dominate
the three hours reserved for country statements on the U.S.
record. While U.S. allies challenged the list last week, the UN
allowed it to apply, the organization said.  Germany’s ambassador took a swipe at those countries saying
he hoped they’ll show the same commitment when it comes to
ensuring human rights in their own countries as they did today
in criticizing the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 