-- U.S. Stocks Rise for Fifth Day as Jobs Growth Boosts Optimism
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-05T21:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/u-s-index-futures-decline-before-jobs-report-atmel-advances-kraft-falls.html
U.S. stocks advanced for a fifth
straight day, capping a five-week rally in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, as faster-than-forecast employment growth bolstered
optimism about the economy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Wells Fargo & Co. rose at least
2.9 percent on speculation the Federal Reserve may allow
stronger banks to boost dividends.  Massey Energy Co. , owner of
the Upper Big Branch mine in West Virginia where 29 people died
in April, surged 11 percent on takeover speculation.  Starbucks
Corp.  gained 3.8 percent as profit beat analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 added 0.4 percent to a two-year high of
1,225.85 at 4 p.m. in New York, as the government said payrolls
climbed 151,000 in October. The benchmark index rose every day
this week, the first time that’s happened during a five-day week
since March. The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 9.24
points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,444.08.  “It’s a mistake to be bearish here,” said  Jeff Saut , chief
investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, which
manages $240 billion in St. Petersburg, Florida. “I don’t think
the economy is as weak as all the talking heads have been
indicating. The jobs report was better than expected. Profits
are going to continue to be good. Any correction in  stocks  will
be short and shallow.”  The  S&P 500  ended the week with a gain of 3.6 percent, its
fifth straight weekly advance and the longest rally since April,
as the Fed announced plans to buy $600 billion in bonds and
elections produced a divided Congress that’s unlikely to pass
further business reforms.  Jobs Report  Futures erased an earlier drop as the increase in payrolls
reported by the Labor Department beat all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, following a revised 41,000
drop the prior month that was smaller than initially estimated.
Private payrolls that exclude government agencies also gained
more than forecast, while the jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  “It’s a strong jobs report,” said  Barry Knapp , chief U.S.
equity strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “Those figures
taken in conjunction with everything else we’ve seen this week
set a very positive backdrop for the equity market.”  The Citigroup Economic Surprise index for the U.S., which
gauges the rate at which economic data is exceeding or trailing
economists’ estimates, has risen for 11 straight days and turned
positive on Oct. 29. Its gain in the last month is the biggest
in its history going back to 2003, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bank Dividends  A measure of  financial  companies jumped 2.1 percent, the
biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 10 industries.  The Fed is preparing guidelines for supervisors to use in
assessing whether banks are strong enough to boost dividends or
buy back shares, a person familiar with the matter said.  JPMorgan rose 2.9 percent to $40.94. Wells Fargo added 6.4
percent to $29.22.  “It now looks highly likely that the dividends for a
number of banks will be increased,” Rochdale Securities LLC
analyst  Dick Bove , who is based in Lutz, Florida, said in a
telephone interview. “Do they have the capacity to dramatically
increase their dividends? The answer is definitely yes. They
have enormous capacity to increase their earnings from a  balance
sheet  standpoint.”  Takeover Speculation  Massey surged 11 percent to $46.94. The Wall Street Journal
said the company is weighing a takeover offer from Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. Massey, the largest coal producer in Central
Appalachia, has plunged 14 percent since an April 5 blast at the
operation near Montcoal, West Virginia, which was the worst U.S.
coal mining accident in 40 years.  Starbucks Corp.  rose 3.8 percent to $30.87. The world’s
largest coffee-shop operator posted adjusted earnings of 37
cents a share, exceeding the average of analysts’ estimates by 5
cents on higher foot traffic and Via instant coffee sales.  Earnings-per-share have topped estimates at 77 percent of
the companies in the S&P 500 that have reported since Oct. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 has surged 17 percent since the end of August
amid speculation the central bank will pump more cash into the
economy to combat an unemployment rate that has hovered near 10
percent for more than a year. The index is up 20 percent from
its 2010 low in July. The advance has left the index  trading  at
15.3 times its companies’ reported earnings, the highest
valuation since the end of June.  ‘Escape Velocity’  “Today’s encouraging number is an important and much
needed step towards the destination of significant job growth,”
 Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, wrote
in response to an e-mail from Bloomberg News. “It is essential
to consolidate and extend what is still an overly fragile
healing of the labor market if the U.S. is to attain escape
velocity that overcomes the adverse forces of de-leveraging,
mal-functioning housing markets and debt overhangs.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s attempt to boost U.S.
economic growth helped send stocks to the highest level since
2008 and busted the correlation between stocks and bonds,
according to Bloomberg data.  “That correlation is breaking down because you’ve got a
third party, i.e. the Fed, manipulating the Treasury market,”
said  Walter Todd , co-chief investment officer at Greenwood,
South Carolina-based Greenwood Capital, which oversees about
$900 million. “What you should see in a recovery is yields
going up and stock prices going up at the same time.”  Kraft Foods Inc.  fell 2.2 percent to $31.08. The world’s
second-largest food company that bought Cadbury Plc in February
posted third-quarter sales of $11.86 billion, missing the
average analyst estimate by 1.1 percent.  “The top line came in light from our perspective, with the
recently acquired Cadbury business flat in the period,”
JPMorgan food analyst  Terry Bivens  wrote in a note today. “The
lackluster Cadbury performance, attributed to inventory and
comparison issues, emerged as a concern, as did an unexpected
degree of pricing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 