-- China's Hu, France's Sarkozy Say G-20 Should Avoid Currency Confrontations
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-05T18:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/hu-sarkozy-say-g-20-nations-should-avoid-confrontation-on-currency-values.html
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met in Nice today to discuss
reforming the international monetary system, with a French
official saying they agreed that Group of 20 nations should
avoid “looking for guilty parties.”  France takes over the presidency of the G-20 later this
month and has said one of its objectives is reforming
international rules on currencies, which are still largely based
on agreements and institutions created at the 1944 Bretton Woods
conference.  “It was very important to be able to discuss with the
Chinese Presidency the major issues, including the very
necessary reform of the international monetary system,” Sarkozy
told reporters after their meeting. “It hasn’t changed since
1944, when there was one large economy, the U.S., and one major
currency, the dollar.”  The French are planning to begin their G-20 presidency with
a series of seminars. The official, who spoke on the condition
he wouldn’t be identified, said the first one will be held early
next year in a Chinese city.  “What we should agree to do is to sit around a table to
come up with ideas to build a system for the 21st century,”
Sarkozy said.  The comments about avoiding confrontation follow French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde ’s remarks earlier this week
about not “cornering” any nations over their currency
practices, suggesting that France doesn’t want next week’s G-20
summit in Seoul to focus solely on China’s currency peg and on
the U.S. Federal Reserves’ policy of printing money to buy
government debt.  Yesterday, at the start of Hu’s three-day state visit,
companies including Airbus SAS, Areva SA and Total SA signed
contracts with the Chinese at the Elysee presidential palace in
Paris. This morning, executives from Vallourec SA, Alstom Power
and Alcatel signed a series of deals and accords at the Medef
business union headquarters in Paris. The French government said
the total value of the contracts is 16 billion euros ($22.7
billion).  Sarkozy said he raised human rights issues with Hu, without
providing any details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  