-- UN Backs Lebanon Assassination Probe After Beirut Attack on Investigators
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-05T18:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/un-backs-lebanon-assassination-probe-after-beirut-attack-on-investigators.html
The international  tribunal 
investigating the 2005 roadside bomb that killed Lebanese Prime
Minister  Rafik Hariri  won renewed support from the United
Nations Security Council, after Lebanon’s Hezbollah militia said
the probe should be halted.  Ambassadors to the UN said today they continue backing the
special tribunal for Lebanon a week after its investigators were
attacked while collecting information.  “The meeting of the council today was the expression of
our common concern after the attack,” France’s ambassador,
 Gerard Araud , said after a Security Council session in New York
today. “We have all expressed our wish that the tribunal be
able to continue its action in a serene, independent and
effective way.”  Two UN investigators and their interpreter were attacked by
a large group of people when they visited a doctor’s office in
Beirut on Oct. 27 on a prearranged visit, the UN  reported .
Lebanese army troops had to extract the three and take them back
to the tribunal’s office, it said. The tribunal was established
as an independent court under a UN Security Council resolution.  Lebanon’s ambassador, Nawaf Salam, said his country has
opened a judicial investigation into the attack on the
investigators.  Tensions are rising in Lebanon after press reports
indicated the  tribunal  is preparing to identify suspects. U.S.-
backed Prime Minister  Saad Hariri  supports the inquiry, while
the  Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement , a key member of his
coalition, says the court is biased and should be abolished amid
speculation some of its members may be among those indicted.  Blocking Funds  Hezbollah and its allies are stepping up pressure on Hariri
by promising to block budget funds for the UN probe.  The U.S. two days ago pledged $10 million to help fund the
tribunal.  Hezbollah and its backer Syria deny any role in the
killing, which galvanized millions of Lebanese to protest and
led to the ousting of Syrian troops from Lebanon after 29 years.  “We cannot place our fates in the hands of a politicized
court, whose decisions would lead to unpredictable consequences
and repercussions on Lebanon,” Hezbollah’s deputy secretary
general,  Naim Qasem , said in an Oct. 31 interview with the
Qatari newspaper Al-Watan, the BBC reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  at the United Nations at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  