-- U.S. Joblessness Likely Held Near 10%, Highlighting Fed Worry
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/unemployment-rate-in-u-s-probably-held-near-10-highlighting-fed-concern.html
Unemployment probably held near 10
percent in October, evidence of what the Federal Reserve called
the “disappointingly slow” U.S. recovery, economists said
before a report today.  The  jobless  rate was 9.6 percent for a third month,
according to the median of 80 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Unemployment has been at 9.5 percent or higher since
August 2009, a record stretch of such elevated readings since
monthly data began six decades ago. Payrolls likely rose by
60,000, the first gain since May, economists also predicted.  A pool of 14.8 million  out-of-work  Americans is enabling
employers to hold down wages, contributing to a slowdown in
household spending that in turn is depressing inflation. Fed
policy makers this week announced a second round of large-scale
asset purchases to lower borrowing costs, revive growth and
prevent a protracted drop in prices.  “We have a deep hole to dig out of,” said  Nigel Gault ,
chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “It’ll be years before we get back to where we
started. It confirms the Fed’s view that we’re stuck in a slow-
motion recovery.”  The Labor Department’s report is scheduled for 8:30 a.m.
Washington time. Estimates for the jobless rate ranged from 9.5
percent to 9.7 percent.  “The pace of recovery in output and employment continues
to be slow,” Fed policy makers said in a statement on Nov. 3
when they announced a program of $600 billion in Treasury
securities purchases through next June. “Employers remain
reluctant to add to payrolls,” and “the unemployment rate is
elevated.”  Fed Action  The central bank has already cut interest rates almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion in securities. Expectations its
latest steps will revive growth, and announcements of growing
corporate profits helped drive the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index 
to a two-year high yesterday.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose by
80,000 after a 64,000 gain in September, according to the survey
median. Factory payrolls climbed by 5,000 workers last month
after a 6,000 September decrease, economists forecast.  Today’s report will be the first this year in which changes
in temporary government staffing for the decennial census play
almost no role. About 6,000 workers remained on the federal
payroll as the population count wound down in the September
employment survey week, down from a peak of 586,000 in May.  Growth Slowdown  One reason why hiring isn’t gaining speed is the economy’s
inability to sustain the recovery’s early growth rate. Gross
domestic product expanded at an average 1.9 percent annual pace
in the six months ended in September, compared with 4.4 percent
in the previous two quarters.  Growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
the Fed’s long-term forecasts.  Employers are also limiting workers’ pay. Hourly earnings
grew 1.6 percent on average over the past 12 months, the
smallest gain since records began in 2007, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  It’ll also take time to make up for the loss of more than 8
million jobs, a result of the worst recession since the 1930s.
The damage fueled Americans’ discontent with the economy, a
central issue in the Nov. 2 elections that helped Republicans
take the House of Representatives. Democrats retained control of
the Senate by a smaller margin.  Retail Hiring  The job market may get some lift as retailers take on extra
workers for the holiday shopping season starting this month.
Department store chain  Kohl’s Corp.  plans to hire about 40,000
people for the holiday period, 21 percent more than last year.
 Toys ‘R’ Us Inc.  said it may add about 45,000 employees for the
season, including 10,000 at its temporary stores.  Others are starting to plan ahead.  Rockwell Collins Inc. , a
Cedar Rapids, Iowa-based maker of cockpit instruments and
radios, on Oct. 29 said it will hire 800 people, boosting staff
by 4 percent during the next 12 months.  Ford Motor Co. , the
second-largest U.S. automaker, plans to add 1,200 jobs in
Michigan by 2013 as sales rebound.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  