-- Hungarian Industrial Production Grows for Ninth Month, Driven by Exports
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-05T14:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/hungarian-industry-output-grows-for-ninth-month-driven-by-rise-in-exports.html
Hungarian industrial  output  rose for
a ninth month in September as expanding export demand helped the
country exit from its worst recession since 1991.  Production advanced an adjusted 10.9 percent from a year
earlier after a revised 15.1 percent in August, the statistics
office in Budapest said in a preliminary report today. The
median estimate of four economists in a Bloomberg survey was
10.4 percent. Output increased 0.5 percent on the month.  Hungary, the first  European Union  member to get an
 International Monetary Fund -led bailout in 2008, cut spending to
meet the terms of its loan, reducing local demand. It is looking
to the euro region, which buys 60 percent of products made or
assembled in Hungary such as Audi cars and Nokia phones, to
support its recovery.  “The key driver of the growth should be net exports and the
restocking process and, although private consumption and fixed
investment growth are likely to turn positive in 2011, the
recovery is likely to remain fragile.” Warsaw-based Citigroup
Inc. economist  Piotr Kalisz  said in an e-mail today.  The forint weakened 0.3 to 273.72 per euro at 2:30 p.m. in
Budapest and the benchmark BUX stock index fell 0.3 percent, led
by OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s largest lender. The yield on the
benchmark five-year bond fell to 6.871 percent from 6.912
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Hungary exited its recession in the fourth quarter of 2009
and growth accelerated in the first three months of this year.
Quarterly growth halted in the second quarter, when gross
domestic product was unchanged from the first quarter.  The  economy shrank  6.3 percent last year as exporters
including the local units of Alcoa Inc. and Suzuki Motor Corp.
scaled back output to cope with faltering global demand. The
government expects GDP to grow 0.8 percent this year and 3
percent next year.  Growth may be 2.3 percent next year, according to
Citigroup’s Kalisz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  