-- Forint Has Worst Week in 2 Months on Deficit, Ratings Concern
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-11-05T16:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/hungarian-forint-heads-for-worst-week-in-2-months-on-budget-gap-ratings.html
The Hungarian forint lost the most
this week in more than two months on concern that the government
may struggle to reduce the budget deficit and will face a credit
rating downgrade.  The forint depreciated 0.5 percent to 273.33 per euro as of
4:44 p.m. in Budapest for the steepest loss among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency
has dropped 1.1 percent in the last five days, heading for the
biggest weekly decline since Aug. 27.  Unlike the Polish zloty and the Czech koruna, the forint
hasn’t been boosted by the U.S. Federal Reserve decision this
week to take more steps to stimulate the world’s biggest
economy. The zloty yesterday advanced to the highest in more
than six months against the euro and the koruna reached the
strongest in a month.  Standard & Poor’s kept its outlook on Hungary negative Nov.
3 after the government announced plans to levy temporary taxes
on some industries and use private pension funds to patch budget
holes. The government’s measures are “largely ad hoc” and fail
to address the “structural deficit,” it said  “The forint hasn’t joined the party this week,”  Gyula Toth , the head of eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa fixed-
income and currency strategy at UniCredit SpA, said by phone
from Vienna. “This is down to persistent fiscal concern and
worries that Hungary can still get downgraded after Standard &
Poor’s kept its negative outlook on country’s rating this
week.”  2011 Budget  S&P’s decision came after the government unveiled the 2011
budget. The government wants to shrink the deficit to below 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2011 from a planned 3.8
percent for this year by levying a three-year tax on the
financial, energy, retail and telecommunication industries,
while cutting the personal income tax level to a flat 16 percent
as of next year.  “The concern is not about the next year’s deficit,”
UniCredit’s Toth said. “They shouldn’t have a problem meeting
the target. It’s about what would happen after all these
temporary tax measure run out.”  Hungary, the first European Union member to resort to a
bailout as the credit crisis hit in 2008, is trying to convince
investors it can finance its budget without assistance from
International Monetary Fund. Talks to extend aid between the IMF
and the government of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  collapsed in
July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net 
 Andras Gergely  at in Budapest or
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  