-- Obama Leads U.S. Universities to India as Yale, Duke Build Ties
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-11-05T04:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/universities-tag-along-with-obama-to-india-to-set-up-ties-like-yale-duke.html
Yale University and Duke University
are among dozens of U.S. colleges that India is recruiting to
help educate its population with more than 550 million people
under age 25.  Duke, Brown University and the University of Chicago are
planning offices, research centers and campuses in India. The
presidents of the University of Pennsylvania, Stanford
University and Cornell University have traveled to India to
raise money and establish collaborations. Yale President Richard
Levin visited India last week to set up a joint program that
will educate Indian college leaders.  President  Barack Obama  will make a three-day state visit to
India, starting tomorrow, accompanied by U.S. university
officials eager to strengthen their ties to the country.
Institutions want to “get in on the ground floor” as India’s
economy and education system mature and the nation becomes a
global power, said Dipesh Chakrabarty, a University of Chicago
history professor who is leading the university’s efforts to
plan a research center in New Delhi, India’s capital.  “We see India as a tremendous opportunity for higher
education,” said Robert Brown, president of Boston University
and a member of the delegation traveling to India, where he aims
to open a campus, in a telephone interview. “There’s tremendous
demand, a growing population in the middle class, an English-
speaking, well-organized educational system -- all the things
that you need to interface with a private American university.”  Business Summit  Representatives of Boston University, Arizona State
University in Tempe, and Rutgers University in New Brunswick,
New Jersey, are part of the delegation of academic and business
leaders. The group was organized by the  U.S.-India Business
Council , a Washington-based lobbying group. Obama is scheduled
to attend their business summit tomorrow, in Mumbai. During
their visit, university officials will lobby for a bill pending
before the Indian legislature that would allow foreign schools
to open branches in the country for the first time.  U.S. institutions of higher learning have already expanded
overseas, with campuses in the Middle East and China. India is
the logical next step, said Michael Schoenfeld, vice president
for public affairs for Duke University in Durham, North Carolina.  Duke wants to open a facility for Indian and U.S. students,
although it doesn’t know where, Schoenfeld said.  “In an increasingly global world, it would be hard to have
a truly complete education without having some experience with
India and China,” Schoenfeld said.  Levin, president of Yale in New Haven, Connecticut, said on
Oct. 28 during a trip to India that the institution would train
Indian university leaders through a partnership with the Indian
Institute of Technology in Kanpur and the Indian Institute of
Management in Kozhikode.  Tata Group  U.S. college fundraisers are also eager to tap into the
growing wealth of Indians. On Oct. 14, Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, received a $50 million donation for
its business school from the Tata Group, a diversified Indian
company whose interests include steel and chemicals. Harvard
also got $10 million on Oct. 4 from  Anand Mahindra , managing
director of  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , a Mumbai-based industrial
company whose interests include automobiles, for humanities
education.  Brown University, in Providence, Rhode Island, has formed
an advisory council on India and is planning an office in New
Delhi, said Matthew Gutmann, vice president for international
affairs at Brown. The council is co-chaired by  Mukesh Ambani ,
chairman of Mumbai-based  Reliance Industries Ltd ., whose
interests include energy and materials. Ambani is also the
parent of a Brown student.  Growing Demand  India needs 600 more universities and 35,000 more colleges
over the next 12 years to enroll 30 percent of its potential
students, according to Human Resource Development Minister  Kapil Sibal . The most-elite U.S. institutions won’t be the first to
open campuses with degree-granting programs, he said.  “Harvard and Yale are world-renowned institutions,” Sibal
said. “They have the best people come there, so they have no
hunger. It will be institutions that have hunger. They are the
ones that will come -- those that want to establish themselves
as global universities.”  Arizona State is seeking to attract Indian companies to an
office and retail complex called Skysong that the university is
developing in Scottsdale, Arizona, said Sethuraman Panchanathan,
the institution’s chief research officer, who is part of the
delegation. Also traveling to India is Jaishankar Ganesh, dean
of Rutgers School of Business-Camden, who said he’s exploring
partnerships with Indian institutions.  Discount Land  Georgia Institute of Technology, in Atlanta, has looked at
land for a facility in Hyderabad. The property was offered, at a
discount price, by the government of Andhra Pradesh state, said
Vijay Madisetti, the Georgia Tech professor leading the school’s
initiative, in an e-mail. The university is waiting for passage
of the Foreign University Bill before taking action, he said.  India’s gross domestic product expanded 8.8 percent in the
three months ended June 30, the most since 2007 and the joint
second-fastest pace among the world’s 20 largest economies,
after China. Brazil recorded the same growth as India.  Only about 12 percent of children in India enter college,
about half the world average of 23 percent and well below the 56
percent in developed countries, according to figures compiled by
the Washington-based World Bank.  Legislative Session  India’s Congress Party-led government introduced the
Foreign University Bill, which would allow foreign institutions
to set up their own branches. Colleges would need to invest at
least 500 million rupees ($11 million) to start up, and reinvest
surpluses into their India-based programs. The legislature
begins its next session on Nov. 9.  How the U.S. colleges in India will operate depends on the
final provisions of the law and the availability of financing,
said Boston University’s Brown. Unlike projects in the Middle
East and China, where state or local governments have paid for
U.S. campuses, the Indian programs of American schools need to
find their own funding, Brown said.  Boston University is talking to a philanthropist about
financing its campus, said Brown, who wouldn’t disclose the name
of the potential donor or the locations he is considering.
Boston University would initially offer master’s degrees in
disciplines such as business, journalism and art, Brown said.
The university may offer undergraduate degrees later, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   Andrew MacAskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  