-- Murdoch BSkyB Bid at Risk From U.K. Influence Built Over Decades
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-05T17:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/murdoch-s-bskyb-bid-at-risk-from-u-k-influence-he-spent-decades-building.html
News Corp.’s  proposed 7.8 billion-
pound ($12.7 billion) takeover of  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc  may be hampered by the political power  Rupert Murdoch  has
spent his life accumulating.  With Business Secretary  Vince Cable  asking regulators if
owning all of BSkyB would give the 79-year-old Australian-born
U.S. citizen too much media control, Murdoch must persuade them
he isn’t too powerful. He owns four of the biggest-selling U.K.
newspapers and 39 percent of BSkyB, which produces Sky News, the
first 24-hour U.K. news channel. Murdoch was one of the first
people to visit  David Cameron  after he became prime minister.  Competitors in U.K. media say possible cross-promotion
between Murdoch-owned newspapers and television stations would
unfairly increase his influence. Some lawmakers involved in
probes of his News of the World tabloid say Murdoch’s properties
have already tilted the playing field against them.  “Given the profile of the businesses involved and the
expected opposition from a number of third parties, News Corp.
and BSkyB are likely to face an uphill battle,” said  Gustaf Duhs , senior associate at law firm Stevens & Bolton LLP. “A
lengthy legal process is fairly certain to follow.”  News Corp. would add 10 million subscribers with a takeover
of BSkyB. It already controls more than a third of the national
newspaper market in Britain with publications including The
Times, News of the World and The Sun.  Cable’s Case  Cable intervened in the case yesterday, within a day of
News Corp. formally asking the European Union to approve its
bid. New York-based News Corp. is seeking the steady
subscription business of Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator.
BSkyB in June rejected the initial bid of 700 pence a share, or
7.8 billion pounds, for the 61 percent of the company that News
Corp. doesn’t already own, saying it was too low.  “On the basis of the information and submissions available
to me, I have decided that it is appropriate to issue an
intervention notice in this particular case,” Cable said as he
asked the regulator Ofcom to investigate “the public interest
consideration of media plurality.”  Ofcom said in  a statement  it would look at future
developments in media as well as the level of control of media
businesses. Cable’s intervention also requires the  Office of
Fair Trading  to investigate whether the takeover will result in
a change in control of the company, the watchdog said today in a
statement. As part of the dual process, the OFT and Ofcom will
accept comments from outside parties until Nov. 19.  Mounting Opposition  Opposition to the proposed offer has mounted with U.K.
newspapers, the British Broadcasting Corp. and BT Group Plc
signing a joint letter to Cable calling for the bid to be
challenged by the U.K. government.  News Corp. said yesterday the proposed offer “will not
adversely affect media plurality in the United Kingdom,” adding
that it “looks forward to discussing any substantive issues
with the relevant authorities.”  U.K. regulators have already considered the level of
control held by Murdoch over BSkyB when looking at the variety
of voices in the media.  BSkyB’s purchase of 18 percent in U.K. broadcaster  ITV Plc 
prompted the Competition Commission to say in a 2007 report that
it “assumed the News Corporation had material influence over
BSkyB.”  Meanwhile, Labour lawmakers, who saw the Murdoch newspapers
turn against them ahead of the May election after more than a
decade of support, are questioning his power.  ‘We Are Afraid’  “We are afraid,” Labour’s  Tom Watson  told his fellow
lawmakers in a Sept. 9 debate on the News of the World. “It is
almost laughable that we sit here in Parliament, the central
institution of our sacred democracy -- among us are some of the
most powerful people in the land -- yet we are scared.”  Following that debate, Parliament voted to hold its fourth
probe into the News of the World. In 2007, the tabloid’s then-
editor,  Andy Coulson , resigned after  Clive Goodman , one of his
reporters, and  Glen Mulcaire , a private investigator working for
the newspaper, were jailed for illegally intercepting voicemails
of celebrities, politicians, and members of the Royal family.  Coulson, 42, who has denied he knew what was going on,
became Cameron’s head of communications later that year.  Ofcom will today set out the terms of its probe, which it
aims to complete by the end of the year. On the basis of its
report, Cable must decide whether to refer the bid to the
Competition Commission, which could take months to come to a
conclusion. After he receives its report, it will ultimately be
for him to decide whether to allow the deal to go ahead.  Liberal Democrat  Cable is a Liberal Democrat member of a coalition with
Cameron’s Conservatives. While their partners were endorsed in
the May election by the Sun and Times newspapers, the Liberal
Democrats were criticized. The Sun characterized them as the
“Lib Dumbs,” attacking both Cable and leader  Nick Clegg .  Cameron’s spokesman  Vickie Sheriff  distanced the prime
minister from the investigation. “The prime minister is on the
record saying this is a matter for the Business Secretary, and
the Business Secretary has made his decision,” she said. She
said Murdoch’s son James, who’s the chairman of BSkyB and the
head of News Corp.’s operations in Europe and Asia, has not been
to No. 10 Downing Street.  James Murdoch  called Cable on June 15, the day the initial
bid was announced, according to the Department for Business,
which described their conversation as “a short introductory
phone call.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  