-- Hurricane Tomas Weakens as It Approaches Bahamas, Still Heading Northeast
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-05T21:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/hurricane-tomas-passes-between-cuba-haiti-on-northeast-track-to-bahamas.html
Hurricane Tomas weakened, with
maximum sustained winds of 75 mph, as the center of the storm
approached the Bahamas, the National Hurricane Center said in an
advisory shortly before 5 p.m. East Coast time. The storm is
maintaining its northeast track over the central Caribbean Sea,
the center said.  “The storm got disrupted by close passage to Haiti and
Cuba,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground
Inc.  in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Tomas may strengthen further over
the Bahamas, Masters said, and then will move out of the Bahamas
tomorrow.  The storm, with winds of 75 mph (120 kph), was 90 miles
east of Guantanamo, Cuba, and 70 miles southwest of Great Inagua
Island, in the Bahamas, heading northeast at 14 mph. It is a
Category 1 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said in  an advisory  at 5 p.m. Eastern
time.  At least three deaths in Haiti were blamed on flooding from
Tomas, according to Agence France-Presse.  Haiti, the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos
Islands are under a hurricane warning, while the central Bahamas
and the Guantanamo province of Cuba are under tropical storm
warnings, the center said.  Hurricane-force winds of at least 74 mph extend 25 miles
from the storm’s core, while tropical storm-force winds of at
least 39 mph stretch 140 miles, according to the center.  Rain Predictions  AccuWeather Inc.  forecast that some locations in Haiti
would be pounded by as much as 20 inches (51 centimeters) of
rain. More than 1 million people have lived in camps across the
island nation since an earthquake in January that killed 300,000
people.  The amount of rainfall depends on the strength and location
of the storm’s area of deep tropical moisture, or inflow
channel, according to  Dan Kottlowski , an expert senior
forecaster with AccuWeather in State College, Pennsylvania.  “Given the predicted track and strength of Tomas, the
inflow channel is expected to target Haiti through tonight
before shifting eastward over the Dominican Republic Saturday,”
he said.  Six inches of rain may fall over eastern Cuba, the central
and southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos islands, the
hurricane center said. The Dominican Republic could receive as
much as 15 inches.  Haitian Camps  The  American Refugee Committee , which has an emergency
response team in Port-au-Prince, Haiti’s capital, said people
were “very, very reluctant” to evacuate camps where they have
been living since the quake. One camp, Corail, which housed
7,000 people, is at risk because it was built on a desert flood
plain north of the city.  The  International Organization for Migration  said today
that 4,000 Haitians remained in the Corail camp to protect their
few belongings, putting them at risk for cholera. A cholera
outbreak has infected more than 6,700 people and killed almost
450, according to the United Nations’ Office for Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs.  A flooded river cut off roads and inundated camps west of
Port-au-Prince and 2,500 evacuated a camp in Jacmel. In Les
Cayes, a hospital flooded and authorities evacuated 354
prisoners, said Jessica Duplessis, a spokeswoman for  the UN
agency .  “When you look around here in Port-au-Prince, the gutters
are rushing with water,” she said by telephone. “But I’ve
definitely seen crazier rains and more flooding in the streets
in Port-au-Prince before.”  Flood Risk  Haiti is 98 percent deforested, according to a report from
the U.S. Agency for International Development. The eroded soil
doesn’t absorb water, exacerbating flooding, said Christian
Lindmeier, a spokesman for the  World Health Organization  in
Haiti.  “A lot of the tent refugee camps are built on these bare
hillsides with winds blowing 20 to 30 knots, and with the rain,
it’s just going to compound their misery so much more,” said
Dr. David Vanderpool, the director of  Mobile Medical Disaster
Relief .  “Cholera is a waterborne disease, so additional water
means additional risk,” said Lindmeier. “This hurricane is
really going to worsen the impact because it further
deteriorates the infrastructure which was already bad and the
people just don’t have access to clean drinking water.”  Active Season  Tomas is the 19th named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season, which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. This year is the
third-most active on record, tied with 1995 and 1887, according
to  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the hurricane center. In
2005, a record 28 storms formed in the Atlantic.  Tomas swept through the Windward Islands as a hurricane
Oct. 29 to Oct. 31, damaging 500 homes in Barbados and 1,200 in
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and wiping out Saint Lucia’s
banana crop, the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency
said Nov. 3 in a situation  report .  Jamaica’s office of disaster preparedness said there were
no reports of damage from the storm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  