-- Vietnam Central Bank Raises Benchmark Rate for First Time in Almost a Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T09:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/vietnam-central-bank-raises-benchmark-rate-for-first-time-in-almost-a-year.html
Vietnam raised  interest rates  for
the first time in almost a year after inflation accelerated to a
19-month high last month, joining regional counterparts from 
Malaysia to Thailand that have raised borrowing costs this year.  The so-called base rate increases to 9 percent today, the
State Bank of Vietnam said in a statement on its website, 
announcing its first boost to the benchmark since December. The 
refinancing rate will rise to 9 percent from 8 percent, while
the discount rate rises the same amount, to 7 percent.  Vietnam’s  inflation rate  was 9.66 percent in October,
holding above 8 percent for the ninth consecutive month and
exceeding the government’s target for this year. Asianomics Ltd.
economist  Jim Walker  told investors at a Ho Chi Minh City
conference last week that Vietnam’s government had to “get its
act together on interest rates” by boosting lending costs and
slowing growth.  “The government needed to address concerns that monetary
policy was not dealing decisively enough with high inflation and
the pressures on the dong,” said  Benedict Bingham , the Hanoi-
based senior resident representative for the International
Monetary Fund in Vietnam. The increase in rates is “a good first
step, but further adjustments in policy rates may still be
needed,” he said.  The dong strengthened to about 20,420 at money changers in
Ho Chi Minh City as of 4 p.m. local time, from a record-low of
21,070, according to a telephone directory information service,
known as 1080, run by state-owned Vietnam Posts and
Telecommunications.  Devaluing Currency  The rate changes come after the government said yesterday
that it would refrain from changing the exchange rate or dong
trading band. The State Bank of Vietnam has devalued the dong
three times in the past year, allowing the currency to drop 8.4
percent against the dollar in that time. A weaker currency
pushes up the cost of importing goods.  The black-market exchange rate for the dong briefly crossed
21,000 per dollar earlier this week, compared with an official
rate of 19,498, before strengthening.  Le Duc Thuy , chairman of Vietnam’s National Financial
Supervisory Commission, said yesterday that the government
doesn’t plan to adjust the dong’s exchange rate against the
dollar before the Tet Lunar New Year holiday in February.  ‘Dangerous Strategy’  The U.K.’s Capital Economics warned this week that failing
to tighten monetary policy was a “dangerous strategy.”  The government, which earlier this year told banks to
reduce deposit and lending interest rates to boost economic
growth, views low interest rates as “no longer suitable for the
current market situation,” Thuy said yesterday.  “Economic growth is not our concern now; it will exceed
the government target this year,” Thuy said, predicting
consumer prices will rise by more than the government’s target
of 8 percent for the whole year. “Curbing inflation is now a
challenge.”  Vietnam’s economy may expand 6.7 percent this year,
surpassing the government’s previous target of 6.5 percent,
Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  told the National Assembly on Oct.
20. The government sees an expansion in gross domestic product
of 7 percent to 7.5 percent next year and an inflation rate of
about 7 percent, he said.  Policy Challenge  Large increases in the consumer price index in the final
months of the year and volatility in exchange rates at local
money changers pose “big difficulties and challenges to the
government,” according to a report by the National Assembly
Committee for Economic Affairs that was cited in a statement on
the government’s website yesterday.  Vietnam is unlikely to meet its inflation target and the
dong will probably be devalued again in the first quarter of
2011, London-based  Kevin Grice , an economist at Capital
Economics, said in a note this week.  Repeated calls by the government this year for lower
commercial lending and deposit rates have undermined market
confidence, the IMF said in September. Lenders are now being
told to boost dong deposit rates to encourage saving and contain
inflation, Thuy said yesterday.  -- Nguyen Kieu Giang  and  Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi and  Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City,  Nipa Piboontanasawat  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Stephanie Phang ,  Tony Jordan   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6725 or
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6727 or
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Beth Thomas at 
 bthomas1@bloomberg.net  