-- LVMH Stake in Hermes Will Be Investigated by French Regulator
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-05T11:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/lvmh-acquistion-of-stake-in-hermes-to-be-investigated-by-french-regulator.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ’s
purchase of a 17.1 percent stake in  Hermes International SCA 
will be investigated by French regulators to determine if
securities rules were breached.  The  Autorite des Marches Financiers  will review how LVMH
built up the stake in Hermes, the Paris-based maker of silk
scarves and Birkin bags, AMF Chairman Jean-Pierre Jouyet said
today in an interview on RMC radio.  “Normally you have to make declarations when you pass
thresholds of 5 percent, 10 percent,” Jouyet said in the radio
interview. LVMH’s first statement that it owned shares in Hermes
came Oct. 23, when it said it owned 14.2 percent, and had
options to acquire another 2.9 percent.  LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, last month
changed terms of cash-settlement swap contracts in Hermes that
it bought in 2008 so it could take physical delivery of the
underlying shares and move the termination dates forward,
according to a statement filed with the regulator last week.  LVMH “rejoices in the announcement of the opening of an
investigation,” the company said today in an e-mailed statement.
The investigation will show LVMH “scrupulously respected the
applicable rules.”  Wild West  “France remains the Wild West in terms of corporate
takeovers,” Jouyet said. “The regulations are badly done if
you can bypass” threshold declarations like this.  When France tightened its disclosure rules last year AMF
recommendations to include cash-settled equity swaps weren’t
included.  That “makes it hard today to say that they didn’t respect
the rules because it was explicitly excluded,” French
shareholder activist  Colette Neuville  said. “Saying the rules
are badly done may mean that there’s nothing that can be done
this time, but that the rules have to change.”  LVMH said in the  statement  filed to the AMF explaining how
it built up the stake, that it may add to its position
“depending on the circumstances and the market situation.”
Paris-based LVMH doesn’t intend to launch a tender offer, take
control or seek board seats at Hermes, where about 75 percent of
the shares are controlled by members of the founding family.  LVMH paid 1.45 billion euros for the stake, an average of
about 80 euros a share, or about a 54 percent discount to the
Oct. 22 closing price of 176.20 euros, according to Bloomberg
calculations. The AMF is also reviewing the rise in the  Hermes
share price , Jouyet said.  Evidence Challenge  The AMF’s challenge will be to find evidence of whether
LVMH intended at the outset to convert the swaps to take
possession of the shares, said Neuville, president of the
Chartres, France-based Association for the Defense of Minority
Shareholders, or ADAM. She worked with the AMF in the tightening
of the disclosure rules and is not involved in the LVMH matter.  “If the contracts for cash settlement were used in a way
that was just to skirt the law, the AMF has the means to
reclassify” the deal as one that should have been declared, she
said. “Was there, from the start, the intention to buy shares
without revealing it? That’s the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 