-- Washington Post Profit Triples on Higher-Education Unit, Advertising Gains
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   D a n   G o l d e n
-- 2010-11-05T20:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/washington-post-profit-triples-on-higher-education-unit-advertising-gains.html
Washington Post Co.  said third-
quarter profit more than tripled on sales growth in its higher-
education unit, which is facing government scrutiny, and a
pickup in advertising revenue at its newspaper business.  The publisher of the Washington Post newspaper had a net
income of $61.2 million, or $6.84 a share, compared with $17.3
million, or $1.81, a year earlier, according to a statement from
the company today.  Sales  rose 7.3 percent to $1.19 billion.  Earnings doubled at the Kaplan education unit, which
accounts for almost two-thirds of  revenue . Still, enrollment
growth for higher-education programs slowed and the Washington-
based company repeated that pending government regulations on
for-profit colleges and a new free-trial period for students may
have a “material adverse effect” on earnings.  The Kaplan business is “the lifeblood of the Washington
Post,”  Bradley Safalow , chief executive of New York-based PAA
Research, said in an interview before the results. PAA analyzes
higher-education stocks.  Revenue  at the newspaper division, which includes the
Washington Post and the Herald of Everett, Washington, rose 5
percent to $163.4 million. The Post’s print ad sales rose 3
percent to $72 million.  The company, like other newspaper publishers, has trimmed
costs by eliminating jobs and combining or shortening sections
as advertising continues to migrate to digital news outlets and
print circulation drops.  The Post Co.  advanced  $14.48, or 3.8 percent, to $398.38 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have lost 9.4 percent this year.  Regulatory Scrutiny  Enrollment growth at Kaplan slowed to 8 percent from 18
percent in the second quarter. The business’s growth is
threatened as for-profit colleges have come under scrutiny by
Congress, the Government Accountability Office, and the U.S.
Department of Education.  Kaplan suspended enrollment at two of its campuses after an
undercover GAO investigation released Aug. 4 found that
recruiters were exaggerating how much applicants could earn from
a Kaplan education. The GAO report prompted Florida’s attorney
general to open an investigation into Kaplan and other for-
profit colleges.  Anticipating stricter government regulation, Kaplan has
stopped linking its admission advisers’ compensation to the
number of students they bring in, and begun allowing
undergraduates to attend classes for a trial period -- and then
drop out of the given class without owing any tuition.  “They’re trying to raise the quality of their student base
and focus on outcomes,” said  Jeff Silber , an analyst with BMO
Capital Markets in New York. “It’s definitely the right thing
to do to ensure the longevity of this sector, but unfortunately
there’s typically a near-term adverse effect to earnings.”  Apollo Group Inc. , owner of the University of Phoenix,
which has adopted similar measures, said last month that new
student enrollment in the quarter ending in November may drop
more than 40 percent from a year earlier. Phoenix is the largest
U.S. for-profit college, based on enrollment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Golden  in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  