-- West African Monetary Union's Growth Lags Behind African Average, IMF Says
-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 2010-11-05T07:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/west-african-monetary-union-s-growth-lags-behind-african-average-imf-says.html
Growth in the West African countries
using the CFA franc currency will be slower than the average for
sub-Saharan Africa next year, damped by poor policies and
inadequate infrastructure, according to the International
Monetary Fund.  The  West African Economic and Monetary Union , which
includes Ivory Coast, Senegal and Niger, is projected to expand
4.4 percent, said Mark Plant, deputy director of the Washington-
based fund. That compares with a growth forecast of 5.5 percent
for all of sub-Saharan Africa.  “Clearly, a lack of governance, a lack of transparency,
and a lack of infrastructure all cost,” Plant said in a phone
interview on Nov. 3. “They need to hammer away at their
reforms.”  The economies have the potential to expand 8 percent in
three to five years, if governments spend on infrastructure and
undertake political changes, Plant said. Ivory Coast, the
world’s top cocoa producer, held its first election in a decade
this month, aiming to reunite a country divided between a rebel-
held north and a government-controlled south for the past eight
years.  “The region hasn’t grown as fast as it could have and it
needs to, if it’s going to make serious strides to reduce
poverty,” Plant said.  The monetary union, created in 1994, also includes Benin,
Togo, Mali, Burkina Faso and Guinea-Bissau.  Growth in the region would be boosted if investment
regulations were modernized, Plant said. Energy and
telecommunications companies “can’t rely on the return on their
investment,” he said. The IMF is also advising countries to
widen their tax base to finance public works projects such as
roads and power plants.  The CFA franc, which is pegged to the euro, traded at
462.39 to the U.S. dollar at 7:08 a.m. in Dakar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Hinshaw  in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 