-- Wheat Rises for Second Day on Prospects for Cut in Global-Supply Forecasts
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-05T19:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/wheat-rises-for-second-day-on-prospects-for-cut-in-global-supply-forecasts.html
Wheat futures rose to the highest
level in almost four weeks on speculation that a government
report next week will show shrinking U.S. and world grain
supplies.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture may lower its forecast
for global wheat supplies to 173.53 million metric tons from
last month’s estimate of 174.66 million, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts before the Nov. 9 report. The
agency also may cut its estimate for U.S. corn for the third
straight month after adverse weather curbed yields.  “It feels like the bullish side has the momentum, because
of the combination of the crop report on Tuesday” and recent
declines in the  dollar , said  Jason Britt , an analyst at Central
States Commodities Inc., a brokerage in Kansas City, Missouri.  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 15 cents, or 2.1
percent, to settle at $7.2875 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price reached $7.315, the
highest level since Oct. 11. This week, the commodity climbed
1.6 percent, the second straight weekly gain.  Wheat has surged 52 percent since the end of June as
drought hurt crops in Russia and Eastern Europe. Yesterday, the
price jumped 3.4 percent after the dollar plunged to an 11-month
low against a basket of major currencies.  U.S. corn production may drop to 12.542 billion bushels,
compared with a government estimate of 12.664 billion last
month, according to the average estimate of 34 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Corn competes with wheat as a livestock feed and
for acreage.  Dry Weather  Wheat also rose on speculation that rain in the forecast
for the U.S. Great Plains next week may not be enough to improve
prospects for winter crops.  The central Plains may get about 0.4 inch (1 centimeter) in
the next six to 10 days, according to Weather Derivatives. Much
of the region got half of the normal amount of rain this month,
 National Weather Service  data show.  “Rain is in the forecast for late next week, but the
latest I heard was the tendency was to push moisture to the
north, and that still leaves a dry pocket,” said  Paul Georgy ,
the president of Allendale Inc. in McHenry, Illinois. The rain
may be “not as significant” as traders expected, he said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 