-- Yields on Brazilian Interest-Rate Futures Rise on Rousseff Fiscal Policy
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-11-05T17:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/yields-on-brazilian-interest-rate-futures-rise-on-rousseff-fiscal-policy.html
Yields on Brazil’s most-traded
interest-rate futures contracts increased to the highest levels
this month on speculation that President-elect  Dilma Rousseff 
may fail to contain spending to curb inflation.  Yields on the contract due in January 2013 rose 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 11.87 percent at 1:13 p.m.
New York time. The contract due in January 2012 increased 7
basis points to 11.47 percent.  Rousseff said this week her goal is to cut net public debt
to 38 percent from 41 percent of gross domestic product by the
end of her four-year term. In an interview with Veja magazine in
June, Rousseff said she would aim to cut net debt to 28 percent
of GDP in a bid to give the central bank room to lower the
benchmark interest rate.  “Some people are worried about the fiscal stance of the
new government,” said  Nick Chamie , the global head of emerging
markets at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  Rousseff told reporters on Nov. 3 that governors were
mobilizing to create new sources of funding for healthcare. The
Senate scrapped in December 2007 a 0.38 percent tax on financial
transactions, known as CPMF, reducing the government’s revenue
by about 40 billion reais ($23.8 billion) a year. The tax was
created to help fund healthcare.  ‘Credible Fiscal Package’  “If there’s a credible fiscal package that’s announced,
that would give confidence that the government will maintain a
prudent spending policy,” Chamie said in a phone interview.
“If they’re not tightening in the reins, then the prospects for
rate hikes next year are over and above what’s already priced
in.”  Speculation the government will introduce additional
measures to stem the Brazilian real’s appreciation is boosting
yields on the contracts today, said  Marina Santos , chief
economist at Squanto Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  The real lost 0.7 percent last month, the biggest decline
since May, after the government tripled the tax on foreign
fixed-income investments to 6 percent to curb the currency’s
appreciation. The government also raised the levy on foreigners
investing in local derivatives to 6 percent from 0.38 percent.  The real slid 0.6 percent to 1.6809 per dollar today, from
1.6708 yesterday.  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday that
he’s not considering additional measures to control currency
gains. His comments came after O Globo reported earlier this
week that the government may raise the tax it charges foreigners
on some investments for the third time since the beginning of
October. The report didn’t say where it obtained the
information.  Data released today showing that employment rose in the
U.S. in October is also behind the rise in yields, Santos said.  Payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, and following a revised
41,000 drop the prior month that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  