-- Suckers of the Future Groomed With Stock Game: Susan Antilla
-- Susan Antilla
-- 2009-12-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-08/suckers-of-the-future-groomed-with-stock-game-susan-antilla.html

          
          
             Credit freezes, sleazy stockbrokers,
and auction-rate securities gone bad have done wonders to drum
up enthusiasm for financial literacy. So who could fault the
Securities and Exchange Commission for recruiting Kathleen M.
Floyd as its new deputy director of investor education last
month?  
 After all, she has years of experience teaching kids about
finance. Floyd was no schoolmarm explaining the difference
between a stock and a bond. She was executive director of the
Stock Market Game, a virtual-investing program that’s given
hundreds of thousands of students a $100,000 make-believe
portfolio to play with.  
 Her employer was a foundation financed by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, Wall Street’s main
lobbying group. Floyd’s hiring brings new attention to the
popular Stock Market Game, which gets money from donors like
Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and A.G. Edwards.  
 Call me skeptical, but I can’t help wondering if the
endgame is to prep young scholars to grow up to be willing
brokerage-firm customers. Nor can I help wondering what the new
deputy director will want the SEC to teach investors of any age.
If investor education for students means gambling on stock
prices 12 weeks out, can a grown-up game be far behind?  
 Vested Interests  
 SEC spokesman John Heine said there were no SEC plans to
align with the Stock Market Game “at this point” and that
Floyd wouldn’t comment.  
 The game’s purpose is “to cultivate a new generation of
individuals” who better understand the global economy and sound
financial decision-making, said Andrew DeSouza, a spokesman for
the Wall Street lobbying group, in an e-mail to Bloomberg.  
 Created in 1976, the game has led to “significantly
higher” math scores over the years, according to an August 2009
report by the research firm Learning Point Associates. Welcome
as that is for the lost art of long division, whether the game
teaches kids how to steer clear of shoddy products and shady
brokers is another matter.  
 Allan S. Roth, whose son Kevin played the game in his
Colorado Springs, Colorado, school two years ago, says it
teaches “anything but investing.” It gets kids’ attention by
depicting investing as exciting, says Roth, an investment
adviser, and students who win often do so by placing risky bets
to score big in the limited school-year time frame.  
 “You could teach kids the basic rules of blackjack and
have a more lasting and beneficial impact,” said Tim Collins,
who runs Austin, Texas-based investment firm TangleTrade
Management LLC, in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. Collins played
the game at his Maryland high school in the 1990s.  
 Learning from Masters  
 Granted it’s a thankless task to find a way to get students
in grades four through 12 -- the target market for the Stock
Market Game -- engaged in math, economics and their financial
health. But if the aim is to jazz up the program with cool
material, the game’s bosses are overlooking opportunities.  
 What better choice than game sponsor Merrill Lynch, for
example, to write a lesson plan on the wily ways of corporate
underwriting? Consider the value of a tutorial on how Merrill
scored when its former star analyst Henry Blodget hyped shares
of Merrill’s client companies to retail customers even as he was
sending private e-mails saying some of the stocks were dogs.  
 Game sponsor Morgan Stanley would be a perfect choice to
enlighten kids on the perils of incriminating e-mail. The firm
paid a $12.5 million settlement to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority in September 2007 related to claims that
its former Morgan Stanley DW Inc. unit fibbed to customers and
to regulators who were seeking copies of Morgan Stanley e-mail
to use against the firm.  
 Morgan Stanley wiggled out of providing the e-mail, saying
the messages had been destroyed in the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. It turned out that millions of pre-9/11 e-mails had
been restored from back-up tapes even as several thousand
customers entered arbitration without their e-mail evidence.  
 Golden Rule  
 Ethics and investor protection feature prominently in the
Stock Market Game’s curriculum, DeSouza said. He sent me a
lesson plan for teachers, which offered caveats on investing and
highlighted the Enron fraud and other doozies.  
 The game’s Web page, though, heavily emphasizes investment
decisions, not investor protection.  
 If regulators mean it when they say protection is a
priority, they’d better get acquainted with what it takes to be
street-smart. In a study on investor fraud released in May 2006,
the Finra Investor Education Foundation learned that people who
were ripped off by fraudsters outscored nonvictims by a
“statistically significant” 27 percentage points when it came
to financial literacy. That’s right, folks: the more financially
literate people were, the more likely they were to get
hoodwinked.  
 Victims may have known that a no-load mutual fund has no
sales fees but they were clueless when it came to divining which
salespeople and products might be bogus.  
 Investor naivete isn’t as big a risk when regulators are on
top of their game. Of late, that hasn’t been the case. Asked to
comment on Floyd’s mission, Heine referred to a press release
that spoke about “effective educational programs” and investor
advocacy.  
 If U.S. investors are lucky, Floyd will keep her game off
the SEC agenda and focus on teaching how to spot dicey products.
Otherwise, today’s Stock Market Game champion could turn out to
be tomorrow’s auction-rate securities sucker.  
 (Susan Antilla is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        