-- Singapore's Industrial Output Unexpectedly Accelerates, Bolstering Growth
-- Stephanie Phang
-- 2010-06-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-26/singapore-s-industrial-production-expansion-exceeds-economists-estimate.html

          
          
             Singapore’s  industrial-production 
growth unexpectedly accelerated as electronics exports surged,
sustaining the economy’s recovery from last year’s global slump.  
 Output at factories, which accounts for about a quarter of
the economy, climbed 58.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
after a revised 49.7 percent surge in April, the  Economic
Development Board  said in a statement today. That’s the sixth
straight month of growth. The median estimate of 12 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a 37.2 percent gain.  
 Singapore has raised its growth forecast twice this year as
demand for its computer chips and manufactured goods recovers
from a trade slowdown that pushed the nation into a recession
last year. Still, the island’s economy is at risk if export
demand falters as Asian central banks wind back stimulus
policies and Europe grapples with a sovereign-debt crisis,
according to DBS Group Holdings Ltd. economist  Irvin Seah .  
 “The expansion in the electronics industry on the back on
the current information technology boom is expected to be the
key driver of manufacturing,” Singapore-based Seah said in a
note today. “The key concern for manufacturers going forward
would be the demand weakness due to monetary tightening in Asia
as well as the austerity drive in Europe.”  
 Singapore’s central bank has joined Asian neighbors in
tightening monetary policy as the region leads a global rebound,
saying in April it would undertake a one-time revaluation and
seek a gradual and modest appreciation of the currency. Malaysia
and India have raised interest rates twice this year and Taiwan
unexpectedly increased borrowing costs yesterday.  
 Singapore’s economy  expanded  an annualized 38.6 percent
from the previous three months in the first quarter. Non-oil
domestic  exports  climbed 24.4 percent in May from a year
earlier, the seventh month of gains.  
 Electronics Exports  
 Electronics shipments  by companies including Venture Corp.,
Singapore’s biggest electronics contract manufacturer, climbed
38.9 percent in May from a year earlier, while pharmaceutical
shipments fell 32.8 percent, a report showed last week.  
 Singapore’s  industrial production  rose a seasonally
adjusted 5.2 percent in May from April, when it advanced 17.7
percent from a month earlier.  
 Electronics production jumped 51.8 percent from a year
earlier, following a 60 percent gain in April. Pharmaceutical
output surged 121.8 percent.  
 Production growth of about 50 percent “would point to
another stronger-than-expected increase in second-quarter gross
domestic product, and on track for annual GDP growth much
stronger than the official projection for 7 percent to 9 percent
in 2010,”  David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics in
Singapore, said today before the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Phang  in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        