-- Exxon, Chevron Among Companies That May Join Pipeline
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2006-11-22T18:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-22/exxon-chevron-among-companies-that-may-join-pipeline-update1-.html

          
          
             Russia will limit its stake in a $1
billion oil pipeline from Bulgaria to Greece to 51 percent,
leaving room for  oil companies  working in Kazakhstan to join the
project.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of the U.S., as well as
Netherlands-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 's Russian unit,
OAO TNK-BP, may negotiate for a stake in the pipeline, a Russian
energy official said.  
 The holders of the 49 percent stake currently allotted to
Greece and Bulgaria have yet to be decided, said Deputy Energy
Minister Andrei Dementiev, in a statement to Bloomberg News.  
 ``If Greece and Bulgaria want to make sure that the pipeline
is full from their side of the deal, they may invite oil producers
operating in the  Caspian Sea '' to join, Energy Ministry spokesman
Yevgeny Trufanov said. ``We see the greatest interest from Chevron
at the moment.''  
 Russia and Kazakhstan, which together sell more oil abroad
than the world's biggest exporter, Saudi Arabia, face delays in
getting products to Europe. Turkey's narrow Bosporus and
Dardanelle straits limit oil tankers, pushing Russian and Kazakh
companies to invest in pipelines.  
 Russian President  Vladimir Putin  sealed a deal with his Greek
and Bulgarian counterparts in Athens in September to build a 258-
kilometer pipe from the Bulgarian city of Burgas to the Greek port
of Alexandroupolis, bypassing the straits.  
 Putin Allotments  
 Putin has allotted the country's 51 percent share in the
project to three state-controlled companies in a joint venture.
Pipeline-owner OAO Transneft and oil producers OAO Rosneft and OAO
Gazprom Neft will hold Russia's stake through OOO Pipeline
Consortium Burgos-Alexandroupolis.  
 The Kazakh energy minister said he was sure companies
operating in the oil-rich former Soviet state will participate.
``We have officially informed Russia about this,'' Minister
Baktykozha Izmukhambetov said today in an interview in London.  
 While neither Greece nor Bulgaria are being pressured by
Russia, the lack of oil companies from the two countries able to
support the project is likely to mean Moscow's hint will be
heeded, said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist with  Alfa Bank .  
 Greece has put forward Hellenic Petroleum SA, the nation's
biggest oil refiner, to hold part of its stake. The rest could go
to major oil producers to discourage them from using competing
Azeri pipelines and for Russia to forge closer energy ties with
Kazakhstan.  
 ``What we've seen in the past is that Russian companies, when
they have a controlling stake, tend to have a larger influence on
the project than their equity might allow,'' Weafer said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        