-- Norilsk Wants Tajik Silver Mine, One of the Biggest
-- Samantha Shields
-- 2006-11-22T16:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-22/norilsk-wants-tajik-silver-mine-one-of-the-biggest-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , Russia's
biggest mining company, asked the government of Tajikistan for
the rights to survey and mine a silver deposit in the country's
north that may be one of the world's biggest.  
 The Bolshoi Konimansur deposit may contain as much as 50,000
metric tons of silver and some zinc, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Maxim Finsky said today in a telephone interview from
Moscow. The Tajik government is expected to give the company an
answer by the end of the year on what would be Norilsk's first
silver project, Finsky said.  
 Norilsk, based in Moscow, already mines about half the
world's palladium, a fifth of its nickel and almost a sixth of
its platinum from mines inside the Arctic Circle. It wants to
expand its mining operations and has been searching for a world
class silver deposit in  Russia  and abroad, Finsky said.  
 ``This is one of the biggest silver deposits in the world,'' he
said. ``It's difficult to estimate a potential investment figure
because the last surveys are from the end of the Soviet era.''  
 Interfax said today that the project will need $2 billion of
investment, citing unidentified Tajik Finance Ministry officials.
Finsky declined to name a figure.  
 Silver Rising  
 Silver gained 44 percent in the last year. It reached a 25-
year high of $15.22 an ounce May 11, as investors bought the
metal as a hedge against inflation amid record oil prices.  
 The metal is used to produce laptops and mobile phones and in
the photography industry, as well as in jewelry and silverware.  
 The price may more than triple in the next five years as new
applications such as smart cards for shopping spur demand, Roland Jansen, whose Mother Earth Resource Fund has gained 12 percent
this year, said on Oct. 10.  
 The acquisition of Bolshoi Konimansur would make Norilsk one
of the world's biggest silver producers, Finsky said. Norilsk
spun off its OAO Polyus Gold unit this year and sold a $2.1
billion stake in Gold Fields Ltd. in March.  
 Shares of Norilsk rose $2, or 1.4 percent, to $144.50 in
Moscow. The stock has climbed 75 percent this year, compared with
a 30 percent gain in the 17- member  Bloomberg Europe Mining Index.
The company has a market capitalization of about $27 billion.  
 Norilsk's first-half profit more than doubled to $2.37
billion on rising metals prices and the sale of Gold Fields.  
 Global demand for silver was 911.9 million ounces last year.
Producing countries including as Peru, Mexico and Australia mined
641.6 million ounces of silver in 2005, according to statistics
gathered by London-based research company GFMS Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Shields in Moscow at 
 sshields2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        