-- Buffett may have $3.5 billion two-day financials profit
-- By Jonathan Stempel
-- Fri Sep 19, 2008 5:46pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/19/businesspro-berkshire-buffett-banks-dc-idUSN1932685220080919

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway 
Inc ( BRKa.N ) ( BRKb.N ), which has avoided major acquisitions in 
the financial sector in recent months, may have had a $3.5 
billion two-day paper profit on six major banking and financial 
services investments. 

  The two-day rally in financial shares, which drove the 
broad S&P Financials Index .GSPF up 24 percent, came as the 
government announced sweeping measures to rescue the financial 
system and restore confidence in shaky markets.  Shares of Wells Fargo & Co ( WFC.N ), the fifth-largest U.S. 
bank and Berkshire's second-largest investment as of June 30, 
rose 19 percent over the last two days and touched a record 
high. That would have given Berkshire a $1.85 billion paper 
profit on its reported 290.7 million share stake.  Berkshire would also have had a $1.12 billion profit on its 
reported 151.6 million share stake in American Express Co 
( AXP.N ), the credit card and travel services company. Stakes in 
Bank of America Corp ( BAC.N ), M&T Bank Corp ( MTB.N ), SunTrust 
Banks Inc ( STI.N ) and US Bancorp ( USB.N ) also gained value.  Buffett has long favored investments in undervalued 
businesses with strong earnings and management. That has helped 
him transform Berkshire since 1965 from a failing textile maker 
into a conglomerate with at least 76 companies.  "He's always felt Wells was very well-managed," said Frank 
Betz, who oversees more than $800 million at Carret/Zane 
Capital Management LLP in Warren, New Jersey. "Why does he like 
banks? Like Willie Sutton said, it's where the money is."  Banks and financial services companies accounted for about 
one-third of Berkshire's $57.9 billion of U.S.-listed equity 
holdings as of June 30. Berkshire generally discloses these 
holdings only in the middle of each calendar quarter.  At Berkshire's annual shareholder meeting on May 3 in 
Omaha, Nebraska, Buffett said that in banking, "you need 
someone at the top whose DNA is very very much programmed 
against risk."  Buffett didn't agree this week to help bail out the insurer 
American International Group Inc ( AIG.N ), which agreed to an 
$85 billion government rescue after being felled by exposure to 
complex debt known as credit default swaps. Buffett has called 
derivatives "financial weapons of mass destruction."
  DIVERSIFICATION  Berkshire generates about half its business from insurance, 
but is diversifying through acquisitions in other sectors.  On Thursday, it announced a tentative agreement for its 
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co affiliate to buy Constellation 
Energy Group Inc CEG.N for $4.7 billion in cash, after 
worries about trading bets caused the power supplier's shares 
to fall by more than half this week.  Earlier this year, it paid Chicago's Pritzker family $4.5 
billion for 60 percent of Marmon Holdings Inc, which makes such 
things as railroad tank cars, pipes, fasteners and wiring.  Berkshire also committed $6.5 billion to help Mars Inc buy 
chewing gum maker Wm Wrigley Jr Co WWY.N, and agreed to 
invest $3 billion as part of Dow Chemical Co's ( DOW.N ) purchase 
of specialty chemicals maker Rohm and Haas Co ROH.N.  Forbes magazine this week said Buffett is worth $50 
billion, making him the second-richest American, trailing 
Microsoft Corp ( MSFT.O ) co-founder Bill Gates.  Berkshire Class A shares rose more than 8 percent Friday on 
the New York Stock Exchange, until a late trade boosted the 
gain to 14.8 percent, or $18,990, for a close at $147,000. The 
Class B shares closed up $345 at $4,595.  A Big Board spokeswoman did not immediately return a call 
seeking comment.  (Editing by  Richard Chang )