-- AstraZeneca Loses Ruling Over Patent for Toprol-XL
-- Susan Decker
-- 2007-07-23T20:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-23/astrazeneca-loses-ruling-over-patent-for-toprol-xl-update3-.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  lost a court ruling
that opens the door to generic competition for its blood-
pressure treatment Toprol-XL.  
 A U.S. appeals court in Washington said today a patent on
the drug is invalid because the compound is already covered by
another patent. The ruling is a victory for  Novartis AG (NOVN) 's Eon
Labs,  KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KVPHQ)  and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) 's
Andrx unit.  
 ``We're disappointed with the ruling on double-patenting,''
AstraZeneca spokesman Blair Hains said. ``We're reading the
ruling and will evaluate what our future steps will be.''  
 U.S. sales of Toprol-XL contributed $331 million, or 13
cents a share, in the first quarter to London-based
AstraZeneca's revenue. The company's forecast for the rest of
2007 doesn't include the drug. Lehman Brothers estimates U.S.
sales of Toprol-XL will plunge to $100 million in the third
quarter and to nothing in the fourth quarter because of generic
competition.  
 A 25-milligram dose of the medicine has had generic-drug
competition since November from Eon, now part of Novartis's
Sandoz generic-drug unit. It also is sold as a so-called
authorized generic, the brand medicine without the label.  
 In May, the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  approved
Sandoz's application to sell Toprol-XL in a 50-milligram dose.
Spokeswoman Rachel Spielman said the company isn't yet selling
Toprol-XL in the 50-milligram form. She declined to comment
further.  
 Sandoz Shares Profits  
 In May, Watson sold Sandoz its rights to be the first to
sell generic Toprol-XL in a 50-milligram dose. In return, Watson
gets a share of profits from Sandoz.  
 The FDA also approved KV Pharmaceutical's request to sell
the drug in 100-milligram and 200-milligram doses.  
 In today's ruling, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit said in a 2-to-1 decision that one of the
patents for the drug covers the same thing as a different patent
that expired.  
 The court sent the case back to a lower court to determine
whether the invalidated patent and a third patent also should be
deemed unenforceable. Those deliberations, which won't block
rivals from selling generic versions, might determine legal fees
in the case.  
 AstraZeneca's  American depositary receipts , each
representing one ordinary share, fell 4 cents to $55.55 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Novartis  ADRs (NVS) , each worth one ordinary share, fell 30 cents
to $54.69. Shares of Watson Pharmaceuticals, based in Corona,
California, rose 37 cents to $33.05. St. Louis-based KV
Pharmaceutical's  shares  fell 2 cents to $28.78.  
 The case is In Re Metoprolol Succinate Patent Litigation,
06-1254, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Simison at   rsimison@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        