-- Abu Dhabi Seeks Potential Partners for $10 Billion Shah Gas Development
-- [bn:PRSN=1] Anthony DiPaola []
-- 2010-06-23T15:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/abu-dhabi-seeks-potential-partners-for-10-billion-shah-gas-development.html

          
          
                  June 23 (Bloomberg) --Abu Dhabi, the largest sheikhdom in
the United Arab Emirates and holder of most of the country’s oil
reserves, is seeking a partner to help develop the $10 billion
Shah gas project after  ConocoPhillips  pulled out of the venture.  
 “The initial strategy was to have a partner,” said Saif
Ahmed Al-Ghafli, chief executive officer of Abu Dhabi Gas
Development Co., the state company working on the Shah project.
“The same strategy is in place,” he said today at a conference
in Abu Dhabi.  
 Abu Dhabi Gas, wholly owned by state-run Abu Dhabi National
Oil Co., is pressing ahead with the Shah development after
 ConocoPhillips  withdrew in April. The emirate of Abu Dhabi needs
to develop its reserves of sour, or high-sulfur, natural gas to
help satisfy soaring domestic power consumption.  
 Finding a partner will help spread the risk of developing
the project and add technical knowledge, al-Ghafli said.  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  “could be in discussions” about joining the
venture, he said, adding that Adnoc officials would hold any
talks with prospective partners for Abu Dhabi Gas. Shell
declined to comment on whether it was in talks on the project.  
 Developing Shah will be technically challenging because
hydrogen sulfide, a toxic compound of sulfur and hydrogen, must
be separated from the gas. The sulfur must then be converted
into a solid and transported 250 kilometers (155 miles) to the
coast, where it can be loaded on ships and exported.  
 Competing Bids  
 Abu Dhabi chose ConocoPhillips for the Shah project in July
2008 after considering competing bids from Shell,  Exxon Mobil
Corp.  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. , among others. Shell’s
interest in the Shah project had waned since its initial bid,
Chief Financial Officer  Simon Henry  told investors in a
conference call on April 28.  
 The project is estimated to cost $10 billion, said Abdalla
Hamad al-Muhairi, deputy senior vice-president for the Abu
DhabiGas venture. The unit will award a contract to build a
sulfur granulation plant by the fourth quarter, the executives
said. It will also award a contract this year for other
buildings at the site.  
 The state-run oil producer already awarded 20.4 billion
dirhams ($5.55 billion) in contracts for the construction of
facilities and pipelines at the Shah field in April.  Saipem SpA 
won three contracts totalling more than $3.5 billion, while
Samsung Engineering Co., Tecnicas Reunidas SA and Punj Lloyd
Ltd. each secured others.  
 The U.A.E. imports gas from Qatar and is developing nuclear
reactors to meet its domestic energy demand, which is expected
to double by 2020, according to government studies.  
 Output Targets  
 The Shah project, scheduled for completion by 2014, would
process 1 billion cubic feet of sour gas into 540 million cubic
feet a day of fuel for domestic consumption. It would also
process 4,400 tons a day of natural-gas liquids, 35,000 barrels
a day of condensates and 9,200 tons a day of sulfur.  
 Adnoc aims to ship the sulfur by rail to the Abu Dhabi
coast, where it can be shipped abroad for use as a building
material or ingredient in fertilizer. The company abandoned a
plan to build a pipeline to transport liquid sulfur to the coast
after deeming the technology too demanding and costly.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net 
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
1033 or  adipaola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        