-- Actavis Picks Former Ratiopharm Chief Albrecht to Head Icelandic Drugmaker
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-23T10:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/actavis-picks-former-ratiopharm-chief-albrecht-to-head-icelandic-drugmaker.html

          
          
             Actavis Group hf  appointed  Claudio Albrecht , the former chief executive officer of Ratiopharm GmbH,
to the top post at the Icelandic maker of generic drugs.  
 Albrecht, 51, will take the position effective immediately,
the Reykjavik-based drugmaker said in an e-mailed statement
today. He was CEO at Ratiopharm for five years starting in 2000,
before being removed in a management dispute.  
 Backed by Deutsche Bank AG, Actavis is attempting to
overhaul its business after billionaire owner  Bjorgolfur Thor Bjorgolfsson  lost money in the financial crisis. Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank is saddled with as much as 5 billion euros in debt
linked to the Icelandic generic-drug maker, people familiar with
the company said in 2009. Actavis tried to buy Ratiopharm this
year, according to people with knowledge of the situation,
ultimately losing out to  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.   
 “Strong geographic expansion and better market
penetration, especially in southern Europe and the emerging
markets, will be our goal,” Albrecht said in the statement
today.  
 Former chief executive  Sigurdur Oli Olafsson  steps down
after seven years in senior management, Actavis said. The
company said it’s seeking headquarters for senior management and
will retain Iceland as a site for manufacturing, research and
development and for Medis, its third-party sales division.  
 Albrecht worked with Swedish investment firm EQT Partners
AB on a private-equity bid for Ratiopharm, three people familiar
with the auction said earlier this year. Teva agreed in March to
pay 3.63 billion euros ($4.46 billion) for the German company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        