-- Adelson Ready to Settle With `Unreasonable' Lawyers Over Singapore Casino
-- Haslinda Amin
-- 2010-06-23T06:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/adelson-ready-to-settle-with-unreasonable-lawyers-over-singapore-casino.html

          
          
             Las Vegas Sands Corp.  Chairman
 Sheldon Adelson  said his Singapore casino is ready to settle
“any day they want” with the lawyers’ group that accused it of
using their conference to hasten its gaming license.  
 “We much rather make love than war,” Adelson said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Singapore. “We tried to
settle with them; they didn’t want to and were quite
unreasonable.”  
 Marina Bay Sands sued the lawyers after they withheld
payment for the first conference it hosted. IPBA 2010 Pte, on
behalf of the Inter-Pacific Bar Association conference,
countersued for misrepresenting a “complete disaster” as a
world-class venue. Sands used the attendance of Singapore
Minister Mentor  Lee Kuan Yew  at the event to speed up its casino
and occupation permits, according to the IPBA lawsuit.  
 “People should know that there will be little glitches in
an opening of a new property,” said Adelson, 77, who’s in
Singapore for the grand opening of the casino resort today.
“They couldn’t stand even one glitch.”  
 Delegates at the conference complained of unfinished rooms,
power failures, closed facilities and lost luggage, and the Bar
Association’s annual general meeting discussed an
“unprecedented” motion empowering it to sue Sands, according
to IPBA’s lawsuit.  
 No Apology  
 The IPBA organizing committee said in an e-mailed statement
today that Sands has never formally apologized for the problems
encountered during the conference.  
 Marina Bay Sands executive  George Tanajisevich  met IPBA
President  Lee Suet Fern  once after the conference and didn’t
make any settlement offer, the committee said. Lee, the
daughter-in-law of Lee Kuan Yew, chaired the conference.  
 “Since then we have not heard from Sands except through
their lawsuit and sound bites to the media,” according to the
statement.  
 The conference was held May 2-5, only days after Las Vegas
Sands opened parts of the $5.5 billion resort. The resort was
originally scheduled to open at the end of 2009.  
 “We never would have sued them if they didn’t return the
checks,” Adelson said. “I don’t know about in Singapore but in
the U.S. it’s a criminal offense to return a check or to write a
check that you don’t intend to cover.”  
 ‘Every Effort’  
 Sands  halted projects in Macau and Las Vegas during the
2008 financial crisis and focused on the Singapore complex.
Singapore lifted a four-decade ban on casinos in 2005 to help
attract 17 million visitors and collect  annual tourism revenue 
of S$30 billion by 2015.  
 “Now believe me, we make every effort,” Adelson said.
“We send employees in to live in the rooms, to try out the
toilets, sinks, lights, drapes, to make sure everything is
working as it’s supposed to and that’s what we did. But in any
new property and in any ongoing property, you always have
something that happens.”  
 Las Vegas Sands  closed down 3.7 percent yesterday at $26.04
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  S&P 500  index
was down 1.6 percent.  
 The case is Marina Bay Sands Pte Ltd. vs IPBA 2010
Singapore Pte Ltd. S348/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Las Vegas Sands Chairman and CEO Sheldon Adelson speaks at a news conference during the grand opening of the company's Marina Bay Sands resort and casino in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
