-- China's AgriBank Said to Seek $11.4 Billion H.K. IPO
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T21:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/agricultural-bank-of-china-is-said-to-seek-11-4-billion-in-hong-kong-ipo.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
country’s largest lender by customers, will seek to raise as
much as HK$88.4 billion ($11.4 billion) in the Hong Kong portion
of its initial public offering, according to three people with
knowledge of the price range.  
 Agricultural Bank  will offer 25.4 billion shares in Hong
Kong at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 apiece, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the details are private. The Beijing-
based lender may also sell 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at a
price that hasn’t been disclosed. An e-mail sent to investors
this month had indicated the company might offer $10 billion to
$15 billion of shares in Hong Kong.  
 Chairman  Xiang Junbo  is wooing investors after the  Shanghai
Composite Index  slid 22 percent this year and Fitch Ratings
warned that record lending in 2009 may saddle the country’s
banks with bad debts. Agricultural Bank is offering the shares
at an average discount of 17 percent to its three biggest rivals
on a price-to-book basis, according to estimates by the
underwriters and data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Certainly it will be worth looking at,” said  Julian Mayo , who helps oversee $3 billion as investment director at
Charlemagne Capital in London. “It reflects an air of common
sense in the pricing. It’s a sign that demand is less than had
been the case if this deal came out six months ago.”  
 Biggest IPO Ever  
 Agricultural Bank’s Board Secretary  Li Zhenjiang  wasn’t
immediately available for comment after business hours.  
 The lender, commonly known as ABC, needs to raise more than
$22 billion to surpass Beijing-based  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.’s  deal in 2006 as the world’s biggest IPO
ever. The sale marks the final chapter of a decade-long overhaul
of the country’s banking industry. The government spent an
estimated $650 billion to clean out bad loans that were the
legacy of years of state-directed lending gone awry.  
 Agricultural Bank priced the shares at 1.55 to 1.79 times
2010 book value as estimated by the IPO’s underwriters, the
people familiar with the pricing said. That compares with  2.23
times  for Beijing-based ICBC and  2.18 times  for China
Construction Bank Corp.  Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third-
largest by assets and Agricultural Bank’s closest rival, trades
at 1.59 times estimated book value.  
 ‘Near Certainty’  
 Chinese banks’ surge in loan growth since late 2008 has
raised their exposure to credit risk and future asset quality
deterioration is “a near certainty,” Fitch Ratings said in a
statement yesterday.  
 Agricultural Bank allocated $5.45 billion of the Hong Kong
part of the IPO to corporate investors, according to people
familiar with the matter. Qatar Investment Authority agreed to
invest $2.8 billion and the Kuwait Investment Authority said it
would buy $800 million. Corporate, or cornerstone, investors are
guaranteed shares in IPOs in exchange for a pledge to hold the
stock for a period of time.  
 The bank’s focus on serving the poorer parts of China has
come at the cost of lower profitability and a higher bad-loan
ratio than at local rivals, and it was the last lender to
undergo a state-led restructuring, in 2008.  
 “They recruited several pretty high-profile cornerstone
investors, and so far I think the interest has been on the
strong side,” said  Lei Wang , who helps oversee $18.7 billion at
the Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg International Value
Fund. “A reasonable discount versus peers makes sense. It has a
low asset quality.”  
 Underwriters  
 China International Capital Corp., Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Macquarie Group
Ltd. and  Morgan Stanley  were hired to arrange the Hong Kong
portion of Agricultural Bank’s IPO together with its own
investment unit. CICC, Citic Securities Co., China Galaxy
Securities Co. and Guotai Junan Securities Co. are managing the
bank’s yuan-denominated A-share offering.  
 The sale, scheduled to price July 6, is coming after state-
backed deals pushed the amount raised in emerging market IPOs
above developed nations for a record fifth straight quarter.  
 Agricultural Bank is forging ahead even after the European
debt crisis spurred at least 47 companies worldwide to shelve
initial sales since March. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company, this week delayed its plans to
raise $25 billion to September from July.  
 “They’re competing for shelf space and it makes it more
difficult,” said  Uri Landesman , president of New York-based
hedge fund, Platinum Partners, which oversees more than $500
million. Agricultural Bank’s pricing is “not a surprise given
the difficulties in the market there lately.”  
 -- Cathy Chan ,  Bei Hu ,  Jun Luo . With assistance from  Inyoung Hwang ,  Lee Spears  and  Michael Tsang  in New York and  Zijing Wu  in
London. Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Daniel Hauck .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China Xiang  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China Xiang Junbo attends a news conference in Beijing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China Xiang Junbo attends a news conference in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
