-- Ah, the Sun! The Surf! The Glow of Electrons!: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-06-23T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/ah-the-sun-the-surf-the-glow-of-electrons-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             Vacation is a time for
disconnecting. Or not.  
 Tempting as it may be to fantasize about leaving your
digital life behind when you head for the beach, it may not be
feasible, or even really desirable. Although the era of always-
available accessibility makes complete escape harder, it makes
partial escape easier -- and more enjoyable.  
 With that in mind, here are a few gadgets that might prove
useful next to the suntan lotion, folding chair and cooler.  
 COMPUTER: While  Panasonic Corp.  makes military-
specification computers used in some of the world’s most
inhospitable locales, its F8 and F9 Toughbooks are designed more
for the road warrior than the real kind.  
 The F8 and F9 belong to a class of machines called business
rugged, meaning in vacation terms that they may survive having a
cup of beer dumped on them, but not necessarily a pitcher. The
magnesium-alloy case, with built-in handle, encloses a 14.1-inch
anti-glare screen, and the whole package weighs only little more
than 3.5 pounds.  
 The  F9 , which goes on sale in July, starts at $2,899 and
includes Windows 7, an Intel Core i5 processor and a 320
gigabyte hard drive; the older  F8 , with a less powerful Core 2
processor and 250-gigabyte hard drive, lists for $2,499.  
 Since no one buys a computer simply for a few hours of sun
and surf, consider the landlocked benefits, too. A shock-mounted
hard drive means the F8 and F9 can survive being dropped a foot
onto a hard surface, and an optional  Gobi  chip provides mobile
broadband wherever in the world you happen to be.  
 Jersey Shore  
 TV: If you’re on the go and worried about missing live
World Cup action -- or, admit it, a critical rerun of “Jersey
Shore” --  Qualcomm Inc. ’s Flo TV  personal television  will keep
you properly tuned in.  
 The $199.99 unit has a 3.5-inch screen and comes with a
one-year subscription to the Flo TV service, which includes
programming from ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox. A package of additional
networks, including ESPN, Comedy Central and Disney, costs
another $149.99 a year.  
 Qualcomm also makes  Flo TV  available as a service on
wireless phones from manufacturers such as Samsung and LG,
running on both the  AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon  Wireless networks. The
advantage of the standalone unit is that you won’t deplete your
phone battery; you can watch Flo TV on it for up to six hours
between charges.  
 Make sure, though, that your particular beach is within the
Flo network. Coverage can be spotty: It’s better at some
Hamptons than others.  
 Banning Book Bags  
 E-READER: One of the joys of the beach is beach reading,
and the era of the e-reader means no more lugging that extra bag
of books -- to say nothing of providing cover for readers to
indulge in their guilty pleasures. ( Chelsea Handler  fans, you
know who you are.)  
 Apple Inc. ’s iPad is the all-around best, but its glaring
weakness is, well, glare. The backlit display and reflective
screen make it hard to use in sunlight, even if you weren’t
concerned about getting sand in the virtual gears of your $829
3G-enabled baby.  
 By contrast,  Amazon.com Inc. ’s Kindle thrives outside. Its
grayscale digital-ink display is easily readable even in direct
sunlight, it weighs a mere 10 ounces and goes for days on a
single charge. The built-in AT&T 3G connection lets you buy and
download books anywhere you happen to be, taking advantage of a
selection that far surpasses Apple’s nascent iBookstore; as an
added bonus, Amazon’s family of free Kindle apps syncs your
reading material across devices, so you can pick up on your iPad
precisely where you left off on the Kindle.  
 Price Cut  
 Best of all, a price war in the dedicated e-reader market
has driven the Kindle’s price  down to $189 . Think of it as the
cheap, convenient paperback next to the iPad’s elegant
hardcover.  
 CAMERAS: In case not all your Kodak moments occur on dry
land,  Eastman Kodak Co.  recently added the $149.95 PlaySport to
its line of handheld digital video recorders. The  PlaySport  is
physically small -- less than an inch thick, 4.5 ounces, with a
2-inch screen -- but it shoots big: full high-definition video
at 30 frames per second. You can use it under water up to 10
feet deep, and if you find the controls a little hard to use
while you’re in the waves, the built-in image stabilization may
help smooth things out.  
 The PlaySport is also capable of taking still photos, with
a sensor rated at 5 megapixels. But if you need more power,
Panasonic’s $399.99  Lumix DMC-TS2  puts some of the Toughbook’s
DNA into a compact, 14.1-megapixel point-and-shoot camera that’s
waterproof at depths up to 33 feet and includes a 4.6x optical
zoom.  
 Tunes and Dunes  
 MUSIC: Sure, a lot of people want to boom their tunes
across the dunes, but that’s not you. All you want is a little
tasteful background music, without shutting yourself off from
the rest of the world via headphones or worrying that an errant
wave or a little sand will send your sounds to iPod Heaven.  
 That’s where Grace Digital Audio’s $49.99  Eco Extreme  comes
in. It’s an element-resistant box, waterproofed up to 10 feet,
that holds your portable music player or iPhone, combined with a
three-inch speaker that provides decent sound without earning
you dirty looks from the next blanket over.  
 The Eco Extreme, which plugs into the headphone jack of
your music player, runs on three AA batteries and has an
external volume-control knob. There’s no way to change what
you’re listening to, though, so you might just want to put your
device on shuffle, or create a special playlist -- Music to Tan
By, perhaps.  
 Ziploc Alternative  
 PROTECTION: While the classic waterproof protector for your
cell phone or other electronic gadget is the Ziploc bag, its
cost-effectiveness is undermined by certain disadvantages --
such as the fact you can’t use the thing while it’s in the bag.  
 Aquapac (http:// www.aquapac.net ) sells a variety of cases
for iPhones, Kindles and other mobile devices that keep them
safe while in use. Some can even keep your gadget afloat, giving
you a chance to rescue your BlackBerry before it drifts out to
sea.  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column: James Greiff
at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        