-- Americans Smoking Pot Rises for First Time Since 2002, UN Says
-- Jonathan Tirone
-- 2010-06-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/americans-smoking-marijuana-increases-for-first-time-since-2002-un-says.html

          
          
             The number of Americans smoking
marijuana rose for the first time since 2002, the United Nations
Office on Drugs and Crime said in its annual World Drug Report.  
 Around 12.5 percent of Americans, or 39 million people
between the ages of 15 and 64, smoked pot in 2008, up from 12.3
percent the year before, the  Vienna-based organization  said in
its 312-page report. The Pacific island-nation of Palau is the
world’s top per-capita cannabis consumer with 24 percent of the
population smoking pot. Oman, on the Arabian Peninsula, has the
fewest users, with 0.1 percent using the drug.  
 “Cannabis remains the most widely used illicit substance
in the world,” the UN said. The increase in U.S. marijuana
smokers ended a five-year trend of decreasing consumption,
according to the UN, which didn’t say why pot smoking rose.  
 U.S. states including California, Colorado and Michigan
have passed medical marijuana laws that allow doctors to
prescribe cannabis to patients. Los Angeles, the nation’s
second-largest city, saw an explosion of marijuana stores in
recent years to more than 500. Lawmakers are urging the U.S.
Treasury to open bank-lending channels for marijuana dealers.  
 Increased indoor cannabis cultivation is boosting yields in
the U.S. and some European countries where harvesting is
“significant,” the UN said. The U.S. estimates around 451,000
pot plants are budding beneath indoor grow lamps, the UN said.  
 Dominance in production of marijuana resin, used to make
hashish, has shifted to Afghanistan from Morocco, according to
the UN, which conducted its first cannabis survey in the central
Asian country last year. Afghan farmers produced up to 3,500
metric tons of marijuana resin compared with 877 tons in
Morocco.  
 Amphetamines  
 The report also warned that worldwide amphetamine abusers
will soon overtake the combined number of people using cocaine,
heroin and other opiates. Labs producing methamphetamines,
ecstasy and new designer drugs grew 20 percent last year.  
 “These new drugs are being developed at a much faster rate
than regulatory norms and law enforcement can keep up,” UN
drugs and crime chief  Antonio Maria Costa  said in an e-mail.
“We will not solve the world drugs problem if we simply push
addiction from cocaine and heroin to other addictive substances
-- and there are unlimited amounts of them, produced in mafia
labs at trivial costs.”  
 Methamphetamine prices fell to $127 per gram in September
2009 from $279 per gram in December 2007 while the purity of the
drug increased to 69 percent from 41 percent in the same period,
the UN said, citing U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        