-- Apollo Group's $277.5 Million Jury Loss Is Reinstated by Appeals Court
-- Emily Heller
-- 2010-06-23T21:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/apollo-group-s-277-5-million-jury-loss-reinstated-by-u-s-appeals-court.html

          
          
             Apollo Group Inc. , owner of the for-
profit University of Phoenix, had a securities-fraud damages
award of as much as $277.5 million reinstated against it after
the trial judge had tossed it out.  
 The federal appeals court in San Francisco reinstated the
jury award today. U.S. District Judge  James A. Teilborg  in
Phoenix ruled in 2008 that Apollo stockholders couldn’t show
their losses were caused by ex-Chief Executive Officer  Todd Nelson ’s withholding of a U.S. Education Department report that
accused the company of violating a federal ban on paying staff
on the basis of enrollment numbers.  
 “The district court erred in granting Apollo judgment as a
matter of law,” the appeals court wrote today, finding that the
jury could have “reasonably found” that analyst reports were
“corrective disclosures” that deflated the stock price.  
 The jury made the award in January 2008, setting damages at
$5.55 a share, the amount investors sought. The appeals court
found Apollo isn’t entitled to a new trial despite the exclusion
of certain testimony the company sought to introduce and that
there was no reason to reduce the amount of the jury award.  
 “This is a great victory for shareholder rights in
America,”  Stephen Basser , a lawyer for the investors at
Barrack, Rodos & Bacine in San Diego, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Company Is Disappointed  
 The company is disappointed with today’s decision “and
believes that the lower court’s well-reasoned decision in its
favor was correct,” P.  Robert Moya , Apollo’s general counsel,
said in a statement.  
 “We will explore all available options for seeking further
review of the Ninth Circuit’s decision,” Moya said.  
 After a two-month trial, jurors found Apollo officials
didn’t mention the government audit of the university’s
operations in a press statement, analyst calls or a filing with
the  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  over a seven-month
period beginning in February 2004.  
 Jurors concluded that was an attempt to deceive investors,
such as the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago,
about the university’s financial stability. They held the
company, Nelson and former Chief Financial Officer  Kenda Gonzales  liable.  
 Apollo officials countered during the case that they didn’t
disclose the report because their lawyers told them it was
preliminary and flawed, that the company quickly resolved the
issues raised and that the report’s subsequent disclosure didn’t
significantly affect Apollo’s stock price.  
 Seven months after they received the audit,  Apollo  paid a
$9.8 million fine without conceding it violated government
education rules. After the settlement was announced, the
contents of the report became public and investors sued.  
 The Education Department’s probe was triggered by a
California lawsuit by two University of Phoenix counselors who
said they were paid based on the number of students they
enrolled.  
 A 1992 federal law bars schools whose students receive
federally guaranteed tuition loans from paying staffers a
commission, bonus or other incentive payment based on the number
of students they enroll.  
 Apollo  fell 22 cents to $46.33 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The stock has fallen 24 percent this year.  
 The case is In re Apollo Group Inc. Securities Litigation,
04-2147, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix). The
appeal is 08-16971, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
(San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .
 Emily Heller  in Phoenix at 
 emilyheller@cox.net .  
          
          


  


        