-- Apple Might Sell 1 Million IPhones in New Model's Debut
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-06-24T18:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/apple-on-pace-for-record-1-million-iphone-sales-as-crowds-form-for-debut.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  will probably sell a
record 1 million iPhones today after introducing a new model,
attracting crowds to stores in five countries.  
 “It’s like the olden days of waiting in line for tickets to
a rock concert,” said John Whalen, 50, publisher of  Cider Mill
Press  in Kennebunkport, Maine. “There isn’t anything I wait in
line for other than the technology releases from Apple.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  added video calling,
multitasking and a high-definition video camera to the iPhone 4
and made it faster and thinner. The device made its debut in the
U.S., U.K., France, Germany and Japan.  Apple  may top 2 million
iPhone sales by the end of the fiscal quarter on June 26, with
half of that coming today, predicted  Andy Hargreaves , an analyst
at Pacific Crest Securities.  
 First-day sales haven’t come without a snag. Some users
have posted videos on the Internet demonstrating problems with
the iPhone 4’s new antenna. The phone signal drops out when
users cover the bottom left-corner of the device with their palm
to make a call, according to the videos.  
 “That is exactly what is happening to me,” said Jennifer
Sue, 21, a senior at the University of Southern California who
waited overnight to buy the phone in Burlingame, California.
“Everything else is running smoothly.”  
 In Japan, where the new model first went on sale, about 320
lined up outside Tokyo’s flagship store of wireless carrier
 Softbank Corp. , the iPhone’s exclusive provider in Japan.  
 2 1/2 Days in Line  
 “The screen is incredible,” said Manabu Ishiyama, 28, who
works in retail in Tokyo, and was second in line after arriving
on June 21. “It has a front-facing camera. I can’t wait to try
it out with Skype.”  
 In Paris, Kurt Huysmans was among more than 200 people
outside Apple’s store in the Louvre museum complex. The 30-year-
old technical engineer from Antwerp had driven more than 300
kilometers (188 miles) “It’s my first iPhone. I think I’ll use
the video calling a lot, and use it to take notes at work.”  
 France Telecom SA , the second-biggest iPhone operator after
AT&T Inc., opened its Orange store on Paris’s Champs Elysees at
midnight to accommodate eager shoppers.  
 In San Francisco, where Apple employees gave out water and
coffee to those in line, Natalie Gale, 34, an antique showroom
manager, was waiting to pick up a new phone for her boyfriend
who will be visiting from Peru.  
 “My boyfriend is in South America and he’s depressed
because he’s not here,” Gale said. “He’ll be more excited to see
the phone than me.”  
 Fifth Avenue  
 In New York, Brian Shapiro, 30, showed up at Apple’s Fifth
Avenue store at 7 a.m. and had hundreds of people ahead of him
in line. He owned a first-generation iPhone and had to switch to
 Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry because of work
requirements. The added features of the new iPhone, including
video calls and the ability to run applications simultaneously,
proved irresistible, the New York resident said.  
 “I’m just excited to have one again,” he said.  
 Apple may sell more than 10 million units in the quarter
ending in September, another record, said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners in New York.  
 “Supply is more an issue than demand,” said Gillis, who
 recommends  buying Apple shares and doesn’t own any.  
 Some stores are already out of stock, according to  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. Nine of 20 stores
called today had sold out, he said in a research note.  
 Apple  rose 61 cents to $271.58 at 2:13 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had gained 29 percent
this year before today.  
 Android Competition  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is facing increased
competition from Android phone makers, such as  HTC Corp. , which
rely on  Google Inc. ’s software. There are some 60 Android-based
phones and more than 60,000 applications available for them,
according to Google.  
 “Android will absolutely cut into their market-share
opportunity, but it doesn’t mean Apple can’t keep selling an
extraordinary number of phones and probably at the  highest
profit margin  in the industry,” Hargreaves said. The Portland,
Oregon-based analyst has an “outperform” rating on Apple’s
stock, which he doesn’t own.  
 For now, Apple has a wide lead in applications. There are
more than 225,000 apps available for iPhone users.  
 “We’re thrilled to be launching iPhone 4,” said  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Apple. “We’ve seen incredible
customer excitement in the U.S. and around the world.” She
didn’t immediately respond today to requests for comment about
the reported antenna glitch.  
 Best in Class  
 Apple said yesterday it’s delaying the release of white
iPhone 4 models until the second half of July because of
unexpected manufacturing challenges. Jobs unveiled the phone on
June 7.  
 Reviews of the new model have been positive.  Walt Mossberg 
of the Wall Street Journal deemed it a “major leap” and the
“best device in its class.” In the New York Times,  David Pogue 
rated it “the first phone to make good video calls.”  
 The iPhone, introduced in 2007, is Apple’s top-selling
product and accounts for 40 percent of its  revenue . The company
received more than 600,000 preorders for the new model, setting
a single-day record and exceeding the company’s expectations.  
 The demand may be partially triggered by the 57 percent of
iPhone owners who have an older version that won’t work with the
new iOS 4 software, according to  Katy Huberty , a New York-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley. She projects that Apple may sell more
than 100 million units by the end of 2011.  
 Phone Pricing  
 In the U.S., a 16-gigabyte model of the iPhone 4 will cost
$199, and a 32-gigabyte model is priced at $299. The company is
now selling its older 3GS model for $99. AT&T, which has been
criticized for dropped calls, said this month it will end
unlimited data plans, an effort to manage the surge in demand
caused by devices like the iPhone.  
 AT&T said this week that it’s delaying sales of the iPhone
until June 29 because early orders depleted inventory.  
 Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone carrier,
will probably begin selling the iPhone early next year, Barclays
Plc said in a research note this week.  
 The iPhone 4 design more than doubles the number of pixels
per inch from the 3GS version, making its sharpness “resemble
that of a printed book,” said  Yair Reiner , an analyst with
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. It’s the thinnest model to date
-- 9.3 millimeters -- and has faster processing power, longer
battery life and a gyroscope sensor that can track a user’s
movement.  
 “I first had an iPod, then when I went to school, I got a
MacBook, then I got a 3G,” said Stephanie Wu, 21, a student at
San Jose State University, who upgraded to an iPhone 4. “The
Apple cult -- it just sucks you in and you can’t get out.”  
 Cider Mill publisher Whalen lined up at Apple’s Portland,
Maine, store. He’s been a fan since buying his first Apple
computer in 1982.  
 “It’s exciting for me to see this company that I’ve
believed in succeed,” Whalen said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Manabu Ishiyama poses with Apple Inc.'s new iPhone 4 handset after purchasing it at SoftBank Corp.'s flagship store in Tokyo. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Ross Rubin, an analyst at NPD Group Inc., talks about competition between Apple Inc., Google Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd.
     AT&T, the exclusive U.S. carrier for Apple Inc.'s iPhone, said this month it will introduce plans based on the amount of data customers use and stop offering unlimited plans to manage the soaring data traffic. Rubin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "In The Loop With Betty Liu." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
