-- Argentina's Borrowing Costs Set to Stay High After $18.3 Billion Swap Ends
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-06-23T19:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/argentina-s-borrowing-costs-set-to-stay-high-after-18-3-billion-swap-ends.html

          
          
             Argentine borrowing costs are too
high for the country to sell new bonds after an $18.3 billion
debt swap offer that Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said exceeded
expectations closed, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 Creditors holding about $12.1 billion of the country’s
$18.3 billion of defaulted debt tendered their securities in the
restructuring, Boudou announced today. Combined with a 2005
restructuring, 92.4 percent of the defaulted debt has been
swapped for new bonds, he said.  
 The yield on the country’s benchmark dollar bonds due in
2015 rose one basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.86
percent at 3:27 p.m. New York time. The extra yield, or spread,
investors demand to buy Argentine bonds over U.S. Treasuries
rose 7 basis points today to 7.84 percentage points, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Argentine yields will remain high because the government
has a “weak policy mix,” still has more than $6 billion in
defaulted debt with the Paris Club group of creditor nations,
and is at odds with the International Monetary Fund, Goldman
Sachs economist  Alberto Ramos  said in a report today.  
 “It’s very difficult for them to see a significant decline
in spreads from what they have now,” said  Claudio Loser , former
Western Hemisphere director for the International Monetary Fund,
in a telephone interview.  
 Creditors holding defaulted bonds have blocked Argentina
from being able to tap international credit markets. Boudou has
said that a successful conclusion to the swap will allow South
America’s second-biggest economy to sell bonds, reduce borrowing
costs and attract investment. Turbulence in global financial
markets means those plans are on hold for now, he said today.  
 ‘Right Time’  
 “We’ve said from the beginning that we want to issue
bonds, but we know what’s going on in the world,” Boudou told
reporters. “We’re going to wait for the right time.”  
 The swap results will help close a chapter on the country’s
record $95 billion default in 2001, he said.  
 “It is the first time ever that a negotiation has been
done from the Argentine point of view and not the International
Monetary Fund or creditors’ point of view,” Boudou said.  
 The government didn’t extend the period of the
restructuring offer, which closed yesterday.  
 Argentina has no fiscal need to issue debt and can wait
until it is able to sell bonds that yield less than 10 percent,
Boudou said. President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
administration has tapped $2.1 billion of central bank reserves
to make debt payments this year, he said.  
 Harsh Restructuring  
 The restructuring offer included dollar bonds due in 2033,
warrants linked to gross domestic product and bonds due in 2017
to pay past-due interest. It didn’t include past-due payments on
the GDP warrants, which Ramos has said limited participation.
Argentina will issue $943 million of the 2017 bonds, Boudou
said.  
 Fernandez opened the debt swap on May 3, five years after
her husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , offered creditors
about 30 cents on the dollar, the harshest restructuring terms
since at least World War II, according to  Arturo Porzecanski , an
international finance professor at American University in
Washington.  
 Institutional investors tendered $8.5 billion in defaulted
bonds, while Italian retail investors, the biggest group of
remaining individuals, turned in $4.3 billion, Boudou said.
Individual creditors will get as much as $2 billion worth of par
bonds due in 2038 as well as a cash payment for past due
interest.  
 “Vulture funds,” or creditors pursuing full payments
through lawsuits, held their $4.5 billion of defaulted
securities out of the exchange, Boudou said.  
 Isolate Holdouts  
 Argentina will “continue to isolate” litigating holdouts,
he said.  
 Participation rates of above 90 percent in debt
restructurings have historically helped nations persuade U.S.
judges to shelve existing judgments and attachment orders
against them, according to a February report by the U.S.
Congressional Research Service.  
 “Argentina has met the necessary threshold to try to go on
to the next step,” said  Daniel Volberg , an economist with
Morgan Stanley, in a telephone interview from New York. “The
next step being to convince U.S. courts to set aside
judgments.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        