-- Asian Stocks Drop Most in Two Weeks on U.S. Home Sales
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-06-23T10:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/asian-stocks-drop-most-in-two-weeks-on-u-s-home-sales.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  fell, dragging the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to its biggest drop in two weeks, after an
unexpected decline in U.S. home sales raised concern about the
strength of the world’s largest economy.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , which receives 67 percent of its
revenue outside Japan, slid 1.7 percent in Tokyo after the
dollar and euro weakened against the yen.  Nintendo Co. , which
counts the Americas and Europe as its biggest markets, dropped
3.6 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company,
lost 1.3 percent in Sydney after oil and copper prices sank.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 1.1 percent to 116.90 at
7:27 p.m. in Tokyo, the most since June 7. The measure has
fallen 9.5 percent from its high this year on April 15 on
speculation Chinese measures to curb property prices and
Europe’s debt crisis will hurt global growth.  
 “Investors are avoiding risk because concern is emerging
that the global economy will slow,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a
fund manager in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $6 billion. “This isn’t the right time to draw
up an investment strategy.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1.9 percent, the
biggest decline among major indexes in the Asia-Pacific region.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 1.6 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index decreased 0.7 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index added 0.2 percent.  
 Export Revenue  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.6 percent.
The gauge dropped 1.6 percent yesterday, the most since June 4,
after the National Association of Realtors said purchases of
existing houses decreased to a 5.66 million annual rate. Sales
were forecast to rise to a 6.12 million rate, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, fell 1.7 percent to
3,220 yen and was the second-biggest drag on the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index . Nintendo, the world’s No. 1 maker of portable
video-game players, dropped 3.6 percent to 27,280 yen.  Sony
Corp. , which receives 42 percent of its sales from the U.S. and
Europe, declined 0.6 percent to 2,521 yen.  
 The housing data caught some investors off guard amid
recent optimism for a pick-up in global growth that has driven
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  up by 7.2 percent from this year’s
low on May 25. A Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index on
June 11 pointed to improved sentiment among U.S. consumers.
Manufacturing in the New York region grew at a faster pace in
June, according to Federal Reserve data on June 15.  
 Biggest Declines  
 China announcing the end of its currency’s peg to the
dollar on June 19 also boosted sentiment. The average price of
shares in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen to 14.6 times
estimated  earnings  from 13.8 times on May 18, the lowest level
in almost 17 months.  
 “The general sentiment from the U.S. housing data was a
bit unexpected,” said  Pauline Dan , Hong Kong-based chief
investment officer at Samsung Investment Trust, which oversees
the equivalent of $72.1 billion in assets. The U.S. recovery
“is the one big uncertainty that’s overshadowing market
performance,” she said.  
 Japanese exporters also declined today as the stronger yen
threatened to reduce the value of overseas sales when
repatriated. The dollar weakened to as low as 90.37 yen today
from 90.81 at yesterday’s close of stock trading in Tokyo. The
euro depreciated to 110.78 yen from 111.61.  
 ‘Technically Speaking’  
 Gauges of material and technology stocks and in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index dropped more than 1.5 percent today, the most
of 10  industry  groups.  
 The main MSCI measure lost 0.8 percent yesterday, snapping
an eight-day advance that was the longest winning streak since
July 2009. In trading on June 21, the index rose close to its
200-day moving average of 119.57, the first time since May 14,
before falling in the last two days.  
 “Technically speaking, that will now be the resistance
level for the market and there would have to be something
significant to break through that,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a
sales trader at MainFirst Securities Hong Kong Ltd. “Eyes are
on the Federal Open Market Committee meeting to see whether the
sentiment there is encouraging or not, as that is obviously
something that is causing a lot of weakness in the Asian
markets.”  
 The Federal Reserve committee ends a policy meeting and is
due to release a statement later today. Officials after the last
meeting on April 28 restated their intention to keep the
benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended period.”  
 Fragile Sentiment  
 Commodity companies declined after crude oil for August
delivery in New York dropped as much as 1 percent today,
extending yesterday’s 1 percent decline. Copper futures for
September delivery lost as much as 1.6 percent, the first
decline this week.  
 “Sentiment remains very fragile,” said  David Moore , a
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. in
Sydney. “Confidence has been rattled in recent months by
European fiscal issues and by data in the U.S. that’s been
uneven. They’re factors that have left markets cautious.”  
 BHP, which receives about 40 percent of its revenue from
petroleum and base metals such as copper, declined 1.3 percent
to A$39.14 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest
mining company, dropped 2.2 percent to A$70.54.  
 Mitsubishi Corp., which gets about 40 percent of sales from
commodities, slid 1.5 percent to 1,990 yen in Tokyo.  Jiangxi
Copper Co. , China’s largest producer of the metal, sank 2.1
percent to HK$15.60 in Hong Kong.  
 China Real Estate  
 Chinese property developers declined in Hong Kong after the
Shanghai statistics bureau said sales for the first five months
of the year in the city.  
 China Resources Land Ltd. , a state-controlled developer,
declined 2.3 percent to HK$15.60. Hang Lung Properties Ltd.,
which got 40 percent of its fiscal 2009 revenue from China, slid
1.1 percent to HK$30.65.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. ,
controlled by the Chinese construction ministry, retreated 2.7
percent to HK$15.88.  
 Shanghai housing sales by floor area in the first five
months of the year dropped 32.5 percent from a year earlier to
7.19 million square meters, the Shanghai statistics bureau said
today. The Hang Seng Property Index, a gauge of real estate
companies in Hong Kong, declined 0.5 percent, the only drop of
the Hang Seng Index’s four  industry groups .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Models pose next to a Toyota Motor Corp. Camry sedan. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
