-- Stocks Retreat as Treasuries, Dollar Gain on Fed, Home Sales
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-06-23T20:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/asian-stocks-fall-as-yen-climbs-on-lower-u-s-home-sales-won-extends-drop.html

          
          
             Stocks dropped, Treasuries rose and
the dollar weakened against the euro and yen after the Federal
Reserve said European debt may harm economic growth and American
new-home sales sank to a record low. Copper and oil fell.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.3 percent to
1,092.04 at 4 p.m. in New York, declining for a third straight
day.  Yields  on two-year Treasuries decreased to 0.66 percent,
the lowest since Dec. 2. The euro gained 0.4 percent versus the
dollar, and the yen rose 0.8 percent. Copper futures fell 1.6
percent in New York and crude oil lost 1.9 percent. Spanish and
Greek bonds slumped.  
 The Fed’s Open Market Committee said “financial conditions
have become less supportive of economic growth on balance,
largely reflecting developments abroad.” The central bank left
the overnight interbank lending rate target unchanged in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008.
The U.S. Commerce Department said purchases of new homes fell to
an all-time low as a tax credit expired, showing the market
remains dependent on government support.  
 “The Fed has downgraded where we are in terms of economic
growth,” said  David Chalupnik , head of equities at First
American Funds in Minneapolis, which manages about $8 billion in
stocks. “Equity markets will continue to be volatile with
downside risk because of the growth slowdown.”  
 Spread Widens  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold the bonds of
Greece and Spain instead of German bonds increased as signs the
economic recovery may be slowing added to the appeal of the
safest fixed-income assets. The Greek spread rose to 772 basis
points, the highest since May 7, while the Spain differential
climbed to 189 basis points after a report today showed growth
in Europe’s services and manufacturing industries slowed.  
 Shares of General Electric Co., Chevron Corp. and Microsoft
Corp. retreated more than 1.7 percent in U.S. trading. Adobe
Systems Inc. dropped 7.3 percent, reaching the lowest price
since July, after the design-software developer forecast revenue
that may miss the average analyst estimate.  
 Declines by stocks earlier in the day were driven by the
U.S. Commerce Department report showing new-home  sales  collapsed
a record 33 percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from
April, less than the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and the fewest in data going back to 1963. Demand
in prior months was revised down.  
 “Housing numbers are ugly with a capital ‘U’,” said
 Michael Mullaney , who manages $9 billion at Fiduciary Trust Co.
in Boston. “It looks like we’re going to double dip in housing.
Investors are concerned.”  
 Homebuilders Advance  
 Builders rallied in the U.S. despite the drop in home
sales. The S&P 500 Homebuilding Index, which had fallen five
straight days for a loss of 10 percent, climbed 2.7 percent.  
 “The perception is we will have a double bottom, but those
valuations may already be reflected in the building sector,”
said  David Lutz , managing director of equity trading at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  
 Treasuries earlier pared gains as the government’s $38
billion auction of five-year notes drew a higher yield than
forecast. The yield on the two-year note dropped as much as 2
basis points to 0.66 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 2. It
touched the record low of 0.6044 percent on Dec. 17, 2008.  
 Today’s auction of five-year notes drew a yield of 1.995
percent, compared with the average forecast of 1.961 percent in
a Bloomberg News survey of 9 of the Fed’s 18 primary dealers.
The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.58, compared
with an average of 2.65 for the previous 10 sales.  
 Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 34.6 percent of the notes, the lowest
level since April 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated 1 percent to 116.98 at 11:42 a.m. in Tokyo, poised its largest drop since June 7. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President J. Alfred Broaddus talks about the possibility of a double-dip recession and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Broaddus speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, talks about his investment strategy and outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Wren talks with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Adam Johnson and Julie Hyman on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
