-- Massey Sue Mining-Safety Regulator Over Rejection of Ventilation Methods
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-06-23T14:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/massey-units-sue-federal-regulator-over-ventilation-in-underground-mines.html

          
          
             Massey Energy Co. , owner of the West
Virginia mine where 29 people were killed in April, sued the
 U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration , saying the agency
rejected ventilation methods that would have benefited
underground workers.  
 In a lawsuit made public today in federal court in
Washington, six Massey units ask a judge to rule that defendants
including the  U.S. Labor Department  lack the authority to
dictate how to ventilate mines. Such decisions are better left
to mining companies, the units said.  
 “We hope the principal beneficiary will be miners, who
will have cleaner air, safer mines, and more secure jobs,”  Don Blankenship , chief executive officer of Richmond, Virginia-based
Massey, said in a statement.  
 The April 5 explosion was the worst U.S. coal mining
accident in 40 years. The Labor Department said in a preliminary
report to President  Barack Obama  in April that most mine blasts
of that magnitude are sparked by accumulations of methane,
combustible coal dust and air.  
 Massey has said that the Labor Department’s Mine Safety and
Health Administration forced it to install a complex ventilation
system in the so-called longwall area, where the miners were
working when the explosion occurred, months before the accident.  
 Government agencies “have unreasonably refused to
approve” the Massey units’ own ventilation plans “on a variety
of arbitrary grounds,” according to the complaint.  
 Miners testifying in May blamed the mine’s ventilation
system, which let explosive methane build up, for the blast.  
 Red Flags  
 Stanley Stewart, who worked for 15 years at Massey’s Upper
Branch Mine, told lawmakers that the mine was filled with “red
flags,” including constant low air and excessive methane where
miners work.  
 Amy Louviere,  a spokeswoman for the Mine Safety and Health
Administration, said in an e-mailed message that the agency
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  
 Massey  fell 44 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $30.69 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 10:04 a.m. The shares have
declined more than 40 percent since the explosion.  
 The case is Elk Run Coal Co. v. U.S. Department of Labor,
10-cv-01056, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        