-- Australia's Rudd Says He Wants `Sensible' Outcome to Profit Tax Talks
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-23T02:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/australia-s-rudd-says-resource-tax-framework-remains-government-s-approach.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
said he’s seeking a “sensible and balanced” settlement with
mining companies opposed to his plan for a 40 percent levy on
the industry’s “super” profits.  
 The bottom-line is a “profits-based tax, levied at 40
percent, a tax which applies to existing projects and one which
is capable of delivering the revenue to meet the government’s
policy priorities,” Rudd told reporters in Canberra today.
“What we’re working toward is a sensible and balanced
outcome.”  
 The levy is forecast to provide A$12 billion ($10.4 billion)
in the first two years after it takes effect in 2012, according
to the government. The plan includes tax breaks for exploration
which Rudd says will promote investment and benefit smaller
miners who are yet to turn a profit and can’t offset those costs.  
 Rudd is considering changes to the tax, including allowing
a higher rate of return and scrapping the exploration rebate to
fund the changes, the Australian Financial Review newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information.
Lower-value resources such as clay, sand, gravel, rock and
limestone may be excluded, while iron ore and coal will remain
as the largest revenue raisers, the newspaper said.  
 “Detail, implementation, transition and even generous
transition, as I’ve said from day one, that’s what we’re
negotiating with the companies and we’ll continue to do so,”
Rudd said today when asked about reports of a compromise.  
 Tax Rates  
 Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron ore,
announced the new tax on May 2 as part of an overhaul that
includes a phased cut in company tax rates to 28 percent from 30
percent by mid-2014. The government is talking to about 80
resources companies about its plan.  
 The clash with companies like  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio
Tinto Group  centers on the government’s proposal to define a
“super” profit as returns above the long-term Australian
government bond rate of about 6 percent. The nation’s petroleum
resource rent tax, also levied on profits at a rate of 40
percent and in place since 1987, kicks in when returns exceed 11
percent.  
 BHP and Rio are among companies saying the levy will stall
investment in the resources industry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        