-- Bank of America Beating JPMorgan Is Reason to Trade Options, Barclays Says
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-06-23T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bank-of-america-beating-jpmorgan-is-reason-to-trade-options-barclays-says.html

          
          
             Investors should use options to bet
that JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s shares have fallen too much in
 relation  to Bank of America Corp.’s given that industry-reform
legislation from the U.S. Congress is likely to affect their
earnings equally, Barclays Plc said.  
 Maneesh Deshpande , who leads the top-ranked equity
derivatives strategy team in Institutional Investor magazine’s
2009 survey, recommended selling New York-based  JPMorgan ’s
September $35 puts while buying Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America ’s November $14 puts.  
 Negotiators in Congress are working to agree on financial-
regulation legislation to rein in risk-taking and predatory
lending after the 2008 credit crisis. Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat, and Senator  Christopher Dodd ,
the Connecticut Democrat, have said they want to deliver a final
bill to President  Barack Obama  for his signature by the U.S.
July 4 holiday.  
 “As the financial reform bill has gathered pace, JPMorgan
has underperformed Bank of America even though our analysts
estimate the likely impact of the bill in its current shape on
earnings of both banks to be potentially the same,” the New
York-based strategist wrote in a report yesterday. “This
underperformance of JPMorgan’s equity is also reflected in the
options market.”  
 Today’s Trading  
 JPMorgan , the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, rose 1.5
percent to $38.89 at 4 p.m. in New York. Before today, the
shares had fallen 8 percent this year.  Bank of America  lost 1
percent to $15.43 today. The largest U.S. lender by assets had
gained 3.5 percent since Dec. 31.  
 JPMorgan has more to gain than Bank of America if lawmakers
pass a weaker version of the proposed derivatives regulation and
the so-called Volcker rule banning proprietary trading at U.S.
banks, Deshpande said.  
 Bank of America and JPMorgan were among four of the
nation’s largest lenders that earned money in their trading
businesses every day in the first quarter. JPMorgan said almost
a third of its $3.3 billion in first-quarter earnings came from
trading and securities sales. The company doesn’t break out
proprietary trading from its investment bank revenue. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has publicly opposed the Volcker
rule, named after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        