-- Bank of America Boosts Staff Handling Troubled Loans
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-06-23T22:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bank-of-america-hires-2-000-staff-to-handling-troubled-real-estate-loans.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. home lender, added 2,000 employees since April to
work with borrowers having trouble paying their mortgages, a
senior executive said.  
 The lender now has more than 18,000 workers in “default
management,” a 60 percent increase since January 2009,  Barbara Desoer , president of Bank of America’s home-loan and insurance
unit, said in testimony prepared for a congressional hearing on
U.S. housing policy tomorrow. Those workers handle 100,000 calls
a day, she said.
       Wells Fargo & Co. , the largest U.S. home lender, Bank of
America and other companies have hired thousands of employees or
shifted staff from other departments to work with borrowers who
have lost jobs or experienced declining incomes. Banks
repossessed a record 257,944 homes in the first quarter, 35
percent more than a year earlier, according to Irvine,
California-based RealtyTrac Inc. More than a fifth of U.S.
mortgage holders owed more than their homes were worth, Seattle-
based real estate data provider Zillow.com reported last month.  
 “Given the depth of the nation’s recessionary impacts on
homeowners, a considerable number of customers will transition
from homeownership over the next two years,” Desoer said in the
testimony. “We must compassionately and responsibly help those
customers who have exhausted all their options and can no longer
afford to stay in their homes.”  
 Handling More Calls  
 Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
handles almost 14 million home loans, or about one of every five
U.S. mortgages, more than any other U.S. servicer, Desoer said.
Payments on 1.4 million loans are more than 60 days late, she
said. Investors or government-sponsored entities such as Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae own most of those loans and pay servicers
fees to handle billing and collection.  
 Banks are adding employees to deal with a growing volume of
calls and the complexity of programs that modify loans by
extending maturities, reducing interest rates or cutting
principal balances, Bank of America and other lenders have said.
Bank of America has reported $8.4 billion in losses in its home-
loan unit since 2008 because of higher defaults.  
 Bank of America is stalling foreclosures until borrowers
exhaust efforts to modify terms or make other arrangements to
resolve the loan, such as a short sale or deed-in-lieu
transaction, Desoer said. In a short sale, a home is sold at a
price less than the balance owed. In a deed-in-lieu transaction,
borrowers hand over properties without going through lengthy
legal processes.  
 Top housing executives from Wells Fargo, Citigroup Inc.,
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are  scheduled  to appear with Desoer at
tomorrow’s House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
hearing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        