-- BOE Was Split on Rate as Sentance Made First Push for Stimulus Withdrawal
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-23T10:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bank-of-england-splits-on-rate-as-sentance-pushes-for-stimulus-withdrawal.html

          
          
             Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  made the first push for an interest-rate increase in
almost two years this month, opening a split among officials on
the strength of the economic recovery.  
 The Monetary Policy Committee voted 7-1 to keep the
 benchmark interest rate  at 0.5 percent, according to minutes of
the June 10 decision released in London today. Sentance favored
an increase to 0.75 percent, arguing that inflation was proving
to be “resilient” after the recession.  
 “Despite current uncertainties, for this member, it was
appropriate to begin to withdraw gradually some of the
exceptional monetary stimulus,” the minutes said. “Other
members thought that changes to the balance of risks were
insufficient to warrant a change in the stance.”  
 Governor  Mervyn King  cautioned last week that the bank
shouldn’t react to faster inflation based solely on energy-cost
and exchange-rate fluctuations, after the annual pace of
consumer-price increases reached a 17-month high in April.
Officials have balanced the threat of  inflation  against the
danger of contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  
 The Federal Reserve will keep its target rate for overnight
loans between banks at a record low range of zero to 0.25
percent today, all 97 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
said. Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  has voted against
all three of the Fed’s statements this year. He said in April
that its pledge to keep the rate low for an “extended period”
limits its “flexibility to begin raising rates modestly.”  
 ECB Stimulus  
 The European Central Bank has added stimulus after it
announced on May 10 it would buy government and corporate debt
on the secondary market to reduce bond yields, which had soared
in high-deficit countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 The pound extended its gain against the dollar after the
release of the Bank of England minutes and was up 0.5 percent to
$1.4922 as of 11:14 a.m. in London. The yield on the 10-year
gilt was little changed at 3.46 percent. It earlier approached
yesterday’s trough of 3.41 percent, which was the lowest since
Oct. 14, as falling stock markets boosted demand for the
relative safety of fixed income.  
 The U.K. central bank’s policy makers voted unanimously to
keep the size of their bond holdings at 200 billion pounds ($297
billion). They bought government securities from March 2009
until January this year to fight the recession.  
 Widening Split  
 The minutes signal a widening split on the committee on
officials’ judgment of the outlook for consumer prices. While
some policy makers said that the risk of  inflation  overshooting
the 2 percent target had increased, others said that financial
market developments pointed to a shift in the risks “slightly
to the downside.”  
 The  inflation rate  rose to a 17-month high in April and was
at 3.4 percent in May, above the government’s 3 percent upper
limit. Bank of England officials predict it will fall in the
aftermath of the economic slump. The pound has lost about a
quarter of its value on a trade-weighted basis since the start
of 2007, making imports more expensive, while the price of oil
has gained 75 percent since the start of 2009.  
 “The bank will keep looking through all the temporary
inflation pressures” and Sentance “is going to be a lone voice
for a considerable period of time,”  David Tinsley , an economist
at National Australia Bank in London and a former Bank of
England official, said in a telephone interview. “The balance
of positions from the governor down is for ultra loose monetary
policy for some time to come. I think there’s a higher chance of
more quantitative easing than a rate hike” this year.  
 Osborne’s Budget  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  yesterday
lowered the growth outlook for 2010 and 2011 to 1.2 percent and
2.3 percent from 1.3 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively. He
announced the forecasts as part of his emergency budget, which
included spending cuts, a levy on banks and an increase in the
sales tax to tackle the U.K.’s record budget deficit.  
 King on June 17 said officials will probably raise interest
rates before selling bonds when they decide to remove stimulus
in the economy. However, if the prospects for growth weaken due
to the budget squeeze, “monetary policy could then respond,”
he said. “A range of indicators point to spare capacity in the
economy rather than excess demand.”  
 Prospects for the global economy are more upbeat, with the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development on May 26
raising its 2010 global growth forecast to 2.7 percent, citing
expansion in economies including China. Leaders of the Group of
20 nations will discuss so-called rebalancing at this week’s
summit in Toronto after China’s June 19 signal that it will
allow a more flexible yuan.  
 ‘Interesting Debates’  
 Sentance’s vote follows his prediction earlier this month
that the bank’s policy makers face “interesting debates” in
the second half of this year on how long to keep up stimulus.  
 “Surveys point to some upward pressure on public inflation
expectations,” Sentance wrote in an article published June 13
in the Sunday Times. “There also appears to be less spare
capacity in the economy than many had feared.”  
 Sentance, 51, has served on the MPC since 2006 and his
current term expires in 2011. He was formerly chief economist at
 British Airways Plc  and at the Confederation of British
Industry, the U.K.’s biggest business lobby. He studied at the
University of Cambridge and the London School of Economics.  
 In 45 monetary policy meetings Sentance has taken part in,
he voted nine times to raise the interest rate, eight times for
a reduction, and 28 times for no change.  
 The bank’s meeting this month was the first time since
September 2006 that the rate-setting panel has met without its
full complement of nine members, as the U.K. Treasury searches
for a replacement for  Kate Barker . Her term expired on May 31. A
new official is due to be announced this month to start work on
July 5, in time for the next decision on July 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of England policy maker Andrew Sentance. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
