-- BASF Agrees to Buy Cognis for $3.8 Billion
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-06-23T12:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/basf-agrees-to-buy-cognis-for-3-8-billion.html

          
          
             BASF SE  can escape the hangover of a
post-takeover revamp with its purchase of Cognis GmbH after a
decade of private-equity ownership left the German maker of
cosmetics ingredients with about 3,500 fewer workers.  
 BASF, the world’s No. 1 chemical maker, today agreed to pay
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Permira Advisers Ltd. 3.1 billion
euros ($3.8 billion) for the Monheim, Germany-based company. The
two buyout firms purchased Cognis from Henkel AG in 2001 and
spent the following years selling leather processing and fatty-
acids units, helping cut 39 percent of the workforce.  
 “Cognis is in a much better shape than two or three years
before, it’s much more streamlined,” BASF Chief Executive
Officer  Juergen Hambrecht  told reporters on a call today.  
 BASF’s  last major takeover , Ciba Holding AG, saddled the
company with the task of 3,800 job cuts and closing 14 factories
and 58 non-production sites, in what Hambrecht today called a
“restructuring case.” At Cognis, the sale of units accounted
for the bulk of the workforce reduction and helped narrow the
business focus, prompting the BASF executive to return with an
offer after abandoning the plan several years earlier.  
 Goldman and Permira sold two of five business units at
Cognis, and are poised to exit the company with 5,515 workers,
down from 9,000 when they bought it. The overhaul marked a
change in culture for workers, who ended up feeling distanced
from owners, supervisory board member  Thomas Hergarten , who
heads Cognis’s works council, said in an interview.  
 ‘A Lot of Tears’  
 “When the financial investors presented themselves at
Cognis, they introduced themselves as white knights and said
they would need all staff to take the company forward,” said
Hergarten. “Then, restructuring programs were introduced, which
brought a lot of tears and did a lot of damage.”  
 Having the unpopular work already completed by private
equity removes a burden for BASF, still occupied with absorbing
the 2008 purchase of Ciba for about $5 billion.  
 About 500 jobs were eliminated at Cognis in Germany alone.
The company is “not a case for restructuring,” Hergarten said
in the interview before BASF announced a deal.  
 “It is a totally different company today,” Cognis Chief
Financial Officer  Marco Panichi  said in an interview. “We took
a proactive approach to explain the private equity business
model and discussed it with our employees.”  
 Buyout Lessons  
 While painful for workers, private equity ownership can
also help take a company forward by reenergizing management,
according to Bain & Co. consultant Norbert Hueltenschmidt.  
 For Sued- Chemie AG , the arrival of One Equity Partners as a
majority shareholder in 2007 provided a fresh edge to decision
making at the 153-year-old German maker of catalysts and
additives, said  Guenter von Au , a chemistry graduate promoted to
chief executive in 2004.  
 “They brought in some more financially driven views, and
this has been good for us,” von Au said. “We learnt a lot. And
in the meantime, I’ve become a little bit of an expert in
private equity. It’s a good experience.”  
 The move of high-profile experienced chemical executives to
buyout firms is further enhancing their credibility.  Utz- Hellmuth Felcht , the former CEO of Degussa AG, is now a managing
director at One Equity Partners as well as chairman of Sued-
Chemie. AEA Investors employs  Gary Cappeline , the former chief
operating officer of Ashland Inc., and  Glenn Fischer , who held
the same position at Airgas Inc.  
 ‘Catalysts’  
 “There is stronger interaction between private equity and
the chemical industry which allows both sides to learn from each
other,” said Ronald Ayles, Advent International’s manager in
Frankfurt overseeing chemical investments. “We see ourselves as
catalysts for changes, for example, to increase a company’s
competitiveness in a changing environment.”  
 It was in 2005 that the then German vice chancellor,  Franz Muentefering , lambasted buyout firms for descending on companies
like “swarms of locusts” seeking quick returns at the expense
of workers and a company’s health.  
 BASF’s involvement with private equity has not always gone
smoothly, and at least two deals with buyout firms involving
former BASF units have soured. A plastics joint-venture sold by
BASF and Royal Dutch Shell Plc to Access Industries helped form
the foundation of  LyondellBasell , which filed for bankruptcy
protection last year.  
 The insolvency of DyStar in 2009 came five years after its
takeover by Platinum Equity. That business included a former
BASF textile-dye  operation .  
 ‘Dangerous Poison’  
 “There are financial investors who want to develop a
company, and those that are interested in nothing but profit,”
said Heinz Schaus, who heads of DyStar’s works council in
Frankfurt. “Platinum Equity was only looking at making a
profit. They let DyStar crash into the wall at full speed.”  
 BASF shows little sign of wholeheartedly embracing private
equity. Chief Financial Officer  Kurt Bock , set to  become CEO 
next year, on May 25 criticized U.S. chemical makers and their
financial advisers for taking on too much risk, calling over-
leveraging “a dangerous poison.”  
 Hambrecht said today he will wait to complete the Cognis
deal before detailing savings plans. BASF has highlighted
integration  costs  of as much as 250 million euros through 2012.
As a start, it expects to strip at least 129 million euros a
year in costs, based on past takeover experience.  
 For Cognis workers, selling to another financial investor
as opposed to a strategic buyer or taking the company public
would have been the “the worst case” scenario, Hergarten said.  
 “The employees are highly interested in getting rid of
financial investors,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        