-- BASF Agrees to Buy Cognis for $3.8 Billion
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-06-23T11:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/basf-agrees-to-buy-cognis-for-3-8-billion-to-expand-into-food-ingredients.html

          
          
             BASF SE , the world’s largest
chemicals company, agreed to buy German food- and cosmetics-
ingredients maker Cognis Holding GmbH for 3.1 billion euros
($3.8 billion) to accelerate a move away from basic chemicals.  
 The all-cash deal with Cognis owners  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. , Permira Advisers Ltd., and SV Life Sciences is based on
700 million euros in equity, additional debt and 503 million
euros in pension liabilities, Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Hambrecht  said on a call today.  
 “The price seems reasonable,” said  Peter Spengler , an
analyst at DZ Bank AG, in a note. “It is a fine art to catch
hold of the few big interesting assets in the market. BASF has a
good track record in adding new segments.”  
 Buying Cognis will add about 2.6 billion euros in sales and
reduce BASF’s reliance on plastics and chemicals that Middle
East competitors produce more cheaply. Cognis, the former Henkel
AG  unit , offers ingredients for body lotions, cleaning products
and shampoos, products that are more resistant to economic
cycles than those directly derived from oil and gas.  
 Goldman Sachs and Permira chose an outright sale of Cognis
over an initial public offering. They abandoned a share sale
following a decline in global stock markets as the European
sovereign debt crisis prompted investors to sell assets. The
purchase is equal to 7.3 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization.  
 BASF  climbed  55 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 47.29 euros as of
1:06 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  
 Last Hurrah  
 Cognis, which comes a year after BASF’s $5 billion takeover
of  Ciba Holding AG ., is almost an “ideal” purchase and there
will be no other major acquisitions in the foreseeable future,
the CEO said.  
 The deal, among the biggest in the chemical industry this
year, underscores renewed interest in takeovers. Chemical
purchases should increase this year, after a 40 percent drop in
2009, as credit markets improve and valuations become more
attractive, Deloitte Consulting GmbH said in a report in March.  
 The transaction could be the last major purchase under
Hambrecht before his retirement in a year. The CEO, to be
succeeded by Chief Financial Officer  Kurt Bock , spent seven
years at the helm of the company, spending about $16 billion on
purchases, including catalytic converter inventor Engelhard.  
 Palm, Coconut Oil  
 Cognis’s strength in home and personal-care chemicals based
on natural raw materials such as palm kernels and coconut oil
made it an attractive target. BASF’s own cosmetics-ingredients
operation has seen signs that demand for luxury components is
improving, adding strength to a rebound in the $3.7 billion
personal-care chemicals markets, Thomas Greindl, European care
chemicals marketing director, said in an April 16 interview.  
 BASF is already developing products for hair care, sun
screen and thickeners to get more of the market, Greindl said.  
 The German company generates about 3.4 billion euros in
sales from care-chemicals, a segment that includes cleaning
agents as well as products for personal use. The rival unit at
Cognis had revenue of about one-half that amount.  
 Dusseldorf-based Cognis, which employs about 5,600 people,
has reduced its number of workers by 39 percent since the end of
2001. It was sold by Henkel for 2.5 billion euros.  
 Costs, Debt  
 Hambrecht finished absorbing Ciba in April, earmarking
synergies of 450 million euros by 2012 through the elimination
of as many as 3,800 jobs.  
 With Cognis, BASF has highlighted integration costs of 200
million euros to 250 million euros through 2012. It expects to
make at least 129 million euros a year in savings by integrating
Cognis’s assets and is targeting a 20 percent margin at its
performance products division by 2012. De-leveraging will be a
priority, the CEO said.  
 Standard & Poor’s lowered its rating to A+ with a negative
outlook on Feb. 12. Moody’s Investors Service put is A1 rating
on BASF on review today, saying “that a one-notch downgrade
based upon current assumptions is likely.”  
 “We expect BASF’s ratings cut by one notch in the wake of
the bid,” said  Jochen Schlachter , a credit analyst at UniCredit
in Munich, in a note today. “At a later stage, we would not be
surprised to see BASF tapping the bond market to refinance.”  
 Lazard Ltd. and BNP Paribas advised BASF, while Cognis was
advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., as
well as law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BASF CEO Juergen Hambrecht during the annual earnings press conference, in Ludwigshafen, Germany. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
