-- Batista's OGX May Start Colombia Oil Output in 2012, CEO Mendonca Says
-- Heather Walsh
-- 2010-06-23T14:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/batista-s-ogx-may-start-colombia-crude-oil-production-in-2012-chief-says.html

          
          
             OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA ,
the oil company controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , may begin producing crude in Colombia in 2012 as
government efforts to reduce guerrilla attacks on pipelines and
other infrastructure lure investment.  
 There is “very great” potential for crude and natural gas
reserves in areas once dominated by rebels, Chief Executive
Officer  Paulo Mendonca  said yesterday in an interview in
Cartagena after the company won five of six blocks it bid for in
a government auction.  
 Batista, the world’s eighth-richest man according to
Forbes magazine, is investing in mining and energy projects in
Colombia after President  Alvaro Uribe  used military strikes to
weaken rebel forces since taking office in 2002. President-elect
 Juan Manuel Santos , a former defense minister, pledged to
sustain Uribe’s security policies to free the nation from a
“nightmare of violence” after winning the presidential
election on June 20.  
 “People still know that’s the most important thing for the
country,” Mendonca said. “Santos will continue with the path
Uribe found.”  
 The rights that OGX won to explore blocks in Colombia
include northern areas near the border of Venezuela, where
little exploration has been undertaken, according to the
government. South Korea’s SK Energy Co. and a unit of Royal
Dutch Shell Plc were also among the companies that won blocks
yesterday.  
 Other Investments  
 MPX Energia SA, an energy company controlled by Batista,
plans to spend $1.9 billion in a decade to tap Colombian coal
deposits. Bastista also plans to raise as much as $1 billion in
a public offering of AUX, a gold-mining company he’s creating in
the Andean nation.  
 OGX, based in Rio de Janeiro, will spend most of its
planned investment of $1.4 billion this year in Brazil, Mendonca
said.  
 Oil will rise to about $100 per barrel by the end of the
year and may keep rising as demand outpaces supplies, Mendonca
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Cartagena or at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        