-- BDO Seidman Wins Reversal of  $521.7 Million Banco Espirito Santo Penalty
-- Mort Lucoff
-- 2010-06-23T22:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bdo-seidman-wins-reversal-of-521-7-million-banco-espirito-santo-penalty.html

          
          
             BDO Seidman LLP won’t have to pay
Portuguese client  Banco Espirito Santo SA  $521.7 million for
failing to detect a fraud, a Florida appeals court ruled in
reversing a 2007 jury award and ordering a new trial.  
 The state Third District Court of Appeal in Miami today
decided the case should be tried again because of possible jury
confusion in a three-part trial over four months in Miami-Dade
County Circuit Court.  
 The trial’s so-called trifurcation “impermissibly allowed
the jury to render a verdict” on gross negligence two months
before it considered issues including causation and comparative
fault, possibly prejudicing jurors, the three-judge appeals
panel decided.  
 The verdict was the second-largest U.S. jury award in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banco Espirito sued BDO
Seidman in 2004, claiming it suffered a loss when the New York-
based accounting firm certified as real fake accounts
receivables at E.S. Bankest LLC.  
 The Lisbon-based bank formed Bankest, a company that bought
accounts receivable and collected the debt, in 1998 as a joint
venture with Bankest Capital. Bankest officials faked millions
of dollars in receivables and four executives were later
convicted of crimes. Banco Espirito sold its interest in 2002
for $10 million.  
 ‘Erroneous Verdict’  
 “We have consistently stated that we were confident that
the jury’s erroneous verdict in this case would be reversed,”
 Jack Weisbaum , BDO Seidman’s chief executive officer, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will prove that BDO acted at all times
consistent with its professional obligations and that its audit
opinions were based on the proper application of generally
accepted auditing standards.”  
 “This case has been sent back for another trial because of
the procedural ‘bifurcation’ issue,” Steven W. Thomas, an
attorney for Banco Espirito, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
specifically note that the court did not dispute BDO unethical
conflicts of interest or its negligence. The evidence of BDO
Seidman’s failures of even the most basic auditing procedures is
so overwhelming that we expect a new jury will reach the same
conclusion as the original jury.”  
 Banco Espirito fell 2.5 cents to 3.36 euros in trading in
Lisbon.  
 The case is Banco Espirito Santo International Ltd. v. BDO
Seidman LLP, 04-14009-CA-01, 11th Judicial Circuit of Florida
(Miami-Dade County). The appeal is 3D09-324, 07-2746 BS 07-2472,
Third District Court of Appeal (Miami).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Mort Lucoff  in Miami at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  
          
          


  


        