-- Belgian Business Confidence Declines More Than Forecast on Manufacturing
-- Jones Hayden
-- 2010-06-23T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/belgian-business-confidence-declines-more-than-forecast-on-manufacturing.html

          
          
             Belgian  business confidence  fell
more than economists forecast in June, pulled down by growing
pessimism in the manufacturing industry.  
 The confidence index for Belgium, the sixth-largest economy
in the euro region, declined to minus 7.7, a six-month low, from
minus 4.9 in May, the  National Bank of Belgium  in Brussels said
today in an e-mailed statement. Economists had projected a June
reading of minus 5, according to  the median  of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. The May decrease was the first drop since
March 2009.  
 Governments across Europe are cutting spending after
Greece’s debt crisis sparked investor concern that ballooning
budget deficits may undercut the economic recovery. Growth in
the euro area’s  services and manufacturing   industries  slowed in
June and business sentiment declined in France, separate reports
showed today, adding to signs the recovery is cooling across
Europe.  
 Belgian companies “in the manufacturing industry have
mainly become more pessimistic as to the  employment outlook  and
their present level of stocks,” the central bank said. In the
wholesale and retail industry “in particular the prospects as
to employment and to demand are assessed more gloomily.”  
 The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.2265 at 3:25 p.m. in Brussels, off less than
0.1 percent on the day. Europe’s  Stoxx 600 Index  was down 0.3
percent, while Belgium’s  Bel20 Index  was 1.1 percent lower. Both
equity indexes have dropped more than 5 percent from their April
peaks.  
 ‘Sluggish Trend’  
 The central bank said on June 21 that economic data
“continue to point to a sluggish trend” in investment by
Belgian manufacturers. The bank nonetheless raised its economic
forecast, citing exports as “the motor of growth in 2010.” It
predicts expansion of 1.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent next
year after a 3 percent slump in 2009.  
 A gauge of sentiment among manufacturers declined to minus
11.2 this month from minus 7.8 in May, today’s report showed. A
subindex of employment expectation slid the most, followed by a
gauge of future orders, the bank said.  
 Exmar NV , the Antwerp-based operator of the world’s largest
fleet of midsize gas tankers, said on April 30 that first-
quarter earnings fell about 39 percent.  
 An index for the trade, or wholesale and retail, industry
fell to minus 3.6 from minus 0.1, while a gauge of business-
related services dropped to 4.7 from 7.9, the central bank said.
An index for the construction industry gained to minus 6.1 from
minus 6.5 in the prior month.  
 Political Uncertainty  
 Belgium may face political uncertainty until a government
is formed following early elections on June 13. Flemish
nationalist party leader  Bart De Wever  agreed on June 17 to
explore options for a coalition after his New-Flemish Alliance
emerged as the biggest party in parliament. Three years ago,
government formation took a record nine months.  
 The next Belgian government will have to cut spending first
and step up the fight against tax fraud before raising taxes to
cut its budget deficit, National Bank of Belgium Governor  Guy Quaden  told reporters in Brussels on June 21.  
 “Weak corporate investments, political tensions and
austerity measures later in the year will constrain domestic
demand” in Belgium,  Philippe Ledent , an economist at ING Groep
NV in Brussels, wrote in a report released today. “As a
consequence, the Belgian economy will still need some external
impulse to ensure its recovery.”  
 The drop in business sentiment contrasts with an increase
in Germany, where the Munch-based  Ifo institute ’s  business
climate index  unexpectedly rose on the euro’s depreciation and
the global recovery, data showed yesterday. Germany, the largest
economy in Europe, is one of Belgium’s main trading partners.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jones Hayden  in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        