-- Bernanke Economy May Get Boost From Stronger Yuan
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-06-23T13:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bernanke-may-get-help-from-stronger-yuan-in-bid-to-buoy-prices-employment.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s efforts to keep U.S. prices and employment from
falling may get a helping hand from China’s decision to let its
currency gain against the dollar.  
 Greater yuan flexibility will eventually raise prices of
goods imported to the U.S. after a decline in the consumer price
index for two straight months and as some Fed officials voice
concern about inflation slowing too much. The move should also
eventually increase U.S. exports of aircraft, steel and wheat to
China, said  Charles Lieberman , a former New York Fed official.  
 Fed officials, who are likely to repeat the commitment to
an “extended period” of low interest rates in a Washington
meeting today, are contending with joblessness that’s still
close to a 26-year high. China’s announcement on June 19, which
pushed global stocks higher, may ease their concerns that
Europe’s debt crisis poses a risk to the recovery.  
 “It implies a little bit of a positive fillip to domestic
growth,” said Lieberman, chief investment officer at Advisors
Capital Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey. “It
does also imply some upward pressure on import prices, but I
don’t think that’s going to be particularly troublesome to the
Fed when the unemployment rate is so high.”  
 At the last Federal Open Market Committee meeting in April,
some policy makers saw inflation risks as “tilted to the
downside in the near term” because of slack in the economy and
the chance price expectations could decline. Other officials
said inflation may pick up because of an expanding global
economy and U.S. budget deficits.  
 Future Growth  
 Since taking over the U.S.  central bank  four years ago,
Bernanke has joined other American officials in urging China to
let the yuan appreciate, saying in 2006 that such action would
“enhance China’s future growth and stability.”  
 Bernanke and his colleagues will probably keep interest
rates near zero because of “modest” economic growth and an
unemployment rate stuck close to 10 percent, said former Atlanta
Fed research director  Robert Eisenbeis , now chief monetary
economist at Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Vineland, New Jersey.
The FOMC is scheduled to issue a statement at around 2:15 p.m.
Washington time at the conclusion of a two-day meeting, which
resumed today at 9 a.m.  
 The number of Americans applying for jobless benefits rose
this month to a one-month high while housing starts in May fell
10 percent. Meanwhile, a 0.2 percent decline in the consumer
price index last month was the biggest since December 2008.  
 Job Cuts  
 Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, is planning to cut a net 3,000 jobs, the company said in
a June 1 regulatory filing. Hewlett-Packard is eliminating the
positions of 9,000 employees and replacing about 6,000 in
varying countries.  
 “The risks are tilted to the downside and there are
increased uncertainties,” Eisenbeis said. The FOMC “is clearly
concerned about a double-dip recession.”  
 The U.S. Congress, to reduce unemployment and help
manufacturers, should press China through tariff legislation to
further raise the value of its currency, Senator  Sherrod Brown ,
a Democrat from Ohio, said yesterday.  
 “The pressure still needs to be on them from Congress,”
Brown said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Signs of economic frailty give Bernanke more time to delay
a rate increase and formulate an “exit strategy” from record
stimulus that threatens to eventually fuel a surge in prices.
Policy makers are trying to fine tune tools for draining as much
as $1 trillion in excess reserves from the banking system,
including the use of reverse repurchase agreements and the sale
of term deposits to banks.  
 Rate Increase  
 Investors’ expectations for a Fed rate increase have fallen
since the conclusion of the last FOMC meeting in April.
Investors are discounting about 40 basis points of tightening
over the next 12 months, a decline from about 76 basis points on
April 28, according to data that is calculated by Credit Suisse
using the overnight index swap curve.  
 “There’s no reason to pull the plug on riskier asset
classes like stocks,” said  Mirko Mikelic , who helps oversee $18
billion in fixed-income assets as senior portfolio manager at
Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Michigan.  
 “We do like commodities, like gold, and inflation plays
like shipping companies, but you do have to be selective,” he
said. Bonds are “a pretty safe play now for the short term,”
but the “concern is that when the global economy turns around
and the U.S. starts  raising rates , people are going to run out
on bonds” over the long term.  
 Europe Crisis  
 The impact from the Europe debt crisis on U.S. growth and
financial markets will probably “take center stage” at the
FOMC meeting,  Laurence Meyer , vice chairman of Macroeconomic
Advisors LLC in Washington and a former Fed governor, said in a
note to clients.  
 As European leaders tried on May 20 to contain the region’s
crisis, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
benchmark gauge of U.S. stock options known as the VIX, rose on
to the highest level in more than a year. It remains above its
six-month average.  
 “What the market is going to be looking for is anything in
the statement that says something about Europe,” said  John Canally , investment strategist and economist at LPL Financial
Corp. in Boston.  
 Officials “have been accused of whistling past the
graveyard in 2006 with the subprime issue, and don’t want to get
caught in the same vein where they’re accused of ignoring an
issue and being late to react,” he said.  
 Smaller Gains  
 The world’s largest economy grew during the first quarter
at 3 percent, down from a 3.2 percent initial estimate due to
smaller gains in consumer and business spending.  
 A stronger yuan should help growth by improving the
competitiveness of U.S. exporters to China. The U.S. trade
deficit with China reached $71 billion for the first four months
of the year, up 5.8 percent from the same period of 2009,
according to U.S. government data.  
 “Given a projection of growth just slightly above trend,
the committee will stress that economic conditions dictate no
rate increases for the foreseeable future,” said New York
University Professor  Mark Gertler , who’s collaborated on
research with Bernanke. “There is no danger of inflation now.
If anything the risks of deflation are greater, given the
overall weakness in the economy.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net 
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke smiles after speaking at a conference on the Squam Lake Report in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President J. Alfred Broaddus talks about the possibility of a double-dip recession and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Broaddus speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about China's currency policy.
     Brown also discusses the outlook for legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
