-- BHP, Rio Shares Pare Losses as Australia's Rudd Faces Leadership Challenge
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-23T16:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bhp-rio-shares-pare-losses-as-australia-s-rudd-faces-leadership-challenge.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto
Group  pared losses in London trading after Australian Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd , who has proposed a new profits tax on
mining companies, said he faces a leadership challenge tomorrow.  
 Rio  fell 1.6 percent to 3,390 pence, having earlier slumped
2.8 percent.  BHP , the world’s biggest mining company, dropped
1.9 percent to 1,951 pence, recouping some of its 2.5 percent
decline. Both stocks jumped after Rudd told reporters in
Canberra that he faced a challenge from deputy  Julia Gillard  at
a ballot tomorrow, then sank when he said he expected to win.  
 Rudd has faced criticism from mining companies including
Melbourne-based BHP, London-based Rio and  Xstrata Plc  over the
plan to impose a 40 percent levy on mining profits from 2012,
estimated to raise A$12 billion ($10 billion) in the first two
years. Rudd said earlier today he was seeking a “sensible and
balanced” settlement with companies opposed to the proposal.  
 “Rudd is seen as the driving force behind the proposed
super tax,”  Paul Cliff , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
London, said today by telephone. “Any challenge to Rudd’s
leadership would be a clear positive for the miners.”  
 Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron
ore, announced the new levy on May 2 as part of an overhaul that
includes a phased reduction in company tax rates to 28 percent
from 30 percent by mid-2014. The government is talking to some
80 resources companies about its plan.  
 Worst-Case Scenario  
 “We would expect the mining tax to be at the forefront of
any policy revision post-government changes, and a ‘watering-
down’ of the existing 40 percent rate is feeling increasingly
like a worst-case scenario,”  Richard Knights , an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed note. “It
has become increasingly clear that there is material opposition
to the tax from within Rudd’s own party.”  
 Support for Rudd began to slide after he shelved the
government’s carbon-trading plans in April, a key campaign
pledge when he won office in November 2007. Dissatisfaction with
Rudd hit a record 55 percent, according to a telephone survey of
1,147 people between June 18 and June 20 published in the
 Australian  newspaper this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        