-- BHP, Rio, Sigma, Boral, ANZ, Qantas, Sigma, Sonic, Woodside: Stock Preview
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-23T22:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bhp-rio-sigma-boral-anz-qantas-sigma-sonic-woodside-stock-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview
includes news announced after markets closed. All prices are
from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  
 The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in Sept. rose
1.8 percent to 4,481 at 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank of New
York Australia ADR Index  rose 0.8 percent. The  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
slipped 1.6 percent to 4486.1.  
 Mining shares: Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  will
face a leadership challenge from deputy  Julia Gillard  today
after a proposed tax on the mining industry caused his opinion
poll ratings to plunge.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU) and  Rio Tinto
Group  both pared losses in London trading after the ballot, to
be held at 9 a.m. in Canberra, was announced.  
 The Japan Fair Trade Commission has started a review of a
plan by BHP and Rio Tinto to merge Australian iron-ore mining
operations, Nikkei English News said, citing the commission’s
Secretary-General  Takahide Matsuyama .  
 BHP, the world’s largest mining company, lost 1.3 percent
to A$39.14 in Sydney yesterday. Its American depositary receipts
gained 2.1 percent in New York trading.  
 Rio, the world’s third-biggest mining company, lost 2.2
percent to A$70.54 in Sydney.  
 Oil companies: Crude oil fell for a second day after U.S.
government reports showed an unexpected gain in supplies and a
decline in purchases of new homes. Crude oil for August delivery
declined 1.9 percent to settle at $76.35 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
largest oil and gas producer, dropped 1.4 percent to A$44.65,
and rival Santos Ltd. (STO AU) fell 3 percent to A$12.78.  
 Gold producers: Gold futures fell to a one-week low on
speculation the dollar’s rally will erode demand for the
precious metal as an alternative asset. Gold futures for
delivery in August dropped 0.5 percent to $1,234.80 on the Comex
after earlier touching the lowest level for a most-active
contract since June 15.  
 Newcrest Mining Ltd.  (NCM AU), Australia’s biggest gold
producer, climbed 0.8 percent to A$35.38. Lihir Gold Ltd. (LGL
AU) gained 0.5 percent to A$4.33.  
 Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  (SIP AU): Aspen Pharmacare
Holdings Ltd. of South Africa may alter or scrap its offer for
Sigma amid a potential class action lawsuit against the
Australian company, the Australian Financial Review reported.
Aspen, which is conducting due diligence on the drugmaker, is
“uneasy” about bearing the risk of the lawsuit before
formalizing its A$707 million bid, the newspaper reported
without saying where it got the information. Sigma shares fell
3.1 percent to 46.5 Australian cents.  
 Qantas Airways Ltd.  (QAN AU): Australia’s biggest airline
will focus on cost cutting to make the carrier the nation’s most
popular airline brand by the end of the year, the Australian
Financial Review reported, citing new Chief Financial Officer
 Gareth Evans . Qantas is also reducing the number of cheap
flights within Australia to encourage travelers to buy more
expensive tickets, the newspaper said. Shares declined 2.1
percent to A$2.35.  
 Sonic Healthcare Ltd.  (SHL AU): The provider of medical
tests was raised to “hold” from “sell” at Deutsche Bank AG
by equity analyst  David Low . The stock dropped 2.6 percent to
A$10.57.  
 Boral Ltd.  (BLD AU): Australia’s largest seller of building
materials was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS AG by
equity analyst  David Leitch . Shares fell 3.7 percent to A$4.96.  
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  (ANZ AU): The
Australian bank expanding in Asia was raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Deutsche Bank by equity analyst  James Freeman .
Shares dropped 1.5 percent to A$22.88.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        