-- BMW Confirms Worker-Management `Dispute' at Dealership in Dalian, China
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T05:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bmw-dealership-in-china-hit-by-dispute-between-workers-and-management.html

          
          
             Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest luxury-car manufacturer, said there is a
“dispute” between workers and management at its dealership in
Dalian, China, following strikes at parts suppliers for  Toyota
Motor Corp.  and Honda Motor Co.  
 “There have been some problems between employees and their
management at the dealer” in Dalian, said Duan Yi, a Beijing-
based spokeswoman for the German luxury carmaker. She said she
couldn’t confirm whether the workers are striking. “We are
closely following the situation and conducting further
investigations,” Duan said.  
 All workers at BMW dealer Yanbao’s Dalian unit went on
strike on June 18, demanding the company pay back bonuses, the
 21st Century Business Herald  reported earlier. Employees haven’t
received a pay raise for two years and management agreed to give
them a 20 percent salary increase after their walkout, the
newspaper said.  
 Employees at Yanbao’s Beijing unit sent management an e-
mail on June 21 requesting that it pay unpaid bonuses totaling
“several hundreds of thousands of yuan,” the report said,
citing the e-mail. The workers said they would take “collective
action” if their demands aren’t met by end of June, the
newspaper said.  
 Yanbao is one of the biggest BMW dealers in China.  
 Toyota has suffered at least three walkouts among its
suppliers in China, the world’s biggest vehicle market, this
month after employees at  Honda ’s vendors struck and won wage
increases. The carmakers, Japan’s two largest, both reported
disruptions of their Chinese production today because of
supplier strikes.  
 -- Tian Ying . Editors:  Kae Inoue ,  Chana Schoenberger   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        