-- Australian Bond Risk Rises Most in Almost 3 Weeks on U.S. Home Sales Drop
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-06-23T02:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bond-risk-increases-across-asia-pacific-on-surprise-u-s-home-sales-drop.html

          
          
             The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific
corporate and sovereign bonds from default increased as an
unexpected drop in U.S. home sales raised concern over the
strength of growth in the world’s largest economy.  
 The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
advanced 10 basis points to 127 basis points as of 10:36 a.m. in
Sydney, on track for its biggest one-day gain in almost three
weeks, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and CMA DataVision
prices.  
 “It was a tough night with U.S. existing home sales coming
in below expectations,” National Australia Bank Ltd. credit
analysts led by  Michael Bush  wrote in a note to clients. “The
result was equities were lower, credit wider and U.S. Treasuries
up in price.”  
 U.S. stocks sank the most in almost three weeks after the
National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned
homes dropped 2.2 percent in May. Bond risk rose in Europe amid
renewed concern some of the region’s banks may struggle to fund
themselves, and after Fitch Ratings cut the credit rating of
France’s largest lender,  BNP Paribas SA .  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 8 basis points to 131 basis points
as of 9:33 a.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The Markit  iTraxx Japan index  increased 7 basis
points to 130 basis points as of 9 a.m. in Tokyo, according to
Morgan Stanley. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
debt against default and traders use them to speculate on credit
quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement. The swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the securities if a borrower
fails to meet its debt agreements.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        