-- Bond Defaults Stalk Wealthiest Michigan Communities as Development Crashes
-- Jeff Green
-- 2010-06-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bond-defaults-stalk-wealthiest-michigan-communities-as-development-crashes.html

          
          
             Michigan’ s auto-industry collapse,
which led to the worst home-price drop among U.S. states, has
forced some of its wealthiest and fastest-growing communities to
seek state aid to prevent municipal bond defaults.  
 Detroit , slammed by the state’s 74 percent housing-price
decline, warned of bankruptcy when it borrowed in March to cover
part of a $280 million deficit. Now, nearby communities in
Livingston County such as Hartland Township and Howell Township
may need legislation to help make bond payments.  
 Falling property values and job losses stripped away the
ability of communities to repay debt after auto-industry
bankruptcies and the worst recession since the 1930s left the
state with 13.6 percent unemployment, the  second-highest rate  in
the U.S. after Nevada’s.  
 “We’re trying to stem the bleeding,” said Representative
 Bill Rogers , a Livingston County Republican and cosponsor of
some of the legislation. “There’s no way they could pay these
with no income coming in.”  
 As Detroit struggled to close its deficit, the city’s
school system and three cities, including Pontiac, have had
emergency financial managers appointed by Governor  Jennifer Granholm  since 2008. Taxable property in the state fell 9.2
percent to $385 billion this year, said  Caleb Buhs , spokesman
for the Michigan treasury department. The lower values are
reducing property tax revenue and forcing municipalities to cut
spending.  
 Tax Assessments  
 Local governments have sold about $1.5 billion of bonds
backed by special tax assessments, said Eric Scorsone, senior
economist with the  Michigan Senate Fiscal Agency , a nonpartisan
legislative group. The debt is typically backed by property tax
assessments for sewers, water lines and other infrastructure for
new housing developments.  
 Legislative staff members and local finance officials have
created a committee to try to figure out how much of the debt
may face default because of the declining assessments, Scorsone
said. The first meeting is set for this week.  
 “It’s developed into a problem in newly developed areas,”
said Bill Anderson, legislative liaison for the Lansing-based
Michigan Townships Association. “Everybody is trying to figure
out how to get through this.”  
 The automotive industry’s downward spiral that led to
bankruptcy reorganizations of General Motors Co. and Chrysler
Group LLC cost the state 230,000 jobs last year, the largest
decline in 53 years of published data,  according to a report  by
University of Michigan economists. The state has lost 837,600
jobs since employment peaked in June 2000, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg .  
 Rolling Hills  
 Livingston County, marked by rolling hills and lakes in
Michigan’s Lower Peninsula west of Detroit, is dominated by
farming and auto-related manufacturing, according to  the
county’s Economic Development Council . It was Michigan’s
 fastest-growing  county from 2000 to 2009, when the population
expanded 16.7 percent, according to U.S. Census data. Livingston
was also one the wealthiest, with a  median household income  of
$72,090, about 48 percent higher than the state average of
$48,606, the data show.  
 Livingston’s  townships sold assessment-backed bonds during
the decade it was the state’s fastest-growing county, said
 Dianne Hardy , the treasurer, in a telephone interview.  
 ‘It Just Stopped’  
 “As soon as they would fill one development they’d start
another, and then one day it just stopped,” Hardy said. “Now
the ground is not worth what it cost to put the infrastructure
in.”  
 The number of property-sale related paperwork jobs handled
by Hardy’s office has fallen to 200 to 300 per month from 600 to
700 before the recession, she said.  
 A record $14.6 billion of obligations defaulted in 2008 and
2009 in the $2.8 trillion U.S. municipal bond market, according
to Distressed Debt Securities, a newsletter in Miami Lakes,
Florida. About $1 billion more has defaulted through May.  
 Michigan’s housing market didn’t experience the same rise
in housing prices as the rest of the U.S., said Alex Villacorta,
senior statistician with Truckee, California-based Clear
Capital, which tracks real-estate values. Michigan’s house
prices fell 74 percent from their peak in late 2005 to early
2009, the most for any state, followed by Nevada and Arizona,
which had seen some of the largest increases.  
 ‘Hardest-Hit State’  
 “Michigan has been the hardest-hit state,” Villacorta
said. The median price of a house fell to $72,000 in January
from a peak of $140,000 in 2005, according to Clear Capital.  
 Livingston County housing prices have plunged 49 percent
from their peak in 2005, according to Clear Capital. Some
developers that owned lots haven’t paid assessments and few new
residents have moved in to generate property tax revenue, Hardy
said.  
 The county said in its 2010 budget that it might have to
bail out townships. Some Hartland Township property tax payments
“will ultimately be uncollectable,” according to the  report.   
 “Concern must be raised regarding the ability of a number
of townships to meet annual debt service obligations,” county
officials wrote in a budget document released Nov. 5.
“Livingston county may very well find itself in a position
where it must fund the debt in order to preserve its credit
rating.”  
 Hartland Township, with about 15,000 residents 50 miles (80
kilometers) northwest of Detroit, came up $951,000 short in
collecting special assessments last year, representing 40
percent of what it is owed on debt service, according to a April
2009 report by Standard & Poor’s.  
 Delinquent Assessments  
 Livingston County’s median home price fell to $136,000
earlier this year from a peak of $240,000 in the second quarter
of 2005, according to Clear Capital.  
 “The township’s very weak sewer system operations could
have a negative effect on general fund operations if it does not
collect a large portion of special assessment delinquencies,”
S&P said in its report.  
 Trading in some of the communities’ debt hasn’t fully
reflected the weakening tax base.  
 The price of a Hartland Township special assessment water
bond sold in 2001 and maturing in 2021 fell to about $100 on
June 21, from $101.32 in January, according to Bloomberg data.
The bond, insured by  Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. , yielded
4.59 percent, which compares to a yield of 3.25 percent for top-
rated municipal debt with 11 years to maturity, according to
Municipal Market Advisors data.  
 FGIC, which is  no longer rated , was ordered last year by
the New York Insurance Department to stop paying claims because
of its statutory deficit, according a  company financial
statement . The company is attempting to restore its capital,
according to a financial statement.  
 State Auction  
 Livingston County may find out how much it will collect
from unpaid taxes in coming months when property with delinquent
taxes will be auctioned by the state, said James Wickman,
Hartland township’s manager.  
 While the county advances the municipality money for
delinquent property levies, the township must repay the sum, as
well as its bond obligations, if property sales don’t generate
enough to cover the loan.  
 “We still have to make the bond payments,” said Wickman.
“It may be an issue that we don’t have enough money to make
that payment.”  
 Hartland Township will use loans from reserves to cover
bond payments if taxes don’t generate enough revenue to cover
debt service, he said.  
 In Howell Township, also in Livingston County, “stalled
development projects have also negatively affected” property
tax collections, Fitch Ratings said in a 2009 report.  
 Howell Township Treasurer  Larry Hammond  didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment.  
 Loan Fund  
 County officials began meeting with state lawmakers last
year, which led to the package of bills that would help
townships with debt, said Rogers. The legislation would create
ways to help the municipalities pay debt service, such as
 creating a revolving loan fund  for districts that haven’t been
able to collect property taxes to repay debt holders.  
 “The legislation would put counties in a position to help
municipalities,” said Wickman.  
 The legislation has been assigned to a House committee.
Rogers said he’d like to see the four bills pass this year.  
 Cities are also pushing legislation that would let them
refinance bonds to extend their maturity and spread out debt-
service payments over five to 10 years, said Summer Minnick,
director of state affairs for the Ann Arbor-based Michigan
Municipal League. At least a dozen cities are supporting the
measure, she said.  
 Prison Shutdown  
 The legislation might help Standish, a city of 1,954 in
northern Michigan, where a state-prison closure last year cost
the community 300 jobs. The facility accounted for 45 percent of
water and sewer revenue.  
 “The rest of the ratepayers will have to pick up the tab,
forcing them to raise rates by 40 percent,” said Representative
 Jeff Mayes , a Bay City Democrat, who sponsored the measure. “In
the long run it may cost more but it will help them avoid big
rate increases.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A for sale sign hangs outside a home on the west side of Detroit, Michigan. Photographer:  Fabrizio Costantini/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. flags fly outside the headquarters building of General Motors Co. in Detroit. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
