-- Boston University Management School Names Freeman, Ex-Quest CEO, as Dean
-- Zachary Tracer
-- 2010-06-23T17:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/boston-university-management-school-names-freeman-ex-quest-ceo-as-dean.html

          
          
             Kenneth W. Freeman , former chairman
and chief executive officer of  Quest Diagnostics Inc ., the
medical testing company, and a managing director of London-based
buyout specialist Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., will become the
next dean of Boston University’s School of Management.  
 Freeman, 60, who headed up Quest, in Madison, New Jersey,
from 1995 to 2004, will replace  Louis E. Lataif , who has headed
the school for 19 years, on August 1, the business school said
in a statement yesterday. Freeman received his Masters of
Business Administration degree from Harvard Business School, in
Boston in 1976, and his bachelor’s degree from Bucknell
University in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. Freeman will continue to
serve as a senior adviser to KKR after becoming dean, the
statement said.  
 Freeman hopes to give business students both “core
quantitative and analytical skills” as well as “a very strong
value system,” he said in the statement. As dean he will place
a priority on procuring new resources for the school, he said.  
 “His business experience, his intellect and values are
the perfect tools to lead our faculty in shaping the future of
management education and continuing the positive trajectory of
the School,” BU President  Robert Brown  said in the statement.  
 Freeman joins a small group of business school deans to
come from the corporate world.  Steven Reinemund , who retired s
chairman and CEO of PepsiCo in 2007, took over as dean of North-
Carolina-based Wake Forest University Schools of Business in
2008. J.  Frank Brown  spent 26 years at PricewaterhouseCoopers
before becoming dean of INSEAD in 2006.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary Tracer  in New York at 
ztracer @bloomberg.net.  
          
          


  


        