-- BP Puts Gulf Well Manager on Leave Pending U.S. Investigations
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bp-puts-well-manager-on-leave-pending-u-s-probes-of-gulf-of-mexico-spill.html

          
          
             The  BP Plc  manager who oversaw the
well that erupted in April has been placed on leave while at
least four federal agencies probe the disaster that killed 11
workers and triggered the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Donald Vidrine, the well site leader aboard the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig that exploded and sank nine weeks ago off
the Louisiana coast, said in an interview yesterday that he has
been on administrative leave since the incident.  
 Vidrine was the top-ranking BP decision-maker on duty
aboard the rig when it was rocked by a surge of gas from beneath
the sea floor, Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  told a House
panel last week. Just hours before the disaster, Vidrine
overruled objections from representatives of rig owner
Transocean Ltd. about how to finish the well, Douglas Brown, the
chief mechanic on the vessel, told U.S. Coast Guard and Interior
Department investigators in May.  
 “I can’t talk about it,” Vidrine said during the
interview outside his red-and-black brick home in Lafayette,
Louisiana, about 130 miles (209 kilometers) west of New Orleans.  
 Vidrine, 62, declined to say if other BP employees involved
in the April 20 catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico have been
placed on leave. Vidrine shrugged when asked if and when he
expects to return to work.  
 When asked if he had been placed on leave as a result of
the disaster, he said, “Yes, but I really have nothing at all
to say.” Vidrine, dressed in a t-shirt, jeans and brown work
boots, spoke in his driveway, beside a blue Ford F-150 pickup
truck and a cast-iron fleur-de-lis nailed to a fence.  
 Numerous Probes  
 “That’s a private matter and we wouldn’t comment on any
individuals,”  Mark Salt , a spokesman for the London-based
company, said in a telephone interview.  
 The Justice Department, Coast Guard, Interior Department,
U.S.  Chemical Safety and Hazard  Investigation Board and several
House and Senate committees are each probing what went wrong as
BP and contractors that included Transocean and Halliburton Co.
worked to seal the Macondo well with cement plugs.  
 BP  estimated the well, which lies under almost 1 mile of
water about 40 miles from shore, tapped a field holding 50
million barrels of crude, Hayward said during a June 17 hearing
before a House panel.  
 ‘Company Man’  
 Vidrine, whose face and arms are deeply tanned from years
spent aboard offshore drilling vessels, declined to say whether
he was injured when the Deepwater Horizon exploded and caught
fire with 126 people on board.  
 He also declined to discuss the events and decisions that
preceded the disaster.  
 Douglas Brown, Transocean’s chief mechanic on the rig on
April 20, last month told a joint Coast Guard-Interior Dept.
panel that “the company man” from BP had a disagreement with
senior Transocean personnel over how to proceed with the well
during a planning meeting several hours before the blast.  
 “There was a slight argument that took place and a
difference of opinions and the company was basically saying,
‘Well, this is how it’s going to be,’” Brown told the Coast
Guard-Interior investigators during a May 26 hearing. Brown said
he didn’t remember the details of the dispute because his job
wasn’t directly involved in drilling the well.  
 Hayward confirmed last week during his House testimony that
Vidrine was “the company man” referred to by Brown.  
 Ban Overturned  
 Under pressure from  President Barack Obama , Hayward and his
chairman,  Carl-Henric Svanberg , agreed last week to have BP
deposit $20 billion in an independently managed account to cover
cleanup costs and compensation claims.  
 BP, the largest oil and natural-gas producer in the Gulf of
Mexico, has lost almost half its market value since the
catastrophe. Last week, Representative  Bart Stupak , a Michigan
Democrat, said a five-year string of accidents and deadly
disasters at BP-operated facilities could justify banning the
company from doing business in the U.S.  
 Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  imposed a six-month
moratorium on all deep-water exploration in U.S. waters to give
a presidential commission time to review safety procedures.  
 The ban was overturned on June 22 by U.S. District Judge
Martin Feldman in New Orleans. The administration vowed to
appeal the ruling and Salazar yesterday told a Senate panel that
new rules may be issued that may allow some drilling to resume.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Lafayette, Louisiana, at
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward testifies at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
