-- BP Removed Cap on Leaking Gulf Well, Allen Says
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-06-23T17:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/bp-removes-containment-cap-to-assess-leaking-gulf-well-coast-guard-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc removed a cap that’s been
sending oil from its leaking Gulf of Mexico well to one of two
ships on the surface for inspection after an underwater remote-
operated vehicle collided with it, U.S. Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen  said.  
 The ROV accidentally closed a vent on the cap, disrupting
the system that funnels oil to the drillship Discoverer
Enterprise, Allen, the government’s national incident commander,
said at a press conference today in Washington. Crude isn’t
spilling “unconstrained” because it continues to flow to a
drilling rig that is burning it, he said.  
 The closed vent forced gas into lines used to heat the
system to prevent slush-like gas hydrates from plugging the cap,
Allen said. Operators noticed liquid gushing from a valve aboard
the drillship about 9:45 a.m. New York time, BP said today in a
statement. Operators are inspecting the system, Allen said.  
 “If there are no hydrates in the containment cap, they
will attempt to reinstall it and begin producing later on
today,” Allen said. “If there are hydrates, they will have to
rerun the pipe and that will take a considerable amount
longer.”  
 It is the third time in eight days the drillship has
stopped collecting oil from the mile-deep well because of
operational or safety concerns. BP intends to connect a third
vessel to the well by June 29, providing more capacity, Allen
said. BP has said it expects to replace the cap with a sealed
fitting next month.  
 Drillship Collection  
 The drillship accounted for 62 percent of 27,090 barrels of
oil the London-based company collected from the well yesterday,
BP said in a statement on its website. The rest was burned
aboard a rig, the Q4000.  
 The drillship may need to begin preparing to evacuate
should a hurricane approach the Gulf, Allen said. The rig and
the planned third vessel could stay in place longer, he said.  
 Discoverer Enterprise suspended collection June 15 after a
fire blamed on lightning hit its derrick. It was stopped June 19
because of an equipment problem and the threat of lightning.  
 Two people involved in the spill response died today in
separate incidents, Allen said. Neither fatality appeared work-
related, he said. One person died at a swimming event and the
other was an operator of a “vessel of opportunity,” the Coast
Guard’s name for fishing vessels and other private boats used to
collect or skim oil from the surface, he said.  
 Police are investigating the boat operator’s death, Allen
said. He didn’t give names or details of the fatalities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        