-- Brazil Bank Lending Rose 2.1% in May From April, Fastest Pace Since July
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-06-23T16:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/brazil-s-bank-lending-rose-2-1-in-may-from-april-fastest-pace-since-july.html

          
          
             Brazilian bank loans outstanding
rose in May at the fastest pace in 10 months, reinforcing bets
the central bank will continue to increase interest rates in the
months ahead to keep a lid on demand and inflation.  
 State and non-state bank lending increased 2.1 percent to
1.5 trillion reais ($830 billion) from a revised 1.47 trillion
reais in April, the central bank said today in Brasilia.  
 Policy makers will raise the benchmark interest rate for a
third consecutive meeting next month in a bid to slow inflation
that has exceeded their 4.5 percent target every month this
year, according to a central bank  survey  of economists published
June 21. The bank started raising  rates  in April and will push
the Selic up to 12.25 percent at its October meeting, said  Diego Donadio , senior analyst for Latin America at BNP Paribas in Sao
Paulo.  
 “Credit figures show demand remains robust,” Donadio said
in a phone interview. “It reinforces the need for the central
bank to keep an aggressive pace of interest rate increases.”  
 Policy makers raised the benchmark interest rate by
0.75 percentage point to 10.25 percent this month. They will
boost the Selic to 11 percent at their July 20-21 meeting,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of
about 100 analysts taken June 18.  
 Average default rates remained at 5.1 percent in May, the
same level since March, the bank said. Average interest rates
rose to 34.9 percent in May, from 34.3 percent in April, the
bank said.  
 Rate Futures  
 Yields on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January, the most traded today, rose 2 basis points to 11.30
percent at 12:19 p.m. New York time.  
 Latin America’s biggest economy expanded 9 percent in the
first quarter from a year ago, the fastest pace in 15 years.  
 Brazil’s government, led by President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , has pushed state banks to boost lending since the
outbreak of the global financial slowdown in September 2008.  
 Brazilian credit levels are rising at an “impressive
rate,”  Altamir Lopes , head of economic research at the central
bank, told reporters today in Brasilia.  
 Credit may expand 20 percent this year, reaching 48 percent
of gross domestic product by year-end, Lopes said. Credit
expanded 2.3 percent in the first 10 days of June, Lopes said.  
 The central bank began to unwind monetary stimulus in
February, increasing the amount of money that lenders must keep
in reserve at the central bank to almost the same level as
before the credit crunch.  
 Activity Index  
 The Brazil central bank’s economic activity index, a figure
that tracks economic performance, rose 11.78 percent in April
from a year ago to 144.15 points, the central bank said on its
website today. The index rose 10.49 percent when comparing the
first four months of this year with the same period a year ago,
the bank said.  
 Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest lender by
assets, said May 19 it will sell up to 286 million common shares
in Brazil and the U.S. and use the funds for “organic and
inorganic expansion.” The bank’s profit rose 41 percent in the
first quarter on loan growth and lower defaults.  
 Economic expansion also helped  Banco Bradesco SA , Brazil’s
second-biggest bank by market value, increase profit by
9.8 percent in the first quarter.  Cielo SA , Brazil’s biggest
card-payment processor by market value, saw profit rise
32 percent as growth boosted consumer spending.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at  at
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at  at
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        