-- Turkish Builder to Sue Erdogan for Israeli Spat After Business Damaged
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-06-23T13:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/builder-to-sue-erdogan-s-government-for-comments-hurting-israel-business.html

          
          
             Yilmazlar Construction Group , a
Turkish builder with operations in Israel, plans to sue Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  for hurting its business by
increasing political tensions between the two countries.  
 Erdogan’s anti-Israel rhetoric after the Israeli army’s May
31 killing of nine Turks aboard an aid ship headed for Gaza
jeopardizes $100 million-worth of Yilmazlar operations in
Israel, Chief Executive Officer Ahmet Reyiz Yilmaz said in a
phone interview from Ankara today. He said a recent verdict
freezing some of Yilmazlar’s Israeli assets set a dangerous
precedent and that Erdogan was responsible.  
 The threatened case marks the first significant public
backlash by a Turkish business against Erdogan for his response
to the Israeli raid. Turkish exports to Israel amounted to $1.53
billion last year, according to the Turkish Statistical
Institute, while 311,000 Israeli tourists visited Turkey,
according to the Culture Ministry. Erdogan has threatened to cut
off ties with Israel completely after the raid.  
 Kicked Out  
 An Israeli judge froze $2.6 million of Yilmazlar’s assets
at an Israeli bank last week, citing in the verdict a speech by
Erdogan that raised concerns Turkish companies would leave
Israel or be kicked out due to political tensions.  
 “The reason was only the politics of our prime minister,”
Yilmaz said. “He has a responsibility to his country, and he
cannot say irresponsible things.”  
 In a speech to lawmakers the day after the attack, Erdogan
called the Israeli killings an act of “despicable
recklessness” and said Israel “must definitely be punished.”
Erdogan has laid the blame for the subsequent rise in political
tensions on the government of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ,
saying it should apologize and compensate victims’ families.  
 Yilmazlar has operated in Israel for 16 years, Yilmaz said.
The company carried out about $1 billion-worth of projects
there, including the construction of Defense Ministry and Air
Force buildings, according to  Referans  newspaper. It also built
railroads and bridges at Israel’s main airport in Tel Aviv,
according to the company’s Web site.  
 ‘Punish Him’  
 Yilmaz said the company’s lawyers would file suits for
compensation against both Erdogan and his government at a court
in Ankara. He said they were confident of winning the case based
on the fact that the Israeli judge used Erdogan’s comments as
the reasoning for his ruling against Yilmazlar.  
 “It’s not about the money,” Yilmazlar said. “I just want
to punish him.”  
 Also today, Referans said that a group of military
officials and defense industry representatives travelled to
Israel to test Heron unarmed aerial vehicles that Turkey is
planning to buy as part of a $180 million deal.  
 “There are procedures between us and Turkey that continue
as normal,” Israeli Defense Ministry spokesman  Shlomo Dror  said
in a phone interview, declining to comment further.  
 Turkey, traditionally considered Israel’s most important
ally in the region, has withdrawn its ambassador to the country
and says military contacts with Israel are under review.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        