-- Buy Yuan Options to Benefit From Volatility at 16-Month High, SocGen Says
-- Bob Chen
-- 2010-06-23T04:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/buy-yuan-options-to-benefit-from-volatility-at-16-month-high-socgen-says.html

          
          
             Investors should use options to
benefit from the yuan’s volatility, which surged to a 16-month
high this week, as Europe’s debt crisis increases the potential
for swings in the currency, according to Societe Generale SA.  
 Investors should buy straddles, which combine call and put
options, on China’s currency because it has the potential to
both strengthen and weaken,  Robert Reilly , co-head of Asian
fixed-income at Societe Generale in Hong Kong, said in an
interview. Calls allow investors the right to buy a currency at
a fixed price in the future, while puts give the option to sell.  
 China said over the weekend it will allow “two-way
movement” in the currency, a bid to deflect criticism from its
trading partners before leaders from the Group of 20 nations
meet on June 26-27 in Toronto. The yuan rose the most since 2005
on the first trading day this week before dropping by the most
in 18 months yesterday.  
 “Buying short-dated straddles on dollar-China is a good
trade, because you’ve got the two-way risk,” Reilly said in an
interview. “We expect to see more volatility in the next month.
If we see the next bout of sovereign-debt concerns, then you’ll
see dollar-China is behaving in the same way as the other dollar
pairs.”  
 The yuan’s one-month forwards traded at 6.79 per dollar as
of 11:17 a.m. in Hong Kong today. The implied one-month
volatility on the currency, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, climbed to 4.275 percent on June 21, the
highest level since January 2009. The gauge was as low as 0.8
percent on June 10. It has since slipped to 4 percent.  
 Yuan Management  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 China is returning to management against a basket after
the yuan strengthened 18 percent against the euro this year,
eroding earnings for Chinese exporters in the European Union,
the nation’s largest market. Credit Agricole SA, France’s
largest bank by branches, said yesterday it will take a 400
million euro ($491 million) writedown on its stake in Emporiki
Bank of Greece SA.  
 Reilly suggested investors purchase straddles with a one-
month maturity on one-month non-deliverable forwards, with a
strike price of 6.78 per dollar. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        