-- Buy Bullish Vivus Options Before Qnexa FDA Panel Review, JP Morgan Advises
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-06-23T20:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/buy-bullish-vivus-options-before-qnexa-fda-panel-review-jp-morgan-advises.html

          
          
             Vivus Inc.  options are a good
investment strategy for those who “don’t have the stomach” to
bet on the shares before next month’s U.S. panel review of the
company’s lead drug candidate, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  
 Shares of the unprofitable biotechnology company may double
to a 12-year high if Food and Drug Administration advisers
recommend approval of the obesity drug Qnexa, equity derivatives
strategist  Marko Kolanovic  and biotechnology industry analyst
 Cory Kasimov  said. They recommend buying September $12.50 calls
while selling the same number of September $20 calls, a strategy
known as a “spread” that cuts the cost of the trade while
capping potential profit.  
 Vivus is in a race with San Diego-based companies  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  to sell new
prescription weight-loss drugs. While sedentary lifestyles and
fatty diets caused the number of obese U.S. adults to double in
the past 30 years, companies have struggled to find medicines
that help people slim down without dangerous side effects.  
 “The  options  market suggests investors are generally
expecting a positive outcome,” Kolanovic and Kasimov wrote
yesterday in a note to clients. “There is a significant volume
and open interest imbalance towards call options ahead of the
July 15th Advisory Committee meeting convened by the FDA,
suggesting the market expects a recommendation for approval.”  
 Approval Bet  
 They placed a 60 percent probability of Vivus winning a
favorable recommendation from the panel. While the FDA usually
follows the recommendations of its advisers, it isn’t required
to do so. The agency is scheduled to release a preliminary staff
report of its findings on July 13 to guide the panel’s
 discussion . A final decision on approval is due by Oct. 28.  
 Kasimov has  rated  Vivus shares at “overweight” since
January 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The Mountain View, California-based drugmaker lost 12
cents, or 1.2 percent, to $9.68 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have  increased 
5.2 percent this year.  
 The strategy JPMorgan recommended starts to  make money  if
the shares are more than about $14.50 by expiration on Sept. 17
and the maximum profit is reached if the stock is more than $20.
That level would be the highest price for Vivus since December
1997.  
 Vivus September $20 calls are the most-widely owned on the
stock, accounting for 9.5 percent the total 224,115 outstanding
Vivus options. September $11 calls are second, at 5.6 percent.  
 More Calls  
 Calls have an open interest of 141,023 contracts, or about
two-thirds of the total. By comparison, put options account for
almost three-quarters of the contracts on the  Health Care Select
Sector SPDR exchange-traded fund .  
 “When sophisticated investors trade options in
anticipation of a binary event such as an approval date, they
leave useful information embedded in option pricing,” Kolanovic
and Kasimov said. “Historically, a large call/put open interest
imbalance has been a bullish signal for the underlying stock,
which is consistent with a higher probability assigned for a
positive outcome.”  
 The options market is  pricing  in a gain or loss of about 64
percent after the announcement, they said. The September options
are best to use because they are the next available maturity
after the July contracts, which expire a day after the event,
they wrote.  
 Previous Drugs  
 Wyeth pulled its diet pill known as fen-phen in 1997 after
reports of heart valve damage in some women. Paris-based Sanofi-
Aventis SA failed in 2007 to persuade U.S. regulators that its
experimental weight-loss drug Zimulti should be approved despite
risks of suicide and depression. The drug, also called Acomplia,
was withdrawn in Europe the following year.  
 In May,  Roche Holding AG  of Basel, Switzerland, and London-
based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  added warnings to their prescription
Xenical and over-the-counter Alli diet pills about the potential
for serious liver injury. Xenical was approved in 1999 and Alli,
a half-dose version of that drug, was introduced in 2007 as the
first non-prescription diet drug approved by FDA.  
 Patients on higher doses of Vivus’s Qnexa reported memory
loss and trouble concentrating, according to data presented in
October. The drug combines low doses of the appetite suppressant
phentermine, a commonly prescribed obesity drug that made up
half of fen-phen, with the anticonvulsant drug topiramate, the
generic form of  Johnson & Johnson ’s Topamax, used to treat
epilepsy and migraine headaches.  
 As of 2008, more than one-third of American adults were
obese -- measured as a ratio between height and weight -- and
two-thirds were overweight, according to the  National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey . Excess fat increases the risk of
diabetes, heart disease and certain cancers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        