-- Canada Economic Rebound Won't Stall on Gradual Stimulus End, Snyder Says
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-23T18:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/canada-economic-rebound-won-t-stall-on-gradual-stimulus-end-snyder-says.html

          
          
             Canada’s economic  recovery  won’t
stall if there is a gradual removal of government and central
bank stimulus, said  Steve Snyder , chief executive officer of
 TransAlta Corp. , Canada’s largest publicly traded electricity
producer.  
 “At some point the stimulus has to stop and I think most
companies are prepared for that,” Snyder said in a telephone
interview from Calgary today. “It’s volatility and suddenness
that causes a problem, but managed change over a period of time
that’s heading in the right direction, industry will cope with
that.”  
 Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said his two-year
stimulus plan of increased jobless benefits and infrastructure
spending will end next March as the economy recovers and he
turns to paring a record budget deficit. Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  raised his key lending rate from a record low 0.25
percent June 1 and said further moves will be judged against
gains in domestic demand and the risks of an uneven global
recovery.  
 “The poor economy is definitely impacting both the demand
for electricity and the price of electricity,” he said. “Our
view right now at least in the electricity markets is that they
will remain stagnant through 2010, and we will start to see some
pickup in 2011, maybe the second half.”  
 Interest rates may still need to rise to make sure
 inflation  remains moderate, he said.  
 “Industry still has some concern about inflation, and so
they do want to make sure inflation is kept in check,” Snyder
said. “If that’s a graduated discipline on the markets through
interest rates I don’t think that will have a major impact.”  
 TransAlta generates power using sources including coal,
natural gas, wind, hydroelectricity and geothermal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        