-- Canwest Talks Continue on TV Asset Sale to Shaw, Delaying Court Hearing
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-06-23T15:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/canwest-talks-continue-on-tv-asset-sale-to-shaw-delaying-court-hearing.html

          
          
             Canwest Global Communications Corp. 
and dissenting shareholders continued talks to resolve a dispute
over the sale of the company’s television assets to  Shaw
Communications Inc.  for C$2 billion ($1.9 billion), delaying a
scheduled court hearing.  
 Lyndon Barnes, Canwest’s lawyer, said in an e-mail he
planned to attend court later today, “but time not determined
yet.”  
 “Talks continue and I have not received any indication
when court will begin,”  John Douglas , a Canwest spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  
 Shareholders led by Canwest’s founding Asper family object
to the sale of all of the television assets. Shaw had agreed to
buy a 20 percent stake in the television unit in February, which
had been approved by an Ontario judge over the objections of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. . Goldman owned a stake in Canwest’s
specialty television unit.  
 Canwest, based in Winnipeg, Manitoba, filed for bankruptcy
protection on Oct. 6 as it faced demands for repayment of more
than C$1 billion of debt. The company had about C$4 billion of
debt at the time.  
 The deal for the television unit was renegotiated to let
Shaw acquire it all, including Goldman’s stake which the bank
agreed to sell for C$700 million.  
 Reasons for Objections  
 The dissenting shareholders object because the new
agreement doesn’t leave them with any equity in the television
unit. They argue that the unit would have fetched more had it
been put up for auction.  
 Ontario Superior Court Judge Sarah Pepall yesterday called
the dispute “ridiculous” and ordered the two sides to resolve
it outside court.  
 The cases are In the Matter of a Plan of Compromise or
Arrangement of Canwest Global Communications Corp., CV-09-8396,
Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Toronto) and In the Matter of
a Plan of Compromise or Arrangement of Canwest Publishing Inc.,
CV-10-8533, Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Toronto).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Toronto
at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        