-- Obama Ousts McChrystal Over Disparaging Remarks
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-06-23T17:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/mcchrystal-stripped-of-afghanistan-war-command-patraeus-to-take-position.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  ousted U.S.
Army General  Stanley McChrystal  for belittling remarks about
administration officials just over a year after he was entrusted
with salvaging a losing war in Afghanistan.  
 McChrystal will be replaced by General  David Petraeus , the
president said. Petraeus is commander of U.S. forces in the
Middle East and Central Asia and the architect of the
counterinsurgency strategy the U.S. is pursuing in Afghanistan.  
 “I accepted General Stanley McChrystal’s resignation,”
Obama said in a statement from the White House. “I did so with
considerable regret, but also with certainty that it is the
right thing.”  
 Obama’s decision was triggered by an  article  in Rolling
Stone magazine that quoted McChrystal and his aides disparaging
the president and other civilian leaders of the war. The
controversy threatened to fracture a unified front that Obama
has sought to build for the war and the international coalition
doing the fighting.  
 “I don’t make this decision based on any difference in
policy with General McChrystal,” the president said. Nor is
this decision based on “personal insult,” he said.  
 The general’s remarks in Rolling Stone magazine do “not
meet the standards that should be set by a commanding general”
and they undermine civilian control of the military, Obama said.  
 Second Switch of Commanders  
 The move marks the second time Obama has replaced his
commander in Afghanistan as he seeks to reverse Taliban momentum
while eyeing wavering public support at home.  
 Obama has staked a major piece of his foreign policy on the
outcome in Afghanistan. He re-confirmed his commitment to the
war in December, when he authorized the deployment of 30,000
additional troops, even as support from the public and other
nations flagged.  
 “Our nation is at war; we face a very tough fight in
Afghanistan,” the president said. “Make no mistake, we have a
clear goal. We are going to break the Taliban’s momentum.”  
 Obama urged the Senate to confirm Petraeus to his new post
as soon as possible. “This is a change in personnel, but it is
not a change in policy,” he said.  
 McChrystal, 55, was in the midst of leading the biggest,
and possibly most decisive, military offensive of the war in
Kandahar Province, the Taliban’s heartland. “As goes Kandahar,
so goes Afghanistan,’ ‘Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral
 Michael Mullen  told a Senate panel last week.  
 The increased tempo of fighting has pushed the number of
U.S. personnel who have died in Afghanistan to 1,114, more than
450 of those since the start of 2009, Pentagon figures show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       General Stanley McChrystal stripped of command  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         General Stanley McChrystal meets with U.S. President Barack Obama. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     General Stanley McChrystal meets with U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     General David Petraeus will be replacing Army General Stanley McChrystal. Photographer: Astrid Riecken/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
