-- CEZ Sells 500 Million Euros of 10-Year Bonds as Emerging Issuance Revives
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-23T13:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/cez-czech-power-producer-plans-an-offer-of-500-million-euros-of-bonds.html

          
          
             CEZ AS , the largest Czech power
producer, sold 500 million euros ($614 million) of 10-year bonds
as developing-nation offerings in the currency revive after
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis stalled issuance.  
 Emerging-market companies are starting to return to the
European bond market after sales evaporated in May amid concerns
the region’s fiscal crisis may derail the economic recovery.
America Movil SAB, the largest wireless carrier in Latin
America, issued 1.75 billion euros of notes last week in the
first benchmark sale in the currency since April 21, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 CEZ’s bonds were priced to yield 198.4 basis points more
than the benchmark German bunds. The Prague-based company sold
750 million euros of 15-year debt on April 8 at 180 basis points
over bunds, Bloomberg data show. The 2025 notes currently trade
at a spread of 172 basis points, according to Bloomberg
composite prices.  
 “Given the market volatility over the previous month
pushing out spreads, CEZ is having to offer a higher premium for
the shorter-dated bonds,” said  Suki Mann , head of credit
strategy at Societe Generale SA in London. “Nevertheless, the
company will be able to lock in an attractively low overall cost
of borrowing given the fall in risk-free rates.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
company bonds in euros fell 76 basis points this week to an
average 9.68 percent, down from a high of 10.97 percent in May,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
spread was as low as 8.2 percent in April, the Euro Emerging
Market Credit Index shows.  
 German government 10-year debt yielded 2.674 percent today,
compared with 3.088 percent on April 1.  
 Citigroup, RBS  
 The state-run utility hired Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole
CIB, Deutsche Bank AG, Erste Group Bank AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc to manage the sale of debt to meet “general
cash needs,” CEZ spokeswoman  Eva Novakova  said by phone.  
 CEZ is rated A- at Standard & Poor’s, the seventh-highest
investment grade, with a stable outlook. It surpassed carmaker
Skoda Auto, a unit of Volkswagen AG, as the largest Czech
company by revenue last year, Hospodarske Noviny reported June
18, citing the results of the Czech Top 100 business survey.  
 “As a utility sector credit with a stable outlook on its
ratings, issuing in benchmark size, this is right in investors’
sweet spot,”  Charles Stephens , a debt capital markets
specialist at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in London, wrote in
an e-mail. “This deal is likely to be well supported.”  
 CEZ shares were upgraded to “accumulate” from “hold” at
Cyrrus on June 17. Rising electricity prices and investments and
acquisitions will likely boost the company’s profit, the Brno,
Czech Republic-based brokerage said.  
 CEZ dropped 4.3 koruna, or 0.5 percent, to 876 koruna in
Prague trading as of 3:40 p.m. local time.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        