-- Chicago Title Found Liable for Employees' Role in $30 Million Fraud Case
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-06-23T00:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/chicago-title-found-liable-for-employees-role-in-30-million-fraud-case.html

          
          
             Fidelity National Financial Inc. ’s
Chicago Title Corp. and Chicago Title Insurance must pay $5.7
million in punitive damages for the role some employees played
in a $30 million real estate scam, a San Diego jury said today.  
 The companies also were told to pay a share of $1.11
million in compensatory damages the California state court jury
awarded to three investors who sued.  
 “We’re pleased that the jury found by clear and convincing
evidence that Chicago Title employees participated in this
fraud,” said Michael Kirby, a plaintiffs’ lawyer.  
 Chicago Title and Chicago Title Insurance were accused
together with Rollo “Rick” Norton, the convicted leader of the
scheme who didn’t work at the company, of fraud by 19 people who
said they lost their investments in a San Diego condominium
project through sham real estate transactions. The investors
claimed insiders at Chicago Title helped Norton prepare and sign
fraudulent documents.  
 Norton, a financial planner who pleaded guilty to mail
fraud in connection with the scam, told the jury that an escrow
officer and a local office supervisor at Chicago Title knew what
they were doing was wrong.  
 “We cannot comment on the case at this time because we
consider this ongoing litigation and it would not be proper to
do so now,” said Michael Weaver, an attorney for Chicago Title.  
 Norton, who represented himself at trial, was found liable
for $2.1 million in compensatory damages and the jury also
ordered him to pay $5.2 million in punitive damages. He’s
scheduled to be sentenced June 28 in the criminal case.  
 The case is Betty Jean Miller v. Chicago Title, 37-2008-
00083969, Superior Court of California (San Diego County).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        