-- China Bank, Real-Estate Shares `Attractive' Values, Says Henderson Global
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-06-23T01:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/china-bank-real-estate-shares-attractive-values-says-henderson-global.html

          
          
             Chinese bank and real-estate shares
are looking “attractive” to Henderson Global Investors
following a slump in valuations this year and as China moves to
make its currency more flexible.  
 The fund manager, with $94 billion of assets globally, has
purchased the Hong Kong-listed shares of Chinese banks such as
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  Bank of China Ltd. 
in the past six months and is looking to start accumulating
shares of property developers,  Andrew Beal , Henderson’s London-
based fund manager for Asian equities excluding Japan, said in
an interview.  
 Henderson’s bets come as the Chinese government takes steps
to curb the nation’s property prices, which climbed at the
second-fastest pace on record in May. Property-price gains have
spurred concerns that a record 9.59 trillion yuan ($1.4
trillion) of loans extended last year to combat the effects of
the global financial crisis may be causing asset bubbles.  
 “We don’t call what’s happening in China a bubble,” Beal
said in a June 17 interview in Singapore. “We don’t think it’s
going to end up in the sort of subprime-type bust that some
people are talking about. There’s a massive pent-up demand for
modern housing in China.”  
 He confirmed his comments on June 21, two days after
China’s central bank announced it will end the currency peg.
China’s policy shift will remove an impediment to Chinese
equities, Beal said.  
 Tightening Measures  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  declined 21 percent this year,
making it Asia’s worst performer in that period, amid concern
the government’s measures to rein in housing prices and Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis will crimp economic growth. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies’ so-called H-shares
dropped 5.7 percent.  
 The government has tried to rein in loans for purchases of
multiple homes, increased mortgage rates and raised down payment
requirements. The central bank also ordered lenders to increase
their reserve ratios three times this year.  
 “We’ve probably passed the most aggressive phase in terms
of policy tightening,” Beal said. “If China is allowing the
yuan to appreciate, then interest rates may peak at lower levels
than the market previously feared.”  
 A more flexible currency would help to curb consumer-price
gains, asset bubbles and dependence on exports for growth, the
People’s Bank of China said in a statement announcing its yuan
action on June 19.  
 Henderson owns Hong Kong-listed shares of Industrial &
Commercial Bank, which is valued at 13 times reported profit and
Bank of China, which trades at 10.3 times.  Financial-services
companies  in the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index trade
at an average 16.9 times.  
 Earnings Growth  
 Profit at ICBC, the nation’s biggest lender, climbed 18
percent in the first quarter, while earnings at Bank of China,
the country’s No. 3 lender, grew 41 percent.  
 “The banking sector is trading at about 10 times estimated
earnings and should be able to deliver earnings growth of 15-20
percent a year over the next few years,” Beal said. “We fail
to see where this hysteria about Chinese banks is coming from.”  
 China’s banking regulator said on June 15 it sees growing
credit risks in the nation’s real-estate industry and warned of
increasing pressure from non-performing loans. Risks associated
with home mortgages are rising, the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said in its annual report on June 15.  
 While there is a risk bad debts will surge should China’s
economic growth slow, Beal said provisions at Chinese banks are
more than adequate to cover any problem loans. Industrial &
Commercial Bank had a capital adequacy ratio of 11.98 percent as
of March 31, while  Bank of China ’s stood at 11.09 percent. That
compares with the banking regulator’s mandatory minimum capital
ratio of 11.5 percent.  
 Top Holdings  
  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based developer
with projects in 20 Chinese cities and districts;  Hang Lung
Properties Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based developer that received 56
percent of sales in the last fiscal year; and Guangzhou  R&F
Properties Co. , the biggest real estate company in the southern
Chinese city, are among Henderson’s top holdings, Beal said.  
 Agile Property is valued at 15.2 times reported profit,
compared with 6.4 times for Hang Lung and 10.9 times for
Guangzhou R&F.  Property stocks  on Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang
Seng Index trade at an average 11.7 times.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        