-- China's Stocks Drop on Concern Government is Increasing Tightening Steps
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T07:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-concern-about-tightening-in-steel-industry.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  declined for the
first time in three days on concern the government is extending
its tightening measures from the property industry to
commodities to curb overcapacity.  
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.  and Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co. slid
at least 2 percent after the government said it will remove
export tax rebates on some steel and metals products.  Poly Real
Estate Group Co.  and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.
paced declines for property developers and banks after investor
 Mark Mobius  said stocks haven’t become more attractive after the
central bank changed its currency policy. UFIDA Software Co. led
gains among software companies on the prospect the government
will boost development of the industry.  
 “The tightening measures that have already been put in
place aren’t likely to reversed or eased in the short term,”
said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun Investment
Management & Consulting Co. “There’s already a consensus view
among investors that economic growth has peaked.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 18.83, or 0.7 percent, to
close at 2,569.87. The gauge has plunged 22 percent this year,
the world’s third-worst performer, on concern government
measures to rein in housing prices and the European debt crisis
will damp economic growth. The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.9 percent to
2,758.50 today.  
 China’s central bank has ordered a larger proportion of
deposits as reserves at lenders three times this year after
unprecedented 9.59 trillion ($1.41 trillion) of new loans fueled
an 80 percent gain in stocks in 2009 and a surge in housing
prices. The government has also raised down payments and
mortgage rates for purchases of multiple-homes to tame property
prices that increased a record 12.8 percent in April.  
 Mark Mobius  
 The Shanghai Composite rose in the previous two days after
the central bank said it will make the nation’s currency more
flexible, boosting speculation the yuan will strengthen and
reducing the need for interest-rate increases to tame inflation.  
 China’s stocks “have not become more attractive
generally” after the central bank’s announcement, said Mobius,
who oversees about $34 billion in emerging markets as Templeton
Asset Management’s Singapore-based chairman, in e-mailed
comments. “The yuan appreciation will not have a dramatic
impact since the exchange rate change is not expected to be
significant given the change will be gradual.”  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the nation’s biggest
listed lender, dropped 0.7 percent to 4.24 yuan.  Poly Real
Estate , China’s second-largest developer by market value, fell
1.5 percent to 11.65 yuan.  
 Gauges of energy and materials stocks slid 1.9 percent and
1.7 percent respectively today, the most among the 10 industry
groups in the CSI 300.  
 Metal Rebates  
 Export tax rebates on hot-rolled coil, some cold-rolled
coil and galvanized products will be removed, the Ministry of
Finance said in a statement yesterday. The new policy will also
affect some zinc and tin products such as pipes, foils, plates
and rods, the statement said. The new rates will take effect
from July 15, the ministry said.  
 “The government is using the taxation means to curb
expansion in domestic industrial output,” said  Wei Wei , an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  
 Zhuzhou Smelter, China’s biggest producer of refined zinc,
slid 2 percent to 10.16 yuan.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , the nation’s
biggest producer of the metal, lost 1.6 percent to 27.83 yuan.
Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co., the second-biggest copper
producer, fell 1.6 percent to 16.28 yuan.  
 Export Rebates  
 China’s plan to remove export tax rebates on some products
shows that the government remains confident on the strength of
the nation’s economy and will push forward with tightening
measures, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said in a report today.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its 12-month share-price
estimates for four Chinese steelmakers by as much as 32 percent
to factor in the brokerage’s steel and iron ore price forecasts.  
 The brokerage cut 2010 and 2011 earnings estimates for
Angang Steel Co., Baoshan Steel, Maanshan Iron and Steel Co. and
Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. by as much as 59 percent, analysts led by
Jim Hung wrote in a report.  
 Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, fell 2.7 percent to 6.08 yuan.  Hebei Iron & Steel
Co. , the listed unit of China’s biggest steelmaker, lost 1.7
percent to 3.97 yuan.  
 China will expand outsourcing in the software and
information services industries through measures such as
providing beneficial policies, Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing unidentified officials with the Ministry of
Commerce.  
 ‘Turning Bullish’  
 UFIDA Software, which makes financial software, advanced
3.9 percent to 23.25 yuan, the biggest gain since June 7.  China
National Software & Service Co.  jumped 5.8 percent to 24.10 yuan,
while Shandong Langchao Cheeloosoft Co. surged the 10 percent
daily limit to 14.18 yuan.  
 Nomura Holdings Inc. is turning “bullish” on China’s
yuan-denominated shares for the first time this year amid signs
of improvement.  
 “A number of liquidity indicators are close to turning,”
analysts led by  Sean Darby  wrote in a report today. “Changes in
the yuan’s peg to the U.S. dollar, large cash holdings of
domestic fund managers and improving risk appetite are
sufficient catalysts to turn around performance in the short
term.”  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Anhui Conch Cement Co.  (600585 CH), China’s biggest cement
maker, dropped 1.6 percent to 17.71 yuan. The company had its
Hong Kong-traded stocks rating cut to “hold” from “buy” by
BNP Paribas analysts Bruce Wang and  Fannie Cui .  
 Hualan Biological Engineering Inc.  (002007 CH) jumped 7.1
percent to 48.29 yuan, the biggest advance since April 20, after
the Chinese drugmaker said one of its units received approval
from the Chinese government to make a hepatitis B vaccine.  
 Jiangxi Wannianqing Cement Co.  (000789 CH) surged the
maximum 10 percent to 8.20 yuan on the prospect that rebuilding
after floods in the country’s south will increase demand.  
 “The basic business hasn’t changed much, but the prospect
of reconstruction demand attracts attention,”  Chu Jie , an
analyst with Guoyuan Securities Co., said in a phone interview.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Straszheim, senior managing director of China research at International Strategy & Investment Group, talks about the People's Bank of China's decision to end the two-year currency peg to the dollar and the impact on the stock market.
     Straszheim talks with Margaret Brennan and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
