-- China's Desert Ghost City Shows Property `Madness' Persists
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T16:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/china-s-desert-ghost-city-shows-property-madness-as-buyers-pay-in-cash.html

          
          
             Yu Jiang looks into the front window
at his two-bedroom apartment in the center of Kangbashi, in
China’s Inner Mongolia, and says he may buy another. The place
has been empty for three years, as are as many as 90 percent of
the units near it.  
 Designed for 300,000 people, Kangbashi, the new urban
center of Ordos prefecture west of Beijing, may have only 28,000
residents, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said in a May 10 note.
Standard Chartered Bank called it “the Dubai of northern
China” for its vacant skyscrapers and more than 1.1 trillion yuan
($161 billion) worth of new public buildings and local wealth.  
 Unlike in Dubai, where home prices have fallen more than 50
percent since mid-2008, buyers are still piling into Chinese
housing. Yu says he sees no reason why the threefold gain on his
investment shouldn’t grow.  
 “The future of Kangbashi is bright,” said Yu, 52, who
runs a house-decoration business. “Government offices have
moved here so the economy will develop well. Prices will rise.”  
 Investors are stockpiling empty apartments because there
are few alternative investments, undermining government efforts
to deflate a property bubble, said  Patrick Chovanec , an
associate professor at Tsinghua University in Beijing.  
 “Money is being dumped into property because there are no
alternatives,” said Chovanec, adviser and former vice president
of the Hong Kong venture capital firm Asia Mezzanine Capital
Group. “Policy makers are nibbling around the edges of the core
problem.”  
 Loans Curbed  
 A recovery in the stock market may encourage some investors
to switch to equities, which were boosted this week after the
central bank indicated it would let the yuan appreciate. That
would leave developers with unsold projects and may cause loan
defaults.  
 Although the government has restricted pre-sales by
developers and curbed loans on third-home purchases, average
property prices in China have risen more than 10 percent from a
year earlier for four straight months.  
 Policy makers are considering a property tax in some cities
to increase the cost of holding empty homes. About 50 percent of
apartments are bought with cash, said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia-
Pacific economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  
 Fund managers  James Chanos  and  Marc Faber , Citigroup Inc.
economists  Willem Buiter  and  Shen Minggao , and Harvard
University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  are among those who have
warned of a crash in China if the government can’t stop the
property bubble. Buiter and Shen say it may take three years for
the boom to bust while Faber says it could happen within a year.  
 ‘Pretty Horrendous’  
 The result will be “pretty horrendous,” slashing economic
growth to less than 5 percent over two years and saddling banks
with more than $400 billion in bad loans, said  Jim Walker , chief
economist at Hong Kong-based Asianomics Ltd. and former chief
economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, in an interview.  
 Banks are at risk because they often use land as collateral
for loans from developers. A 50 percent fall in property prices
would mean the loans are no longer covered by the land’s value,
calling into question “the solvency of the entire banking
system,” Chovanec wrote in a  blog  in January.  
 The nation’s 13.6 trillion yuan ($2 trillion) of new loans
in the past 17 months, bigger than the economies of South Korea,
Taiwan and Hong Kong combined, is “unprecedented in 400 years
of economic history,” said London-based hedge fund manager  Hugh Hendry , co-founder of Eclectica Asset Management, which manages
$420 million.  
 Risks associated with home mortgages are growing and a
“chain effect” may appear in real-estate development loans,
the China Banking Regulatory Commission said June 15 in its
annual report. The Beijing-based regulator told lenders to
report their real-estate risk by the end of this month.  
 Prices Rising  
 Chinese investors have few appealing options. Capital
controls prevent citizens from investing overseas; bank deposits
yield 2.25 percent, less than the 3.1 percent rise in May’s
consumer price inflation.  
 China’s wealthy switched their focus to property in 2007
because of the stock market’s poor performance, said  Rupert Hoogewerf , founder of the Shanghai-based Hurun Report, a luxury
publishing and events group. The  Shanghai Composite Index  has
slumped 59 percent since peaking at 6,092 points on Oct. 16,
2007.  
 “The underlying sources of the property bubble remain,”
said  Ben Simpfendorfer , an economist with Royal Bank of Scotland
in Hong Kong. “Savings deposits for households and corporates
combined are worth 146 percent of GDP and earn 2.25 percent and
are trapped inside the country. Equities have performed poorly,
while the bond market is underdeveloped.”  
 Financial Holdings  
 Few places illustrate the boom in wealth and lack of
investment opportunities better than Ordos, population 1.5
million. Demand for coal from the desert region to fuel China’s
factories has boosted the area’s gross domestic product by an
average 25 percent for the past decade, said  Lu Ting , an
economist with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong. Coal
contributes more than half of Ordos’s GDP, he said.  
 “Ordos has basically been bought up by miners who have got
plenty of cash,” said Hurun’s Hoogewerf. “They’re buying up
the properties, not living in them themselves, and basically
just sitting on them.”  
 Construction of Kangbashi new town, 560 kilometers (348
miles) from the capital, began in 2004 and the Ordos government
moved most of its offices there in 2006 from Dongsheng, a 40-
minute drive away. With few shops, restaurants and other
amenities in the new city, most government workers still prefer
to live in Dongsheng and commute.  
 Theater and Arts  
 That hasn’t stopped the government from investing more than
1.1 trillion yuan in Kangbashi on buildings that include the 502
million-yuan Great Theater of Ordos, the 362 million-yuan Ordos
National Theater, and the 318 million-yuan Ordos Culture and Art
Center, according to the Ordos government’s website.  
 Government efforts to slow the real-estate market have had
some effect. Bank lending fell 31 percent to 4 trillion yuan in
the first five months from a year earlier as the government
raised banks’ minimum reserve requirements three times.  
 That helped curb housing sales in Beijing, Shanghai and
Shenzhen, the nation’s wealthiest cities, which fell as much as
70 percent in May from the previous month, the official Shanghai
Securities News reported.  
 Most Attractive?  
 The decline had little effect on property prices, which
rose 12.4 percent in May from a year earlier, the second-fastest
pace on record after April’s 12.8 percent gain, the statistics
bureau said on June 10. On a monthly basis, values advanced 0.2
percent in May.  
 Citigroup’s  Markus Rosgen  and  Elaine Chu  said in a May 31
note that the 30 percent decline in a gauge of property stocks
in the first five months of this year made the sector the most
attractive in China.  
 Demand for housing in China will withstand government bank
lending curbs, and further declines in the nation’s property
stocks may be an opportunity to buy the shares,  Mark Mobius , who
oversees about $34 billion in emerging market funds as Templeton
Asset Management Ltd.’s Singapore-based chairman, said in answer
to e-mailed questions April 21.  
 The EPH China Fund hadn’t owned property stocks until late
May, when valuations fell below historical averages, prompting
it to buy Shenzhen-based  China Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest
publicly traded property developer, and  Evergrande Real Estate
Group Ltd. , said Russell Hoss, who manages the $59-million fund
from Newport Beach, California.  
 Smaller Declines  
 “We want to own developers with good balance sheets, good
brands, limited cash outlays and with exposure to second and
third tier cities,” said Hoss. Whereas prices may fall 25
percent in cities such as Beijing and Shanghai, declines in
second- and third-tier cities may be only 10 percent, he said.  
 Policy makers’ tolerance for property price declines is no
more than 30 percent for “fear of too much economic weakness,”
said  Shen Minggao , Citigroup’s Hong Kong-based chief economist
for Greater China. If China’s 8 percent growth target for this
year is “challenged,” policies to cool property may be
softened or “even reversed,” said Shen.  
 Property investment contributed almost 11 percent of
China’s GDP directly last year and Shen estimates that with the
spillover effect into other industries, the total contribution
is double that.  
 Kangbashi’s construction boom shows no signs of slowing. In
the Yu Ying Yipin area on Min Fu Road, Lian Bang Group is
building five 13-story apartment blocks. Opposite, Sheng Da
Group has 12 17-story residential towers nearing completion.  
 About 100 meters further along the road, site clearing is
under way for what Ordos-based developer Elion Resources Group-
billboard says is a 156,537 square meter project with 26
apartment blocks capable of housing 3,530 people.  
 “You can’t address a bubble by preventing people from
owning two apartments,” said  Michael Pettis , a finance
professor at Peking University in Beijing and former head of
emerging markets at Bear Stearns & Cos. “The money has to go
somewhere.”  
 -- Kevin Hamlin , with assistance from Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai.
Editors:  Adam Majendie ,  Anne Swardson .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Construction continues on the art museum in the new Kangbashi section of Ordos earlier this month. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
