-- Chinese Banks' Asset Deterioration `Near Certainty,' Fitch Ratings Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T06:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/china-banks-asset-deterioration-near-certainty-due-to-risk-fitch-says.html

          
          
             Chinese banks ’ surge in loan growth
since late 2008 has raised their exposure to credit risk and
future asset quality deterioration is “a near certainty,”
according to Fitch Ratings.  
 The majority of new loans have gone to local government
projects and real estate and both have “questionable returns
over the medium-term,”  Charlene Chu , a Beijing-based director
at Fitch, said in a statement today.  
 “Chinese banks’ financial positions are more strained than
it appears, which could complicate the implementation of
additional stimulus in the event of a ‘double-dip’ recession,”
Chu said.  
 China’s government unleashed a record 9.59 trillion yuan
($1.4 trillion)  lending boom  last year to stimulate the economy
and has stepped up measures to curb lending to local government
financing vehicles and the real estate industry. The banking
regulator has told lenders to report on their risk exposure by
the end of June to help prevent a pileup of bad loans.  
 Policy makers aim to cap new loans at 7.5 trillion yuan
this year, down 22 percent from 2009, and have told banks to set
aside more  deposits as reserves  three times since Jan. 1.  
 Some banks have transferred loans off their balance sheets
in an effort to circumvent regulatory requirements and capital
and loan-loss provisioning, the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said in its 2009  annual report  this month.  
 Hidden Risks  
 “Chinese banks have been increasingly re-packaging loans
into wealth management products, but this activity poses hidden
credit and liquidity risk,” Fitch said today.  
 China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy,  expanded 
11.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the
quickest pace in three years. The government has restricted pre-
sales by developers, curbed loans for third-home purchases,
raised minimum mortgage rates and tightened down-payment
requirements for second-home purchases since April.  
 China ordered local governments to ensure repayment of
debts by their financing units and concentrate on completing
projects already under way. Financing units that fund only
public projects and rely on fiscal income to repay debt should
stop spending, the State Council said earlier this month.  
 -- Luo Jun . Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Chitra Somayaji   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        