-- Christie May Not Have Enough Votes to Ensure Passage of New Jersey Budget
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-23T20:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/christie-may-not-have-enough-votes-to-ensure-passage-of-new-jersey-budget.html

          
          
             Two Republicans in the  New Jersey 
Assembly plan to vote against Governor  Chris Christie’s  $29.4
billion budget, which may leave his party unable to pass the
spending plan by the July 1 start of the fiscal year.  
 Assemblyman  Michael Patrick Carroll , a Republican from
Morristown, said he won’t support the budget because it doles
out school aid disproportionately to urban districts. Republican
Assemblywoman  Alison Littell McHose  said the budget was crafted
in order to “attract Democratic support” at the expense of
middle-class communities and she won’t vote for it.  
 There are 33 Republicans in the Democrat-led Assembly. The
budget negotiated by Christie must pass with a majority vote, or
41 members in support. Democrats agreed during budget talks with
Christie to provide eight votes to ensure passage, and they have
no plans to give more if Republicans fail to get all their
members’ backing, said Assembly Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan .  
 “The agreement was to put those eight votes up and that’s
what we’re going to do,”  Cryan , a Democrat from Union, said in
an interview today. “No Democrats like this budget. None of us
endorsed it. We made an agreement to keep to keep government
functioning. We hope our Republican colleagues will do the
same.”  
 Budget Accord  
 Christie and lawmakers announced a budget agreement on June
21, 10 days before the start of the new fiscal year. State law
requires a shutdown of nonessential services if a spending plan
isn’t in place by July 1. Democrats said they agreed to support
Christie’s budget to avoid a repeat of the 2006 impasse that
shut New Jersey parks, courts, beaches and casinos for a week.  
 McHose said she has been in contact with Christie’s
administration and leaders in her house about her plans to vote
against it. She said she will seek to amend the plan to redirect
$613 million in funding for urban pre-schools to all districts
and is confident a government shutdown will be averted.  
 “I have school districts that are struggling with having
to close buildings and cut programs,” McHose, who sits on the
Assembly budget panel, said in an interview. “People want
relief now and they should have an opportunity to get that money
back.”  
 Carroll, whose district includes Christie’s hometown of
Mendham Township, said in an interview today that the
responsibility to approve a budget rests with the Democratic
majority, and he doesn’t see his lone vote as prompting a
shutdown or defeat of the plan.  
 State Interests  
 “It doesn’t serve my interests and I don’t believe it
serves the interest of the state,” Carroll said about the
budget. “My district probably wouldn’t miss the state tomorrow
if it shuts down.”  
 Christie’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said “we value
their support and are interacting with” Carroll and McHose. He
declined to give further details.  
 Richard Savner, a spokesman for Assembly Minority Leader
 Alex DeCroce , a Republican from Parsippany, said DeCroce
wouldn’t comment.  
 The budget proposed by Christie, 47, who took office in
January, would close a record $10.7 billion deficit without
raising taxes. It contains $10 billion in spending reductions.  
 The plan would cut aid to public schools by $820 million,
reduce funding for municipalities by $445 million and skip the
state’s $3 billion payment to its pension funds.  
 The Senate, which Democrats control 23-17, began debate on
budget-related bills today in Trenton. The Assembly’s budget
committee plans to hold hearings tomorrow and the following day.
Both houses have scheduled June 28  voting  sessions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey, speaks during an event at the Statehouse in New Jersey. Photographer: Tim Larsen/Office of the Governor via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
