-- Christie Tax-Capping Plan May Test Strength of New Jersey Budget Victory
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/christie-tax-capping-plan-may-test-strength-of-new-jersey-budget-victory.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
a Republican who secured a $29.4 billion budget deal with
Democrats controlling the Legislature, may face a tougher test
as he presses to limit the highest property taxes in the U.S.  
 Rather than face the shutdown of state government without a
budget agreement, Democrats will fight Christie’s push for a
constitutional amendment capping annual real-estate tax
increases at 2.5 percent, said pollster  Patrick Murray  of
 Monmouth University  in West Long Branch, New Jersey.  
 Property-tax reduction “is the beginning and the end of
how voters will evaluate the Christie administration,” Murray
said. “He knows that and Democrats know that. They gave him the
win on the  budget  in the hopes of him losing on property
taxes.”  
 Christie, 47, won election in November on a pledge to
balance the budget without raising taxes, amid voter anger over
a 72 percent surge in real-estate levies in 10 years. He is the
first Republican elected governor of the state since 1997.  
 The budget agreement, announced 10 days before the start of
the new fiscal year on July 1, would close a record $10.7
billion deficit through spending cuts, including reduced aid to
schools and local governments.  
 The governor got his plan to cut $820 million from aid to
schools from kindergarten through 12th grade, trim $445 million
from funding for municipalities and skip a $3 billion pension
contribution. The budget also calls for firing about 1,000
employees, suspends property-tax rebates and counts on $50
million in savings through privatization.  
 ‘Permanent Tax Relief’  
 “We need indelible, permanent property-tax relief,”
Christie told reporters yesterday in Trenton, the state capital.
“Voters are saying, ‘You’ve had 30 years to fix this.’  
 “It’s time,” he said in an appearance with mayors
described as favoring his tax cap. “Ambulances will still come
to pick people up. Police will still patrol our streets, and the
garbage is going to continue to get picked up.”  
 The Senate scheduled debate on the budget bill to begin
tomorrow. The spending plan will clear the lower chamber before
the start of the fiscal year, said Assemblyman  Joseph Malone , a
Republican from Bordentown, the ranking member of his party on
the budget panel.  
 “This is not the type of budget a Democratic
administration would have come up with,” said  Brigid Harrison ,
a politics professor at Montclair State University. “Christie
can walk out of this claiming credit. He got what he wanted.”  
 New Jersey’s property-tax bills last year  averaged  $7,281,
up from $4,239 in 1999, according to the state Department of
Community Affairs.  
 Special Session  
 A 7.2 percent tax jump in 2005 bills prompted lawmakers to
call a special session and set a 4 percent limit on annual
increases. The law, which took effect in 2007, allows local
governments to seek state permission to exceed the cap. About 70
towns have won permission to boost taxes more than 4 percent
this year, said Lisa Ryan, a community affairs spokeswoman.  
 Christie’s  proposed  “hard cap” on property-tax increases
could be exceeded only to cover debt payments or with voter
approval. Passage by three-fifths of each legislative chamber is
needed by early July for the issue to appear on the November
ballot, Christie has said. Adoption requires a simple majority
in the popular vote.  
 Harder to Change  
 Writing the tax limit into the state constitution is
necessary because “anything we do by statute can be changed,”
the governor said.  
 Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat,
introduced a competing plan that would cap increases at 2.9
percent, or 0.4 percentage point higher than Christie’s. The
bill needs only a simple majority vote by Legislators.  
 In a sign of the resistance Christie faces, budget
committees in both the Assembly and the Senate have announced
they’re considering Sweeney’s measure. Neither has scheduled
deliberation of the governor’s plan.  
 Relations between the governor and Democrats have been
fractious since Christie entered office five months ago.  
 In May, Christie vetoed a tax  increase  on incomes over $1
million. Democrats failed to overturn the veto June 21.  
 Sweeney blocked the governor’s nomination of attorney  Anne Murray Paterson  to the Supreme Court after the governor chose
not to reappoint Justice  John Wallace . The only black member of
the court, Wallace was the first sitting justice ever denied
tenure.  
 Fight Forecast  
 Sweeney, 51, told reporters in Trenton that he expects a
fight over the property-tax proposals during hearings.  
 Christie’s plan would be “devastating” to schools and
local governments left unable to cover their bills, Sweeney
said. Constitutional amendments are almost impossible to
reverse, he said.  
 “If we make a mistake, we can’t undo it,” he said of the
governor’s proposal. “This would destroy local governments and
make it impossible for them to deliver public safety.”  
 Sweeney and Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver  agreed to the
governor’s budget after concluding that they couldn’t win, said
 Ben Dworkin , head of the Rebovich Institute of New Jersey
Politics at Rider University in Lawrenceville. Democrats will
attempt to use the cuts against Christie in 2011, when voters
elect all 120 members of the Legislature, he said.  
 “In any political fight, you stand up not just on
principle but on those issues where you can win,” Dworkin said
in an interview. “The budget was relatively easy for the
governor. That cap is going to be a lot more difficult.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey, speaks during an event at the Statehouse in New Jersey. Photographer: Tim Larsen/Office of the Governor via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
