-- Citadel Resources May Boost Stake in Saudi Arabia's Biggest Copper Project
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-23T03:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/citadel-resources-may-boost-stake-in-saudi-jabal-sayid-deposit-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Citadel Resources Ltd ., developer of
Saudi Arabia’s biggest copper deposit, said it’s interested
in the future in boosting its stake in the Jabal Sayid deposit
beyond 70 percent.  
 ”It’s a great project, so if we can do it as an accretive
deal we would obviously do so,”  Ines Scotland , chief executive
officer of Melbourne-based Citadel, said today in an interview,
adding the company had no immediate plans to boost its stake.
“We’re constantly chatting with our joint venture partners
about that, about the right point in time.”  
 Citadel plans to start production at the A$280 million
($244 million) copper-gold development by the fourth quarter
next year. The company said today it sold A$251 million shares
to institutional investors to help fund the project.  
 Shares of Citadel fell 6.5 percent to 29 cents at 12:29 p.m.
in Sydney time on the Australian stock exchange. It sold the
shares at the same price, an 11 percent discount to their June
18 close. Citadel is seeking to sell A$10 million to A$20
million shares to individual investors in a sale due to start
June 29.  
 Citadel this week agreed with joint venture partner Central
Mining Investments Ltd. to raise its stake in the Saudi project
to 70 percent from 50 percent.  
 Most new institutional investors are London and Hong Kong-
based, Scotland said. Many are keen to invest in an Australian
company with its main assets outside the nation after the
government’s proposal last month for a 40 percent mine profits
tax, she said.  
 Australian Projects  
 “They obviously aren’t looking to invest in other
Australian projects at the moment given the resources tax,”
Scotland said. “They expressed that view to us.”  
 “There aren’t a lot of copper projects near production,
and ours is low capital cost and low operating cost,” said
Scotland. Jabal Sayid, Saudi Arabia’s first base metals project
and the first to get a mining license under new mining laws, is
targeting annual output of 57,000 metric tons of copper in
concentrate.  
 A global deficit in copper concentrates market is likely to
increase during the next two years, Morgan Stanley analyst  Peter Richardson  said today in a report. Copper on the London Metals
Exchange has dropped 10 percent this year.  
 The share sale is managed by Morgan Stanley and Petra
Capital Pty and Gryphon Partners Advisory Pty are advising
Citadel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        