-- `American Idol' Owner Adopts Poison Pill as Group Considers Tender Offer
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-23T20:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/ckx-confirms-third-party-is-pursuing-a-tender-offer-adopts-rights-plan.html

          
          
             CKX Inc. , the owner of “American
Idol,” adopted a shareholder rights plans that may prevent
company founder  Robert F.X. Sillerman  and another potential
investor from acquiring a majority stake.  
 CKX’s board received a letter from a third party indicating
possible interest in a tender offer for less than all of the
company’s shares, CKX said today in a statement, without
identifying the investor. The bidder is in discussions with
Sillerman, who resigned as chairman and chief executive officer
last month to pursue a possible takeover.  
 The rights plan, or so-called poison pill, would allow CKX
to issue preferred shares to investors to prevent “coercive
takeover tactics.” The shares sought in the tender offer, in
combination with Sillerman’s 21 percent stake, would represent
majority ownership, and New York-based CKX said an offer for
less than all of the shares wouldn’t be in investors’ interests.  
 CKX received a $600 million bid last month from an investor
group led by  Simon Fuller , a person familiar with the offer said
at the time. Fuller is the founder of 19 Entertainment and
creator of the “Idol” TV series. Another offer came in March
when CKX was close to an agreement with One Equity Partners,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s private-equity arm, to take the company
private, a person familiar with the situation said then.  
 Sillerman and the unnamed group have not yet reached an
agreement, and he isn’t expected to tender his shares, CKX said.  
 CKX Dividend  
 CKX declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase
right for each outstanding share of common stock. The purchase
right would be activated only if triggered by the plan, the
company said. The rights aren’t designed to prevent a takeover,
and the board said it would consider a fully financed proposal.  
 Sillerman acknowledged the third party’s tender offer in a
 regulatory  filing after U.S. markets closed yesterday and said
he urged the board to pursue the opportunity.  
 Fuller and Sillerman had tried to take the company private
in 2007, dropping the $12-a-share bid in 2008.  
 CKX, which also owns the rights to Elvis Presley’s name and
image, rose 19 cents, or 4 percent, to $4.90 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, giving the company a market
value of about $456 million. The shares are trading below
Fuller’s $6.45-a-share takeover offer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        