-- CNN Hires Eliot Spitzer, Kathleen Parker to Host Show
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-23T20:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/cnn-hires-eliot-spitzer-kathleen-parker-to-host-prime-time-talk-show.html

          
          
             CNN, the 24-hour cable news network
owned by  Time Warner Inc. , said former New York Governor  Eliot Spitzer  and print journalist  Kathleen Parker  will co-host a
nightly roundtable TV show.  
 The new show will start in the fall and air weeknights at 8
p.m.,  Jon Klein , the president of CNN U.S., said today in an e-
mailed statement.  
 CNN is revamping its prime-time lineup to reverse ratings
that have fallen after the 2008 U.S. presidential election amid
increasing competition with  NBC Universal’s  MSNBC and  News
Corp.’s  Fox News. Parker, who describes herself as a “rational
conservative,” and Spitzer, a Democrat forced to resign as
governor in March 2008 after a call-girl scandal, will exchange
opinions and analysis with guests and contributors, CNN said.  
 “CNN is in the ratings doldrums right now,” said  Brad Adgate , research director at Horizon Media, a New York-based
advertising company. “They have to create appointment viewing,
and they’re going to have to attract viewers that are going to
watch them regardless of the events of the day.”  
 That’s where Fox News and MSNBC have excelled with
personalities like  Bill O’Reilly  and  Keith Olbermann ,
respectively, Adgate said. Spitzer and Parker’s as yet unnamed
show will be up against those two opinionated hosts at 8 p.m.  
 “Other cable news channels force-feed viewers one narrow,
predictable point of view; in contrast, CNN will be offering a
lively roundup of all the best ideas -- presented by two of the
most intelligent and outspoken figures in the country,” Klein
said in his statement.  
 CNN Ratings  
 CNN is averaging 644,000 viewers a night in prime time this
year, down 34 percent from the same period a year ago, according
to data from Nielsen Co. Fox is averaging 2.11 million prime-
time viewers, and MSNBC is drawing 782,000.  
 Spitzer, 51, became known as “the sheriff of Wall Street”
as New York State attorney general from 1999 to 2006 when he
collected billions in settlements from financial companies such
as Merrill Lynch & Co. and  American International Group Inc.   
 He later stepped down as governor of the state after he was
identified as a client of the Emperors Club VIP, a high-priced
prostitution ring. Since then, the former prosecutor has been a
contributor to  Slate.com , filled in occasionally as a host on
MSNBC and made guest appearances on CNN.  
 Parker won a Pulitzer Prize this year for her commentary in
the Washington Post. She started writing a political opinion
column in 1987 at the Orlando Sentinel. The column was
syndicated in 1995, and Parker joined the Post four years ago.
Her writing now appears twice a week in more than 400
newspapers.  
 Parker and Palin  
 Parker was among the conservative commentators who
questioned  Sarah Palin’s  qualifications during the 2008
election.  
 The show fills the time slot vacated by host  Campbell Brown , who announced in May she was stepping down because her
ratings at 8 p.m. were not where she wanted.  
 In the 8 p.m. hour, CNN is drawing 575,000 viewers on
average since the start of 2010, down 36 percent from the same
period a year earlier, according to Nielsen data. Fox averages
3.26 million viewers, and MSNBC gets an audience of 1.03
million.  
 Time Warner, based in New York, rose 28 cents to $31.83 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have gained 9.2 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former governor of New York Eliot Spitzer. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
