-- U.S. Air-Collision Alerts Top 200 Since New Monitoring Began
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-06-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/collision-alerts-on-u-s-flights-top-200-in-three-months-new-count-shows.html

          
          
             Alarms sounded in the cockpits of a
 Continental Airlines Inc.  plane carrying 100 people and a
Gulfstream II business jet, warning the pilots that they were
headed for a collision more than 24,000 feet over Maryland.  
 The Continental pilot, bound for Newark, New Jersey, pushed
down the Boeing Co. 737-800 to avoid a crash, the  National
Transportation Safety Board  said. A controller’s error had put
the planes within 300 feet of colliding, violating rules that
aircraft remain at least 1,000 feet apart, the NTSB said.  
 The Maryland  incident  on March 25 is among more than 200
reports collected in the three months after the U.S. stepped up
scrutiny of close calls in the air. While the safety board said
most cases involved “no actual hazard,” it homed in on five
incidents investigators said were serious and may have gone
undetected without a disclosure rule that took effect March 8.  
 The five events were “probably the biggest surprise” from
the new monitoring, John DiLisi, the NTSB’s deputy director of
aviation safety, said in an interview. “Aircraft got so close
together that evasive action was required. This is the type of
serious incident we should be immediately notified about.”  
 The close calls in March, April and May have triggered
Federal Aviation Administration investigations, said spokeswoman
 Alison Duquette . The agency also formed a group with air-traffic
controllers that met for the first time this month to examine
possible changes in training or procedures, she said.  
 “We take these incidents seriously,” said  Doug Church ,
spokesman for the National Air Traffic Controllers Association,
a Washington-based union for the control-tower workers. The rate
for the most egregious violations of FAA separation standards
rose to 3.31 per million controller commands in the eight months
through May 31, up from 2.44 in the full year ending Sept. 30,
2009, according to the agency.  
 No Common Theme  
 The FAA has found no common theme in the NTSB’s five
incidents, Duquette said. Regulators are examining cockpit-alert
reports with an industry-agency team that seeks safety
improvements,  Peggy Gilligan , the FAA’s safety chief, told
reporters June 15.  
 The March 8  rule  requires that the NTSB be notified when
cockpit alarms sound and crew action is needed to avoid a
“substantial risk of collision.” The NTSB, which is
independent of the FAA, investigates accidents and makes non-
binding recommendations.  
 Airlines Objected  
 The board proposed the rule in 2008, after concluding it
may not have been hearing about all near-collisions. Airlines,
small-plane operators and pilots objected at the time that
filing reports would be burdensome or unnecessary.  
 In addition to the Continental  incident  above Worton,
Maryland, the NTSB is investigating near collisions above
Chicago; San Francisco; Burbank, California; and Anchorage,
Alaska.  
 An Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA E135 operated by
 AMR Corp. ’s American Eagle came within 300 feet of a King Air
300 turboprop after takeoff April 21 from Chicago O’Hare
International Airport, according to an NTSB  report . A cockpit
alarm instructed the Eagle crew to take evasive action after an
error in the control tower, the report found.  
 Eight days later, a Bombardier Inc. CL-600-2B19 regional
jet operated by  SkyWest Inc.  received an alert to take evasive
action while turning at 1,500 feet to land at Burbank, an NTSB
 report  said. A TV news helicopter was approaching head-on at
1,200 feet, according to the report.  
 ‘Cooperating Fully’  
 Houston-based Continental is “cooperating fully” with the
investigation, spokeswoman Christen David said. American Eagle
shared internal reports with the board, said  Andrea Huguely ,
spokeswoman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier. SkyWest
crews are trained in avoidance procedures and the incident
“demonstrates that proficiency,” said  Marissa Snow , a
spokeswoman for the St. George, Utah-based airline.  
 The NTSB previously disclosed two probes triggered by the
rule. In one case, a  US Airways Group Inc.  jet came within 100
feet of a cargo plane in Anchorage, Alaska on May 21. In the
other, a  UAL Corp.  United Airlines Boeing Co. 777-222 came
within 200 feet of a small aircraft after takeoff March 27 from
San Francisco.  
 Pilots are alerted by an aircraft’s Traffic Collision and
Avoidance System. The technology has been required by the
government since 1993 after incidents such as a 1986 crash over
 Cerritos, California , that killed 82 people. The devices are
made by  Honeywell International Inc. ,  Rockwell Collins Inc.  and
Aviation Communication & Surveillance Systems, a joint venture
of  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc.  and  Thales SA.   
 ‘Climb, Climb Now’  
 The units use radio signals and the transponders of nearby
aircraft to give pilots a cockpit display and a succession of
warnings from a buzzer, a red light and aural commands to
“descend, descend” or “climb, climb now.”  
 Not all alerts signal a real risk of a collision because
the devices can’t read the intent of pilots, said  Bill Voss ,
president of the non-profit Flight Safety Foundation in
Alexandria, Virginia. A pilot executing a pre-arranged plan to
climb quickly through the path of crossing traffic may trigger
an alert, even though there is no danger, he said.  
 Airlines remain unhappy with the reporting requirement,
said  David Castelveter , a spokesman for the Air Transport
Association, which represents  Delta Air Lines Inc. , AMR’s
American Airlines and United Airlines. Carriers may spend as
many as 15 hours gathering information on an alert, duplicating
data the FAA collects in voluntary programs, he said.  
 “Why is the NTSB getting into the business of data
collection?” Castelveter said. “It’s onerous and burdensome.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The March 8 rule requires that the NTSB be notified when cockpit alarms sound and crew action is needed to avoid a “substantial risk of collision.” Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The air-traffic control tower stands over airplanes parked at their gates at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
