-- Santos `Euphoria' May Spur Colombia's Return to International Bond Market
-- Andrea Jaramillo
-- 2010-06-23T16:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/colombia-may-sell-bonds-in-overseas-markets-on-santos-victory-torres-says.html

          
          
             Colombia may tap international debt
markets before President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  takes office
in August as the government seeks to finance the biggest budget
deficit in eight years, said former Public Credit Director  Julio Torres .  
 Santos, the former defense minister who won the country’s
presidential runoff on June 20 by a landslide, has said that
should his administration sell a stake in power company Isagen
SA it won’t use the estimated 3 trillion pesos ($1.59 billion)
of revenue to finance spending. President  Alvaro Uribe ’s
government had earmarked proceeds from the sale to cover
spending in the final three months of the year.  
 Yields on Colombia’s 7.75 percent peso bonds due in 2021
have tumbled 64 basis points, or 0.64 percentage point, since
Santos won the first round of voting on May 30 to 6.7 percent,
according to Correval SA. Investors are betting Santos will
continue Uribe’s security polices, which helped almost halve the
number of murders and slash kidnappings 93 percent by 2009,
spurring economic gains.  
 “There’s a lot of appetite” for Colombia’s foreign bonds,
Torres, who now helps manage a $53 million infrastructure fund
for Nexus Capital Partners SA, said in a telephone interview in
Bogota. “Understanding that there’s continuity, it gives them
tranquility to tap the international market.”  
 ‘Euphoria’  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Colombia’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed to 216 from 261 a
month ago, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  
 Colombia may take advantage of falling borrowing costs and
investor optimism after Santos’s victory to tap overseas
markets, said  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin America strategy at
RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 Colombia “might as well capture the euphoria on the back
of the Santos victory as soon as an opportunistic moment to
issue” is open, she said. “It depends on what external risk
appetite is doing.”  
 Morden predicts Colombia will sell more of its overseas
peso bonds, known as Global TES, due in 2021. The government
last sold about $800 million of the bonds in April.  
 Colombia received congressional approval last month to sell
an additional $800 million in bonds abroad this year or next.
The country plans to sell 25.5 trillion pesos in local bonds
this year, 13 trillion pesos of which will be auctioned.  
 “The local market is pretty tight so I think there would
be a better environment externally to issue debt,” said Torres,
who served as public credit director between 2006 and 2008.  
 Budget Deficit  
 A Finance Ministry official declined to comment on the
government’s debt sale plans when contacted by Bloomberg News.
The official asked not to be named, citing ministerial policy.  
 Santos will take over a government on Aug. 7 that’s
forecast to have a consolidated budget deficit of 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product, the biggest since 2002. He named former
cabinet colleague  Juan Carlos Echeverry  as finance minister on
June 21, charging him with balancing the budget by 2014.  
 Uribe’s administration said last month it would leave the
decision to sell its 57 percent stake in Isagen to the new
government.  
 Santos, an economist who carried out graduate studies at
Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the London
School of Economics, won 69 percent of the vote against 28
percent for the Green Party’s  Antanas Mockus .  
 FARC  
 As Uribe’s defense minister from 2006 to 2009, Santos
oversaw some of the biggest defeats for the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, including a 2008 raid in Ecuador
that killed the rebel group’s No. 2 leader,  Raul Reyes . The
economy grew at its fastest pace in three decades in 2007 and
attracted a record $10.6 billion in foreign direct investment in
2008.  
 The government expects the economy to grow 3 percent this
year and 4 percent in 2011, while forecasting foreign direct
investment to reach $10 billion this year.  
 The government should sell stakes in Isagen and oil company
Ecopetrol SA to pay down debt, said Torres.  
 “Colombia has very valuable assets and it’s a good moment
to sell them,” said Torres.  
 The South American nation’s “biggest barrier” to
achieving investment grade is the high level of debt to gross
domestic product, according to Torres. The consolidated public
sector’s net debt to GDP was 27.2 percent last year, while the
central government’s was 37.6 percent.  
 Credit Ratings  
 Colombia’s bonds are rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BB+ by Fitch Ratings, which are both one level below
investment grade. Standard & Poor’s rates the bonds at BBB-, the
lowest level of investment grade, and the government at BB+, one
notch below.  
 After Colombia’s Conservative and Radical Change parties
endorsed Santos after the first-round vote, Santos has about 70
percent of backing in Congress, according to Credit Suisse Group
AG.  
 “The big story is you might actually get a policy shift in
Colombia,” Morden said. “If Santos wants to effect change,
he’s absolutely going to have the mandate to do it.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        