-- Oil Service Companies Seek Enforcement of Judge's Order Lifting Drill Ban
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-24T00:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/companies-seek-enforcement-of-drilling-order-to-prevent-de-facto-ban.html

          
          
             Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and
more than a dozen other oil service companies asked a judge to
enforce his order lifting a moratorium on deepwater drilling in
the Gulf of Mexico, claiming the U.S. plans a “de facto”
continuation of the ban.  
 The companies sought an emergency hearing from U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans in light of
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar’s  testimony before a Senate
Committee today and statements by the department to the media,
lawyer  Carl Rosenblum  said in a court filing today.  
 “Secretary Salazar’s statements constitute a de facto
continuance of the moratorium in direct violation” of Feldman’s
order, Rosenblum said.  
 President  Barack Obama  temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential
commission time to study improvements in the safety of offshore
operations. More than a dozen Louisiana offshore service and
supply companies sued U.S. regulators to lift the ban.  
 Feldman yesterday granted a preliminary order lifting the
moratorium and barring federal regulators from enforcing their
restriction of deepwater drilling. Government lawyers told
Feldman the ban was based on findings in a U.S. report following
the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig off the Louisiana coast
in April. Feldman said the six-month ban was too broad a
response to its investigation.  
 ‘Divine or Fathom’  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
Feldman said in his 22-page decision. “The blanket moratorium,
with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed
and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs
drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an
imminent danger.”  
 The U.S. yesterday said it would appeal Feldman’s decision.
 Andrew Ames , Justice Department spokesman, said today he didn’t
know when the government would file an appeal.  
 “I have no guidance on timing at this point,” he said in
a phone interview. Salazar’s remarks don’t indicate an intention
to defy the court’s order, he said.  
 “The secretary has said they were in the process of
developing a new moratorium,” Ames said.  
 Environmental groups, including the Sierra Club and the
Natural Resources Defense Council, today asked Judge Feldman to
disclose any financial interests he has that “could be
substantially affected by the outcome of the proceeding,”
citing a 2008 disclosure report that showed the judge had stock
in several oil and offshore energy companies.  
 ‘The Right Decision’  
 Salazar yesterday said the U.S. would issue a new
moratorium governing deepwater drilling in the Gulf. “The
decision to impose a moratorium on deepwater drilling was and is
the right decision,” he said in a statement. “I will issue a
new order in the coming days that eliminates any doubt that a
moratorium is needed, appropriate, and within our authorities.”  
 “We will in the weeks and months ahead take a look at how
it is that the moratorium in place might be refined,” Salazar
said today at a hearing of a Senate Appropriations Committee
panel. Rules to be issued “will include the criteria under
which it is appropriate to take a look at the lifting” of the
ban, Salazar said.  
 Hornbeck and the other companies said in court papers that
Salazar’s remarks show “direct defiance” of the court’s
preliminary injunction.  
 ‘Very Surprised’  
 “We were very surprised yesterday and again today to hear
from Secretary Salazar that the moratorium is really still in
effect,”  Samuel Giberga , Hornbeck’s senior vice president and
general counsel, said in a telephone interview today. “That’s
the very issue Judge Feldman considered, and the very issue the
Department of Interior litigated before Judge Feldman and
lost.”  
 Salazar’s testimony referred to a “new moratorium” that
would include criteria under which it is appropriate to lifting
the drilling ban, Giberga said. “Well, the moratorium has
already been lifted,” he said.  
 Hornbeck didn’t ask Feldman to find Salazar in contempt,
he said. “That’s a matter for Judge Feldman to decide,” he
said.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        