-- Congressmen Seek to Delay Approval of TransCanada's Oil-Sands Pipeline
-- Jordan Burke
-- 2010-06-23T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/congressmen-seek-to-delay-approval-of-transcanada-s-oil-sands-pipeline.html

          
          
             A group of U.S. representatives
asked the Secretary of State not to approve a  TransCanada Corp. 
oil-sands pipeline until the fuel’s effect on greenhouse-gas
emissions is studied.  
 Representatives  Jay Inslee  of Washington,  Peter Welch  of
Vermont and  Dennis Kucinich  of Ohio joined at least 46 other
House Democrats signing the letter today to  Hillary Clinton ,
asking for the study before the State Department issues its
presidential permit for the project. The pipeline, which would
stretch from oil-sands formations in Alberta to the Texas Gulf
Coast, needs the permit because it crosses the U.S. border.  
 The  Keystone XL pipeline expansion  would add 500,000
barrels a day of crude oil capacity to the system, which
Calgary-based TransCanada estimates will cost $12 billion in
total. The 1,980-mile (3,185-kilometer) XL project extends the
company’s existing Keystone pipeline, which runs through Canada
to the central U.S. and begins operating this year.  
 “The issuance of a presidential permit to build this
pipeline would have significant energy and environment
implications for our nation for many years to come,” the
representatives wrote. “Building this pipeline has the
potential to undermine America’s clean energy future and
international leadership on climate change.”  
 Studies have found extracting oil from the sands emits
three times more greenhouse gases than conventional petroleum
production, according to the Congressmen. The letter asks
Clinton to study how greenhouse gases, which contribute to
climate change, may change over the life cycle of the pipeline.  
 Expanding to Texas  
 The 327-mile Canadian portion of the  Keystone XL  pipeline
will run from Hardisty, Alberta, to the U.S. border at Monchy,
Saskatchewan. From there the 36-inch diameter line will cut
across Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska before joining the
existing Keystone pipeline. The XL expansion will also extend
the pipeline from Cushing, Oklahoma, to Houston and Port Arthur,
Texas.  
 TransCanada Corp . owns Canada’s largest pipeline system.
The company became the sole owner of Keystone in August, buying
ConocoPhillips’s 20.1 percent stake for about $550 million. The
company cited increasing oil-sands production in its decision to
buy out its partner. ConocoPhillips had owned as much as 50
percent of the line.  
 Alberta’s tar-encrusted sands hold the world’s largest
crude reserves outside Saudi Arabia, according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers.  
 The company began filling part of the Keystone pipeline
with oil earlier this year. The Keystone XL expansion is
supposed to start operating in 2012, according to TransCanada’s
website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jordan Burke  in New York at 
 jburke29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        