-- Connecticut Proves CVS Caremark's Threat to Scrap Discount Drug Plan
-- Carol Wolf
-- 2010-06-23T20:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/connecticut-probes-cvs-threat-to-scrap-discount-plan-over-medicaid-prices.html

          
          
             Connecticut Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal  said he is probing  CVS Caremark Corp. ’s threat to
scrap a discount drug plan because a new law requires the
company to offer its lowest prices to the state’s Medicaid
program.  
 CVS Caremark, the largest U.S. provider of prescription
drugs, has said it would have to end its Health Savings Pass
program for consumers if forced to give Medicaid patients the
same discounts. Blumenthal sent a subpoena to the company
demanding an explanation, he said in a statement today.  
 “I urge you in the strongest terms to reconsider this
course of action,” Blumenthal said in a letter to CVS Caremark
Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Ryan .  
 The Connecticut probe adds to a growing list of government
investigations of CVS Caremark’s business practices following
its merger in 2007 and comes after the company lost contracts
 worth  $4.8 billion in 2010. CVS Caremark is bidding on contract
renewals for corporate and government health plans for 2011
valued at $7.5 billion, Ryan said in February.  
 Other pharmacies have extended their discount programs to
Connecticut’s Medicaid and CVS Caremark may have “singled out”
the state, Blumenthal said. In May, Connecticut’s Legislature
clarified the legal requirement on pricing, which CVS had
previously contended it didn’t have to comply with, Blumenthal
said.  
 Uninsured, Underinsured  
 The CVS Health Savings Pass -- the discount plan under
dispute -- was developed primarily for uninsured and
underinsured people to let them obtain certain medications
through a membership program, CVS Caremark spokesman  Michael DeAngelis  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The pass, which costs $10 annually, allows consumers to
fill a 90-day prescription of more than 400 generic maintenance
medications for $9.99 at their local pharmacies.  
 “The state’s actions would alter the intent of this
program and make it economically unfeasible to continue,”
DeAngelis said. “We remain hopeful that we can resolve this
matter on terms that permit us to continue to offer the program
in Connecticut.”  
 CVS Caremark’s business practices are under investigation
by the Federal Trade Commission, the company said in November. A
multistate task force, made up of at least 24 attorneys general,
the District of Columbia and county of Los Angeles, is also
reviewing its policies, CVS Caremark said May 4.  
 Some members of Congress, concerned about CVS Caremark’s
pricing power as both a pharmacy benefits manager and a pharmacy
chain, have introduced legislation that would bar the company
from bidding on a contract for federal employees’ prescription
drugs. The federal government is currently one of CVS’s biggest
customers. The bill has cleared a House subcommittee.  
 CVS Caremark rose five cents to $31.45 at 3:25 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares declined 2.5
percent this year before today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        