-- Consumer Confidence to Hold Steady in July as Joblessness Falls, GfK Says
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-06-23T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/consumer-confidence-to-hold-steady-in-july-as-joblessness-falls-gfk-says.html

          
          
             Consumer confidence  in Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, will hold steady next month as a drop
in unemployment and the soccer World Cup encourage spending, GfK
AG said.  
 The Nuremberg-based market research company said its
sentiment index, based on a survey of about 2,000 people, will
remain at 3.5 points in July. Economists forecast a decline to
3.3 points, the median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey  shows.  
 Germany’s economy is showing few signs of discomfort from
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which has forced governments
across the 16-nation euro region to make spending cuts. While
tighter fiscal policy may damp economic growth, the crisis has
also pushed the euro down 13 percent against the dollar this
year, boosting German exports outside the currency bloc.
 Unemployment  fell to 7.7 percent last month as companies added
workers and ramped up production to meet booming orders.  
 “Good news from the labor market is making consumers a bit
more optimistic about the economic recovery, and their
willingness to spend also seems to have been given a boost by
the football World Cup,” GfK said in a statement.
“Nevertheless, the debate about budget consolidation is
unsettling consumers.”  
 GfK’s measure of income expectations slumped to 8.2 points
in June from 23.7 points in May. A gauge of economic
expectations rose to 5.5 from 3.9 and an index of consumers’
willingness to spend jumped to 30.4 from 18.1.  
 Germany’s  Adidas AG , the world’s second-largest sporting
goods maker, on June 21 increased a forecast for record soccer-
related revenue this year after sales of World Cup team
jerseys more than doubled compared with the 2006 tournament.  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts for
Europe’s largest economy even as the government agreed to reduce
spending by 80 billion euros ($98 billion) over the next four
years. The German central bank predicted expansion of 1.9
percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2011, up from 1.6 percent
and 1.2 percent respectively.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        