-- Corporate Upgrades May Exceed Downgrades by Most Since 2000: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-23T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/corporate-upgrades-may-exceed-downgrades-by-most-since-2000-canada-credit.html

          
          
             The ratio of Canadian corporate
upgrades versus downgrades by Standard & Poor’s this quarter is
on pace to be the highest level in at least a decade as the
nation’s economic recovery accelerates.  
 S&P raised the ratings on 19 companies including Teck
Resources Ltd., Domtar Corp. and  Royal Bank of Canada , versus
seven downgrades to firms such as Toyota Credit Canada Inc. and
Sun Life Financial, according to Bloomberg data. The ratio of
2.71 times is the most since 2000, when the data began, versus
1.14 last quarter.  
 “The single biggest factor is the faster-than-expected
economic recovery that we’ve seen in Canada,”  Doug Porter ,
deputy chief economist at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from
Toronto. “Next in line would be just how carefully companies
here marshaled their resources during the downturn. They were
very well placed for the slightest upturn in demand.”  
 The International Monetary Fund estimates Canada’s economy
will grow 3.1 percent in 2010 and 3.2 percent in 2011, the
fastest among Group of Seven countries. Canada’s output grew at
a 6.1 percent pace in the first quarter, versus a median
economists’ estimate of 5.9 percent.  
 Teck Resources, Canada’s largest base-metals producer,
reported April 20 first-quarter profit more than tripled to
C$908 million ($882 million) as growth in China boosted copper
prices.  
 S&P raised Vancouver-based Teck’s corporate credit rating
to ‘BBB,’ or investment grade, from ‘BB+’ on April 16, citing
demand for the company’s products such as seaborne coking coal,
zinc and copper supporting its ability to repay debt.  
 Corporate Earnings  
 Earnings for companies on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index, Canada’s primary stock gauge, will increase by
21 percent this year, versus a decrease of 25 percent in 2009
and a gain of 0.8 percent in 2008, according to research by
 Benoit Mayer-Godin , a quantitative analyst in Montreal at
National Bank Financial Inc.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporate rather than federal
government debt held steady yesterday at 150 basis points,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The yield
was as narrow as 114 basis points on March 19. Overall yields
fell to 4.14 percent, from 4.2 percent the day before.  
 Bank of Canada Deputy Governor  Timothy Lane  said the
country’s economic recovery has been more rapid than expected,
while reiterating the global recovery has been uneven, according
to the text of a speech he gave yesterday in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  
 Moody’s, DBRS  
 Moody’s Investors Service upgraded nine companies so far
this quarter versus four downgrades, for a ratio of 2.25 times,
the highest since the second quarter of 2000, according to
Bloomberg data. DBRS Inc.’s upgrade-to-downgrade ratio is 2.67
times, the highest since the third quarter of 2009.  
 “There’s probably a slight bounce back in corporate
performance and profitability,”  Thomas Connell , managing
director in Toronto at S&P, said by telephone. “The other
significant point is just the stability of market conditions
such that those companies needing access to financial markets
are getting it more readily than they were a year or two ago.”  
 In 2008 and 2009 there was a “considerable weighting”
toward downgrades when considering both investment and
speculative grade issuers, Connell said. So far in 2010, “we
are seeing a slight advantage of upgrades,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        