-- Cruzeiro Poised to Revive Brazil Corporate Borrowing on Overseas Markets
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-06-23T21:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/cruzeiro-poised-to-revive-brazil-corporate-borrowing-on-overseas-markets.html

          
          
             Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA  is leading
Brazilian companies back to international bond markets after a
two-month drought even as its borrowing costs rise.  
 The bank that specializes in payroll-deductible loans in
Sao Paulo plans to sell three-year bonds as early as the first
week of July after scrapping a proposed 10-year note offering
last month. The bank may offer the bonds at a yield of 7 percent
to 7.25 percent, or about 6 percentage points above similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries,  Fausto Guimaraes Neto , the bank’s
investor relations manager, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “For Cruzeiro, that’s expensive,”  Natalia Corfield , a
corporate debt analyst at ING Groep NV, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “For the market, it’s attractive.”  
 Cruzeiro and Salvador-based  Odebrecht SA  shelved offerings
on May 7 after the yield difference on Brazilian corporate
dollar bonds over Treasuries  widened  72 basis points, or 0.72
percentage point, in a week, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
While that difference narrowed in the past month, Cruzeiro’s
costs are still up over the past two months.  
 The yield on the bank’s 8.5 percent bonds due in 2015 rose
to 7.92 percent from 7.2 percent on April 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They yielded 7.4 percent the last week of
April when Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating to junk,
downgraded Spain’s debt to AA and Portugal’s debt to A-.  
 The bank shortened the maturity on its offering because
“market conditions are more favorable” than for 10-year debt,
said Guimaraes Neto. “However, we’ll continue to monitor the
market for the possibility to issue longer-term bonds in the
near future.”  
 More Sales  
 Cruzeiro will likely be followed by more Brazilian
companies as demand builds for higher-yielding debt after
concern eased that Europe’s fiscal crisis will curb the global
economic recovery, said  Ceres Lisboa , a Brazilian bank analyst
with Moody’s Investors Service in Sao Paulo.  
 “You might see a bunch of names again going,” Lisboa said
in a telephone interview. “They’re trying to tap the market
before” trading slows during the U.S. summer season, she said.  
 Brazilian banks, previously allowed to sell long-term debt
only in international capital markets, received central bank
 approval  in February to start issuing debt with a maturity of
two years or more in domestic markets.  
 While international costs for Cruzeiro are “a bit higher”
because of exchange-rate hedging, the bank “sees the
international capital market as a constant source of funding,”
Guimaraes Neto said. “What changed were the market conditions,
which are more positive than they were when we canceled.”  
 Financing Loans  
 Cruzeiro, with 7.7 billion reais in  assets  at the end of
the first quarter, will use the funds to finance payroll-
deductible loans. Those assets account for 94 percent of its
portfolio.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against default for
five years rose one basis point to 130, according to data
compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  
 The yield  premium  on Brazilian dollar government bonds over
U.S. Treasuries widened two basis points to 234 at 5:20 p.m. New
York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  
 The real was little changed at 1.7873 per dollar. The yield
on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading, rose two basis
points to 11.30 percent, signaling traders expect the central
bank to raise the benchmark rate to about 12 percent by year-
end.  
 Bond Drought  
 No Brazilian company has sold bonds overseas since Braskem
SA, Latin America’s biggest petrochemical producer, issued $400
million of 10-year securities on April 30. That offering capped
$15.1 billion of international offerings by Brazilian companies
in the first four months of the year, the most to start a year
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1999.  
 Banks issued $9.2 billion of those bonds, or 61 percent, in
part to finance loan growth in an economy that’s expanding at
the fastest pace since 1995.  
 Brazilian banks’ outstanding  loans  rose 19 percent in May
from a year ago to a record 1.5 trillion reais, the central bank
said today in a statement. Latin America’s biggest economy will
grow 7.1 percent this year after expanding 9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the biggest year-on-year
increase in 15 years, according to a central bank survey of
about 100 financial institutions published on June 21.  
 Cruzeiro, which Moody’s Investors Service rates  Ba2 , or two
levels below investment grade, hired BCP Securities to arrange
the offering, Guimaraes said.  
 Defending Market Share  
 Cruzeiro needs “to finance their portfolio,” said Lisboa.
“They need to defend their market share. They are in a hurry.”  
 Banco Votorantim SA, the financial arm of industrial
conglomerate Grupo Votorantim, is meeting with bond investors in
Europe and the U.S. this week after  Banco ABC Brasil  held a
lunch with money managers in Geneva last week, according to
people familiar with the matter.  
 Ibsen Costa Manso, a spokesman for Votorantim in Sao Paulo,
and  Alexandre Yoshiaki Sinzato , Banco ABC’s investor relations
manager, said the meetings aren’t part of a plan to sell bonds
soon.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        