-- Cytori Breast Repair Device Gets Higher Hurdle from FDA as Rules Pondered
-- David Olmos
-- 2010-06-23T20:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/cytori-breast-repair-device-gets-higher-hurdle-from-fda-as-rules-pondered.html

          
          
             Cytori Therapeutics Inc. , a
developer of medical devices, may need to spend $10 million more
and take five years longer to win U.S. approval of its first
product, under regulation stricter than the company expected.  
 Cytori had laid out $200 million in eight years on the
device, and sought “fast-track” clearance for it, when the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration said in March that the product
-- for body-tissue repair -- must take the slower regulatory
path used for about one in every 10 experimental devices. Shares
of San Diego-based Cytori have since fallen by half.  
 Setbacks of the sort encountered by Cytori under U.S. rules
might become more common, delaying products and driving up
expenses, said  Ira Loss , a senior health-policy analyst at
Washington Analysis LLC, in Washington. That’s because the FDA
may recommend new regulations this month to answer Congressional
criticism over product safety, he said.  
 “Everyone expects the rules to get tougher,” Loss said in
interview.  
 Venture investors will find that device start-ups are
riskier as a result of the rules, with more capital required and
lower returns, Loss said. Financiers may slash their investment
or compel device makers to seek partners or buyouts, he said.  
 The FDA may require more companies to conduct clinical
trials that cost tens of millions of dollars or more, compared
with as little as $1 million under the current program for most
approvals, said  Linda Alexander , a medical-device industry
consultant at Alquest Inc. in Minneapolis, in an interview.  
 Product Delays  
 Requirements of more testing may delay products from the
largest makers of medical devices, such as Minneapolis-based
Medtronic Inc. and New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson &
Johnson , said  Mark Leahey , president and chief executive officer
of the  Medical Device Manufacturers Association , in Washington.  
 Surviving may become harder for smaller companies, such as
Cytori and closely held Neuralieve Inc. in Sunnyvale,
California, Leahey said in an interview. Cytori had revenue of
$14.7 million last year, mostly from milestone payments from a
joint venture, and $22.7 million in cash on March 31.  
 Uncertainty in the FDA approval process has already
prompted providers of venture capital to trim investments in
medical-device start-ups, said  Ross Jaffe,  a managing director
at Versant Ventures, in Menlo Park, California.  
 “Given how hard it is to raise equity these days, the
longer the process at FDA, the harder it is for small companies
to attract they money they need,” Jaffe said.  
 Venture Investments  
 Venture investment in medical devices in the first quarter
fell 49 percent from two years earlier to $517 million, while
total venture capital provided to all industries declined 39
percent to $4.7 billion, according to the National Venture
Capital Association, based in Arlington, Virginia.  
 The FDA began a review of its medical-device approval
program in September, after a January 2009 report by the
 Government Accountability Office  called for “immediate steps”
to increase scrutiny of higher-risk medical devices that were
cleared under more-lenient rules introduced in 1976 under
section 510(k) of the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act.  
 The FDA’s staff also issued a report, in September, saying
the clearance of a knee implant made by Hackensack, New Jersey-
based  ReGen Biologics Inc.  was flawed and influenced by company
lobbying and New Jersey lawmakers. The ReGen device had been
cleared under the 510(k) rules used for about 90 percent of
experimental devices. ReGen “stands behind” its product, and
evidence of its safety and effectiveness is “solid,” according
to a company statement on Sept. 25.  
 ‘Increasingly Complex’  
 “What’s happened over time is more and more devices have
gone through 510(k), and they are becoming increasingly
complex,” said Jeffrey Shuren, director of the FDA’s  Center for
Devices and Radiological Health , in a telephone interview on
April 9. “With a higher level of risk, the need for data may
need to increase.”  
 Shuren doesn’t intend to “scrap” the 510(k) program, he
said at an FDA meeting in Bloomington, Minnesota, in May.  
 The agency is reviewing a committee’s advice on how to
revise the 510(k) program, said Dick Thompson, an FDA spokesman,
in a telephone interview on June 10. “We’re in the final stages
of completing the report.” The FDA  has said  it expects to begin
implementing the recommendations by Sept. 30.  
 The FDA has also asked the Institute of Medicine, part of
the National Academy of Sciences, to conduct an independent
evaluation of the program. The institute held a  public workshop 
on the matter June 14-15, in Washington.  
 Grassley’s View  
 “I welcome any efforts to improve FDA’s ability to ensure
the safety and efficacy of medical devices, without causing
delays in new and lifesaving devices getting to market,”
Senator  Charles Grassley , a Republican from Iowa, said in a
statement on June 11. Grassley had criticized the FDA’s device-
review program as being too friendly to industry.  
 The cost of getting a device cleared through the current
fast-track process can range from less than $1 million to as
much as $50 million, compared with $50 million to $150 million
under the rules for higher-risk devices, said Alexander of
Alquest.  
 Cytori’s experimental device extracts stem cells and other
generative cells from a person’s own body fat, for such possible
uses as breast augmentation and reconstruction after cancer
surgery. The company sought U.S. clearance under 510(k).  
 On March 12, Cytori said the FDA instead is requiring
review under rules called PMA, for “pre-market approval,” that
are usually applied to higher-risk products. The FDA deemed the
Cytori product to be not similar enough to approved devices to
warrant the fast track, according to the company.  
 Delay Is Seen  
 The review will delay Cytori’s product from reaching the
market by three to five years and will cost at least $5 million
just for the human studies, and probably twice that or more in
total, said  Kenneth Kleinhenz , Cytori’s vice president of
regulatory affairs.  
 Cytori shares have declined 50 percent since March 11, the
day before Cytori disclosed the FDA’s stance. Today, Cytori
closed at $3.73, up 2 cents or less than a percent, in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading at 4:00 pm New York time, valuing
the company at $167 million.  
 “Going from a 510(k) to a longer approval process does
affect the company’s stability, ability to raise financing and
continue as a going concern,” said  Jan Wald , a Boston-based
analyst for Noble Financial Group, in a telephone interview on
June 2.  
 Wald recommends buying Cytori, giving a target price of
$10.50 a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Once
completed, the more-stringent studies will bolster the company’s
efforts to market the device to doctors, Wald said.  
 ‘Staying Power’  
 Larger companies such as Medtronic, which had $15.8 billion
in revenue last year, can withstand FDA delays better than
smaller competitors, Medtronic’s CEO  William Hawkins  said in an
interview on May 25.  
 “Clearly, we have a lot of staying power versus some of
the venture-backed companies that are dependent on financing,”
Hawkins said. “On the other hand, we want to see some of the
small companies survive” because Medtronic wants to acquire new
devices or companies to help fuel growth, he said.  
 When the FDA announces its new regulations, they will
probably require more data from laboratory tests, animal studies
and human research for higher-risk devices, plus follow-up tests
after products reach the market, said  Susan Alpert , Medtronic’s
chief regulatory officer, in a May 20 telephone interview.  
 A Johnson & Johnson spokeswoman,  Carol Goodrich , referred a
reporter inquiring about the FDA rules to the Advanced Medical
Technology Association, another Washington-based trade group.  
 “Although patient safety is the number one priority of the
medical technology industry, we believe any new regulatory
requirements should balance FDA’s dual mission of protecting the
public health while facilitating innovations that benefit
patients,” AdvaMed said in a June 14 statement.  
 ‘Completely Stifled’  
 Officials of Neuralieve, which has been trying since 2006
to gain U.S. clearance for an experimental device that uses
magnetic stimulation of the brain to treat migraine headaches,
say that even the current FDA rules and procedures can drive up
expenses and hold up products.  
 After successfully completing a 200-patient study in 2008
for a 510(k) approval, Neuralieve encountered agency delays,
staff changes and new requirements for a larger clinical study,
said Ting Lu, president.  
 “We’re completely stifled,” Lu said in an interview on
June 3. “It’s going to be a huge delay and expense for this
company.”  
 Neuralieve, which has raised about $20 million in angel and
venture financing, might need an additional $10 million to pay
for the FDA study, money it may not be able to raise, Lu said.
Instead, the company will try to commercialize its product first
in Europe, where approvals tend to be faster, to generate
revenue sooner, Lu said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A technician holds a syringe containing concentrated stem and regenerative cells that can be
injected into a patient. Source: Cytori via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Cytori Therapeutics Inc.'s Celution System, approved for sale in Europe, extracts a patient's stem and regenerative cells from fat tissue. Source: Cytori via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Christopher Calhoun, chief executive officer of Cytori Therapeutics Inc. Source: Cytori via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
