-- Czech Central Bank Leaves Rates Unchanged as Recovery Signals Inflation
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-23T14:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/czech-central-bank-leaves-rates-unchanged-as-recovery-signals-inflation.html

          
          
             The Czech central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged after an unexpected cut in
May and said borrowing costs were likely to hold steady in
the near term.  
 The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka kept the two-week
repurchase rate at 0.75 percent today, a quarter-point lower
than the European Central Bank’s main rate. All 17 economists in
a Bloomberg survey forecast no change at the meeting, the last
for Governor  Zdenek Tuma , who will step down at the end of the
month.  
 East European countries are emerging from the worst
recession since the end of communism. Trade is picking up after
the credit crisis curbed investments and companies cut jobs. The
Czech Republic, home to Skoda Auto AS and Hyundai Motor Co.
plants, gained from a pickup in demand in the euro area, its
main trading partner.  
 “New information is generally in line with the overall
picture of the forecast and the risks are roughly balanced,”
Tuma told reporters in Prague. “It’s hard to anticipate the
next direction of interest rates. Stability of rates appears to
be most likely for the nearest future.”  
 ‘Slightly Weaker’  
 The Czech economy expanded an annual 1.1 percent in the
first three months, the first increase in five quarters. Tuma
said “slightly weaker” koruna was one of the main inflation
risks, while lower interest rates abroad and developments on the
job market were among factors that may tame consumer price
growth.  
 The koruna gained as much as 0.4 percent today versus the
euro and traded 0.3 percent higher at 25.738 as of 4:10 p.m. in
Prague. The central bank’s latest forecast saw koruna’s exchange
rate at 25.3 for 2010.  
 “Since the last meeting, data such as unemployment,
consumer and producer inflation and the koruna rate have
developed more in a pro-inflationary direction than compared
with the central bank forecast,”  Michal Brozka , an analyst at
Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said in a note. “On the other
hand, there’s a bigger chance for tighter budget policy, which
is an argument for keeping rates low for a longer period.”  
 Economic Recovery  
 The country had its 16th consecutive trade  surplus  in April
and industrial  output  rose to a 30-month high, driven by car
production. Auto-industry output grew 29 percent in the first
quarter and sales abroad increased 23 percent. The  unemployment 
rate dropped to a six-month low in May.  
 The  inflation  rate rose to 1.2 percent in May from 1.1
percent in the previous month, above the central bank’s forecast
of 0.9 percent.  
 The central bank signaled in its May forecast that interest
rates may be steady until end-2010 and start rising in 2011 when
economic growth should accelerate to 1.8 percent from a 1.4
percent estimate for this year. Tuma said inflation will be
“near” the central bank’s 2 percent target in 12 to 18 months.  
 The bank, though, may consider tightening the policy before
the end of the year if economic recovery is stronger than
forecast, policy maker  Eva Zamrazilova  said in a June 10
interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        