-- Dana Gas Board Approves 10% Share Buyback, Raises Budget for U.A.E., Egypt
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-06-23T12:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/dana-gas-board-approves-10-share-buyback-raises-budget-for-u-a-e-egypt.html

          
          
             Dana Gas PJSC , a United Arab
Emirates energy company, approved buying back as much as 10
percent of its shares after they tumbled 42 percent from the
past year’s high.  
 The board of the Sharjah-based company also agreed to an
additional budget for its ventures in the U.A.E. and Egypt, Dana
Gas said in a statement to the Abu Dhabi bourse today.  
 “The share buyback is a surprise that will be taken
positively by the market,” said  Bobby Sarkar , an analyst at NBK
Capital in Kuwait. “The stock price has been depressed because
of concern over liquidity.”  
 Dana shares gained 2.9 percent to 71 fils, the highest
level since May 31, trimming its loss for the month to 2.7
percent. They  reached  1.18 dirhams on Oct. 14, the highest in
the past 12 months. The company posted a  profit  of 33 million
dirhams ($9 million) in the first quarter as output and energy
prices rose, after a loss of 32 million dirhams a year earlier.  
 Dana is developing gas deposits, production and transport
facilities in Iraq, and is also working on an offshore gas
project in the U.A.E. The company yesterday discussed the
progress of its venture with U.A.E.-based Crescent Petroleum Co.
in Iraq’s Kurdish northern region, the statement said.  
 ‘Positive’  
 “We continue to remain positive on Dana Gas,”  Scott Darling , a Dubai-based analyst at Nomura International Plc.,
said in an e-mail. “Risks remain around Kurdistan liquids
payment and U.A.E. gas project.”  
 The venture, Pearl Petroleum, experienced a delay in
reaching its output target of 300 million cubic feet (8.5
million cubic meters) a day for the first half of 2009, Crescent
said in February. A Crescent project director said at that time
that Pearl was producing 120 million cubic feet of gas a day and
did not expect to achieve its target until the third quarter of
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        