-- JPMorgan's Miller Wins Higher Profile in Dimon's Inner Circle
-- Dawn Kopecki
-- 2010-06-23T15:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/dimon-tightens-jpmorgan-s-inner-circle-as-miller-takes-international-role.html

          
          
             Heidi Miller , a confidant of  Jamie Dimon  for almost two decades, more than quintupled pretax profit
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s treasury unit since taking over the
division in 2004. Her reward: a newly created job heading all of
the company’s international operations.  
 The role, handed to Miller in a series of senior management
changes yesterday, increased speculation that Dimon, the bank’s
54-year-old chief executive officer, is grooming long-time
loyalists such as Miller and  Mike Cavanagh  as potential
successors to run the second-largest U.S. bank. Cavanagh, 44,
took over Miller’s job from the chief financial officer post.  
 Miller, 57, has been climbing the Wall Street power roster
since taking over JPMorgan’s payment-processing  division , called
Treasury and Securities Services, six years ago. Since then, she
has been ranked among Fortune’s “Top 50 Women in Banking” and
Forbes’s “100 Most Powerful Women.” Last year she topped
Crain’s “50 Most Powerful Women in New York.”  
 “Going out and doing deals on the investment-banking side
generates a lot of press and prestige, but being able to
consolidate the back office of a bank, which is what Heidi did,
shows a  management  capability that we should appreciate more,
and I think Jamie recognizes it,” said  Bradley Hintz , an
analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. “That portion of the
business is not appreciated in the equity markets.”  
 Dimon said in March that he planned to rotate senior
executives across business lines as part of a succession plan.  
 ‘So Much Talent’  
 “The bank has so much talent in an industry that is sorely
lacking in it that one wonders how Mr. Dimon will keep his team
together,”  Dick Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC,
said in a research note today. “At some point, it is highly
likely that the JPMorgan team will break apart as its executives
are wooed by other banking companies.”  
 The treasury business provides clients with payment
processing and cash management. The unit handles an average of
$3.7 trillion in transfers daily and has $15.3 trillion in
assets under custody, the New York-based company said. Miller
turned the business around and generated a reliably high return
on equity throughout the economic crisis, according to Hintz.  
 During her tenure at the unit, revenue rose to $7.3 billion
last year from $4.2 billion in 2004, while the division’s
earnings jumped to $2.1 billion from $372 million in the same
period, Hintz said. The business has contributed an average of 9
percent to the bank’s total revenue over the past five years,
peaking at 11 percent in 2008 during the worst of the financial
crisis, he said.  
 Chemical Bank  
 Few executives have worked with Dimon as long as Miller,
apart from Dimon’s former mentor,  Sandy Weill , who fired Dimon
from Citigroup Inc. in 1998. And few have been as loyal. Dimon
hired Miller away from Chemical Bank as his assistant at
 Travelers Group Inc.  in 1992.  
 Miller was Dimon’s chief credit officer and risk officer at
Salomon Smith Barney and served as CFO under Dimon at both
Travelers and Citigroup. She had stints on her own as CFO at
discount Internet travel agency  Priceline.com  and as a vice
chairman at insurance broker Marsh Inc. from 2000 to early 2002,
when Dimon lured her to Bank One in Chicago as CFO. He then
brought her along as part of his senior management team when
JPMorgan merged with Bank One in 2004.  
 “I had a few excursions off the reservation,” Miller said
in an interview yesterday. “I’ve always come back to recognize
that sometimes when you have a great boss -- and I do think
Jamie is a great CEO, he has huge integrity, great business
judgment -- it’s worth staying with that person.”  
 Princeton Degree  
 Miller doesn’t have a formal education in business. She was
among the first women ever admitted to Princeton University in
New Jersey, where she graduated in 1974 with a history degree,
according to Monica Langley’s book on Weill: “Tearing Down the
Walls.” She went on to earn a doctorate from Yale University in
Latin American studies and landed her first job with Chemical
Bank in its Latin American division in 1979 as a banker credit
trainee.  
 She serves as a trustee at Princeton along with Supreme
Court Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , who graduated two years behind
Miller in 1976, and sits on the board at General Mills Inc.  
 Miller has shown she can manage overseas expansions.
Treasury and Securities Services derived 35 percent of its
revenue outside the U.S. and had 51 international locations in
2004, compared with 48 percent of revenue and 68 overseas
offices last year.  
 Multinational Clients  
 “Multinationals operate in sometimes more countries than
we do,” Miller said. “We increasingly see our clients look to
us to provide services and solutions throughout the world. We
want to make sure that we can do it for them seamlessly.”  
 She said the bank has a “good presence” internationally.
“The question is, can we accelerate growth plans in Asia, can
we accelerate what’s going to be growth in emerging Europe and
Latin America?” she said. “That’s our goal.”  
 Miller’s new business will offer corporate clients
investment banking, advisory, debt capital markets, equity
capital markets, lending, payments and securities processing
services globally, she said. She’ll be targeting emerging
markets including China, Brazil, India and Russia, regions where
JPMorgan will battle Citigroup for business, said  Anthony Polini , a banking analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.  
 “The projected growth rate for those economies are two or
three times greater than the projected growth rates of the
U.S.,” Polini said. More than half of Citigroup’s total revenue
comes from overseas, compared with about a quarter at JPMorgan,
Polini said. “This is a key play to get a piece of the pie that
Citi has a bigger slice of right now.”  
 Consumer Lending  
 Unlike Citigroup, JPMorgan isn’t looking to dominate the
consumer lending market overseas, said analysts including  Paul Miller  at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia, who isn’t
related to Heidi. Miller will instead focus on the wholesale
banking side, coordinating with Cavanagh and investment-bank
chief executive  Jes Staley , who will still report to Dimon. She
will also chair a new International Operating Committee of the
firm’s global leaders, focusing on developing  international
branches  across all lines of business, the company said.  
 “I don’t think they want to be a  Citigroup  that wants to
run credit card operations in Mexico or run retail banking
franchises in Indonesia,” Paul Miller said. “They want to have
strategic investment banking relationships in places where it
matters.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Heidi Miller of JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
                       
                         
                           Mike Appleton/ Bloomberg 
                         
                         Heidi Miller, head of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s treasury and securities services unit, listens during a meeting in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Heidi Miller, head of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s treasury and securities services unit, listens during a meeting in New York. Photographer: Mike Appleton/ Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive officer of JP Morgan Chase & Co., speaks at the annual meeting, in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
