-- Dollar Weakens Against Yen, Euro as Fed Holds Interest Rate at Record Low
-- Oliver Biggadike
-- 2010-06-23T21:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/dollar-weakens-against-yen-euro-as-fed-holds-interest-rate-at-record-low.html

          
          
             The dollar fell to the weakest level
versus the yen in almost a month after Federal Reserve officials
indicated they’ll keep interest rates at record lows longer than
some analysts forecast as Europe’s debt crisis threatens growth.  
 The Japanese currency gained against 14 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as the Federal Open Market Committee’s
policy statement prompted investors to seek the yen as a refuge
from an economic slowdown. The pound rose to the highest level
in six weeks versus the greenback as a report showed U.K. policy
makers were split on whether to raise interest rates this month.  
 “You had a more dovish-than-expected statement coming out
of the FOMC,” said  Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “They recognized that we are more in
the deflationary path at this time. That was enough to pressure
the dollar lower.”  
 The greenback fell 0.8 percent to 89.82 yen at 5 p.m. in
New York, from 90.57 yesterday. It touched 89.74 yen, the
weakest level since May 25. The dollar reversed earlier gains
against the euro and dropped 0.3 percent to $1.2311. The yen
rose 0.5 percent to 110.57 per euro, from 111.14, and touched
109.90 yen, the strongest level since June 10.  
 “There were some investors that were expecting a slightly
more hawkish statement and they didn’t get it, so they dumped
the dollar,” said  John Doyle , a strategist at currency-trading
firm Tempus Consulting Inc. in Washington.  
 ‘Extended Period’  
 All 98 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the
U.S. central bank would hold the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since
December 2008 to help spur the economy. The Fed reiterated it
expects to keep the rate “exceptionally low” for an “extended
period.”  
 “Financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments
abroad,” policy makers said in their statement. “The pace of
economic recovery is likely to be moderate for a time.”  
 Policy makers won’t raise rates until the first quarter of
next year, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists this month.  
 “The fact that they reiterated they’re going to keep rates
exceptionally low for an extended period has allayed any fears
there’s going to be any imminent tightening,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange group in
Boston at BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custodial bank, with
more than $20 trillion in assets under administration. “It’s
proving to be supportive of investors looking for more slack
from central banks in terms of extending the extraordinarily
supportive monetary policies now in place.”  
 Yen Top Performer  
 The yen has risen 11.2 percent this year, the best
performance among 10 developed-nation currencies, according to
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices. The
greenback was No. 3 at 7 percent, after Canada’s dollar, and the
euro was the worst performer, falling 9.6 percent.  
 The dollar gained earlier against the euro after figures
from the Commerce Department showed  sales of new homes  in the
U.S. in May collapsed a record 33 percent from a month earlier
to an annual pace of 300,000, the fewest in data going back to
1963. The drop came as a tax credit expired, showing the market
remains dependent on government support.  
 Existing-home sales fell 2.2 percent in May, data from the
National Association of Realtors showed yesterday.  
 Markit Economics said a composite index based on a survey
of euro-area purchasing managers in services and manufacturing
fell to 56, from 56.4 in May. Economists forecast a drop to
55.8, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Pound Climbs  
 The pound gained versus the dollar and euro after minutes
of the Bank of England’s June meeting showed policy maker  Andrew Sentance  voted for an interest-rate increase. The Monetary
Policy Committee voted 7-1 to keep the benchmark interest rate
at 0.5 percent, according to minutes of the decision released in
London today.  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s budget won the
endorsement of Fitch Ratings for the biggest cuts in 50 years.  
 Fitch said yesterday the “ambitious” plan ensured Britain
would keep its AAA credit rating. The deficit cuts planned by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and measures proposed
by the previous Labour government total 113 billion pounds
($167.5 billion), 15 percent of the 737 billion-pound budget
foreseen for 2015, the Treasury said.  
 The pound appreciated 1 percent today to $1.4959, from
$1.4816 yesterday. It touched $1.4973, the highest level since
May 12. Sterling gained 0.7 percent to 82.30 pence per euro,
from 82.83 pence yesterday.  
 Australia’s dollar pared gains and rose 0.3 percent to
87.40 U.S. cents before Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  faces a
challenge tomorrow from Deputy Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
after a proposed tax on the mining industry caused his poll
ratings to drop. The Aussie had risen as much as 0.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        