-- Donovan Sets U.S. Teammates' Nerves on Edge With Added-Time Winning Goal
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-06-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/donovan-frays-u-s-teammates-nerves-with-late-world-cup-winning-goal.html

          
          
             Landon Donovan  kept the U.S.’s World
Cup campaign alive with an injury-time goal. His teammates want
him to be more considerate next time.  
 “After the game I told him ‘did you really have to leave
it until the last second of the game? Couldn’t you have just
scored in the first half and made it easier for us?’”
midfielder Benny Feilhaber said after the U.S. beat Algeria 1-0
to advance to the last 16.  
 Donovan scored in the first of four added minutes at the
end of last night’s game to leave the U.S. atop its group for
the only time since the first World Cup in 1930. A tie would
have sent Slovenia through at the expense of the Americans.  
 The U.S.,  ranked 14th  in the world by soccer governing body
FIFA, will play Ghana on June 26 for a place in the
quarterfinals. Eighth-ranked England, which finished second in
Group C on goals scored after a 1-0 win against Slovenia,
will meet three-time world champion Germany the following day.  
 The U.S. had 22 shots, with 10 on target, compared with 19
shots and four on goal for its north African opponent.  
 “Sometimes you have games like that where you get a lot of
chances but just don’t score,” six-time American Player of the
Year Donovan told reporters. “The only thing you can do is
focus on the things you can control and keep going.”  
 The U.S. failed to advance from the group stage in 2006 and
lost 1-0 to Germany in the quarterfinals four years earlier. The
best finish for the U.S. was third in 1930.  
 Confederations Cup Final  
 Last year, the Americans beat European champion Spain to
reach the final of the Confederations Cup, a competition between
soccer’s continental champions, and led Brazil 2-0 in the final
before losing 3-2.  
 The odds on the U.S. winning the World Cup have narrowed at
U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc to 33-1 from 50-1. Five-time
champion Brazil is the 4-1 favorite, followed by two-time winner
Argentina at 9-2, Spain at 5-1 and the Netherlands at 8-1.
England, the 1966 champion, is 9-1.  
 Bill Clinton  was among the 35,827 fans at the Loftus
Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria for last night’s match.  
 “He couldn’t be happier,” said Major League Soccer
Commissioner  Don Garner , who watched alongside the former
president. “The guy was really emotional at the end.”  
 After the match, Clinton visited the U.S. locker room,
where he signed autographs and posed with players for photos,
Garner said.  
 “To have that sort of support, it’s remarkable,” reserve
goalkeeper  Marcus Hahnemann  said in an interview. “It makes a
big difference to the team.”  
 Refereeing Errors  
 Before Donovan scored, the U.S. seemed destined to fall
victim for the second time in the tournament to a costly
refereeing error.  
 Against Slovenia on June 18, an 86th-minute strike by
substitute Maurice Edu that would have given the U.S. a 3-2 win
was disallowed without explanation by referee Koman Coulibaly.
Television replays suggested the goal was legal.  
 Last night, referee Frank de Bleeckere ruled midfielder
 Clint Dempsey  was offside when he put the ball in the net after
21 minutes, a decision that replays again suggested was wrong.  
 “There are times as a coach when you start thinking that
maybe it’s not our night,” U.S. coach  Bob Bradley  said. “You
try and do what you can to give the team a chance of getting a
goal but at the end it’s the efforts of the players that give
you the win.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alastair Reed  in Bloemfontein on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Landon Donovan, left, of the United States celebrates with teammate Edson Buddle after scoring the winning goal that sends the USA through to the second round during the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Photographer: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
