-- Drilling Ban, ICP, DiPascali, Kerviel, Barclays, EBay, AKO in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-23T10:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/drilling-ban-icp-dipascali-kerviel-barclays-ebay-ako-in-court-news.html

          
          
             A New Orleans federal judge lifted
the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling imposed by
President Barack Obama following the largest oil spill in U.S.
history. Drilling services shares jumped on the news.  
 Obama temporarily halted all drilling in waters deeper than
500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential commission time to
study improvements in the safety of offshore operations. More
than a dozen Louisiana offshore service and supply companies
sued U.S. regulators to lift the ban. The U.S. said it will
appeal the decision.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman yesterday granted a
preliminary injunction, halting the moratorium. He also
“immediately prohibited” the U.S. from enforcing the ban.
Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was based on findings in
a U.S. report following the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig
off the Louisiana coast in April.  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
Feldman said in his 22-page decision. “The blanket moratorium,
with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed
and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs
drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an
imminent danger.”  
 “The court cannot substitute its judgment for that of the
agency, but the agency must ‘cogently explain why it has
exercised its discretion in a given manner,’” Feldman said,
citing a previous ruling. “It has not done so.”  
 Feldman in a separate order yesterday “immediately
prohibited” the U.S. from enforcing the drilling moratorium,
finding the offshore companies would otherwise incur
“irreparable harm.”  
 Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar said in a statement that
he will issue a new order on deepwater offshore oil drilling.  
 “We see clear evidence every day, as oil spills from BP’s
well, of the need for a pause on deepwater drilling,” Salazar
said. “Based on this ever-growing evidence, I will issue a new
order in the coming days that eliminates any doubt that a
moratorium is needed, appropriate, and within our authorities.”  
 White House press secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters
that “continuing to drill at these depths without knowing what
happened does not make any sense.”  
 The U.S. will ask Feldman to stay his ruling pending an
appeal, Justice Department attorney Michael Thorp said yesterday
at a court hearing in a separate lawsuit challenging the ban.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For more of this story, click here.  
 Harvard’s Former Quarterback Priore Now Faces SEC Fraud Suit  
 Thomas Priore was about to play the biggest football game
of his life. The Harvard University quarterback, who’d lost his
starting job earlier in the season, was given a second chance
and would take the field against rival Yale University,
Bloomberg News’ James Sterngold, Pierre Paulden and Christine
Richard report.  
 “I knew when I got my opportunity again, I wasn’t going to
waste it,” he told the Boston Globe the day before kickoff in
November 1990. “I was going to make everything I could out of
it. I always knew my time would come.”  
 Harvard lost, 34-19, as Priore  fumbled twice .  
 Priore, 41, went on to earn an MBA from Columbia Business
School, and four years ago, he got another big chance. He and
colleagues acquired a controlling stake in  ICP Capital , the
investment company they had started as an affiliate of Bank of
New York. They turned it into a leader in the market for
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, which package pools of
assets such as mortgage bonds into new securities.  
 Now, federal regulators allege that Priore and his firm
have defrauded investors since 2007. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit filed Monday that Priore
and New York-based ICP “improperly obtained tens of millions of
dollars in fees and undisclosed profits at the expense of
clients and investors” by inflating bond prices, making
unauthorized trades and self-dealing.  
 In an e-mailed statement, Priore denied the charges and
said he would fight.  
 “We at all times acted in the best interest of our clients
and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these
allegations,” said Priore, who lives in the New York suburb of
Chappaqua. He owns 76 percent of ICP’s holding company,
according to the SEC.  
 For more, click here.  
 DiPascali, Admitted Madoff Accomplice, Free on Bail  
 Frank DiPascali Jr., who pleaded guilty to helping Bernard
L. Madoff carry out history’s biggest Ponzi scheme, was released
on bail.  
 DiPascali, 53, had been in federal custody since pleading
guilty last summer. He has cooperated with prosecutors in a bid
for leniency when he is sentenced.  
 The former chief financial officer for Madoff’s company
left the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan with his lawyer,
Marc Mukasey. Both declined to comment.  
 Among conditions set by U.S. District Judge Richard
Sullivan in February were posting $10 million in cash or
property, including $600,000 in equity in three New Jersey
homes; 24-hour house arrest except under escort; and wearing an
electronic monitoring device.  
 DiPascali pleaded guilty to 10 counts, including
conspiracy, fraud and money laundering. He admitted misleading
thousands of clients at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, saying no securities trades took place in their accounts.
Investors lost billions of dollars.  
 Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty on March 12, 2009, and is
serving a 150-year prison term.  
 The case is U.S. v. DiPascali, 09-cr-764, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Says He Was ‘Moronic,’ Ex-CEO Calls Him ‘Catastrophe’  
 Jerome Kerviel’s 50 billion euros ($61 billion) in
unauthorized trades were a “catastrophe” for  Societe Generale
SA , former chief executive officer Daniel Bouton told a Paris
court yesterday. The trader said he’d made “moronic” mistakes
that weren’t crimes.  
 France’s second-largest bank by market value lost 4.9
billion euros in the process of liquidating Kerviel’s accounts
over three days in January 2008 as markets fell worldwide.  
 “Fifty billion euros is monstrous,” Bouton said, standing
before the court, two chairs from where Kerviel sat. “It was a
catastrophe.” Kerviel’s actions were “genius, evil perhaps,”
Bouton said as testimony drew to a close at the three-week
trial. “He created a fraudulent enterprise inside the bank.”  
 Kerviel, 33, is accused of abuse of trust, faking documents
and hacking the bank’s computers to hide positions that exceeded
his mandate with faked hedges. Kerviel has argued his superiors
were aware of and condoned his bets. Bouton resigned as chief
executive officer in April 2008 after a 5.5 billion-euro capital
raising campaign, and stepped down as chairman in 2009.  
 Societe Generale’s  risk controls weren’t adequately attuned
to looking for dangers within the bank, Bouton said. “We did
not look enough at operational risks,” he said. When examining
Kerviel’s activities, “we had a tendency to believe him.”  
 Still, there was no sign the bank “facilitated him,
applauded him,” Bouton said. Kerviel’s ability to continue
operating after reprimands in 2005 and scrutiny by controllers
was a “failure of control,” not a sign the bank let him carry
on.  
 After Bouton left, Judge Dominique Pauthe repeated the
first question he asked Kerviel when the trial began on June 8,
saying: “Who are you?”  
 “I am someone who tried to do his job as well as possible,
to make money for the bank,” Kerviel responded, repeating his
position since the beginning of the investigation two and a half
years ago. “I never wanted to do something bad.”  
 “Now I see it was moronic, completely,” Kerviel said.
Told this was his last opportunity during the trial to explain
himself to the three judges, he said: “That’s it.”  
 The trial ends June 25. Kerviel risks as many as five years
in prison if convicted and a 375,000-euro fine.  
 For more, click here.  
 JPMorgan Said Barclays Misled Judge in Lehman Deal  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  accused  Barclays Plc  of misleading a
federal judge when it bought  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s
defunct brokerage in the falling markets of September 2008, said
a Lehman lawyer, citing a letter from JPMorgan Chairman Jamie
Dimon.  
 Barclays Group Chief Executive John Varley was asked by
Lehman lawyer Robert Gaffey in federal court in Manhattan
yesterday about what he characterized as “two big-time bankers
in a very big dispute.”  
 Gaffey said Dimon wrote to Varley and Barclays President
Robert Diamond, saying the court was misinformed about the
Barclays deal. JPMorgan had asked Barclays to participate in an
accounting of the transaction and they declined, Dimon said in
the letter, according to Gaffey.  
 “I could refute him point by point but he’s not here,”
Varley said. “I inwardly groaned when I read it because I knew
that there were a number of points on which Jamie Dimon and I
would disagree.”  
 Varley was the second witness yesterday in a U.S.
Bankruptcy Court trial over Lehman’s claim that the U.K.’s
third-biggest bank should pay it as much as $11 billion for an
allegedly undisclosed “windfall” on the deal for the
brokerage. The purchase was approved by Judge James Peck and
closed a week after Lehman’s Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy, the
biggest in U.S. history.  
 Joe Evangelisti, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on the dispute, which was later settled.  
 Lehman lawyer Gaffey has tried to prove that Barclays made
a safe, or “derisked” acquisition, and took more assets out of
the defunct firm than it should have without telling the court.  
 Lehman’s lawyers are beginning to wrap up their case after
more than two weeks of testimony by former Lehman executives,
advisers and Barclays officials.  
 The U.K. bank’s lawyers have tried to show when questioning
Lehman’s witnesses that all the key facts of the deal were known
by the main players. They are scheduled to present Barclays’s
side of the story starting Aug. 23. Barclays, which announced a
gain on its purchase on Sept. 17, 2008, has said it owes Lehman
nothing and wants $3 billion that is being withheld by the
trustee.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 EBay Liable for Leading Users to Fake Perfume, L’Oreal Says  
 EBay Inc.  is actively involved in the process of selling
fake  L’Oreal SA  cosmetics on its auction site, the Paris-based
company told European Union’s highest court.  
 EBay, the most-visited U.S. e-commerce site, is liable for
trademark breaches due to its active involvement in the pre-
sale, sale and after-sale processes on its online platform,
lawyers for L’Oreal told the  European Court of Justice 
yesterday. EBay uses L’Oreal trademarks as sponsored links to
lead users to infringing perfumes and other cosmetics, according
to L’Oreal.  
 “In no way can EBay’s role be described as either passive
or neutral,” L’Oreal’s lawyer Henry Carr said to a 13-judge
panel of the Luxembourg-based EU court. “EBay is just like a
large car-boot sale on the Internet and should face the same
sanctions if fake products are sold there.”  
 A ruling by the EU court may help settle pending trademark
disputes between the two companies in France, Belgium and Spain.
The EU court ruled earlier this year, in a dispute between
 Google Inc.  and LVMH, that Internet hosts may benefit from an
exemption under the  EU’s e-commerce law  only if their role in
processing potentially infringing data is neutral.  
 Courts in France and Belgium so far have sided with EBay in
the lawsuits brought by L’Oreal, Europe’s largest cosmetics
company.  
 Yesterday’s case stems from a dispute in the U.K., where
the High Court in London last year decided EBay could do more to
reduce the sale of copies on its site by installing filters,
imposing restrictions on sellers or applying its policies more
consistently. Before giving its final decision, the court
referred a number of questions to the EU tribunal for guidance.  
 “Even if EBay itself is not liable for trademark
infringement, L’Oreal must have the possibility to require an
injunction against EBay because the company has the knowledge
that’s tied to the infringement on its site,” said Carr.  
 EBay’s lawyer Thierry Van Innis yesterday said an
injunction was a “disproportionate sanction” that would impede
the functioning of e-commerce. He also rejected the idea of
installing control mechanisms, such as a filters to help early
detection of counterfeits sellers “because these clearly don’t
have the capacity to block what’s illegal and ensure that
everything offered is legal.”  
 The case is C-324/09, L’Oreal SA, Lancome parfums et beaute
& Cie SNC, Laboratoire Garnier & Cie, L’Oreal (UK) Ltd. v. EBay
International AG, EBay Europe SARL, EBay (UK) Ltd.  
 Ex-AKO Trader Must Pay $421,000 After Guilty Plea  
 A former trader at AKO Capital LLP, a London hedge fund,
must pay about 287,000 pounds ($421,000) in fines and
restitution after being the first person to plead guilty to U.K.
insider-trading charges.  
 Anjam Ahmad, 39, was sentenced at a London court yesterday
for conspiracy to commit insider dealing related to as many as
22 different companies in 2009, in a case brought by the U.K.
 Financial Services Authority . Judge Geoffrey Rivlin suspended
his sentence and Ahmad will serve no jail time.  
 “You cooperated immediately with the authorities and were
very frank about the part you played in all this,” Rivlin said
at the sentencing hearing.  
 Ahmad admitted to passing information on AKO’s block trades
to a co-conspirator who placed spread bets before the hedge
fund’s trades, FSA prosecutor Sarah Clarke said.  
 Ahmad approached the FSA in February, seven days after his
arrest, to cooperate, the prosecutor said.  
 Ahmad was ordered to pay back the 106,000 pounds he made
from the scheme and a 50,000 fine. The FSA fined him 131,000
pounds separately for pushing trades to an equity broker and
receiving commission in return while he was at AKO.  
 In the insider-trading case, Ahmad was told he would
receive 40 percent of the profit from his accomplice, who he
communicated with using unregistered mobile phone SIM cards,
Clarke said. Ahmad believed the total profit of the scheme was
265,700 pounds, when the actual profit was 590,000, the FSA
said.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Kagan Gets Bipartisan Support From Former Solicitors General  
 Elena Kagan was endorsed by eight former solicitors
general, including four Republicans who added bipartisan support
before next week’s Senate hearings on her U.S. Supreme Court
nomination.  
 Kagan, the first woman solicitor general, is President
Barack Obama’s second  Supreme Court  nominee. As solicitor
general, she represents the government in cases before the high
court.  
 “Elena Kagan would bring to the Supreme Court a breadth of
experience and a history of great accomplishment in the law,”
the former solicitors general said in a statement. They said she
has “served the government well” in her current post and the
experience will be good training for the high court.  
 The former solicitors general served four presidents,
beginning with Republican Ronald Reagan. They included Theodore
Olson and Paul Clement, who held the job during Republican
George W. Bush’s two terms.  
 Obama nominated Kagan, 50, on May 10 to replace retiring
Justice John Paul Stevens on the nine-member high court. She is
a former dean of  Harvard Law School , served for four years as an
aide to President Bill Clinton and was a clerk to Supreme Court
Justice Thurgood Marshall.  
 The  Senate Judiciary Committee  will begin its hearings at
12:30 p.m. Washington time on June 28 with opening remarks from
panel members followed by Kagan’s opening statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        