-- Drilling's Sheriff Salazar Under Scrutiny After BP Gulf Spill
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-06-23T14:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/drilling-sheriff-salazar-faces-more-scrutiny-from-congress-on-bp-oil-spill.html

          
          
             Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , who
promised to be the “new sheriff in town” when he took over the
agency that regulates offshore drilling, faces increased
scrutiny of his leadership before the explosion at a  BP Plc  well
set off the worst U.S. oil spill.  
 “The pace of reform was just too slow” in Salazar’s
efforts to root out corruption and reverse “a philosophy that
says corporations should be allowed to play by their own rules
and police themselves,” President  Barack Obama  said in a speech
from the Oval Office last week. It was the president’s most
critical public comment on Salazar’s performance.  
 Salazar, 55, will be questioned on steps to bolster
oversight of the oil industry at Senate hearings today and
tomorrow, his sixth and seventh appearances before Congress
since the spill began in April. He ultimately may quit or lose
his job for not moving faster to revamp regulation of deepwater
drilling, said  Bill Snape , senior counsel for the Center for
Biological Diversity.  
 “At some point you’ve got to think that he’s in some
trouble,” Snape said in an interview yesterday. “The odds are
greater than 50-50 that Salazar does say goodbye after the
elections.”  
 The Tucson-based center, which opposes offshore drilling,
says on its website that it took “swift, decisive action” in
response to the spill and uncovered government mismanagement.  
 Support Retained  
 The Interior secretary, a former Democratic senator from
Colorado, retains the support of former colleagues such as
Senator  Byron Dorgan .  
 “Ken inherited an agency that I think required a lot of
work,” Dorgan, a Democrat from North Dakota, said in an
interview yesterday. “I really think he’s done a good job,”
and there’s no sign that Obama has “lost faith in Ken,” he
said.  
 “The secretary is devoting 100 percent of his time to the
fight to protect the Gulf Coast from BP’s oil spill and will not
rest until the leak is stopped, the affected communities are
made whole, and the Gulf Coast is restored,” Salazar
spokeswoman  Kendra Barkoff  said in an e-mail.  
 Salazar’s support in Congress is being tested by his May 27
recommendation for a six-month ban on deepwater drilling while
the spill is investigated. Obama agreed and imposed the ban,
angering Republicans and Gulf Coast Democrats who said it’s too
broad and jeopardizes tens of thousands of jobs.  
 Moratorium Lifted  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  lifted the moratorium
yesterday, a decision that the U.S. said it would appeal.
In his ruling, the judge said a section of Salazar’s report,
which stated the recommendations were “peer-reviewed by seven
experts identified by the National Academy of Engineering,” was
“misleading” and member of the group said it was a
“misrepresentation.”  
 Five of the experts said the recommendation for a six-month
ban was added after their final review of the report, Feldman
said in his decision.  Kenneth Arnold , an oil-industry consultant
in Houston and a contributor to the report, said it was wrong to
“use us as justification for the moratorium.”  
 The ban requires drillers to temporarily abandon wells,
which can increase risks, Arnold said. It will also increase
U.S. dependence on foreign supplies, which are transported by
tankers that have greater risk of a spill than oil carried by
pipeline from Gulf platforms, he said.  
 “The Department of Interior has apologized,” Arnold said
in an interview. “We are working with them at the moment to see
if there’s a way to modify the moratorium in a way that makes
sense from a safety standpoint.”  
 Revamp Pledge  
 Salazar promised days after taking office last year to
revamp the Minerals Management Service, the agency within his
department that oversees oil and gas drilling on federal lands
and offshore tracts. In 2008, Interior Department Inspector
General  Earl Devaney  found that MMS employees in a division that
collects fees had accepted gifts and engaged in sex with
industry contacts while failing to collect almost $200 million
due from energy companies.  
 MMS employees are now required to receive annual ethics
training and meet new standards issued under Salazar in March
2009. Salazar also ended a program that let companies pay
royalty fees in oil instead of cash.  
 After taking those steps, the Interior secretary
concentrated much of his efforts last year on pushing for
development of offshore wind turbines. On April 28 he approved a
$1 billion wind farm off the Massachusetts coast, the first in
U.S. waters.  
 ‘Flagging Concerns’  
 “The priority was traction for offshore wind
initiatives,”  Tyson Slocum , director of the energy program for
Public Citizen, a Washington advocacy group, said in an
interview. “No one with authority was coming up to Salazar and
the president flagging concerns with MMS regulatory oversight of
oil and gas drilling.”  
 After the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig leased by BP from
 Transocean Ltd. , exploded and sank about 40 miles (64
kilometers) off Louisiana’s coast, Obama vowed to end the “cozy
relationship” between companies and the MMS. The agency and its
1,700 employees are responsible for enforcing safety rules and
collecting about $13 billion a year in drilling fees, a dual
task that suggests “inherent internal conflicts of interest,”
Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said on May 11.  
 ‘Let Companies Regulate’  
 Before the blast, Salazar initiated a study of MMS offshore
safety inspections by the National Academies, which provide
research on science and technology. Arnold, who heads the study
group, said one of Salazar’s biggest challenges is to turn
around a culture fostered in part by former President  Ronald Reagan ’s view that “government is the problem.”  
 “From a culture that says let the companies regulate
themselves to a culture that says you can make a difference and
we will back you up, that’s the biggest change that needed to be
made,” Arnold said.  
 Salazar describes his agenda as a work in progress.
“There’s a lot more to go,” he said in a May 18 appearance
before a Senate panel.  
 The next day, he announced that the MMS would be replaced
by three new offices to oversee leases, drilling safety and fee
collection.  
 The changes won’t “be the last that we undertake in the
Department of the Interior,” Salazar said.  
 Last week, Obama named former Justice Department official
 Michael Bromwich  to lead the effort to overhaul the Minerals
Management Service, focusing on the relationship between the
agency and the  oil companies  it oversees. Former MMS director
 Elizabeth Birnbaum  resigned on May 27.  
 ‘Agency With Teeth’  
 Until the oil spill, “I don’t think anybody expected the
MMS to be a regulatory agency with teeth,” said  Mike McKenna ,
president of MWR Strategies, a consulting firm in Washington.
“They were expected to run a royalty program efficiently. I
don’t think they ever really had the resources, financial or
human, to do an adequate job.”  
 Now, Salazar “feels the weight of getting this right,”
Senator  Mark Udall , a fellow Colorado Democrat, said in an
interview last month.  
 “Ken’s never been flashy,” said Udall. “He’s never
demanded that everybody pay attention to him. He’s always been
about getting the job done.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Salazar, left, will be questioned on steps to bolster oversight of the oil industry at Senate hearings today. Photographer: Tami A. Heilemann/U.S. Department of the Interior via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
