-- Dubai's Oman Crude Futures Is `The Shot' at New Gulf Benchmark, Vitol Says
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-06-24T16:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/dubai-s-oman-crude-futures-is-the-shot-at-new-gulf-benchmark-vitol-says.html

          
          
             Rising Chinese and Indian demand for
Persian Gulf crude is increasing the need for a new Middle East
oil price benchmark to add transparency to eastbound sales and
reflect Asia’s market influence, a Vitol Group executive said.  
 The  Dubai Mercantile Exchange ’s Oman futures contract,
trading since June 2007, is “the shot” at forging a new
benchmark, a reference off which Gulf producers can price the
region’s 14 million barrels of daily output, said Chris Bake,
managing director of Vitol Dubai.  
 “If it isn’t the Oman contract as the fungible grade that
has now invested three years in a futures market, who is it
going to be?” Bake said in an interview June 21 at his office
in the same building as the DME. Oman crude is the region’s
most easily traded since there are no restrictions on who buyers
can resell cargoes to, he said. Vitol, the biggest independent
oil trader, is a floor member and shareholder of the exchange.  
 The DME is seeking to establish its Oman crude futures
contract, which gives investors the option to take physical
deliveries, as the benchmark for shipments to Asia by attracting
more producers to adopt it. The present standard for Middle East
crude is the Dubai price assessment that includes oil from the
Dubai, Oman and Upper Zakum fields published by Platts, the
energy-information division of McGraw-Hill Cos.  
 Platts’ daily assessment, which is based on bids and offers
for cargoes during a 30 minute period known as the window and on
interviews with traders, is transparent, Dave Ernsberger, the
publisher’s global director of oil, said today.  
 Platts Window  
 “You can see exactly who’s bidding and who’s offering in
the window,” Ernsberger said by phone from Singapore. The
publisher recently moved a price expert to Dubai to be closer to
Mideast clients and may add new grades, like Qatar’s Marine
grade, to the crude assessment, he said.  
 Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest exporter, prices its oil
to Asia, its largest market, as a premium or a differential to
the Platts assessment. State oil company Saudi Aramco’s exports
to Asia increased last year as China bought on average more than
1 million barrels of Saudi crude a day last year, the company
said in its annual review released last week. Shipments to the
U.S. and Europe declined in the period. The kingdom agreed in
February to almost double exports to India to about 770,000
barrels a day.  
 “If the Saudis agree to price off the DME it will
definitely create the next wave of liquidity to give the DME the
credibility it needs to become a global benchmark,” Bake said.  
 Ian Taylor , chief executive officer of the company, said in
London today “there is a good possibility that Saudi Arabia
will consider” pricing a percentage of its sales to Asia using
the DME’s Oman futures contract.  
 Better Hedge  
 Added clarity from such a benchmark will allow buyers and
sellers to better hedge their risks and more effectively price
the region’s different oil grades independently of markers in
the West such as North Sea Brent and West Texas Intermediate,
Bake said. Pricing on the current basis is still too heavily
influenced by the cost of crude on European and U.S. exchanges,
he said.  
 “Does the Middle East want to continue to have their price
set by the vagaries of a market in the West when clearly the
driver is the east?” Bake said. “For me that’s the key.”  
 The world is relying on consumers in China and the Middle
East to keep spending and maintain the global economic recovery
as the developed economies of the U.S. and Europe stagnate. The
International Energy Agency sees consumption from emerging
economies outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development accounting for 52 percent of the world’s oil use by
2015, compared with 47 percent this year.  
 Physical Delivery  
 The Oman contract, the largest physically delivered oil
futures contract, is the only product traded on the DME. The
government of Dubai began pricing its oil as a differential or
premium to the Omani crude last year, making  Dubai  the only
regional grade based on the contract. The exchange posted a
record 14 million barrels to be physically delivered in May.  
 DME Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Leaver  has said he is
targeting members of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to
switch to the Oman contract as a benchmark. Council members are
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and
Bahrain.  
 The exchange, located in the Dubai International Financial
Centre, is 25 percent-owned by a Dubai state-owned investment
company, with  CME Group Inc.  and the Oman Investment Fund each
also owning a quarter. A group of lenders and traders including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Vitol and Royal
Dutch Shell Plc bought a 20 percent stake in Aug. 2008 and a
final 5 percent is allocated to floor trading members.  
 “Right now people are using it more as a cargo pricing
mechanism rather than an underlying risk management mechanism
and that’s the gap,” Bake said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        