-- Dubai Bonds Set to Rally as Credit Default Risk Wanes, Deutsche Bank Says
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-06-23T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/dubai-bonds-to-rally-as-dubai-world-default-risk-wanes-deutsche-bank-says.html

          
          
             Dubai sovereign and corporate bonds
will extend gains over the next six months as the risk of a
default by the emirate wanes, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Germany’s biggest bank recommends investors buy Dubai
Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC’s 6 percent notes
maturing in February 2017 and dollar bonds sold by DP World
Ltd., said  Jamil Hallak , head of credit trading for the Middle
East and North Africa at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. Dubai
World, the state-owned holding company, said on May 20 it
reached an agreement with a group of creditors to restructure
$23.5 billion of liabilities.  
 “Dubai bonds offer value especially after the Dubai World
debt restructuring, which has provided investors with more
confidence and removed a default scenario,” Hallak said in an
interview in Dubai. “I see potential for their
outperformance.”  
 Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main business
groups, said last month its main creditor group agreed to
restructure $14.4 billion of bank loans and $8.9 billion of
government liabilities as it seeks to resolve a debt crisis that
roiled global markets last year. Dubai had to borrow $20 billion
from Abu Dhabi to help state-owned companies pay debt.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc’s HSBC/NASDAQ  Dubai Listed Conventional
Total Return Index  of six foreign-currency bonds sold by Dubai
companies and banks rallied 17 percent this year through June
22, the best start to a year since the index began in December
2004. The debt rallied 21 percent in 2009.  
 Dubai CDS  
 The yield on DHCOG’s 10-year 500 million British pound
($745.8 million) notes may fall more than 380 basis points, or
3.8 percentage points, to 9 percent by the end of the year,
Deutsche Bank’s Hallak said. The bonds yielded 12.848 percent
yesterday. The yield on DP World’s 6.25 percent sukuk maturing
in July 2017 may fall about 200 basis points by the end of
December, he said. The Islamic bonds yielded 8.492 percent.  
 DHCOG, a real-estate and hospitality company owned by the
emirate’s ruler, is unlikely to restructure debt after posting a
full-year loss of $6.2 billion as it benefits from hotels,
rental and telecommunications businesses, New York-based
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said on June 3. The U.S. bank is
maintaining an “overweight” recommendation on the company’s
bonds.  
 In helping transform the emirate as a regional hub, Dubai
World and its property units, Nakheel PJSC and Limitless World,
used loans to finance real-estate projects such as palm-shaped
islands off the emirate’s coast. The companies struggled to
refinance their borrowings as the global credit crunch choked
off lending.  
 The Dubai government and its state-owned companies have
racked up $109.3 billion of debt and about $15.5 billion of that
is due this year, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  
 Europe Crisis  
 Concern the European debt crisis will worsen has prompted
investors to sell bonds in nations from Greece to Spain and
pushed the euro down about 15 percent against the U.S. dollar
this year. Greece’s credit rating was cut on June 14 to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service.  
 High-yielding bonds in Europe have much “higher
probabilities of default and restructuring,” Deutsche Bank’s
Hallak said. “Investors should sell Dubai credit-default swaps.
That trade should benefit from more compression in spreads.”  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Dubai government debt narrowed
190 basis points to 461 on June 22 from a year high of 651,
according to CMA DataVision prices. The contracts rose to a
record closing price of 977 basis points in Feb. 17, 2009,
before the central bank of the U.A.E. bought $10 billion of
Dubai bonds on Feb. 22 of the same year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        