-- Earthquake of 5.5 Shakes Toronto Office Towers, Forces Ottawa Evacuations
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-23T21:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/earthquake-of-5-5-shakes-toronto-office-towers-forces-ottawa-evacuations.html

          
          
             A magnitude 5.0 earthquake in Canada
shook office towers in Toronto and Montreal, interrupted train
service and forced lawmakers and government workers in Ottawa
from their buildings.  
 The earthquake at about 1:41 p.m. New York time today was
centered about 53 kilometers (33 miles) northeast of Ottawa,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey.  The tremors were felt
as far away as Ohio, New York and Massachusetts, said  Bruce Presgrave , a USGS geophysicist in Golden, Colorado.  
 In Ottawa, several emergency vehicle sirens could be heard
downtown, and hundreds of people evacuated buildings in the
blocks around Parliament Hill. Mobile phone reception was
intermittent in the half hour afterwards and the Bank of Canada
was closed. There have been no reports of injuries or major
damage.  
 “I was sitting at my desk when I felt a small shake,”
said Kelly Cromwell, a money manager at J. Zechner Associates on
the 47th floor of the TD Canada Trust Tower in Toronto’s
financial hub on Bay Street. “My chair then started to move to
the right, and that’s when I got up and ran to the elevator.”  
 The earthquake was the strongest in eastern Canada since
2000, when a 5.2 magnitude tremor shook Quebec, according to the
USGS and Natural Resources Canada. The Ottawa area is part of
the  Western Quebec Seismic Zone , which gets three to four
earthquakes a year. One of the most damaging quakes in the
region occurred in 1935, when a magnitude 6.1 event struck.  
 Epicenter Motel  
 “There is no evidence of damages. Picture frames fell and
windows shook, but no injuries,” said Linda Léveillé, owner of
a motel in Val-Des-Bois, Quebec, about 5 kilometers from the
epicenter.  
 Passenger train service in the triangle between Montreal,
Ottawa and Toronto resumed in late afternoon after a three-hour
interruption for track inspections,  Via Rail  spokeswoman
Elizabeth Huard said in a telephone interview. Travelers should
expect delays of 45 minutes to three hours, she said.  
 Steve Lee Lalande, a spokesman for the Quebec provincial
police, told Radio-Canada television that the belfry in the
village of Gracefield crumbled. A portion of Quebec’s route 307
has been closed after collapsing, Nicole Ste-Marie, a
spokeswoman for the provincial transport ministry, said in a
telephone interview.  
 Lawmaker Cut Short  
 Don Davies, a lawmaker with the opposition New Democratic
Party, had to cut short an Ottawa  press conference  on the costs
of the Group of Eight and Group of 20 summits in Canada.  
 “I don’t always exit with such drama,” Davies said after
reporters had begun running for the exits as the building shook.  
 Toronto resident Andrea Ercolani initially mistook the
tremor in Toronto for the vibrations from helicopters that had
just flown low over downtown ahead of the G-20 summit. Toronto
is about 425 kilometers from the earthquake epicenter.  
 “I was very nervous,” said Ercolani, 26, who works at a
food magazine, Inspired. “I’ve never felt an earthquake
before.”  
 Laurent Godin, a professor of structural geology at Queen’s
University in Kingston, Ontario who studies faults that cause
earthquakes, said he wasn’t surprised there was so little damage
reported to date.  
 Building Codes  
 “In another country with not as good building codes, there
might have been more damage,” Godin said in an interview.
“I’ve worked a lot in Nepal and Kathmandu and a 5.5 there would
have been a totally different story.”  
 The tremor comes three days before leaders from the  Group
of 20 countries  converge on Toronto to debate ways of
coordinating exit strategies from fiscal stimulus. A 12-block
section of Toronto’s financial district is already surrounded by
three-meter (10-foot) high chain-link fences and concrete
barriers, part of the largest security operation ever in Canada
with 20,000 police and security guards.  
 “We’re thinking of making T-shirts -- I survived the Great
Quake and the G-20 in Toronto 2010,” said  John Curran , a
Toronto-based senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        