-- East Timor Says Gas Plant for Sunrise on Its Soil Would `Catapult' Economy
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-23T07:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/east-timor-open-to-dialogue-over-development-of-sunrise-gas-horta-says.html

          
          
             East Timor President  Jose Ramos- Horta  said he wants Woodside Petroleum Ltd. and its partners in
the Sunrise project off northern Australia to pipe the gas to a
plant in his country because it would spur the economy.  
 “I see the benefits of job creation, catapulting our
economy into prosperity,” Ramos-Horta said at a news conference
in Canberra today with Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd . “I
don’t support it out of patriotic duty.”  
 East Timor is demanding more detailed analysis of the
costs of the development options for the Sunrise field,
including sending the gas by pipeline to the southeast Asian
nation. The proposal by Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil
and gas producer, to use floating liquefied natural gas
technology is untested, Ramos-Horta said.  
 Woodside  and its partners, including Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
have said that a floating platform in the Timor Sea would be the
best commercial option and deliver the most revenue to both
Australia and East Timor. The companies ruled out piping the gas
to East Timor for processing because that would cost about $5
billion more than the floating LNG plan, Woodside said.  
 The Australian government doesn’t favor one proposal for
Sunrise over another, Rudd said today. The dispute must be
settled by East Timor and the companies involved in the project,
he said. “That’s the appropriate way for this to be resolved.”  
 East Timor ‘Vulnerable’  
 East Timor depends “almost exclusively” on oil revenue
from the  Bayu-Undan  project run by ConocoPhillips, making the
country vulnerable, and it must find additional financial
sources to support the economy, Ramos-Horta said.  
 The government is open to dialogue on how to move forward
with Sunrise, and Ramos-Horta said he’s confident that East
Timor and the venture companies will find a solution.  
 The nation, one of the poorest in the Asia-Pacific region,
is seeking to use petroleum reserves to expand its economy,
according to the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and
Trade’s website. East Timor’s fund set up to manage its oil
money reached $5.4 billion at the end of 2009, the government
said June 19.  
 East Timor ranked 162 out of 182 countries in the 2009
 United Nations Human Development Index  measuring life expectancy,
literacy and standard of living, the online report shows.  
 East Timor said yesterday that it will put forward a plan
later this year to develop a $3.8 billion oil and gas
development hub on the country’s southern coast.  
 “The consortium allege the pipeline going to Timor Leste
is far too expensive, and that remains to be critically
analyzed,” Ramos-Horta said today. “Let’s sit down to
scrutinize every item of cost of those options and see what
makes real sense.”  
 Australia and East Timor completed a treaty for the
administration of the field, which straddles a boundary between
Australian waters and an area jointly managed by the two
countries. Woodside and its partners have “exclusive rights”
to develop the field and sell the gas, according to the company.  
 Woodside has a 33 percent stake in Sunrise, while
 ConocoPhillips  has 30 percent and Shell 27 percent. Osaka Gas Co.
owns 10 percent of the venture.  
 Floating LNG ‘Best’  
 The Sunrise companies need to win approval for their
development proposals from the governments of East Timor and
Australia before they can proceed. Floating LNG satisfies their
obligation to develop the Sunrise project to the “best
commercial advantage,” Perth-based Woodside has said.  
 Woodside  declined 1.4 percent to A$44.65 in Sydney trading,
compared with a loss of 1.6 percent for the  S&P/ASX 200 Index .  
 Sunrise would become the second project, after Prelude, to
use Shell’s technology to chill gas to liquid form on board a
vessel, The Hague-based company said. The Sunrise floating
platform would produce 4 million metric tons of the fuel a year.  
 A floating LNG facility would be 50 percent longer than the
U.S. Nimitz-class aircraft carrier and three times the length of
the Sydney Cricket Ground, Woodside’s Chief Executive Officer
 Don Voelte  said in a June 3 speech in the Australian city.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        