-- Medvedev Wins Schwarzenegger Backing for Building Russian Silicon Valley
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-06-23T05:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/medvedev-wins-schwarzenegger-backing-for-building-russian-silicon-valley.html

          
          
             President  Dmitry Medvedev  won
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s backing for his bid to build
Russia’s own Silicon Valley, saying he aims to create
“powerful” ties with California companies.  
 “My goal is not just to see what it is like, this is not an
excursion,” Medvedev told Schwarzenegger in San Francisco. “I
would like that as a result of this trip we start full-fledged
relations that will lead to establishing powerful cooperation.”  
 The Kremlin leader on June 22 arrived in San Francisco for
a three-day visit that will include talks with U.S. President
 Barack Obama  in Washington. He is scheduled on June 23 to meet
with executives from companies including Apple Inc., Cisco
Systems Inc. and Twitter Inc., the No. 3 social-networking site.  
 Schwarzenegger said he’ll put together a trade mission of
technology executives to travel to Moscow to help with the
Skolkovo projet “in any way possible.”  
 Medvedev, 44, is looking to modernize the world’s largest
energy producer to lessen its dependence on oil, gas and metals.
The country, which sent the first man into space, has been
increasingly reliant on imported technology such as appliances
and heavy machinery since the Soviet Union disbanded in 1991.  
 The president in March asked oil and metals billionaire
 Viktor Vekselberg  to oversee the creation of a Russian Silicon
Valley in the Moscow suburb of Skolkovo, where tax breaks and
other incentives will be offered to lure investment to spur
innovation and production of high-technology products.  
 Cisco, Google, Boeing  
 Vekselberg, whose assets include a stake in BP Plc’s
Russian venture TNK-BP, said June 22 that San Jose-based Cisco
will join Skolkovo and that Chicago-based Boeing Co. will sign
an accord to do the same on June 24. Cisco will establish a
research and development center in Skolkovo to support
innovative products, Vekselberg said.  
 Google Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  agreed to
join Skolkovo’s board and will meet Medvedev’s delegation during
the California leg of the U.S. trip, Vekselberg said.  
 “We are working out formats of cooperation,” the
billionaire said. “Signing won’t happen as part of this visit,
but I think it will in the future. The result of this visit will
be the establishment of qualitatively new relations between
Skolkovo and our partners.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        