-- Lee Shau-Kee's Henderson Queried Seventh Time by Hong Kong on Home Sales
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-06-23T11:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/lee-shau-kee-henderson-is-queried-seventh-time-by-hong-kong-on-home-sales.html

          
          
             Henderson Land Development Co. , the
Hong Kong developer controlled by billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , was
questioned for a seventh time by the government over luxury
apartment transactions that spurred efforts to cool home prices
and a crackdown on marketing tactics.  
 The Lands Department  asked the company to provide copies of
title deeds and additional details on how it calculated the
interest penalty for late payments in a letter dated yesterday,
spokeswoman  Bonnie Ngan  said by phone today. Henderson was given
seven days to respond, said a spokeswoman for the department who
declined to be identified citing an internal policy.  
 The Hong Kong government has been scrutinizing developers’
sales techniques since Henderson’s October announcement it sold
an apartment at the 39 Conduit Road project in the Mid-Levels
district for a world-record price of HK$88,000 ($11,300) per
square foot. The company said June 15 the sales of 20 apartments
in the complex collapsed after most buyers pulled out.  
 “The reason why the government is asking all these
questions is they want to appear to the public they are tough”
on developers’ selling tactics, Hong Kong-based shareholder
activist  David Webb  said in a phone interview today. “I can’t
see any strong reason for investigating it, but I think they are
doing it for political reasons.”  
 Henderson shares rose 1.2 percent to HK$48.35 at the close
in Hong Kong.  
 Surging Prices  
 Home Kong housing prices have risen 5.7 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  in February announced higher stamp duty on luxury
properties and pledged to raise the supply of land as it seeks
to reduce the risk of a property bubble.  
 The developer said June 15 it will take a charge of HK$734
million against  earnings  on the 20 sales that were canceled. One
of the apartments that didn’t sell would have set a HK$88,000
per-square-foot world record, Henderson said.  
 Henderson included sales of the 24 apartments plus one that
was sold in a completed transaction as part of its  revenue  of
HK$15.2 billion for the 18 months ended December 2009, the
company reported March 30. It extended completions of the
transactions for the 24 apartments in March, at the request of
buyers, the company said at the time.  
 Henderson “did not in any way try to cover up the risk of
non-completion,” Webb said, citing the company’s 2009 annual
report.  
 Henderson is “suspected to be involved in disclosing
misleading sales information,” lawmaker  Lee Wing Tat  said in a
release dated June 1 and posted on the Democratic Party website.
The party urged the government and regulatory authorities to
investigate the transactions at 39 Conduit Road.  
 Government Investigation  
 The government said last week regulatory and law
enforcement authorities are “looking into and following up on”
the failed apartment sales. It didn’t specify which agencies
were involved. The Lands Department had earlier questioned why
the 24 apartment sales reported in the company’s results last
year had not been completed.  
 Henderson skipped floor numbers at the 46-story project to
avoid those that include four and are considered unlucky, a
common practice in Hong Kong. Number four sounds like the word
“death” in Chinese.  
 The HK$439 million apartment Henderson had said was sold
for a record per square foot was listed on the 68th floor while
it was actually on the 45th.  
 Rooftop Jacuzzis  
 The residential  building  on Hong Kong Island has 66 units,
each with their own private lift lobby, and ranging from 2,800
square feet (260 square meters) to 7,600 square feet. The
duplexes in the 229,225-square-foot development feature private
swimming pools or Jacuzzis on the roof, according to the
development’s website.  
 The company sold four units, on the 30th and 31st floors,
according to filings to the Land Registry, the most expensive
for HK$134 million.  
 Henderson used standard contractual terms in transactions
at No. 39 Conduit Road, the company said in an e-mailed
statement issued today in response to a magazine article it has
disputed. The developer booked the sales according to Hong Kong
accounting standards, the statement said.  
 Hong Kong-based English language newspaper the Standard had
earlier reported news of the government’s latest questions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       39 Conduit Road  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The government said last week regulatory and law enforcement authorities are “looking into and following up on” 20 failed apartment sales at 39 Conduit Road. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The government said last week regulatory and law enforcement authorities are “looking into and following up on” 20 failed apartment sales at 39 Conduit Road. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Phillip Yin reports on the investigation into canceled apartment sales at Henderson Land Development Co.’s 39 Conduit Road project in Hong Kong.
     Henderson, controlled by billionaire Lee Shau-kee, will provide “all necessary information” to Hong Kong authorities, spokeswoman Bonnie Ngan said by telephone today. The sales were canceled due to “the economic environment” and lending policies that were tightened by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, Ngan said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
