-- Egypt May Add Poland, Romania to its List of Wheat Providers, Nomani Says
-- Mahmoud Kassem
-- 2010-06-23T13:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/egypt-may-add-poland-romania-to-its-list-of-wheat-providers-nomani-says.html

          
          
             Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat
importer, may add Romania and Poland to its list of approved
providers as it seeks greater competition and lower prices for
the grain.  
 “The more the countries, the more the trading companies and
the more the ability to issue tenders, the better the prices I
get,” Nomani Nomani, vice chairman of the General Authority for
Supply Commodities, the state-run wheat buyer, said in an
interview in Cairo yesterday.  
 The authority, also known as GASC, buys wheat for the
government through international tenders because local
production is insufficient to meet demand in the Arab world’s
most populous nation, which has about 80 million people. The
wheat is used in a subsidized bread program.  
 Poland and Romania will be included on the list once they
have returned all the required documents, Nomani said. Price is
the sole factor in determining the outcome of the tenders, he
added.  
 “The origin countries are like my children and I would
like to see all children equal in everything,” he said. “But
when we tender, we want to get the best price for wheat that has
the specifications and the conditions we require.”  
 At the latest tender on June 19, Egypt agreed to buy 60,000
metric tons of Russian wheat and 60,000 tons of wheat from
Kazakhstan at a price of $166 per ton.  
 Russia had the biggest share of Egypt’s wheat imports so
far in the marketing year that ends on June 30, accounting for
58.7 percent. That was followed by France with 27.2 percent.
U.S. wheat made up 7.6 percent, Nomani said.  
 GASC’s approved list also includes Argentina, Australia,
Canada, Germany and the U.K.  
 GASC’s total imports of the grain for the marketing year
may reach between 5 million and 5.2 million tons. The agency,
whose import specifications include minimum protein levels, may
also purchase between 2.2 million and 3 million tons of local
wheat, Nomani said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Galal  at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
 Mahmoud Kassem  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        