-- Lehman Releases Barclays Witness Interviews in `Windfall' Recovery Bid
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-06-23T21:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/lehman-releases-barclays-witness-interviews-in-windfall-recovery-bid.html

          
          
             Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
published 18 interviews with witnesses including  Barclays Plc 
lawyers and executives in a bid to recover an $11 billion
“windfall” allegedly collected by the U.K. bank when it bought
the defunct firm’s brokerage.  
 Witnesses include  Edward Rosen  of Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton, Barclays’s law firm for the brokerage deal,  Mike Keegan , a Barclays trading executive, and  Paolo Tonucci ,
Lehman’s former treasurer who is now with Barclays. The
depositions were published today on the Web site of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, where Lehman and the brokerage
trustee are due to finish making their case against Barclays on
Friday.  
 Lehman, which wants money to pay off creditors, has accused
the U.K.’s third-biggest bank of conspiring with former Lehman
executives to get an undisclosed discount on the deal. The
brokerage’s trustee has said changes were secretly inserted in
the sale contract without telling him or Lehman’s lawyers,
including a late alteration allocating $4 billion in margin
accounts to Barclays.  
 Rosen testified that handwritten notes of the late changes
were shown to “the Lehman side.” While he didn’t speak to any
Lehman representative and didn’t know which lawyer received the
changes, Cleary “did not control the documents,” he said in
his February deposition.  
 “Those changes were put into whatever revised draft
emerged” from Lehman’s lawyers, Rosen told a lawyer for the
trustee.  
 Trustee Giddens  
 Trustee  James Giddens  seeks $6.7 billion from Barclays to
pay hedge funds and other institutional clients. Barclays has
said it owes Lehman nothing and has demanded from Giddens $3
billion, which it says he is withholding.  
 Barclays is due to make its case in late August and
September.  
 Lehman, which spent $794 million on lawyers, advisers and
managers in 19 months through April, has said it will spend five
years selling assets to pay unsecured creditors as little as
14.7 cents on the dollar.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and James W. Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        