-- Telefonica Sells 8 Percent of Portugal Telecom, Jornal de Negocios Reports
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-06-23T13:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/telefonica-sells-8-stake-in-portugal-telecom-jornal-de-negocios-reports.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  sold 8 percent of
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA to other shareholders in the Portuguese
company, Jornal de Negocios reported, without saying where it
got the information.  
 The Spanish company sold the shares as it may not be
allowed to vote at a Portugal Telecom  shareholders ’ meeting on
June 30 on its 6.5 billion-euro ($8.1 billion) bid for the
Portuguese company’s stake in their Brazilian joint venture, the
newspaper said. Telefonica is looking to buy out Portugal
Telecom’s 50 percent stake in the company that controls Vivo
Participacoes SA, Brazil’s biggest wireless operator.  
 Telefonica, which had a 10 percent stake in Portugal
Telecom, may not have been allowed to vote on the bid because
the meeting’s chairman may rule that it had a conflict of
interest.  Portugal Telecom  Chairman  Henrique Granadeiro  said in
an interview last night with Economico TV that there is “surely”
a conflict of interest.  
 According to Portuguese law, a shareholder can’t vote on
issues involving a “relation,” existing or to be created,
between the company and that shareholder.  
 Portugal Telecom shareholders have until the end of today
to inform the chairman of the shareholders’ meeting of the
number of shares they hold in the company.  
 Portugal Telecom, which rejected an initial 5.7 billion-
euro bid without a shareholders vote, has said the revised offer
“does not reflect the strategic value of this asset for
Telefonica.” Brasilcel NV, which owns 60 percent of Vivo, is
equally held by Telefonica and Portugal Telecom. Vivo has 30
percent of Brazil’s 179 million wireless subscriptions.  
 Close Vote  
 Madrid-based Telefonica, which called its first offer
“fair, full and final,” wants control of Vivo to merge it with
 Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA , or Telesp, its fixed-line unit
in Brazil. It founded the venture with Portugal Telecom in 2001.  
 Even if Telefonica is allowed to vote, it may be a close
call.  
 About 36 percent of Portugal Telecom is held by Portuguese
investors, according the company’s website. U.S. holders own 23
percent, 21 percent is owned by investors based in the U.K. and
Ireland and 19 percent by shareholders in the rest of Europe.  
 For Related News and Information:
Peer product comparison: TEF SM <Equity> PPC <GO>
Relative value graph: TEF SM <EQUITY> RVG <GO>
Telefonica dividend history: TEF SM <Equity> DVD <GO>
Analyst estimates: TEF SM <Equity> EEB <GO>
Today’s top technology stories: TTOP <GO>  
          
          


  


        