-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline for Second Day on Global Growth Concern
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-23T16:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-second-day-on-global-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks  fell for a
second day as China scrapped tax rebates for metals companies
while reports on U.S. housing and European manufacturing spurred
concern the global economic expansion will slow.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 1.1 percent to
956.74 by 12:24 p.m. in New York, extending declines after new
home sales in the U.S. fell to a record. Malaysia’s ringgit led
declines in developing-nation currencies, weakening 0.9 percent
against the dollar. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index headed to the
lowest level in seven days and Russia’s  Micex  benchmark dropped
for a second day.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  lost 0.7 percent after the
government said it will remove export-tax rebates on some steel
and metals products, dragging down shares of producers including
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. New home sales in the U.S. plunged a
record 33 percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from
April, less than the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and the fewest in data going back to 1963,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today. Growth in
Europe’s services and manufacturing industries slowed in June,
Markit Economics said.  
 “The global concerns are not going to be addressed
overnight,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at
SMC Capitals Ltd. in New Delhi. “There is no real conviction
and confidence among investors to put in more money at higher
levels.”  
 The MSCI index’s two-day drop pared a 10 percent rally
since June 7 driven by inflows into emerging-market funds on
speculation faster economic growth will boost company profits.
The 21-country gauge jumped to a seven-week high on June 21
after China indicated it would allow the yuan to strengthen,
enhancing global growth through increased Chinese consumption.  
 Export Taxes  
 Baoshan Iron & Steel and  Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co.  slid at
least 2 percent. Export tax rebates on hot-rolled coil, some
cold-rolled coil and galvanized products will be removed,
China’s Ministry of Finance said in a statement yesterday. The
new policy will also affect some zinc and tin products including
pipes, foils, plates and rods, the statement said. The new rates
will take effect from July 15, the ministry said.  
 A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in the service and manufacturing industries fell to 56
from 56.4 in May, according to Markit Economics. Economists had
forecast a drop to 55.8, the median of 13 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  
 Brazil’s Bovespa benchmark index headed to the lowest in
seven days, dropping 0.8 percent.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  fell
the most in seven days after Latin America’s biggest company by
market value delayed the sale of as much as $25 billion of stock
until September because a price hasn’t been set in a related
deal to buy oil reserves from the government.  
 OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest bank, fell 2 percent and OAO
Gazprom, the country’s gas export monopoly, declined 1.3
percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        