-- U.S., England Advance in World Cup
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-23T22:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/england-u-s-advance-to-world-cup-round-of-16-slovenia-algeria-are-out.html

          
          
             The U.S. scored a last-gasp goal to
advance to the round of 16 at the World Cup in South Africa,
where it will be joined by England, Germany and Ghana after
yesterday’s games.  
 Landon Donovan’s  goal in the first of four added minutes
gave the U.S. a 1-0 win over Algeria in Group C in Pretoria.
England also had a 1-0 victory in the group over Slovenia, which
would have progressed had the U.S. tied.  
 “I’ve been on a long journey for the last four years and
I’m just shocked and so proud of our guys, unbelievable,”
Donovan said in a televised interview.  
 Germany defeated Ghana 1-0 in Group D with both teams
qualifying for the next round after Australia beat Serbia 2-1.
Ghana will face the U.S. on June 26, with Germany and England
meeting the following day.  
 “We are looking forward to taking on and playing
England,” Germany coach  Joachim Loew  said at a news conference.
“Playing England is always a special moment for us. It has a
great history, it’s going to be a wonderful opportunity for
us.”  
 The U.S. and England both had five points and the same goal
difference in Group C. The Americans took the top spot by
scoring four goals to England’s two.  
 Germany captured Group D with six points. Ghana and
Australia had four, with Ghana advancing on superior goal
difference. The top two in each group reached the next round.  
 Today in Group F, Slovakia takes on Italy in Johannesburg
and Paraguay meets New Zealand in Polokwane in the earlier
games. In Group E, Denmark plays Japan in Rustenburg and
Cameroon matches up with the Netherlands in Cape Town in the
late matches.  
 Facing Elimination  
 Yesterday, the U.S. controlled play for most of the game,
although it was unable to score until three minutes from
elimination. Jozy Altidore’s cross found  Clint Dempsey , whose
redirection was stopped but not controlled. Donovan then put the
rebound in for the winning goal.  
 “I’m proud,” U.S. coach  Bob Bradley  said in a televised
interview. “We finished first in our group, five points, didn’t
lose a match, so we’re ready.”  
 Dempsey had a goal disallowed in the first half after being
ruled offside. He hit the post in the second half and put the
rebound wide of the open goal. Algeria captain Anther Yahia was
sent off for a second yellow card in the final minute of
stoppage time.  
 Jermain Defoe  scored in the 23rd minute in Port Elizabeth
for England, which needed to win to ensure advancing after two
ties.  
 “I thought the lads were terrific,” England captain
 Steven Gerrard  said. “We got everything we asked for --
passion, team spirit, togetherness, fight and quality. We
thoroughly deserved to win.”  
 Defoe’s Goal  
 England took the lead when Defoe, starting in place of
 Emile Heskey , put a cross from  James Milner  past Samir
Handanovic.  
 The Slovenian goalkeeper stopped Gerrard in the 30th
minute, grabbing the ball after it slipped through his hands and
was spinning near the goal line.  Wayne Rooney  also hit the post
in the second half.  
 “I was really happy with the performance,” coach  Fabio Capello  said in a televised interview. “This is the team that I
know. And this is the spirit that I remember when we played
qualification games.”  
 Mesut Ozil’s goal in the 60th minute gave Germany the top
place in Group D in Johannesburg.  
 Ozil had a shot saved by goalkeeper Richard Kingson after
25 minutes and Germany captain  Philipp Lahm  blocked Asamoah
Gyan’s header on the goal line.  
 Deadlock Broken  
 Ozil broke the deadlock after an hour, slamming a left-foot
shot from just outside the penalty area past Kingson.  
 Ghana’s Kevin-Prince Boateng, whose foul in England’s F.A.
Cup final put Germany’s  Michael Ballack  out of the World Cup,
was up against his half-brother Jerome in the opposing side.
Media speculation said the incident with Ballack could lead to
retaliation.  
 “It was important for him to keep his cool and not get
cautioned,” Ghana coach Milovan Rajevac said. “His performance
was truly excellent.”  
 Tim Cahill  and Brett Holman scored four minutes apart in
the second half to give Australia the win in Nelspruit. Marko
Pantelic scored for Serbia, which finished last with three
points.  
 Yesterday’s four qualifiers join Argentina, Brazil, Mexico,
the Netherlands, South Korea and Uruguay in reaching the second
round so far.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Landon Donovan’s goal in the first of four added minutes gave the U.S. the win over Algeria and an advancement to the quarter finals at the World Cup. Photographer: Timothy A. Clary/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
