-- Defoe's Goal Pushes England Into Last 16 of World Cup to Meet Germany
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-24T01:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/england-s-defoe-pushes-soccer-squad-into-round-of-16-teams-at-world-cup.html

          
          
             Jermain Defoe  fulfilled a childhood
dream by guiding England into the last 16 of soccer’s World Cup.  
 The Tottenham forward’s 23rd-minute volley proved enough to
give England a 1-0 victory over Slovenia last night and set up a
meeting with Germany on June 27.  
 “I’m at a loss for words, what a moment,” the man of the
match said after the game at the Nelson Mandela Bay stadium in
Port Elizabeth. “As a lad, it’s something you dream about. We
won the game, we’re through and I’m delighted.”  
 Landon Donovan’s  last-minute goal against Algeria relegated
England to second place in  Group C . After draws against the U.S.
and Algeria, a match in which the team was jeered off by its own
fans, England’s players were pleased to move on to the next
round.  
 “I don’t think it matters whether we came first or
second,” midfielder  Frank Lampard  told reporters. “After
playing well today we can worry about ourselves rather than
worry about who we are playing.”  
 U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc can hardly separate the
teams, with Germany rated a 10-11 chance to reach the
quarterfinals and England at 5-6 to win the tie.  
 England’s poor performance in drawing 0-0 with Algeria
didn’t stop its fans occupying most of the 36,893 seats at the
stadium on South Africa’s Eastern Cape for the final group game.
Flags with the names of towns and cities from across England
were hung around the stadium.  
 Negative Reminders  
 Yet there were reminders of the possibility the team’s
followers could turn against them if things went wrong.  
 “6,000 miles for what?” one banner read.  
 England coach  Fabio Capello , who had his authority
questioned by former captain  John Terry  this week, said his team
had found its “real spirit.”  
 The Italian made three changes to the lineup, bringing in
 Matthew Upson  in defense,  James Milner  in midfield and Defoe in
attack. The tinkering paid off as Milner supplied the cross for
Defoe’s goal.  
 “I haven’t a problem with the players because I expect
the players to respect me,” said Capello, who’s coached the
team for two years.  
 He withdrew the team’s most influential striker after 71
minutes.  Wayne Rooney  didn’t look at his coach when he was
replaced by  Joe Cole . Capello said the Manchester United forward
had hurt his ankle and wouldn’t in any case be influenced by his
players. Three days ago Terry was dissuaded when he suggested
some of the players would speak to the 64-year-old about his
tactics.  
 Respect for Players  
 “I think all the players understand I respect all the
players, but I can choose during the game different solutions,”
Capello said. “Rooney at this moment was not OK, for his ankle
and I substituted him, but I think as a manager I have to choose
some solution and I found some solution.”  
 Rooney said “I’m fine,” when asked about his injury.  
 England had 54 percent of the possession, yet failed to
take several chances. That meant a mistake could bring its
elimination in the group stage for the first time since 1958.
Two minutes from the end Upson needed to lunge to deny Milivoje
Novkovic a tying goal that would have put Slovenia through at
England’s expense.  
 “We did create quite a few chances and could have made it
a little easier,” striker  Emile Heskey , brought on with four
minutes to play, said in an interview. “You could see it was
nervous. You could see it on the fans, you could see it on the
players but we coped well.”  
 Donovan’s winner came moments after England’s match
finished. The Slovenia players had thought they’d qualified for
a few moments before news of the U.S.’s 1-0 win filtered
through.  
 “I ask everybody not to disturb the players,” Slovenia
coach Mtjaz Kek said. “They are in a state of shock.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Port Elizabeth at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        