-- Merkel Gains Pre-G-20 Boost as RWI Says Deficit Cuts Won't Hinder Recovery
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-06-23T09:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/merkel-gains-pre-g-20-boost-as-rwi-says-deficit-cuts-won-t-hinder-recovery.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s planned
deficit cuts won’t hurt Germany’s economic recovery, the RWI
institute said, raising its growth forecasts for this year and
next in a boost to Merkel ahead of the Group of 20 summit.  
 The  German economy , Europe’s biggest, will expand 1.9
percent this year, the Essen-based institute said today in an e-
mailed report, after forecasting 1.4 percent growth in March.
Growth will slow to 1.7 percent next year, it said.  
 “The economic recovery is proceeding at a more dynamic
pace than forecast three months ago,” the RWI said. “We don’t
expect the implementation of the government’s savings program to
trigger a new downswing.”  
 The report by the RWI, one of eight economic institutes
that advise the government, gives support to Merkel as she
rejects President  Barack Obama ’s call to extend economic
stimulus. Merkel, who will meet with Obama at the G-20 in
Toronto on June 26-27, has said she expects to have a “hard
time” at the summit over her pursuit of an 80 billion-euro ($98
billion) savings program from 2011 to 2014.  
 “Starting  budget consolidation  next year should be less
harmful for the economy than postponing it,” the RWI said.
Delaying spending cuts would “inevitably lead to even bigger
cuts in following years if the new debt brake in the
constitution is to be adhered to.”  
 Budget Deficit Widens  
 Germany’s combined budget shortfall will widen to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2010 before shrinking to
3.7 percent in 2011 as the  unemployment rate  declines from 7.8
percent this year to 7.4 percent next, the RWI said.  
 “The idea to push back the negative economic effects of
savings measures by delaying them is wrong,” the BDB banking
association said in a separate report. “Straying from the path
of budget consolidation would only make the debt crisis worse.”  
 The German Finance Ministry said yesterday the so-called
structural budget deficit - the shortfall in normal economic
times - will be 53.2 billion euros this year, less than the 66.6
billion euros originally expected. Net new borrowing this year
will be 15 billion euros below the 80.2 billion euros laid down
in the 2010 budget plan, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        