-- EU Carbon Permit Prices May Gain as Electricity Demand Rises, Nomura Says
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-06-23T05:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/eu-carbon-permit-prices-may-gain-as-electricity-demand-rises-nomura-says.html

          
          
             European Union carbon emission
permit prices, which increased 22 percent this year, may extend
gains while comparable UN certified emission credit units may
lag behind, Nomura International Plc’s analyst said.  
 Prices of EU’s emission permits may rise to 20 euros
($24.50) a metric ton this year because of demand in the EU,
said  Laurent Segalen , managing director for commodities trading
at Nomura International. That’s 30 percent higher than current
levels.  
 “Prices of UN Certified Emission Reduction (CERs) credits
may not climb as much because companies tend to sell the credits
when they rise,” London-based Segalen said in an interview at
the Carbon Markets Asia conference in Singapore. “They don’t go
very long.”  
 The global economic recovery has led to greater demand for
power from utilities and factories that must curb greenhouse gas
emissions, boosting the need for carbon credits of all types.
About 11,000 factories and power stations are in the EU program
where emitters with spare permits can sell them, while those
that exceed their allocations can buy them on the open market or
in auctions.  
 Prices of carbon credits originating in the EU and from the
UN Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) move in tandem while the
gap between them may narrow or widen, depending on need and
regulations,  Suzanne Chew , regional manager for carbon markets
at TFS Green in Singapore, said in an interview yesterday.  
 China, India  
 CDM projects, which typically don’t face carbon laws in
their home countries, may prefer to sell their credits when
prices rise more than 14-15 euros, Segalen said. Projects in
China and India, which contribute more than 70 percent of CERs,
don’t face emission caps and don’t need credits.  
 Utilities under the EU emissions program may hold
allowances instead of selling them on higher prices on concern
that they may need to buy them back to mitigate their emissions.  
 EU allowances for December delivery fell 3.2 percent
yesterday to 15.34 euros a ton on London’s European Climate
Exchange. UN CERs for December fell 2.3 percent to 13.13 euros a
ton. EU allowances have risen 22 percent this year and UN
credits have climbed 20 percent.  
 Supplies may shrink as the EU distributes fewer allowances
and switches to auctions, said Segalen, head of commodities and
environment at Nomura Holdings Inc.’s international unit.
Emitters with surplus allowances may hold the units as prices of
EU permits rise.  
 Global Emissions  
 The CDM mechanism allows companies in developed countries
to offset their greenhouse gas emissions by paying for
reductions in pollution output in developing nations. The CDM
market was valued at about $20.2 billion last year, the World
Bank said last month.  
 World carbon-dioxide emissions from energy use fell about
1.4 percent last year on reduced economic activity, according to
an analysis of BP Plc data. Nations released a combined 31.2
billion metric tons of the greenhouse gas in 2009, down from
31.64 billion tons in 2008, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on data and conversion factors in BP’s annual statistical
analysis. That was the first decline since 1998. Global
emissions rose about 1.8 percent in 2008, BP estimated.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        