-- European Stocks Drop for Second Day; CRH, HeidelbergCement Lead Decline
-- Adria Cimino
-- 2010-06-23T16:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/european-stock-index-futures-asian-shares-decline-bhp-billiton-retreats.html

          
          
             European stocks  fell for a second
day after purchases of new U.S. homes dropped to a record low,
renewing concern that the economic recovery may falter without
further government support.  
 Construction companies led declines among shares most-tied
to economic growth, with CRH Plc and HeidelbergCement AG sliding
more than 3 percent. Holcim Ltd. retreated 2.2 percent as Morgan
Stanley downgraded its recommendation on the second-largest
cement maker. Royal Ahold NV and Delhaize Group SA slid after
their ratings were cut at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slid 1 percent to 254.44,
extending yesterday’s 0.5 percent drop. The  gauge  has fallen 6.5
percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid concern economic
growth will be hampered as European nations try to cut their
budget deficits.  
 “There are worries about another drop in the global
economy,” said  Matthieu Giuliani , a fund manager at Palatine
Asset Management in Paris, which oversees about $6.8 billion.
“The sovereign debt crisis will weigh on the economy. The worry
is that growth will be weak and that will hurt the outlook for
earnings.”  
 National benchmark indexes fell in all 17 western European
markets that were open today, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 dropped 1.3 percent, France’s CAC 40 sank 1.7 percent and
Germany’s DAX retreated 1 percent. Greece’s  ASE Index  sank 2.8
percent as the nation’s government bonds fell, pushing the yield
to more than 10 percent for the first time since May 10.  
 U.S. Home Sales  
 Purchases of  new homes  in the U.S. fell in May to a record
low as a tax credit expired, showing the market remains
dependent on government support. Sales collapsed a record 33
percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from April, less
than the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News and the fewest in data going back to 1963, figures from the
Commerce Department showed.  
 Growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing industries
slowed in June, adding to signs the region’s recovery is
cooling. A composite index based on a survey of euro-area
purchasing managers in both industries fell to 56 from 56.4 in
May, Markit Economics said. Economists forecast a drop to 55.8,
the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  
 Global equities are set to fall as the withdrawal of
stimulus measures around the world causes a slowdown in earnings
growth, according to  Richard Cookson , global chief investment
officer at Citigroup Inc.’s Private Bank.  
 ‘Already Peaked’  
 “It’s highly likely that markets have already peaked,”
said London-based Cookson, whose company has $220 billion of
assets under management globally, at a media briefing in
Singapore. “Earnings growth estimates next year are still
double digit. That’s going to be a stretch.”  
 Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  made the first
push for an interest-rate increase in almost two years this
month, opening a split among officials on the strength of the
economic recovery. The Monetary Policy Committee voted 7-1 to
keep the benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, according to
minutes of the June 10 decision released today. Sentance favored
an increase to 0.75 percent, arguing that inflation was proving
to be “resilient” after the recession.  
 Federal Reserve policy makers are likely to repeat their
commitment to an “extended period” of low interest rates at a
Washington meeting today.  
 Construction Shares  
 An index of construction shares posted the biggest drop
among 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600. CRH, the world’s
second-largest maker and distributor of building materials, slid
3.8 percent to 18.36 euros. HeidelbergCement, the third-biggest
cement maker, dropped 4.1 percent to 42.90 euros. Wolseley Plc,
the largest supplier of heating and plumbing products, sank 5.2
percent to 1,481 pence.  
 Holcim retreated 2.2 percent to 77.1 Swiss francs as Morgan
Stanley cut its recommendation on the shares to  “underweight” 
from “equal weight.”  
 Insurance  stocks sank 1.5 percent for the second-biggest
decline by industry group. Legal & General Group Plc, the U.K.’s
fourth-largest insurer, slipped 2.8 percent to 82.5 pence.  Aegon
NV , the Dutch owner of U.S. insurer Transamerica Corp., dropped
2.5 percent to 4.84 euros. Axa SA, Europe’s second-biggest
insurer, lost 2.3 percent to 13.56 euros.  
 Ahold, the Dutch owner of Stop & Shop supermarkets, slipped
1.8 percent to 10.45 euros. Delhaize, the owner of the Food Lion
supermarket chain, dropped 3.8 percent to 62.75 euros. Both
stocks were downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at BofA
Merrill Lynch.  
 ‘Up The Ante’  
 “With Wal-Mart continuing to up the ante on its
pricing/roll-back actions, the risk-reward on Ahold’s and
Delhaize’s equity is less attractive,” analysts including  John Kershaw  wrote in a report.  
 Sodexo slid 2.3 percent to 47.40 euros. BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research cut its recommendation on shares of the caterer
to “underperform” from “neutral,” citing recent share gains.  
 Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal SA climbed 1 percent to
5.35 euros after Portugal’s biggest highway operator agreed to
sell a stake in Companhia de Concessoes Rodoviarias of Brazil.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adria Cimino  in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        