-- Export Growth Slows, Underscoring Japan Recovery's Vulnerability to Trade
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-06-24T02:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/exports-rose-32-1-in-may-sixth-consecutive-gain-finance-ministry-says.html

          
          
             Japan’s export growth slowed for a
third month in May, signaling the pace of the economic recovery
is likely to cool.  
 Shipments abroad  advanced 32.1 percent from a year earlier,
less than April’s 40.4 percent, the Finance Ministry said today
in Tokyo. The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for 36.5 percent. From the previous month,
exports fell a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent.  
 The report highlights the vulnerability of Japan to any
slowdown in global trade after exports drove the economy’s 5
percent annualized expansion in the first quarter. Bank of
Japan Deputy Governor  Kiyohiko Nishimura  said yesterday that
policy makers need to monitor whether Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis will start to affect Japan.  
 “It will be difficult to maintain the same recovery pace
in the coming months,” said  Susumu Kato , chief economist for
Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA. “Looking ahead,
export growth will likely slow as there’s still uncertainty
surrounding the global financial markets.”  
 The yen has climbed against all 16 major currencies this
quarter, threatening the competitiveness of Japanese exporters.  
 Japan’s currency traded at 89.92 per dollar at 11:05 a.m.
in Tokyo after gaining yesterday as the Federal Reserve
maintained its pledge to keep interest rates near zero and
signaled that Europe’s debt woes may harm the U.S. expansion.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.2 percent. The  yield  on
Japan’s 10-year bond fell two basis points to 1.145 percent,
after earlier touching the lowest level since August 2003.  
 Yen Concern  
 Japanese executives this month voiced concern about the
yen’s advance. The effect of currency gains on companies is
“huge” and volatile exchange-rate movements are the “worst
thing” that can happen,  Hiromasa Yonekura , head of Japan’s
Keidanren business lobby, said in Tokyo on June 7.  
 Imports  climbed 33.4 percent in May from a year earlier,
leaving a  trade surplus  of 324.2 billion yen ($3.6 billion),
the ministry said. The median estimate of economists was for a
480 billion yen excess.  
 Growth in exports to all of Japan’s three major markets
slowed in May, today’s report showed. The value of shipments to
 China , Japan’s biggest market, climbed 25.3 percent from a year
earlier, moderating from 41.3 percent in April. Exports to the
 U.S.  advanced 17.7 percent, about half the pace of the previous
month’s 34.4 percent. Shipments to  Europe  increased 17.4
percent, compared with 19.9 percent in April.  
 Signs of Moderation  
 “We are starting to see some moderation,” though
overseas demand will continue to support the recovery, said
 Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo. “We may start to see a more serious
slowdown toward the end of the year” as stimulus boosts fade
and production cycles peak in economies abroad, he said.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has over the past week released
plans for boosting economic growth as well as shrinking the
budget deficit to contain the world’s biggest  public debt . The
Cabinet Office raised its economic growth forecast this week to
2.6 percent from 1.4 percent for the year ending March 31. That
would be the fastest expansion in a decade.  
 “We are observing signs of increasing exports and output
spreading to domestic private demand,” Deputy Governor
Nishimura said in a speech in Tokyo yesterday. Still, he added,
“there are uncertainties about the economy’s outlook, both on
the upside and downside.”  
 Elpida Memory  
 Sales to China have led a revival of business for Japanese
exporters.  Elpida Memory Inc. , Japan’s sole maker of computer-
memory chips, plans to build factories in Taiwan and China to
meet demand, President Yukio Sakamoto said this month. He
 expects  record sales and profit this fiscal year.  
 As well as the European crisis, efforts by China to
prevent its economy from overheating pose a risk to Japan’s
exports, said  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. China has increased bank reserve ratio
requirements three times this year and on June 19 moved toward
allowing a more flexible currency.  
 Today’s report “confirmed that the gradual export-
led recovery continued in May,” Ueno said. “But there are
risks down the road.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        