-- Fed Keeps Rate Pledge, Markets `Less Supportive' of Growth
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-06-23T18:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/fed-keeps-rate-pledge-says-markets-less-supportive-of-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve officials retained a
pledge to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low for
an “extended period” and signaled that European indebtedness
may harm American growth.  
 “The economic recovery is proceeding” and “the labor
market is improving gradually,” the Fed’s Open Market Committee
said in a statement in Washington. Still, “financial conditions
have become less supportive of economic growth on balance,
largely reflecting developments abroad.”  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to cut unemployment
that’s close to a 26-year-high and maintain the recovery as new-
home sales slide and growth in private payrolls weakens. He must
also contend with fallout from the European debt crisis, which
has pushed share prices lower and threatens to shake consumer
and business confidence.  
 The central bank, at a two-day meeting, left the overnight
interbank lending rate  target  unchanged in a range of zero to
0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008. High
unemployment, low inflation and stable price expectations “are
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds
rate for an extended period,” the Fed said, repeating language
from every policy meeting since March 2009.  
 Policy makers won’t raise rates until the first quarter of
next year, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists this month. The European crisis has
prompted analysts at Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse, UBS
AG and Deutsche Bank AG to push back by several months their
predictions for a Fed rate increase.  
 Inflation Gauges  
 U.S. central bankers repeated that inflation is “likely to
be subdued for some time.” The Fed also said that “prices of
energy and other commodities have declined somewhat in recent
months, and underlying inflation has trended lower.”  
 Prices in April rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier under
the Fed’s preferred index, which excludes food and energy costs,
the slowest pace since 2001.  
 Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  dissented from the
decision for the fourth straight meeting, reiterating his view
that the low-rate pledge may fuel asset-price bubbles and limit
the central bank’s flexibility to raise borrowing costs. .  
 Rising investor concern that Greece’s debt woes might
spread prompted European governments early last month to
backstop the euro with a rescue fund of almost $1 trillion.  
 Fed policy makers held an emergency meeting on May 9 to
authorize restarting currency swaps with central banks in
Europe, Canada and Japan after closing the financial-crisis
program in February. The outstanding balance as of June 16 was
$1.24 billion, compared with a high of $583.1 billion in
December 2008.  
 Emergency Lending  
 The Fed statement didn’t mention the one other remaining
open emergency-lending program, the Term Asset-Backed Securities
Loan Facility, which has been scheduled to close on June 30. The
program was designed to aid the commercial real-estate market by
subsidizing investor purchases of mortgage-backed securities.  
 While Bernanke said June 9 the European crisis would have a
“modest” effect on the U.S. assuming financial markets
“continue to stabilize,” Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  told
Congress in May that the situation has the potential to stall
the global economy.  
 Since the last meeting, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has
dropped about 8 percent. Private U.S. employers added 41,000
jobs in May, down from a gain of 218,000 in April. Housing
starts fell 10 percent to the lowest level this year, sales of
previously owned homes dropped the most in four months and
retail sales fell for the first time in eight months.  
 Retailer Earnings  
 Best Buy Co ., the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, last week reported first-quarter profit that rose less
than analysts projected. FedEx Corp., the world’s largest air-
cargo carrier, forecast annual profit that trailed analysts’
estimates on rising health-care and pension costs.  
 “The recent, incoming news has been worrisome both in the
U.S. and Europe, and indications are at this point that the
recovery is not as strong or as healthy as we would have
hoped,” said  James Hamilton , a former Fed research adviser who
is now at the University of California at San Diego.  
 Fed policy makers delivered updated quarterly economic
forecasts at this week’s meeting, and economists including
former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley  say officials probably trimmed
their expectations for U.S. growth.  
 In April, Fed governors and regional presidents projected
an expansion of 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent this year and 3.4
percent to 4.5 percent in 2011. The central bank will release
minutes of the meeting, including forecasts, on July 14.  
 Not all signs are pointing to a growth slowdown.
Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in May for a 10th month as a
private export index climbed to the highest level in two
decades. Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in June to the
highest level in more than two years, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan survey.  
 Core Prices  
 Inflation has slowed further in data released since policy
makers last met. The Labor Department’s consumer price index
fell 0.2 percent in May after a 0.1 percent drop in April, the
first consecutive declines since 2008. Excluding food and
energy, the core rate rose 0.9 percent in May from a year
earlier, matching the smallest year-over-year gain since 1966.  
 Retailers are cutting prices and offering discounts to lure
shoppers.  
 Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the
world’s largest retailer, said in April that it reduced prices
on more than 10,000 items after sales at U.S. stores dropped.
Cincinnati-based  Kroger Co ., the biggest U.S. grocery-store
chain, lured shoppers with discounts on dairy and meats in the
quarter ended May 22.  
 “The Fed is clearly in wait-and-see mode,”  Michelle Girard , a senior economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut, said before the decision. “Any normalization of
policy has been put off, not only because of Greece but because
inflation is decelerating. There’s no need for the Fed to talk
about implementing an exit strategy for now.”  
 Term Deposits  
 Fed officials are still preparing for an eventual
tightening of credit. Last week, the central bank held its first
test auction of term deposits, a tool to help drain hundreds of
billions of dollars from the banking system. At the April
meeting, policy makers debated when and how fast to sell $1.1
trillion of mortgage-backed securities that were purchased to
lower home-loan rates and boost the economy.  
 Today marks the last day of  Donald Kohn’s  term as Fed vice
chairman. Kohn, 67, a 40-year Fed veteran, had planned to retire
today before agreeing earlier this month to remain at the
central bank as a governor pending a replacement. The Senate has
yet to act on President  Barack Obama’s  April nominations of
three Fed governors, including San Francisco Fed President  Janet Yellen  as Kohn’s successor.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is trying to cut unemployment that’s close to a 26-year-high and maintain the recovery as new- home sales slide and growth in private payrolls weakens. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
