-- Fed to Hold on Rates Till Mid-2011 on Europe Crisis, Aberdeen Asset Says
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-23T07:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/fed-to-hold-on-rates-till-mid-2011-on-europe-crisis-aberdeen-asset-says.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve will keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low till the middle of 2011
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis slows growth and damps
inflation, according to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  
 “The market clearly is on something of a knife-edge
between inflation and deflation,” said  Paul Griffiths , London-
based global head of fixed income at Scotland’s largest fund
manager, which oversees $259.3 billion. Inflation is “not a
primary concern at the moment.”  
 The Federal Open Market Committee will hold its key rate in
a range of zero to 0.25 percent at the end of its two-day
meeting today, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said.
 Richard Clarida , global strategic adviser at Pacific Investment
Management Co., yesterday said the Fed will alter language in
its policy statement to reflect a “sluggish” economy.  
 “In the middle part of next year, we would anticipate to
see the Fed start to tighten,” with the rate rising by about 1
percent by year-end, Griffiths said today in Sydney.  
 Treasuries of all maturities are headed for the best first
half in a decade as concern over the impact of slowing growth in
Europe prompts investors to dump higher-yielding assets for the
safest investments.  
 Austerity, Inflation  
 Austerity measures in Europe are curbing inflation risk and
are also reducing pressure on the region’s central banks to
raise interest rates, Griffiths said. Inflation in the U.S. is
“somewhat more of a concern,” in the long-term, he said.  
 “The U.S. is somewhat alone in being a ‘we’ve got to spend
our way out of this’ type economy,” he said. “Am I concerned
about inflation in the next one year? Absolutely not. Am I
concerned about inflation in the next five years? Yes -- tipping
point around three years.”  
 Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  has said that by
leaving rates too low, the Fed may create imbalances similar to
the housing bubble this decade or the wage-price spiral of the
1970s that pushed the inflation rate to 14.8 percent in March
1980 from 2.7 percent in June 1972.  
 Hoenig has voted against all three central bank statements
this year, saying in April that the Fed’s pledge to keep its
main rate low for an “extended period” limits its
“flexibility to begin raising rates modestly.”  
 Risky Assets  
 Aberdeen sold riskier assets across its debt portfolio late
last year and won’t “wade back heavily ” until the European
sovereign debt crisis, particularly concerns around Spain’s
deficit, are closer to being resolved, Griffiths said.  
 Aberdeen is “cautiously optimistic” on Gilts after the
U.K. yesterday announced the biggest budget squeeze in 50 years.  
 “As a bond investor, I can only applaud it,” he said.  
 The pound has been the biggest gainer over the past two
days against the dollar while yields on 10-year  government debt 
yesterday touched the lowest level since October 2009.  
 Aberdeen remains underweight on peripheral European bond
markets expecting the sell-off in the region to play out
further, said Griffiths. Still, the euro may bounce, he said,
after dropping 9 percent in the past three months.  
 “There’s a risk it’s somewhat oversold and we must not
discount the political will behind keeping the euro as a viable
entity.” Greece, said Griffiths, will not leave the euro.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        