-- Ford Americas Chief Fields Says Auto Market `Flat-lined,' Buyers Are Wary
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-06-23T20:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/ford-americas-chief-fields-says-auto-market-flat-lined-buyers-are-wary.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co. , introducing six new
models this year, faces a “flat-lined” U.S. auto market
because consumers are reluctant to make big purchases,  Mark Fields , the company’s president of the Americas, said today.  
 “The consumer is feeling a bit better, but not enough to
go out and go back to the old ways of spending,” Fields told
analysts in a presentation that was webcast from Dearborn,
Michigan. “It gives us pause because of the tight labor market
and the overall situation in the credit markets.”  
 U.S. auto sales haven’t improved since the third quarter of
last year, Fields said during Deutsche Bank’s 2010 Industrials
Conference. The annualized light vehicle sales rate of 11.2
million through May is at the low end of Ford’s forecast for the
year. Last year, U.S. consumers purchased 10.4 million cars and
light trucks, the lowest total in 27 years.  
 “We’ve seen that modest improvement and we expect it to
continue to be modest,” Fields said. “Since the third quarter
of ‘09, the industry has flat-lined.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  revived the automaker
by expanding the namesake brand and improving quality. The
company earned $2.7 billion last year, reversing three years of
losses, and Mulally has said Ford will be “solidly profitable”
this year. Ford was the highest ranked mass-market brand in J.D.
Power & Associates’ new-car quality survey issued last week.  
 This month, Ford began selling the Fiesta subcompact model,
Fields said. Ford also this year is introducing redesigned
versions of its Edge and Explorer sport-utility vehicles, Focus
compact and Mustang sports car, as well as new Super Duty
versions of its F-series pickup line.  
 The company is discontinuing the 71-year-old Mercury brand
at the end of this year and expanding its Lincoln luxury line.
Ford in March agreed to sell Volvo to China’s Zhejiang Geely
Holding Co. and has sold Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin in
the last three years.  
 Ford fell 19 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $11.03 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
risen 10 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        