-- Ford to Avoid Europe Car Discount `Drug' as Demand Slackens, Fleming Says
-- Chris Reiter
-- 2010-06-23T11:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/ford-plans-to-avoid-drug-of-car-discounting-in-europe-as-demand-slackens.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co.  plans to hold back on
discounting in Europe, even as it cedes market share in the
region and the end of cash-for-clunker programs saps demand.  
 “The scrappage effect has come off since the beginning of
the year, but the industry is still being drugged by heavy
incentives,”  John Fleming , Ford’s top European executive, said
today in an interview at an industry conference in Bilbao,
Spain. “Our message to the team is let’s go for profit in a
very difficult world.”  
 Ford’s European market share slipped to 8.7 percent in the
first five months from 9.0 percent a year earlier, according to
the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based  company  projects European car sales
will fall to as low as 14 million vehicles in 2010 from 15.9
million a year ago as demand erodes following the end of
government car-scrapping programs.  
 Ford dealers’ May discounts averaged 10.9 percent off the
list price, in line with the average in Germany, according to a
monthly survey of car retailers by trade publication Autohaus
PulsSchlag. The European division posted a first-quarter pretax
profit of $107 million compared with a loss of $585 million a
year earlier.  Revenue  rose 33 percent to $7.7 billion.  
 “Ford can discount and still make money, because it has
among the best cost structures,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer ,
director of the Center for Automotive Research at the University
of Duisburg-Essen in Germany. “Ford is where Volkswagen and Opel
want to be.”  
 Opel Decline  
 Ford’s European share decline has been less severe than
General Motors Co., which last week ended an 18-month effort to
secure state aid to restructure its Opel unit. The January-May
market share of Opel and its U.K. Vauxhall brand slid to 6.9
percent from 7.6 percent, trade group data show. Opel dealers
granted discounts of 12.8 percent last month, the steepest in
Germany, PulsSchlag said.  
 “In a year following the end of scrappage schemes,
offering incentives is like putting money in the wastebasket,”
GM Europe President  Nick Reilly  said yesterday in an interview
at the Bilbao conference sponsored by Automotive News Europe.
“We are not scaling back, but we’re not being really aggressive
either.”  
 With European carmakers hanging on to about 35 percent more
production capacity than needed, discounting is inevitable,
Fleming said at the conference.  
 ‘Aggressive Discounting’  
 “Overcapacity is a prime factor in fueling the current
heavy and aggressive discounting,” he said. “We must tackle
the chronic overcapacity that is a millstone around the neck of
the industry.”  
 Ford  is sticking to its strategy to focus on profitability,
even if it means sacrificing market share as competitors offer
more aggressive incentives to consumers, Fleming said, adding
that the division will likely remain profitable in the second
quarter and the full year.  
 Additional state budget cuts will add to market pressures
on the industry in the second half of 2010, Fleming added. The
U.K. government announced plans yesterday to eliminate 113
billion pounds ($167 billion) in spending. The measures include
an increase in the sales tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent.  
 “Now, we are facing debt issues and austerity measures --
none of these austerity packages are going to help car sales,”
said Fleming, chief executive officer of the Cologne, Germany-
based Ford of Europe unit. “None of us can stay out of the
incentives game, but we are against incentives that undermine
the brand.”  
 Cut-Rate Financing  
 Ford  is offering cut-rate financing as well as discount
option packages, including navigation systems and parking
assistance features. The option savings total as much as 3,980
euros ($4,888) for the Galaxy minivan, which starts at 30,000
euros in Germany, according to Ford’s German website. Buyers of
the best-selling Fiesta can get options including air
conditioning and electronically retracting side mirrors for
3,035 euros off the regular price, according to the website.  
 Opel’s sales decline partly reflects model changeovers,
said  Ulrich Weber , a spokesman for Opel at its headquarters in
Ruesselsheim near Frankfurt. The wagon version of the revamped
Astra compact will arrive in showrooms in the fall, while the
new Meriva minivan went on sale earlier this month, he said. The
new models should boost Opel’s market share in the second half,
Reilly said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sara Gay Forden  in Bilbao, Spain via the Milan newsroom
at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ford's top European executive John Fleming. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
