-- Forecasters Watch for Signs La Nina May Upset World Weather
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-23T12:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/forecasters-watch-for-signs-la-nina-may-upset-world-weather.html

          
          
             Forecasters around the world are
watching the Pacific Ocean for signs of a cooling cycle that
could heat up the Atlantic hurricane season, affecting energy
and commodities markets.  
 A La Nina watch was issued earlier this month by the U.S.
 Climate Prediction Center  in Camp Springs, Maryland, and the
Australian Bureau of Meteorology will release an update later
this week.  
 The Pacific has just emerged from an El Nino, or sea
temperature warming, and seems to be moving directly into a
cooling episode. About 35 to 40 percent of all El Ninos are
followed by a La Nina, according to the meteorological bureau.  
 “Things have evolved rapidly enough that conditions are
now what we’re terming favorable for the development; it is not
a guarantee by any means,” said  Mike Halpert , deputy director
for the U.S. climate center. “The majority of the computer
models do bring us into La Nina.”  
 La Nina is a cooling of the equatorial Pacific Ocean
occurring on average every three to five years and lasting nine
to 12 months, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration . Some events have lasted as long as two years.  
 The phenomenon tends to enhance hurricane development in
the Atlantic by eliminating high altitude wind shear that tears
storms apart, Halpert said. Hurricane forecasts by NOAA and
Colorado State University are calling for an active season and
noted the development of a La Nina would make the odds of that
more likely.  
 Gulf Strike Possible  
 An increase in the number of hurricanes boosts the chances
that a storm will enter the Gulf of Mexico, home to about 30
percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent of U.S. natural gas
production, the Energy Department says. Traders have taken note.  
 “There is a bit of fear built in when you get these kind
of forecasts, whether that is justified or not,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in
Houston.  
 Forecasts for an active season raise memories of 2005, the
busiest and most destructive on record with storms including
Katrina, Rita and Wilma, he said.  
 “People still remember spikes of about 15 percent in gas
prices,” Horwitz said. “I don’t know if the fear is
warranted.”  
 Median outcomes for production shut-ins in the Gulf because
of hurricanes may be 26 billion barrels of oil and 166 billion
cubic feet of natural gas, according to a June U.S.  Energy
Information Administration  simulation.  
 Debate in Markets  
 “The hurricane season has certainly been part of the
dialogue and the debate in the natural gas market over the last
couple of weeks,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. “We have seen a number of
these forecasts all pointing to a substantially higher risk from
hurricanes than last year, and that has been lifting natural gas
into a higher range than where we had been trading.”  
 A La Nina may have a wider affect on the weather than just
hurricanes. The cooling patterns often bring dryer, warmer
weather to the southern half of the U.S., increasing the
wildfire threat in Florida and California. Florida is the
second-largest producer of oranges, behind Brazil.  
 Increased rainfall in southern Africa, northeastern South
America and the U.S. Pacific Northwest are also common during La
Ninas, Halpert said. The northern third of the U.S. often has
colder winters as well, he said.  
 Drought Over  
 Venezuela has suspended a national electricity rationing
plan that was instituted in January because of a drought, in
part caused by El Nino, that threatened to dry up hydroelectric
dams and collapse the nation’s power grid.  
 A cooler winter in the U.S. may drive heating oil and
natural gas consumption. Currently, the U.S. has above-average
inventories, Evans said.  
 The indicators “are potentially bullish,” he said.
“Whether they ultimately result in substantial tightening of
the natural gas market or whether they let us work off our
extraordinary stockpile of distillate inventory including
heating oil, we will have to wait and see how that goes.”  
 Commercial oil inventories held by the  Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries  was estimated for the first
quarter of 2010 to be 2.7 billion barrels, the U.S. Energy
Information Administration reported June 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group, talks about the outlook for a hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico and the potential impact on efforts to clean up BP Plc's oil leak.
     Rogers talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
