-- Foster's Could Cut Costs by $130 Million, Merrill's Errington, Spadea Say
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-06-23T07:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/foster-s-could-cut-costs-by-131-million-merrill-s-errington-spadea-say.html

          
          
             Foster’s Group Ltd. , Australia’s
largest brewer, could save as much as A$150 million ($130
million) by selling its  Abbotsford plant  in Melbourne, according
to analysts at Merrill Lynch.  
 The company could sell the land and use the funds to build
a new brewery north of the city that would be less constrained
by unions, surrounding residents and limits on expansion,
analysts led by  David Errington  wrote in a note to clients.  
 Originally built in 1904, Abbotsford produces about 55
million cases of beer per year, representing 47 percent of the
production by Foster’s CUB domestic unit, according to
Errington. A more efficient site would help narrow the A$1 a
case in higher cost Foster’s pays to make beer compared with
smaller rival Lion Nathan, the Australian unit of Tokyo-based
 Kirin Holdings Co.   
 “Closing Abbotsford looks a no-brainer to us,” wrote
Errington, who maintained his “buy” rating on Foster’s.
“Abbotsford is located on prime real estate…and the proceeds
from its sale could be expected to go a long way toward if not
exceed the construction of a new site.”  
 Troy Hey , a spokesman for Melbourne-based Foster’s, said
the company didn’t agree with Merrill Lynch’s views on costs at
the Abbotsford plant. He declined to comment further. Merrill
Lynch is the brokerage unit of Bank of America Corp.  
 Foster’s  fell 2 cents, or 0.4 percent, to close at A$5.66
in Sydney, narrowing its advance this year to 2.9 percent. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index dropped 1.6 percent today and has
declined 7.9 percent this year.  
 Beer, Wine Businesses  
 Foster’s last month announced plans to split its beer and
wine businesses into separate companies, with a final structure
expected to be decided in 2011. The proposed split comes after
the company wrote down its wine assets by more than A$2.5
billion in the past five years.  
 Errington said it may take a new owner of the beer business
to close Abbotsford, in what would be the biggest change to
Foster’s brewing operations since the 2003 shuttering of its
Kent plant in inner-city Sydney. Abbotsford is the last
operating brewery of three Foster’s ran in its home city.  
 “A new owner (if that were to eventuate) would, in our
view, pursue it,” Errington wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        