-- Fragmentation of U.S. Stock Market Criticized at SEC Panels in Washington
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-06-23T04:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/fragmentation-of-u-s-stock-market-criticized-at-sec-panels-in-washington.html

          
          
             Investors, traders and regulators
underappreciate the harm caused by the fragmentation of trading
across a dozen public markets with different rules and
conventions, said  Dave Cummings  of Tradebot Systems Inc.  
 “The market is still very broken and I think the changes
we’ve put in place don’t go far enough,” said Cummings, who’s
chairman at Tradebot, an automated proprietary trading firm in
Kansas City, Missouri. “When you introduce bad data because of
ridiculous quotes, that ripples through the whole system and
into other markets.” Tradebot accounts for 5 percent to 10
percent of daily equities volume, according to Cummings, who
also founded Bats Global Markets, an exchange operator.  
 A  report  published by securities and futures regulators on
May 18 found six potential causes of the May 6 plunge, which
wiped out $862 billion of stock value in 20 minutes. One of the
reasons was disparate trading rules on different markets. The
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission held their second meeting yesterday to discuss
problems caused by the interplay of multiple venues.  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  raised concerns at the meeting
about differing trading conventions, including mechanisms that
slow down trading on individual markets and a rule that allows
venues to ignore prices on rival exchanges if they perceive
problems with their executions or get slow responses to buy and
sell requests.  
 “The U.S. equities market is so complex normally that when
you add in a situation like May 6 the complexity turns into
confusion,” said Matt Schrecengost, chief operating officer at
 Jump Trading LLC , a proprietary trading firm in Chicago. “The
only responsible thing to do as a trader is to shut down.”  
 Accenture at a Penny  
 Jump stopped submitting bids and offers to exchanges on the
afternoon of May 6. Other market makers and high-frequency
trading firms also scaled back business when volatility surged
that day and stocks such as Accenture Plc and Exelon Corp.
traded as low as a 1 cent. Accenture closed at $38.24 yesterday,
while Exelon fetched $39.75.  
 Schapiro asked whether the market could suffer if venues
introduce their own versions of a mechanism that slows down
trading in volatile stocks only on the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE’s program converts automated executions into human-overseen
electronic auctions.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . last month proposed
its own measure that would pause trading when a stock rises or
falls a set amount in 30 seconds.  
 Didn’t Exacerbate  
 NYSE’s program offers a “differentiated” service to
companies listed on the exchange and didn’t exacerbate problems
on May 6, said  Joe Mecane , executive vice president and co-head
of U.S. listing and cash execution at  NYSE Euronext . “We’re
mixing some competitive arguments with some market structure
arguments.” He added that changes shouldn’t be introduced to
alter the “competitive dynamics” among trading venues.  
 “There must be consistency regarding how the markets work,
and how market participants conduct themselves, to prevent
market turbulence from turning into market tragedy,” said
 William O’Brien , chief executive officer at Direct Edge Holdings
LLC. One of the risks that can accompany innovation by markets
is confusion, he added.  
 Brokers also deserve scrutiny for decisions about how they
routed orders during a time of stress, Mecane said. Market
orders, or requests to buy and sell shares at any level, sent
into the marketplace on May 6 led to 21,800 trades more than 60
percent away from their price before the plunge being canceled
hours later.  
 Band-Aids  
 “We can put a lot of Band-Aids in place to prevent people
from hurting themselves,” Mecane said. Still, he added,
“someone had responsibility for those orders that caused the
damage in the marketplace.”  
 The SEC is considering whether exchanges or brokers could
install constraints that would put a limit on the price at which
market orders execute. Mechanisms that do this exist on some
equities and futures venues.  
 Stock exchanges recently introduced a new program of
circuit breakers for stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Panelists suggested that such fixes, while necessary to address
problems caused by the fragmentation of markets, could also
cause more volatility or new frictions for traders.  
 O’Brien, whose firm is based in Jersey City, New Jersey,
and  Joe Ratterman , CEO of Bats Global Markets in Kansas City,
said constraints that prevent trading in a declining stock from
occurring below a certain level and executions when shares are
rising from taking place above a price should eventually be
introduced instead of trading halts. These steps could reduce
volatility without preventing the shares from trading, they
said.  
 200 ETFs  
 The circuit-breaker program will be expanded to at least
200 exchange-traded funds this summer, according to  James Ross ,
a senior managing director at state Street Global Advisors, the
second-biggest manager of ETFs.  
 CME Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Craig Donohue 
yesterday raised concerns about that expansion to products such
as the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust and  SPDR Dow Jones Industrial
Average ETF Trust . ETFs accounts for 70 percent of securities
with trades on May 6 that were later canceled.  
 In the current interconnected market, trading halts in ETFs
could cause a “de-linkage” between those prices, futures based
on the security and the value of the underlying index, Donohue
said. “Our customers would not like that result,” he said.  
 The idea of halting broad-based ETFs should be discussed
“collectively” by executives in equities and futures markets
and index calculators, Donohue said. CME created a joint venture
with Dow Jones & Co., which operates 130,000 stock indexes
including the benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average. The
exchange’s E-mini S&P 500 futures is the Merc’s biggest equity
index contract, trading more than 2.2 million contracts daily
last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        