-- French Strike Over Pensions Reform Starts to Disrupt Rail, Air Services
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-23T14:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/french-strike-over-pensions-reform-starts-to-disrupt-rail-air-services.html

          
          
             French labor unions will begin a 24-
hour strike tonight, disrupting public transport across the
country, to protest President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  plan to lift the
minimum retirement age to 62.  
 Railway workers at Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Francais plan to down tools at 8 p.m. local time, cutting high-
speed train services to and from Paris by 50 percent and those
to the rest of France by as much as two-thirds, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Two out of three Thalys trains to Germany, Belgium and the
Netherlands will run normally and the Eurostar service won’t be
affected, the SNCF said.  
 France’s civil aviation authority has asked carriers to
reduce flights by 15 percent tomorrow between 7 a.m. and 2 p.m.
at Roissy Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports. Air France will
operate all its long-haul flights and an 85 percent domestic and
medium-haul service.  
 This is the second day of action over the pension overhaul,
following a May 27 protest that had only a limited impact.
Workers plan to walk off the job at Air France-KLM Group SA,
France Telecom SA, Airbus SAS, Electricite de France SA, GDF
Suez SA, Bouygues Telecom,  Renault SA , schools, post offices,
ports, hospitals, national radio and television.  
 The goal for the unions is to muster enough public support
to block the plan, which represents French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s main push to improve public finances in 2010. While
strikes have toppled previous attempts at reform, notably in
1995, an Ifop poll published in today’s Le Figaro newspaper
showed 58 percent of voters approve the overhaul.  
 Sarkozy will raise the retirement age to 62 by 2018, from
60 currently, and increase taxes to stem losses in the pension
system. French lawmakers will debate the bill in September. The
CGT, CFDT, CFTC, FSU, UNSA, Sud and Solidaires unions called for
the strike, while Force Ouvriere, the country’s third biggest
union, did not.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        