-- `Mamma Mia' Goes Dark, Bankers Stay Home as G-20 Hits Toronto
-- Sean B. Pasternak
-- 2010-06-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/g-20-shuts-mama-mia-keeps-bankers-at-home-as-toronto-braces-for-protest.html

          
          
             Toronto, host to this weekend’s
Group of 20 summit, is preparing for an invasion of world
leaders, police and protesters by shutting its doors.  
 The Toronto Blue Jays baseball team is leaving town, the
Royal Alexandra Theatre is closing for the first time in more
than a century and thousands of bankers and money managers such
as  David Cockfield  are working from home.  
 “People coming to cover the G-20 are going to find Toronto
just empty, with wind blowing through the downtown canyons,
asking ‘Where are all the people?’” said Cockfield, a portfolio
manager at MacNicol and Associates Asset Management Inc., which
oversees about C$300 million ($293 million).  
 Lost business from shuttered shops, offices, restaurants
and tourist venues such as the Art Gallery of Ontario will
likely offset any economic gains from packed hotels for the June
26-27 summit in Canada’s biggest city, Bank of Montreal deputy
chief economist  Doug Porter  said.  
 The G-20 meeting may result in an average C$7,500 in lost
sales for each downtown restaurant during the two days,
according to the Canadian Restaurant and Foodservices
Association. That’s a revenue drop of about C$23 million.  
 “Bottom line, restaurateurs are not liking it at all,”
association Chief Executive Officer  Garth Whyte  said. “There’ll
be more losers than winners.”  
 Security Zone  
 A 12-block section of Toronto’s financial district is
already surrounded by three-meter (10-foot) high chain-link
fences and concrete barriers, part of the largest security
operation ever in Canada with 20,000 police and security guards.  
 About 223,000 employees work in financial services in
Toronto, the third-most of any city in North America, according
to the Toronto Financial Services Alliance. The region of about
5.1 million people is home to Canada’s largest lenders, 55
foreign bank units and insurers such as  Manulife Financial Corp.   
 At least three dozen downtown branches of Canada’s five-
largest lenders including Toronto-Dominion Bank and  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce  will close between June 24 and June 27
because of increased security and protests.  
 Bankers in the city’s financial district on Bay Street are
also being advised by their companies to ditch suits and ties
for casual clothes, with at least 18 demonstrations planned by
groups protesting everything from oil-sands development and
poverty to boycotting Chilean wine and fruit.  
 “I’ll probably wear a baseball cap and a pair of shorts,”
Sentry Select Capital money manager  Mason Granger  said. “I
don’t want to make it obvious I’m a Bay Street guy.”  
 Law Firm Closes  
 Bank of Montreal, based in the First Canadian Place tower,
may have as many as 40 percent of its 6,000 downtown staff
working from home, spokesman  Ralph Marranca  said. The bank also
plans to run part of its Canadian trading operations from an
alternate site, he said.  
 Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP will close its law office in
the same building on June 25, affecting about 750 employees,
said Chief Operating Officer Ruth Woods. PricewaterhouseCoopers
is closing its offices nearby, affecting 1,800 staff.  
 Paul Hand , a managing director of equities at RBC Capital
Markets, says he’ll take June 25 off and come in later than
normal to Royal Bank of Canada’s gold-tinted office tower
tomorrow. The Brooks Brothers clothing store in the same
building will be closed for three days.  
 “This whole G-20 thing has taken on a surreal feel,” said
Hand, 61. “It’s become a backdrop of malaise.”  
 Stay Home  
 Canada will spend as much as C$1.2 billion for the meetings
to host world leaders, said Andrew MacDougall, a spokesman for
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper . The costs include the G-8 meeting
on June 25 at a lakeside resort about 230 kilometers (143 miles)
north of the city in Huntsville, Ontario.  
 By contrast, last year’s G-20 summit in Pittsburgh cost $18
million and London’s tab was $30 million, according to a  report 
by the University of Toronto’s G8 and G20 Research Groups. The
amounts in other countries may not be comparable, the group
said.  
 The U.S. government issued an  alert  telling travelers to
avoid downtown Toronto during the summit because of the
potential for “violent and unpredictable” protests that
started on June 21.  
 “Most of the action with the demonstrators, broken glass
and tear gas will probably be right near our office,” said  Ed Sustar , 44, a senior credit analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 Theaters Go Dark  
 The shows won’t go on at The Royal Alexandra Theatre and
Princess of Wales, which are closed from June 21 to June 27.  
 “We’ll be taking a sizeable loss,” said producer  David Mirvish , 65. “That week would have been enormous” because it
was the last week for “Mamma Mia.” About 600 staff will lose
their wages for the week, he said.  
 The Toronto Blue Jays shifted their three-game “home”
series against the Phillies to Philadelphia to avoid the Rogers
Centre stadium, beside the summit venue at the Metro Toronto
Convention Centre.  
 Big Daddy’s Crab Shack and Oyster Bar is among Toronto
eateries planning to close this weekend.  
 “Nobody’s going to be coming downtown,” manager Trey Tran
said.  
 Gabby’s, a sports bar, is betting that full hotels will
translate into booming business from police, journalists and
summit delegates. Tourism Toronto estimates the G-20 will result
in 114,000 hotel-room nights in the city and spending of C$53
million.  
 The Royal Canadian Mounted Police are based at the Hyatt
hotel across the road from Gabby’s.  
 “The RCMP guys are going to be drinking here,” Gabby’s
general manager Scott Wark said. “I don’t expect any
problems.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;  Joe Schneider  in Toronto at +1-
   jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;  Sean B. Pasternak  in
Toronto at   spasternak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Police officers stand near a restricted security zone in advance of the upcoming Group of 20 (G20) summit meeting in Toronto. Photographer: Norm Bettts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Workers install safety film on the ground floor windows of Brookfield Place in the financial district. Photographer: Norm Bettts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
