-- G20 Needs to Cut Budgets Without Sacrificing Economic Growth, Gordhan Says
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-23T13:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/g20-needs-to-balance-growth-budget-cuts-south-african-finance-chief-says.html

          
          
             Group of 20 nations need to cut
their budgets without sacrificing the global economic recovery,
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  
 Spending cuts and tax increases should be “growth
friendly,” Gordhan told reporters in the capital, Pretoria,
today, ahead of his trip with President  Jacob Zuma  to attend the
G-20 meeting in Toronto on June 26-27.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  is pushing G-20 nations to do
more to bolster the global economic recovery, while European
governments, such as Germany and France, are focusing on
slashing budget deficits, setting a course for conflict at the
summit. G-20 leaders are also expected to discuss proposals for
a global bank levy and a tax on securities transactions to clamp
down on financial speculation.  
 “Having a balanced approach to fiscal spending is
absolutely key,” Gordhan said. “But at the same time, we need
to ensure the growth friendly element isn’t sacrificed. If we do
that, we’ll be solving some immediate problems but creating new
ones.”  
 U.K. Finance Minister  George Osborne  yesterday outlined the
biggest budget cuts in 50 years to trim a fiscal deficit of 11
percent of gross domestic product. Germany is holding to G-20
commitments on exit strategies from fiscal stimulus, urging the
U.S. to join Europe in cutting spending.  
 Coordination  
 “The G-20 is trying to find a coordinated way that these
exits happen,” Gordhan said. “The levels of fiscal
consolidation that takes place must be consistent with a
country’s necessity. It shouldn’t be uniform. It should take
into account what is happening within a country.”  
 Gordhan added that proposals such as a banking levy and
other restrictions on financial markets shouldn’t be imposed
“uniformly.”  
 “South Africa, together with Canada, Australia, and India
up to a point, have a common belief that our banking and
financial systems were fairly secure, that our regulatory
systems worked fairly well,” said Gordhan. “We don’t have to
impose the same levels of capital, liquidity and other forms of
strictures on our financial systems as the rest of world has
to.”  
 South Africa is also hoping the G-20 meeting will discuss
changing the way the leaders of the International Monetary Fund
and World Bank are chosen, Gordhan said. The head of the IMF has
always been a European, while an American typically gets the top
post at the World Bank.  
 “We are amongst those arguing for many years that this
secret pact between Europe and the U.S. that they share the
heads of these institutions should go out of the window,”
Gordhan said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        