-- Gap to Expand Into China in 2010 With Flagship Stores in Beijing, Shanghai
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-06-23T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/gap-to-expand-into-china-in-2010-with-flagship-stores-in-beijing-shanghai.html

          
          
             Gap Inc. , the operator of the U.S.
clothing chain of the same name, plans its first stores in China
by year-end, aiming to lure shoppers in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy with its blue jeans and khakis.  
 Shanghai and Beijing will get two Gap brand outlets each,
with three in Gap’s larger flagship format, the San Francisco-
based company said today in a statement. Gap also will begin
selling clothes online to Chinese customers.  
 “There are a lot of other foreign brands in the country,
but there’s not a real American brand with the full expression
as to what casual apparel can be,”  John Ermatinger , president
of Gap’s Asia Pacific region, said in an interview. “We’re very
confident” China’s consumers will like Gap clothes, he said.  
 Gap Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  has sought to fuel
growth by expanding overseas as he closes North American stores.
May sales at stores open at least a year climbed 8 percent
internationally, eight times the pace of total sales.  
 In the quarter ended May 1, Gap closed 18 stores in North
America and opened four, while opening five and closing one
internationally. The company has 89 percent of its locations in
the U.S. and Canada.  
 China offers the  retailer  an economy that grew throughout
the global recession and expanded 11.9 percent in the first
quarter, more than triple the pace of the U.S. Chinese consumers
also may have more buying power after China’s central bank
signaled this month that it would end a two-year peg to the U.S.
dollar.  
 Chinese Currency  
 “The issue around the currency didn’t play into our
decision making,” said Ermatinger, who came to Gap in 2006 from
 Nike Inc. , where he oversaw development of the shoemaker’s
business in China and other Asian countries. “It’s just that
it’s the third-largest apparel consuming country in the world,
and we weren’t part of it.”  
 This year, the retailer also plans to open Gap and Banana
Republic stores in Milan, begin an online shopping site for the
U.K., Italy and other European countries, and start a franchise
location in Australia.  
 Gap will open more stores in China after studying the
tastes of shoppers at its first four sites, Ermatinger said. The
company has already spent more than four years researching the
market, and that scrutiny suggests Gap’s clothes for children
will sell well because of China’s one-child policy, he said.  
 “That one child is adored with a lot of attention,”
Ermatinger said. “Given how strong our kids and baby business
is, we think it’s going to be a high percentage of total
sales.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        