-- Belarus Pays for May Gas Deliveries as Gazprom Deepens Cut, Demands Debt
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-06-23T10:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/gazprom-says-no-problems-with-gas-reaching-eu-after-cuts-to-belarus-supply.html

          
          
             Belarus paid  OAO Gazprom  in full for
gas deliveries in May as the Russian export monopoly deepened a
cut in supplies to the neighboring country today, while
demanding payments for past deliveries.  
 OAO Beltransgaz, the Belarusian gas transportation company
half-owned by Gazprom, paid $260.1 million for the May
deliveries at contract prices, the Moscow-based company said in
an e-mailed statement today.  
 “This is an encouraging sign that our Belarusian partners
acknowledge their obligations under the existing supply
contract, including its agreed pricing formula,” Gazprom said.  
 Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, slashed 60
percent of deliveries to Belarus today, after lowering flows by
30 percent yesterday and 15 percent on June 21. The company
demanded immediate payment of $192 million for supplies in the
first four months of the year, saying Belarus underpaid.  
 Alexei Miller , Gazprom’s chief executive officer, said fuel
is being shipped to European customers across Belarus in full.
Belarus President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  yesterday ordered that
transit supplies from Russia to Europe be halted.  
 “Consumers of Russian gas are experiencing no problems
with supplies,” Miller said on Gazprom-owned NTV television.  
 Normal Flows  
 Russian gas is flowing “normally” to Poland via Belarus,
 Joanna Zakrzewska , a spokeswoman for  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , the Warsaw-based company known as PGNiG that’s
Poland’s dominant gas distribution company, said by phone,
citing data as of 8 a.m. local time.  
 Lietuvos Dujos AB , Lithuania’s gas utility, said gas flows
across Belarus from Russia were unchanged this morning, Sigita
Petrikonyte-Jurkuniene, a spokeswoman, said by phone.  
 Gazprom spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov  said on Jun. 21
Belarus’s debt may rise to $251 million if the country continues
to underpay for May supplies. Belarus has been paying last
year’s price of $150 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas, rather than
the contract price, which rose to about $184 in the second
quarter, according to Gazprom.  
 Belarus has demanded to pay Russian prices as the countries
negotiate a customs union with Kazakhstan. Russian Premier
Vladimir said the troika will miss a July 1 start date, citing
Belarus’s push for subsidized energy as a stumbling block.  
 Gazprom and Belarus signed a last-minute agreement on
December 31, 2006 to end a gas pricing dispute that threatened
to disrupt deliveries to the EU. The accord more than doubled
the fuel price for Belarus, while keeping a discount to what
other consumers in the region pay.  
 Belarus, a country of about 10 million people, is the
smaller of Gazprom’s two transits route to Europe. Russia has
also halted supplies to Ukraine, its main route, disrupting
flows to Europe twice during freezing weather in 2006 and 2009.  
 Ukraine can increase Russian fuel exports to the European
Union, Fuel and Energy Minister  Yuriy Boyko  said on the ministry
website yesterday. Russia hasn’t asked to use the spare capacity
in the pipeline network, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        