-- Geithner, Summers Tell G-20 Nations to Avoid Budget Cuts That Hurt Growth
-- Christopher Anstey
-- 2010-06-23T01:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/geithner-summers-tell-g-20-nations-to-avoid-budget-cuts-that-hurt-growth.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s top
economic advisers urged the Group of 20 nations to avoid budget
cuts that would hurt economic growth and called on China to
ensure “vigorous implementation” of a more flexible currency.  
 “We must demonstrate a commitment to reducing long-term
deficits, but not at the price of short-term growth,” Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and  Lawrence Summers , director of
the White House’s National Economic Council, wrote in an opinion
piece posted today on the Wall Street Journal’s  website .
“Without growth now, deficits will rise further.”  
 The comments underscore a split with European officials as
governments from Germany to the U.K. implement budget tightening
aimed at shoring up investor confidence in the aftermath of the
Greek debacle. The Obama administration, seeking to double
exports over five years, wants stronger growth abroad that eases
the world’s reliance on the U.S. consumer.  
 Emerging-market economies, accounting for two-thirds of
global growth, can help the recovery by allowing exchange-rate
flexibility, Geithner and Summers said ahead of the G-20 summit
Obama will attend June 26-27 in Toronto. They reiterated the U.S.
endorsement of China’s June 19 decision to end a fixed peg of
6.83 yuan per dollar that was adopted in 2008 to shield Chinese
exporters from the global crisis.  
 “We welcome China’s recent decision to do so and look
forward to its vigorous implementation,” Geithner and Summers
said.  
 Obama, Merkel  
 Obama said in a June 16 letter to his counterparts that
they must avoid the “mistakes of the past” when economic
support was withdrawn prematurely. By contrast, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has said “there is no alternative” to
cutting deficits.  
 Geithner and Summers also praised the European Union’s
decision to publish stress tests on the region’s banks next
month. The U.S. Treasury chief earlier this month called for
“further efforts to restructure and recapitalize the banking
system” in parts of Europe.  
 The opinion piece also urged G-20 members to stabilize
their debt levels, enact new rules for financial regulation, and
reduce their reliance on fossil fuels to ensure global growth.  
 “To maintain the momentum of the U.S. recovery, we need
strong, balanced and sustainable global growth,” Geithner and
Summers said.  
 Countries must adopt “credible plans” to stabilize their
debt-to-gross-domestic-product levels, they said.  
 The G-20 accounts for about 85 percent of global gross
domestic product. Its members are Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan,
South Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey,
the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union.  
 Members need to reach agreement on reducing leverage and
raising capital requirements, while improving the quantity and
quality of capital, Geithner and Summers wrote. Such measures
“must be phased in over time so as not to interfere with the
flow of credit,” they said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Anstey  in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        