-- GM Said to Prepare IPO Plan With Treasury Selling 20%
-- Jeff Green
-- 2010-06-23T20:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/general-motors-said-to-prepare-ipo-plan-with-treasury-selling-20-of-stake.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. is preparing for
an initial public offering that may sell 20 percent of the
Treasury’s stake in the automaker and reduce the U.S. to a
minority owner, said two people familiar with the plan.  
 The aim is to sell a fifth of the government’s 304 million
shares, said the people, who asked not to be identified
revealing private discussions. That would reduce the Treasury
Department’s stake to less than 50 percent from 61 percent now.
Final decisions on which owners will sell how many shares
haven’t been made and may change, the people said.  
 A registration statement may be filed in August, aiming for
a November stock sale, said four people familiar with the plan.
The sale will probably raise $10 billion to $15 billion,
depending on the company’s performance, the strength of the
economy and the health of the IPO market, the people said.  
 An August filing means Detroit-based GM could have the IPO
ready around the time of the Nov. 2 congressional elections,
said the people. If Treasury can sell enough shares, President
 Barack Obama  could help other Democrats running for office by
arguing that his administration’s restructuring of GM is paying
off, said  Joe Phillippi , president of AutoTrends Consulting.  
 “The government wants a successful offering soon so they
can say that they took the company through bankruptcy, turned it
over to independent management and are taking it public,” said
Phillippi, who is based in Short Hills, New Jersey. “This would
be part of the campaign spin.”  
 Other Sellers  
 The automaker may also issue new shares to raise cash and
sell shares owned by Canada and a union-led retiree health-care
trust, one of the people said.  
 Selim Bingol , a GM spokesman, declined in an e-mail to
comment on the matter.  
 GM has invited analysts, potential investors and
representatives of its current shareholders to Detroit for a
review of the business on June 29, said a spokeswoman,  Renee Rashid-Merem . GM will also give the members of the financial
community a look at current and future models, she said.  
 The IPO will be managed by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Morgan
Stanley , people familiar with the matter have said. They will
collect fees of 0.75 percent of the sale, said a person briefed
on the matter. Such fees would be a quarter of the usual rate
for large stock sales.  
 JPMorgan had offered to accept payment in equity instead of
cash, though that idea was rejected by GM and Treasury, two
people said.  
 The U.S. will probably sell the remainder of its GM stock
over “a few years,” Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said
in a May 17 Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Equity Value  
 GM’s equity is worth $70 billion, according to a May 20
report by  Eric Selle , a JPMorgan debt analyst who projects a
return of 47 cents on the dollar for holders of bonds issued by
GM’s predecessor, General Motors Corp., that will be converted
to stock and warrants in new GM. At today’s bond prices, GM’s
equity is worth about $51 billion.  
 Since 1999, four U.S. IPOs have exceeded $5 billion --  Visa
Inc.’s  $19.7 billion deal in 2008, AT&T Wireless Group’s
$10.6 billion offering in 2000,  Kraft Foods Inc.’s  $8.68 billion
deal in 2001 and  United Parcel Service Inc.’s  $5.47 billion sale
in 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The size of a company’s IPO may vary from the original
amount listed in its registration statement, known as an S-1
filing, submitted to the Securities Exchange Commission.  
 The SEC examines the S-1, which companies use to register
shares they want to sell, to make sure it complies with
disclosure requirements and may ask for amendments to correct or
clarify statements. A company can sell shares once the SEC
declares the registration statement effective.  
 The process usually takes 8 to 10 weeks from the time of
the initial S-1 filing to the effective date.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     General Motors CEO Ed Whitacre said to be preparing an initial public offering. Photographer: Bill Pugliano/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
