-- German Bunds Rise, Greek, Spanish Bonds Fall on Signs Recovery is Slowing
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-23T15:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/german-bunds-rise-as-economic-worries-lower-stocks-stoke-safety-demand.html

          
          
             The extra yield investors demand to
hold the bonds of so-called peripheral European nations instead
of German bonds increased as signs the economic recovery may be
slowing added to the appeal of the safest fixed-income assets.  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year  bund  fell to its lowest
in a week after a report today showed growth in Europe’s
services and manufacturing industries slowed in June. It
extended declines after U.S. data showed purchases of new homes
slid to a record low. Spanish and Greek bonds fell, widening the
yield spread over German notes. The cost of insuring against
losses on Greek debt soared to the highest in more than a month.  
 “This risk-off theme is unfolding again with spreads
coming out,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany. “From the risk side bunds are
well supported.”  
 The yield on the 10-year bund fell five basis points to
2.65 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in London, after earlier dropping
to 2.64 percent, the lowest since June 16. The 3 percent
security maturing July 2020 rose 0.4, or 4 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,224) face amount, to 103.05.  
 Bund yields fell as low as 2.50 percent this month amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis may deepen. While demand at bond
auctions for so-called periphery nations has renewed confidence
in the countries’ ability to fund their budget deficits,
indications the recovery is sputtering reignited demand for
German debt.  
 Purchasing Managers  
 Markit Economics said today an index based on a survey of
euro-area purchasing managers in services and manufacturing fell
to 56, from 56.4 in May. Consumer confidence in Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, will hold steady next month, according
to GfK AG’s sentiment index.  
 New home sales in the U.S. collapsed a record 33 percent to
an annual pace of 300,000 last month from April, less than the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the
fewest in data going back to 1963, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Data yesterday showed an
unexpected drop in sales of previously owned homes.  
 Greek government bonds fell, pushing the yield to more than
10 percent for the first time since May 10, the day the European
Central Bank began buying debt securities to support a European
Union rescue plan for nations struggling to raise funds. The
 extra yield  investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds instead
of benchmark German bunds widened to 775 basis points from 711
basis points yesterday.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 The securities may also be falling as managers in so-called
passive funds sell the bonds, anticipating their removal from
bond indexes. Greek securities will leave indexes managed by
Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc at the end of this month after
they were downgraded to junk by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Greek sovereign debt surged as
much as 91.5 basis points to 941, above the all-time high
closing level of 940 on May 6, according to CMA DataVision.  
 European governments will consider imposing a charge on
bond sales by countries that violate debt rules in the wake of
the Greece-driven fiscal crisis, a draft document showed.  
 Countries that flout debt-reduction pledges could face “a
levy in the form of a predefined percentage (number of basis
points) on any issuance of government debt,” according to a
European Commission proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The ECB has been buying mostly Greek government bonds as
part of its rescue package designed to contain the sovereign-
debt crisis,  Philippe Mills , chief executive officer of Agence
France Tresor, said at a conference in London yesterday.  
 ECB Buys Bonds  
 “The ECB is buying mainly Greek debt, a little bit of
Portugal, a little bit of Ireland,” Mills said. “That’s it.”  
 The Spanish 10-year bond yield rose three basis points to
4.58 percent. Portuguese 10-year yields advanced four basis
points to 5.8 percent.  
 Portugal auctioned 943 million euros of bonds due 2015,
more than originally planned at an auction today. The securities
were sold at an average yield of 4.657 percent, compared with
3.701 percent at an offering in May.  
 “This week the ECB has been very sparse in its purchases,
if at all,”  David Keeble , head of fixed-income strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “The illiquidity in the
secondary market is pushing people toward the auctions.”  
 Italy is selling bonds indexed to six-month Euribor via
banks, which will mature on Dec. 15, 2015 and may have a spread
of 82 to 85 basis points, according to bankers involved in the
transaction. The country received 5.5 billion euros in orders
for the debt, the banker said.  
 German Sales  
 German bonds also rose amid speculation the country may
reduce the amount of securities it plans to sell. The Bild
Zeitung newspaper said yesterday the nation will need to borrow
60 billion euros, less than the 80 billion euros originally
projected.  
 “Recent fiscal data in Germany is pointing toward lower
levels of net issuance,”  Alan James , a fixed-income analyst at
Barclays Plc in London, said in an investor note today.  
 The difference in yield between two-year and 10-year German
securities narrowed five basis points to 206 basis points, the
least since June 8, based on closing prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spanish and Greek bonds fell. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
