-- Ghosn Receives $9.5 Million Pay After Nissan Returns to Profit
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-06-23T07:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/ghosn-receives-9-5-million-pay-after-nissan-returns-to-profit.html

          
          
             Nissan Motor Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  received 891 million yen or $9.5 million in
salary and stock options after the maker of Altima and Versa
sedans returned to profit last fiscal year.  
 Ghosn, 56, who defended his compensation at Nissan’s annual
shareholder meeting in Yokohama today, is the highest paid
leader at Japanese companies that have declared executive pay,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony Corp.  Chairman
Howard Stringer earned about 810 million yen in salary, bonus
and stock options, the electronics company said last week.  
 While Ghosn’s pay tops that of other executives in Japan,
it lags behind the average for global automotive companies,
estimated at about $12 million by  Towers Watson & Co. , a U.S.
benefits consultant. New financial regulations require publicly
traded Japanese companies to disclose the compensation of
individuals who earn more than 100 million yen.  
 “Foreign executives leave their jobs if performances are
bad, while Japanese executives have lifetime employment and get
paid throughout their career even after they leave top
positions,” said Peng Xu, a professor at Hosei University in
Tokyo. “The differences in pay stem from the differences in
employment systems between Japanese and Western companies.”  
 Ford Motor Co. ’s CEO  Alan Mulally  earned the most in the
auto industry with $17.9 million in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Trouble Understanding’  
 Japanese companies must file their annual reports before
June 30, including pay details.  
 “After hearing how much Mr. Ghosn makes, I am having
trouble understanding how this happens,” Motoko Satomi, a 58-
year-old Nissan shareholder from Tokyo, said at today’s meeting.
“I have a friend whose son is a researcher at Nissan. His
salary is so low that his parents have to send him money to help
pay his rent.”  
 Ghosn defended the pay gap between Nissan and other
companies in Japan.  
 “We are a Japanese company, but we have global
management,” Ghosn said. “We want our shareholders to have the
best performance possible with the best talent.”  
 About 40 percent of Nissan’s top executives are non-
Japanese. The carmaker formed an alliance with France’s Renault
SA, its biggest shareholder, in 1999.  
 Nissan needs international management as sales growth is
coming from China, India, Russia and South America, Ghosn said.
Shareholders voted to approve compensation paid to the company’s
board of directors, he said.  
 Renault Compensation  
 The carmaker said earlier this month it would pay its top
12 directors an average of 141 million yen, excluding stock
options, for the fiscal year that ended in March. That’s about
four times Toyota Motor Corp.’s average and almost three times
that of Honda Motor Co., according to separate company
statements.  
 Nissan and Toyota, which made losses in the year ended
March 2009, won’t pay bonuses to executives, the companies said.  
 Toyota , the world’s biggest automaker, and Honda may give
details on individual executives’ pay tomorrow, when they hold
annual shareholder meetings.  
 Nissan said five other executives received more than 100
million yen each. Executive Vice President  Carlos Tavares  was
paid 198 million yen in the year ended March, followed by
Executive Vice President  Colin Dodge , who earned 176 million yen.
Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga , the best paid Japanese
executive, received 134 million yen.  
 U.S., European Standards  
 Levels of compensation closer to U.S. and European
standards were expected at Nissan, said  Koji Endo , an analyst at
Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.  
 Ghosn also heads Renault and  earned  1.2 million euros ($1.5
million) in salary in 2009 from the Boulogne Billancourt,
France-based automaker, according to the company.  
 “What Mr. Ghosn makes by running the alliance of that size
is in the middle rank under global standards,” Maurice Levy,
president of the French Association of Private Companies, said
in a phone interview. “If he had taken the job offer at Ford,
he could have earned much more.”  
 Since Ghosn joined Nissan in 1999, the company’s stock has
 gained  46 percent, while the Nikkei 225 stock Average has
declined 37 percent. Toyota fell 4.5 percent in the same period,
while Honda gained 2 percent.  
 Nissan fell 1.8 percent to 666 yen in Tokyo trading today.  
 Ghosn’s ‘Miracle’  
 While Nissan’s executive compensation exceeds that of
Toyota and Honda, its profit for the fiscal year lagged behind
the company’s two biggest Japanese rivals.  
 Nissan’s  net income  in the 12 months ended March 31 was
42.4 billion yen, compared with 209.5 billion yen at  Toyota  and
268.4 billion at  Honda . Nissan’s rapid recovery from a loss a
year earlier may be a factor in deciding pay, according to
 Satoru Takada , an analyst at TIW Inc. in Tokyo.  
 Ghosn has turned down offers from Ford to take a top job at
the U.S. automaker, Bloomberg has reported, citing people
familiar with the negotiations.  
 “If compensation is low you don’t get the talent,”
Takaaki Nanjo, a 35-year-old shareholder from Tokyo, said at
today’s meeting in Yokohama. “When I was younger, Nissan was a
mess. Ghosn came in and built it back up. It was a miracle.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuki Hagiwara  in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nissan Motor CEO Carlos Ghosn  
                       
                         
                           Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nissan Motor CEO Carlos Ghosn speaks at the Detroit Economic Club in Detroit. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nissan Motor CEO Carlos Ghosn speaks at the Detroit Economic Club in Detroit. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
