-- Global Equities Have Peaked, Earnings Estimates Stretched, Citigroup Says
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-06-23T08:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/global-equities-have-peaked-earnings-estimates-stretched-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             Global equities are set to fall as
the withdrawal of stimulus measures around the world causes a
slowdown in earnings growth, according to  Richard Cookson ,
global chief investment officer at Citigroup Inc.’s Private Bank.  
 “It’s highly likely that markets have already peaked,”
said London-based Cookson, whose company has $220 billion of
assets under management globally, at a media briefing in
Singapore. “Earnings growth estimates next year are still
double digit. That’s going to be a stretch.”  
 The  MSCI World Index  climbed 80 percent from a 13-year low
in March 2009 to this year’s high on April 15 as central banks
cut borrowing costs and governments boosted spending to help the
global economy recover from its worst recession since World War
II. The gauge has since fallen from the high on speculation
Chinese measures to curb property prices and Europe’s debt
crisis will hurt global growth.  
 “I suspect that bits of Europe are going to go into a
recession,” said Cookson, who joined Citigroup from HSBC
Holdings Plc in March. “Growth assumptions are going to come
under pressure” as governments withdraw stimulus measures.  
 Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has created an environment
in which investors are dwelling on negative developments even
when data show economic recovery, the Bank for International
Settlements said on June 14.  
 European Union leaders unveiled a loan package of almost $1
trillion last month after Greece’s budget deficit expanded to
almost 14 percent of gross domestic product, exceeding the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent. Some European nations risk
a “double dip” economic slowdown if the region fails to manage
its debt crisis, the World Bank said June 10.  
 U.S. Downside Limited  
 The U.S. will likely escape a recession because it can
continue running higher budget deficits to support economic
growth, unlike countries in Europe, Cookson said. That means
profits won’t suffer that much, suggesting the downside for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  is fairly limited, he said.  
 Citigroup’s Private Bank is “underweight” on global
equities and “overweight” on high-yield corporate bonds in
North America and emerging market Asia.  
 In Asia, Cookson said he expects further declines in China,
where the risk of a “hard landing” for the economy has
increased following the surge in property prices. “If property
values start to fall, that produces more of a downside risks for
the economy.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  declined 22 percent this year,
making it the third-worst performing major index in the world,
as the Chinese government took steps to curb the nation’s
runaway property prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        