-- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley Would Be Least Affected by Swaps Proposal
-- Robert Schmidt
-- 2010-06-23T04:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-would-be-least-affected-by-swaps-proposal.html

          
          
             Three of the five U.S. banks that
dominate swaps trading already perform most transactions outside
their depository institutions and would face minimal disruption
from a congressional proposal to reorder the derivatives
business, financial statements and banking records show.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Citigroup Inc.  would be hit
hardest by the proposal, crafted by Arkansas Senator  Blanche Lincoln , to wall off swaps desks from commercial banks. JPMorgan
had 98 percent of its $142 billion in current value derivatives
holdings inside its bank in the first quarter of this year while
Citigroup had 89 percent of $112 billion, the records show.  
 Morgan Stanley  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , each of which
entered the commercial banking business in 2008 in the midst of
the financial crisis, would be less affected. Morgan Stanley
kept just over 1 percent of its $86 billion in derivatives
holdings in its bank in the first quarter, and Goldman Sachs
Group’s held 32 percent of its $104 billion. Bank of America
Corp., which absorbed broker-dealer Merrill Lynch in 2009, had
33 percent of its $115 billion in its bank.  
 Lincoln, a Democrat, contends the swaps-desk measure would
reduce taxpayers’ exposure to risky banking activities. The
 banking industry  has been lobbying against the idea for weeks,
saying it would drive up costs and send business to foreign
lenders. The trading numbers call into question the extent of
the impact and whether the congressional action would favor one
business model over another. While JPMorgan and Citigroup might
have to spend billions to re-capitalize their trading desks, the
three others might have much smaller costs.  
 ‘Pick and Choose’  
 “Any time that Congress tries to pick and choose what
parts of the genie to put back in the bottle, we’re going to be
creating some pretty strange creatures,” said  Bill Brown , a
Duke University law professor and former global co-head of
listed derivatives at Morgan Stanley.  
 JPMorgan has the vast majority of swaps trades in its bank,
though the percentage may be inflated due to the double counting
of a small amount of transactions in other parts of the its
businesses, according to a person familiar with the company’s
derivatives operations.  
 Spokespeople for Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Bank of America
and Goldman Sachs declined to comment for this story.  
 $615 Trillion  
 The swaps-desk provision is the most contentious of a
larger set of rules aimed at reducing risk in the system by
imposing for the first time a regulatory structure for the $615
trillion over-the-counter derivatives market. The changes would
also require standardized derivatives trades to be cleared
through a third party and traded on an exchange or so-called
swap-execution facility and would regulate the foreign-exchange
swaps market.  
 A committee of  lawmakers reconciling  the House and Senate
versions of financial-regulatory reform is scheduled to take up
derivatives language tomorrow. Lawmakers said they have left it
for the end of the debate because of its complexity.  
 The  swaps-desk measure  introduced in April by Lincoln, who
is chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, has cleared
several hurdles in the legislative process while being
criticized by the banking industry, the administration of
President  Barack Obama , the Federal Reserve and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Last week, seven U.S. regional lenders,
including  U.S. Bancorp  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. , came out against
the measure.  
 Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
is leading the House negotiations, said in May that he thought
the Lincoln provision “goes too far.” He has changed his
stance recently, telling reporters yesterday that “the
essence” of the Lincoln proposal would be in the final
 legislation .  
 “Certainly they will be totally insulated from any insured
deposits,” Frank said.  
 Volcker  
 Last month Frank raised the idea that one way to achieve
Lincoln’s goals without unintended consequences could be to
expand the scope of another proposal in the bill -- the so-
called Volcker rule, a ban on proprietary trading by banks. That
notion has failed to gain traction in the talks, because the
majority of the swaps trading by the banks is executed for other
customers and might not be covered by a prohibition on banks’
trading for their own accounts.  
 Negotiations have been continuing on possible exemptions
for banks to the Lincoln proposal for certain types of customer-
driven derivatives products. Frank said yesterday Lincoln has
pushed back against those, including an exemption for desks that
serve as market-makers.  
 “Senator Lincoln wants that to go outside” the depository
institution, Frank said. “And I think she’s going to win that
one.”  
 Lucrative Business  
 Selling over-the-counter derivatives is among the most
lucrative businesses for the largest financial companies. U.S.
commercial banks held derivatives with a notional value of
$212.8 trillion in the fourth quarter, according to the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency. JPMorgan, Citigroup, Bank of
America, Goldman and Morgan Stanley hold 97 percent of that
total.  
 The calculation of derivatives holdings for the five
largest banks is based on a Bloomberg News analysis of the
financial records of the bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries, as well as records filed with federal banking
regulators and posted publicly by the  Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council .  
 Swaps and other derivatives are financial instruments based
on the value of another security or benchmark. Some instruments,
including contracts that insured mortgage-backed bonds, have
been blamed for fueling a financial crisis that led to the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  
 Fed Lending  
 Lincoln and her supporters argue that separating swaps
trading from commercial banking would protect depositors and
other small customers from potentially risky trading that could
bring down a firm. They also say it would prevent bailouts by
denying swaps traders the assistance that the government gives
to banks, such as access to emergency lending from the Fed or
deposit insurance from the FDIC.  
 “We view this as an essential component of making the
system sound so that we can get back to where banks are lending
to businesses that are growing and creating jobs,” said Heather
Slavkin, a senior legal and policy adviser at the AFL-CIO.
“When banks use their resources to gamble in the derivatives
markets, they have less capital to invest in businesses that
will create good jobs for working people and grow the middle
class.”  
 Substantial Cost  
 Analysts from Citigroup last week wrote that longtime
commercial banks would bear the brunt of the rule, noting that
they would have to give up the benefit of funding their
derivatives deals with funds from deposits. The June 16 report
concluded that while it is “very difficult” to determine how
much it would cost to capitalize a free-standing swaps desk, the
price tag is likely to be “substantial.”  
 “It all comes down to the cost of funding and it’s always
easier inside the bank where the credit rating is going to be
higher, the source of funding is more stable and it’s cheaper,”
said  Brian Gardner , an analyst at investment firm Keefe Bruyette
& Woods. “Can you do it in a broker-dealer? Yep. People have
done it before and if they have to, they’ll do it again.”  
 Short-Term Disadvantage  
 While the swaps-desk rule, if adopted, would put JPMorgan
and Citigroup at a short-term disadvantage with their
competitors, the big dealers have been arguing on Capitol Hill
that the bigger concern is that U.S. banks will be put at a
competitive disadvantage with foreign counterparts. Large
dealers such as  Credit Suisse AG,   Deutsche Bank AG  and Barclays
Plc, would be even less affected by the requirement, analysts
said.  
 Neither the European Union nor Asian countries are looking
at requiring banks to wall off their derivatives trading as part
of their responses to the credit crisis.  
 “I’m getting a lot of calls, hearing from a lot from folks
who do this for a living and they really think this is going to
drive the business away from U.S. banks,” Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Blanche Lincoln, a Democrat from Arkansas, speak durind a meeting Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
