-- Goldman Sachs, U.S. Investment Banks Face `Minimal' Impact From U.K. Levy
-- Gavin Finch
-- 2010-06-23T10:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/goldman-sachs-u-s-investment-banks-face-minimal-impact-from-u-k-levy.html

          
          
             Britain’s new bank levy will have a
“minimal” impact on U.S. investment banks with operations in
London, with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. likely to pay only a sixth
of the bill it faces for the bonus tax.  
 International banks such as Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. may pay about a quarter of the 2 billion-pound ($3
billion) total levy a year, according to analysts at Seymour
Pierce Ltd. and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit
today. The U.K.’s five biggest banks will pay about 76 percent
of the Treasury forecast for the bank tax, according to  Mark Phin , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  
 “The impact will be minimal for U.S. investment banks,”
said  Richard Staite , an analyst at Atlantic Equities in London
with an “overweight” recommendation on New York-based Goldman
Sachs. “It could impact Goldman by about $100 million per year,
or about 1 percent of earnings. That assumes the industry in
general doesn’t pass on the cost to customers.”  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable Wall Street firm in U.S.
history, has said the U.K.’s one-time bonus tax will leave it
with a $600 million bill. In December, the U.K. put a one-time
50 percent levy on bankers’ discretionary bonuses.  
 Spokeswomen for JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs in London
declined to comment on the bank levy today.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne told lawmakers
yesterday the  tax  will raise about 2 billion pounds annually as
other European governments consider similar taxes to tackle
budget deficits inflated by bank bailouts. The 0.07 percent levy
on wholesale liabilities is less than half the 0.15 percent rate
being considered by the U.S. government.  
 The six biggest U.K. banks will pay about 1.5 billion
pounds of the 2 billion pounds forecast, with the remaining 500
million pounds coming from building societies and foreign banks,
Bank of America said today in a note to clients.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        