-- Google, Fendi, EBay, FIFA, Pork Board, Ringtones: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/google-fendi-ebay-fifa-pork-board-ringtones-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Google Inc. , operator of the world’s
largest Internet search engine, was sued by  Frontier
Communications Corp.  and accused of infringing a new patent for
enhanced telephone services.  
 Google is violating patent rights with products such as the
Google Voice system, Frontier, based in Stamford, Connecticut,
contended yesterday in a complaint in federal court in Delaware.  
 “Google’s deliberate infringement of the patent has
greatly and irreparably damaged Frontier,” the plaintiff’s
lawyers said in court papers seeking unspecified damages and an
injunction to stop the use of the technology.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, agreed last
month to buy  Global IP Solutions Holding AB , a maker of voice
and videoconferencing software, for about $68 million to help
expand Internet video and audio capabilities.  
 “We believe these claims are entirely without merit, and
we’ll defend against them vigorously,” Andrew Pederson, a
spokesman for Google, said by e-mail.  
 Frontier is represented by  Mary B. Graham  of Wilmington,
Delaware’s  Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP .  
 The case is Frontier Communications Corp. v. Google Inc.,
10-cv-545, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Nathan Myhrvold Gets Patent for ‘Displaceable’ Medical Device  
 Nathan Myhrvold , the former chief technology officer at
 Microsoft Corp. , is a named inventor on a patent for a device
that can be used to support a portion of the human body.  
 Patent 7,740,015, one of  4,163 U.S. patents  issued
yesterday, covers a “medical displaceable contouring
mechanism.”  
 The device can be used to support a portion of the body,
such as an injured leg, while limiting pressure on the patient,
according to the patent. It contains multiple displaceable
contouring units that can move up or down and through a variety
of angles in order to support and stabilize the body portion.  
 The mechanism could be used in hospitals and nursing homes,
to stabilize broken bones, or to limit the formation of bed
sores.  
 The patent is assigned to The Invention Science Fund 1 LLC,
of Bellevue, Washington. Myhrvold formed Bellevue-based
 Intellectual Ventures  in 2000 after leaving Microsoft. The
company has a number of separate entities such as The Invention
Science Fund to which patents are assigned.  
 Of the 13 inventors named on the patent in addition to
Myhrvold, many are listed on the Intellectual Ventures website
as senior inventors. The application for the patent was filed in
October 2006.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Fendi Settles Trademark Suit Against Filene’s Basement, RVI  
 Fendi SpA, an Italian fashion house, received $2.5 million
in settlement of a trademark-infringement lawsuit against
Filene’s Basement stores and parent company  Retail Ventures Inc.   
 According to a Fendi  statement , the payment will come from
the  Filene’s Basement Liquidating Estate . Additionally, on June
10 U.S. District Judge Richard M. Berman ordered Retail Ventures
to stop selling any Fendi-branded products without
authorization, and to turn over any Fendi products in their
possession. Fendi received another $50,000, to pay for ads in
Women’s Wear Daily, the New York Times and the Wall Street
Journal announcing the settlement.  
 Fendi sued Filene’s and Retail Ventures in federal court in
Manhattan in January 2006, complaining about the sale of knock-
off Fendi products in Filene’s Basement stores. Fendi said the
retailer bought fake handbags, purses, wallets and key chains
without asking the Italian company whether the distributor
offering the merchandise was authorized.  
 Fendi was represented by  Richard L. Mattiaccio ,  Steven
Skulnik  and  Victor Genecin  of Cleveland’s  Squire Sanders &
Dempsey LLP .  
 The case is Fendi Adele S.R.L. v. Filene’s Basement Inc.,
1:06-cv-02444-RMB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  
 EBay Liable for Leading Users to Fakes, L’Oreal Argues  
 EBay Inc.  is actively involved in selling fake  L’Oreal SA 
cosmetics on its auction site, the Paris-based company told the
European Union’s highest court.  
 EBay, the most-visited U.S. e-commerce site, is liable for
trademark breaches because of its involvement in pre-sale, sale
and after-sale processes on its online platform, lawyers for
L’Oreal told the  European Court of Justice  yesterday. EBay uses
L’Oreal trademarks as sponsored links to lead users to
infringing perfumes and other cosmetics, according to L’Oreal.  
 “In no way can EBay’s role be described as either passive
or neutral,” L’Oreal’s lawyer Henry Carr said to a 13-judge
panel of the Luxembourg-based court. “EBay is just like a large
car-boot sale on the Internet and should face the same sanctions
if fake products are sold there.”  
 A ruling by the EU court may help settle pending trademark
disputes between the two companies in France, Belgium and Spain.
The court ruled this year, in a dispute between  Google Inc.  and
LVMH, that Internet hosts may benefit from an exemption under
the  EU’s e-commerce law  only if their role in processing
potentially infringing data is neutral.  
 Courts in France and Belgium so far have sided with San
Jose, California-based EBay in the lawsuits brought by L’Oreal,
Europe’s largest cosmetics company.  
 The case dates to 2007, when L’Oreal sent a letter
expressing concerns about the “widespread” sale of fake
products on EBay’s European websites and asking it to take
action. L’Oreal later sued, saying EBay hadn’t done enough.  
 “L’Oreal seems less comfortable with e-commerce and seems
to be jockeying for a position where its rights would be broader
than they are in the real world,” Geert Glas, a lawyer
representing EBay, said yesterday.  
 Niilo Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general at the EU court,
said he will publish a non-binding opinion on Dec. 9. The
court’s ruling on average follows about six months later.  
 The case is C-324/09, L’Oreal SA v. EBay International AG.  
 World Cup ‘Ambush Marketers’ Have Charges Dropped  
 South African prosecutors dropped charges against two Dutch
women accused of participating in an “ambush marketing”
campaign for Dutch brewer Bavaria NV at a soccer World Cup
match.  
 FIFA , soccer’s governing body, “indicated they are no
longer interested in pursuing the matter because they have
reached a settlement with Bavaria,” National Prosecuting
Authority spokesman Mthunzi Mhaga said yesterday in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg. “The terms of the settlement will
not be disclosed by us.”  
 FIFA complained after 27 South Africans and three Dutch
citizens donned orange dresses, which Bavaria distributes free
with its beer, during the Netherlands’ opening tournament game
against Denmark in Johannesburg on June 14. Orange is the
official color of the Dutch team.  
 Bavaria said it paid for the flights of the two Dutch women
to South Africa and for tickets for the 30 women to attend the
match. The company also has run  commercials  featuring the women
in their dresses.  
 According to the “ Free the Bavaria Dutchdress Babes Now! ”
video posted on Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing web site,
the women entered the stadium wearing t-shirts over their
dresses, which they peeled off once they were seated in the
stands.  
 During the last World Cup in Germany the brewer encouraged
fans to wear “ Leeuwenhosen ,” orange lederhosen with a tail and
the brewer’s brand on it. Supporters were ordered to take off
the trousers before entering the stadiums.  
 Sponsors, including  Anheuser Busch InBev NV ’s Budweiser,
have paid around $1.2 billion to have the right to be associated
with the World Cup, sport’s most-watched event. FIFA lawyers
have filed more than 2,500 cases globally against parties it
accuses of “ambush marketing.”  
 Pork Board Tells ThinkGeek Unicorns Aren’t ‘Other White Meat’  
 Counsel for the  National Pork Board  told ThinkGeek Inc.
that the  fake ad for canned unicorn meat  on its website
infringed the board’s “the other white meat” trademark.  
 The letter, from Minneapolis-based  Faegre & Benson LLP , was
posted on ThinkGeek.com, which sells gift items. The pork board
objected to the fake product the Fairfax, Virginia-based company
announced on April 1, a traditional day for spoof ads and
announcements.  
 The announcement said “pate is passe” and mentioned
“Unicorn - the new white meat.” It claimed canned unicorn was
an excellent source of sparkles and that the unicorns are
massaged daily with Guinness and fed a diet of candy corn.  
 The National Pork Board registered the mark in the U.S.,
Canada and the European Union, and didn’t countenance even the
satiric use of the term, particularly after references to the
phrase in connection with unicorns showed up on Facebook Inc.’s
social media sites, according to the letter.  
 In its response, ThinkGeek said unicorns don’t exist and
claimed the use of the phrase “is protected as a parody.”  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Ringtone Copyright Royalty Upheld by Appeals Court  
 Ringtones for mobile phones, made from copyrighted music,
should carry a royalty of 24 cents per download rather than a
percentage of revenue, an appeals court ruled, rejecting a
challenge brought by the recording industry.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
upheld the royalty structure set by the Copyright Royalty Board
as well as the 1.5 percent monthly fee it established for late
payments. The Recording Industry Association of America claimed
the decisions of the board, a three-member panel appointed by
the Librarian of Congress, were “arbitrary and capricious.”  
 The association had sought a royalty for record labels tied
to revenue, as some ringtones are premium products that carry
higher prices. The court agreed with the royalty board that the
fixed rate established in October 2008 is more directly tied to
“the nature of the right being licensed.”  
 Jonathan Lamy, a spokesman for the trade group, had no
immediate comment on the decision.  
 The Copyright Royalty Board is charged with setting royalty
terms and rates when copyright owners and licensees are unable
to negotiate agreements by themselves.  
 The case is Recording Industry Association of America Inc.
v. Librarian of Congress, 09-1075, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Google Hires EFF Copyright Specialist Fred von Lohmann  
 Google Inc., operator of the world’s most-used search
engine, hired Fred von Lohmann as senior copyright counsel to
coordinate the company’s global copyright efforts.  
 Von Lohmann  is leaving San Francisco-based  Electronic
Frontier Foundation , a digital-rights advocacy group, where he
was a senior staff attorney.  
 At EFF, von Lohmann has represented programmers, technology
innovators, and individuals in a variety of copyright and
trademark litigation. The best-known was the dispute over the
Grokster file-sharing technology that went to the U.S. Supreme
Court.  
 Before he joined EFF, von Lohmann was a visiting researcher
at the  Berkeley Center for Law and Technology  at the University
of California, Berkeley, School of Law. Before that, he was an
associate at San Francisco-based  Morrison & Foerster LLP .  
 Von Lohmann has an undergraduate degree and a law degree
from Stanford University.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        