-- Google's YouTube Didn't Infringe Viacom Copyrights, Judge Says
-- Donald Jeffrey
-- 2010-06-24T04:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/google-s-youtube-web-site-wins-ruling-in-copyright-suit-brought-by-viacom.html

          
          
             Google Inc. ’s YouTube didn’t violate
 Viacom Inc.  copyrights when content including clips from its MTV
and Comedy Central cable television channels were posted on the
video-sharing website, a judge ruled.  
 U.S. District Judge  Louis Stanton  in New York yesterday
said YouTube wasn’t liable for infringement. Viacom, controlled
by  Sumner Redstone , had sought at least $1 billion in damages,
according to a revised complaint filed in April 2008.  
 Stanton agreed with  YouTube  that it was protected by the
safe-harbor provision of the federal Digital Millennium
Copyright Act, which says a service provider isn’t liable for
infringement if it removes material from its site when notified
by the copyright owner.  
 “The provider must know of the particular case before he
can control it,” Stanton said in the ruling. “The provider
need not monitor or seek out facts indicating such activity.”  
 More than 24 hours worth of video is uploaded to the
YouTube site every minute, the judge said. YouTube had a policy
of removing infringing content from its site and banning users
after three such offenses, according to the ruling.  
 Both companies asked Stanton in March to decide the case in
their favor without a trial. Viacom said  YouTube  benefited
financially by allowing users to post and share programs
including “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart” and “South Park”
on its website without authorization.  
 Appeal Planned  
 Viacom , based in New York, said in an e-mailed statement
that it plans to appeal yesterday’s ruling.  
 “We believe that this ruling by the lower court is
fundamentally flawed and contrary to the language of the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, the intent of Congress, and the views
of the Supreme Court as expressed in its most recent
decisions,” Viacom said in the statement.  
 “This is a win for YouTube and for Google and for the
Internet,”  Kent Walker , vice president and general counsel for
Google, said in a phone interview. “The decision empowers a new
generation of creators and artists who are just starting to
share their work.”  
 The decision followed established judicial consensus that
online services such as YouTube are protected from infringements
claims when they work with copyright holders to manage their
rights online, Walker said in an Internet blog posting.  
 Google , based in Mountain View, California, acquired
YouTube for $1.65 billion in 2006.  
 Premier League  
 Viacom’s lawsuit was initially filed in 2007. Stanton’s
decision also disposes of a parallel case brought by England’s
Football Association Premier League Ltd. later that year,
accusing YouTube of infringing its copyrighted British soccer
league matches.  
 An attorney for the league,  Max Berger  of the New York law
firm of Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment after regular business
hours yesterday.  
 Stanton, last year, dismissed the league’s demand for
punitive damages, ruling the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976 didn’t
allow for them. He also threw out the association’s claim for
damages arising from the alleged infringement of foreign works
not registered in the U.S.  
 The case is Viacom International Inc. v. Youtube Inc., 07-
cv-02103, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The soccer case is The Football Association Premier
League Ltd. v. Youtube Inc., 07-cv-03582.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Donald Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Google’s YouTube Didn’t Infringe Viacom  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Eric Schmidt, chairman and chief executive officer of Google Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Eric Schmidt, chairman and chief executive officer of Google Inc. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
