-- Greek Sovereign Credit Swaps Jump to Record, Bond Yields Climb Above 10%
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-23T15:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/greece-government-bond-risk-jumps-yields-on-its-debt-rise-back-above-10-.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on Greek government debt soared to a record and yields on the
country’s 10-year bonds jumped above 10 percent amid signs the
global economic recovery may be slowing.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Greek sovereign debt surged as
much as 91.5 basis points to 941, above the all-time high
closing level of 940 on May 6, according to CMA DataVision. Ten-
year Greek bond yields rose 47 basis points to 10.57 percent,
the first time they breached the 10 percent threshold since the
European Central Bank started buying government securities on
May 10.  
 Greek bond yields and debt-insurance costs advanced as a
report showed the U.S. real-estate market is flagging, and as
the European Union weighed a levy on bond sales by governments
that flout debt-reduction pledges. Investors are being forced to
sell Greek government bonds after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded the nation to below investment grade, or junk, on
June 14, making its securities ineligible for some funds.  
 The bond-charge proposal added to a “fresh cocktail of
worrying news,” said  Peter Chatwell , a London-based strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB in London. “Market sentiment is fragile
and quick to react to negative headlines. Unfortunately, it
seems like there’s a negative headline around every corner.”  
 SovX Index  
 The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments rose 5 basis points to 151,
according to CMA. The index is a benchmark for the cost of
protecting bonds against default and an increase signals
deterioration in investor perceptions of credit quality.  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
European companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
increased 15 basis points to 538, Markit prices show. The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of 125 investment-grade companies climbed 6
to 124.25.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece’s bonds rose to 940 basis
points on May 6, four days before the European Union pledged $1
trillion to ease the region’s spreading budget deficit crisis.  
 Purchases of new houses in the world’s largest economy
plunged in May to a record low. New-home sales, based on
contract signings, fell 33 percent to an annual pace of 300,000,
the fewest in data going back to 1963, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Demand in prior months
was revised down.  
 Countries that ignore promises to reduce borrowing may face
a levy on any issuance of government debt, which would be
confiscated if the spending isn’t brought back into line,
according to a European Commission proposal.  
 Swaps protecting BP Plc, embroiled in the biggest oil spill
in U.S. history, increased 22.5 basis points to 550 for five-
year contracts, while one-year contracts rose 95 to 750,
according to Barclays Capital.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($12.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Greece's prime minister George Papandreou. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Spanish and Greek bonds fell. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
