-- Guinea Says Rio Tinto Must Respect Obligations or Face License Withdrawal
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-23T10:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/guinea-says-rio-tinto-must-respect-obligations-or-face-license-withdrawal.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, must respect its obligations in Guinea
or risk having its mining license withdrawn, the West African
nation’s mines minister said.  
 The company sent a “very arrogant” letter to Guinean
President  Sekouba Konate  about the Simandou iron-ore concession
that Konate “did not like,” Minister  Mahmoud Thiam  said in a
phone interview today from the capital, Conakry. Konate
responded to Rio’s letter, Thiam said.  
 “He sent them back another letter asking them to respect
their obligations in Guinea, otherwise they will lose their
mining license and they only will be left with an exploration
permit,” Thiam said.  
 A London-based spokesman for Rio Tinto couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment on Thiam’s remarks.  
 Rio controlled the entire Simandou deposit until it was
ordered by the government in December 2008 to hand over the
northern half to closely held BSG Resources Ltd. In April,  Vale
SA , the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, agreed to pay $2.5
billion for deposits in Guinea including Rio’s confiscated
assets. Rio Chief Executive Officer  Tom Albanese  in 2008
described Simandou as the world’s “top” undeveloped iron-ore
deposit.  
 Rio  declined  as much as 2.8 percent in London trading and
was down 1.4 percent at 3,396 pence as of 11:32 a.m. local time.  
 Earlier today, Rio confirmed it received a letter from the
Guinean government and that it would respond “in due course.”  
 ‘Firm Rights’  
 “We have always maintained our firm rights to the entire
mining concession that was granted based on the 2003 Mining
Convention between Rio Tinto and the government,” it said.  
 In March, Rio said it had spent $600 million on the
Simandou venture.  Aluminum Corp. of China  agreed to pay $1.35
billion for a 44.65 percent stake in the project that month.  
 Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, used to make aluminum; more than 4 billion tons of
“high-grade” iron ore; “significant” diamond and gold deposits,
and uranium, according to the U.S. State Department’s  website .  
 The country has been ruled by the military since December
2008, when Captain  Moussa Dadis Camara  led a coup following the
death of former President  Lansana Conte , who had been in power
for two decades. Camara was deposed after being shot by an aide
in December. Konate then took over the leadership of the junta
and pledged to hold elections, which are scheduled to take place
on June 27.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alpha Camara  in Conakry at 
 acamara4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        