-- Gulf Capital Eyes Saudi Opportunities in $370 Million Investment Program
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-06-23T07:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/gulf-capital-eyes-saudi-opportunities-in-370-million-investment-program.html

          
          
             Gulf Capital, the United Arab
Emirates-based private equity firm, plans to invest 1.4 billion
riyals ($373 million) over the next three years as it seeks
opportunities in Saudi Arabia.  
 “We are sitting on a lot of liquidity,”  Karim El Solh ,
the Abu Dhabi-based company’s chief executive officer, said in
an interview in Riyadh yesterday. “We hope that the bulk of
that will end up in Saudi Arabia.”  
 Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier, is
attracting international investors as its economy expands due to
higher oil prices. The Carlyle Group and Deutsche Bank AG
announced Saudi investments this year, while Qatar First
Investment Bank, founded in 2008 with $1 billion of capital,
plans to open an office in the country by the end of the year.  
 Gulf Capital, which was established in 2006 with 300
shareholders, plans to buy a Saudi food company this year, El
Solh said. TechnoGroup, a company in Gulf Capital’s portfolio,
acquired a stake in Consultant Radiology Centers in Saudi
Arabia, the company said in a statement on June 15.  
 Gulf Capital received commitments of about 2 billion riyals
for its GC Equity Partners II Fund, the company said in an e-
mailed statement in February. “We are 30 percent deployed,” El
Solh said.  
 “We are seeing good investment opportunities at reasonable
valuations. Our typical investment is 100 million riyals to 250
million riyals.”  
 Private Equity  
 Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity
firm, bought a 30 percent stake in Saudi Arabia’s General
Lighting Co.  Deutsche Bank  formed a $110 million Shariah-
compliant mortgage venture this year with a group of Saudi-based
investors led by Fahad Abdullah Abdulaziz Al Rajhi.  
 “There is a broader acceptance of the role of private
equity and how we add value,” El Solh. “You will see many more
deals happening. Out of necessity, they need the liquidity. We
have the funds raised.”  
 Banks in the Arab world’s largest economy have curbed
lending since the Saad Group, a business owned by Saudi
billionaire  Maan al-Sanea , and Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers
Co. defaulted on loans last year. Saudi banks have been
reluctant to resume lending even after the central bank cut
interest rates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        