-- Jeffrey Gundlach Sees 10-Year Treasury Yield at 2.5% as Economy Slows
-- Charles Stein
-- 2010-06-23T16:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/gundlach-sees-10-year-treasury-yield-at-2-5-as-economy-slows.html

          
          
             Jeffrey Gundlach , the top-ranked
bond manager and founder of DoubleLine Capital LLC, said the
yield on the 10-year Treasury note may fall to 2.5 percent as
the U.S. economy slows over the next year.  
 Growth will weaken as the impact of government stimulus
programs wears off, Gundlach said in an interview posted on the
website of  Morningstar Inc. , a Chicago-based firm that tracks
the mutual-fund industry. He didn’t give a forecast for U.S.
gross domestic product.  
 Gundlach likened stimulus to steroids or amphetamines,
which have the effect of boosting performance for a short time.
Longer term, he said, “it ends up burning out the basic
strength of the organism. And I think that’s the next stage in
the economic cycle.”  
 The 10-year Treasury yielded 3.11 percent at 12:01 p.m. New
York time. The yield will rise to 3.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to the median forecast of 63 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Gundlach, 50, previously co-managed the top-performing  TCW
Total Return Bond Fund . Under Gundlach and co-manager Philip
Barach, the fund gained an average of 7.5 percent annually in
the five years ended Dec. 4, compared with 7 percent by Bill
Gross’s Pimco Total Return, the world’s largest bond fund.  
 Gundlach was ousted as TCW’s chief investment officer on
Dec. 4. More than 40 members of his team followed him to
DoubleLine, which is based a few blocks from TCW’s headquarters
in Los Angles.  
 In the Morningstar interview, Gundlach predicted the U.S.
will raise taxes to help shrink the federal budget deficit,
further slowing the economy.  
 The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual pace in the
first quarter. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the U.S.
economy to grow 3.2 percent this year and 2.9 percent in 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        