-- Iceland Cuts Benchmark Interest Rate to 8% as Krona Gains, Inflation Eases
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-06-23T10:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/iceland-cuts-benchmark-interest-rate-to-8-as-krona-gains-inflation-eases.html

          
          
             Iceland’s central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate by half a point after international
lenders said the island’s efforts to rebuild its financial
system were on track, supporting the krona as bailout flows
resumed.  
 Sedlabanki lowered the seven-day collateral lending rate to
8 percent, the Reykjavik-based bank said on its website today.
The bank also cut the  deposit rate  to 6.5 percent from 7 percent.
Policy makers have reduced the benchmark 10 times from a record
18 percent since obtaining a $4.6 billion loan from a group led
by the International Monetary Fund at the end of 2008.  
 The Washington-based fund resumed its program with Iceland
in April, freeing a $160 million payment and helping send credit
default swaps lower as investors bet the government is better
positioned to service its debt. Central bank capital controls
have also supported the krona, which has gained about 19 percent
against the euro since a Nov. 12 low, stemming consumer price
gains.  Inflation  slowed 0.8 point to 7.5 percent last month.  
 “Conditions are ripe for a further easing of the tight
monetary stance,” said  Ingolfur Bender , head of research at
Islandsbanki hf. “The krona has appreciated by over 5 percent
since the last policy rate decision meeting and inflation has
dropped and is, moreover, expected to decrease even further in
the months ahead.”  
 Bond Repurchase, Reserves  
 The krona slipped 0.1 percent against the euro, after
having traded as much as 0.2 percent higher earlier in the day.
The currency was trading at 156.85 at 10 a.m. local time.  
 The central bank yesterday said it repurchased $236 million
in bonds coming due in 2011 and 2012 to reduce Iceland’s
reliance on external funding. The yield on the 8 percent note due
July 2011 fell to the lowest in at least a year on June 16, when
the bank first invited offers to buy back the debt. Since the
IMF resumed its program in April, credit default swaps on five-
year debt have eased 65 basis points to 317.  
 The bond repurchase is designed to reduce the risk premium
on Iceland’s credit default swaps, Asgeir Jonsson, head of
research at Arion Bank hf in Reykjavik, said in a phone
interview. “The bank must always be considering that eventually
the Treasury and energy companies have to return to the
international financial markets.”  
 Difficult Position  
 Iceland imposed capital restrictions at the end of 2008 to
protect the krona from a selloff after the failure of the
island’s three biggest banks in October of that year
precipitated an 80 percent krona slump against the euro in the
offshore market.  
 “It’s difficult to be in the position that Iceland has
been in, that is, not to have access to international financial
markets,” Jonsson said. “With this, they’re trying to
facilitate a return to those markets.”  
 The bank has also drawn 639 million euros ($784 million)
from a credit line provided by the Nordic countries and Poland,
it said yesterday. Those funds will be used to boost reserves,
the bank said, offsetting the impact of the bond buyback.  
 Iceland’s economy will return to growth in 2011, when the
central bank estimates output will expand 3.4 percent. Gross
domestic product contracted a record 6.5 percent last year and
will shrink a further 2.6 percent this year, marking the
island’s longest period of economic decline since records began
in 1944.  
 Editors: Tasneem Brogger, Chris Kirkham.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The logo of the central bank of Iceland is displayed at their headquarters in Reykjavik. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
