-- Microsoft, Google Take Battle for Online Ad Dollars to Cannes
-- Kristen Schweizer
-- 2010-06-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/microsoft-hosts-cannes-beach-club-yahoo-hands-out-freebies-in-ad-rivalry.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp. ,  Yahoo! Inc.  and
 Google Inc.  have taken their battle to become the online
advertiser of choice to the sandy shores of Cannes, wining,
dining and making pitches to the world’s biggest ad agencies.  
 The technology companies are fighting for a chunk of the
$456 billion global ad market, as  Coca-Cola Co. ,  Unilever NV  and
Procter & Gamble Co. increasingly follow their customers online.
The Internet ranks second behind television as the most popular
medium for marketing, and traditional ad agencies are the key to
unlocking access to such ads.  
 “The ad agencies are a great driver of growth for
companies like Google and Microsoft,” said  Alex DeGroote , a
media analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London. “Google
doesn’t do creative work like an agency, but it can tell you
through research if search advertising is the way forward.”  
 At the “Microsoft Advertising Beach Club,” on the French
Mediterranean coast, executives mingled this week over cocktails
and hors d’oeuvres. Yahoo! gave away free flip-flops and flew in
comedian  Ben Stiller  to host a seminar, while Google served up
YouTube smoothies and let attendees of the 57th Cannes Lions
Advertising Festival design T-shirts on a digital board.  
 The world’s largest advertising companies,  WPP Plc ,
 Publicis Groupe SA ,  Omnicom Group Inc. ,  Interpublic Group of
Cos.  and  Havas SA  are working closely with Microsoft, Google and
others for everything from search and display advertising,
measuring results, training staff in digital technology and
evaluating growth in online video ads.  
 ‘Frenemy’  
 Two years ago  Martin Sorrell , chief executive officer of
WPP, the world’s largest advertising company, called Google a
“frenemy,” expressing concern the search engine would go
directly to clients, bypassing agencies. The two sides are now
working together.  
 WPP is now Google’s biggest customer. The group’s agencies 
place ads with Google for a total value of $850 million 
to $900 million a year.  
 “Google can walk into WPP now and we’ve got a lot of value
to offer and we can show demand for their products and
services,” said Damian Burns, Google’s head of global agency
relations. “We’re investing millions in research with
agencies.”  
 Ad agencies and Internet companies together have created
such digital ad campaigns as the  Evian Roller Babies ,  Kylie Minogue  riding a velvet bronco for  Agent Provocateur  and the
 Dove Evolution campaign , which showed the transformation of a
normal woman into a billboard pinup using Photoshop.  
 Revenue Streams  
 “We can think of a great idea that involves search or
online but the ad agencies aren’t good at executing it,” said
Tom Eslinger, worldwide interactive creative officer at  Saatchi
& Saatchi London . “They’ve got lots of brain power that we
don’t have on our side.”  
 One of Saatchi & Saatchi’s most popular viral campaigns was
a channel it built with  YouTube for T-Mobile , Deutsche Telekom
AG’s unit, which showcased videos of hundreds of people dancing
inside London’s Liverpool Street station.  
 Microsoft takes in about $3 billion in revenue from
advertising a year, or a little more than 5 percent of overall
sales, said  Darren Huston , Microsoft’s corporate vice president
for consumer and online. Google, which reported revenue of $5.06
billion in the first quarter this year, gets almost all of its
revenue from advertising.  
 While Google dominates the most profitable search
advertising market, Microsoft and Yahoo last year struck a 10-
year agreement to team up. Yahoo plans to use Microsoft’s  Bing 
search engine on its sites. The companies expect to finish
integrating their Internet-search businesses by the year-end.  
 Suspicions Remain  
 Still, ad agencies remain suspicious of the technology
companies’ plans for the market. Google earlier this month
acquired a startup called Invite Media that helps customers
place ads on websites more effectively.  
 “This puts Google in a strategic position where lots of
agencies are developing and investing in, around bidding and
display,” said  Andrew Frank , a media analyst at Gartner Inc.  
 Google’s purchase leaves lingering concerns about the role
of the technology companies in advertising.  
 “I agree more agencies are looking at partnering with
these companies but I wouldn’t say they’ve welcomed them,”
Frank said. “There are still concerns about the role of these
companies in being providers and media companies themselves.”  
 Still, the two sides are continuing to work together -- at
least for now.  
 Microsoft announced in Cannes an accord with Chevrolet
through Xbox 360 that allows users to simulate driving its new
electronic car, Volt, from their sofas without a controller.
Microsoft and Interpublic are seeking an industry-wide platform
to manage media operations such as ad buying.  
 ‘Doing Right’  
 “We are a technology provider and advertising is driven by
technology,” said Marc Bresseel, Microsoft’s vice president of
global agencies.  
 AOL Inc.  announced a partnership with Interpublic agency,
Mediabrands, on online retail advertising.  
 ZenithOptimedia Group Ltd., the media-buying agency for
Publicis, last week hosted a two-day conference in London with
their online ad partners, which featured Google executives one
day and Microsoft the next day, said  Frederic Joseph , digital
chief at ZenithOptimedia.  
 U.S.-based Omnicom, the world’s second-largest owner of ad
agencies, has a global contract with Google’s Doubleclick ad
server, which delivers and analyzes ad placements, though the
company purchases media from everyone, said  Jonathan Nelson ,
Omnicom’s digital chief.  
 “These are the largest players in the market and you
wouldn’t be doing right by your clients if you’re not working
with either Google or Microsoft. Everybody works with
everybody.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Comedian Ben Stiller. Photographer: Beth Hall/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Attendees walk past the Microsoft Corp. booth during the 2010 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada, on Jan. 8, 2010. Photographer: Keyur Khamar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
