-- IEA Says Developed Economies' Natural Gas Demand Won't Recover Until 2012
-- Ben Farey
-- 2010-06-23T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/iea-says-developed-economies-natural-gas-demand-won-t-recover-until-2012.html

          
          
             Natural-gas demand in the developed
economies, sapped by the global recession, won’t return to 2008
levels for two years, the  International Energy Agency  said.  
 “The most daunting question faced by the gas industry is
the duration of the gas glut,” the IEA said in its Medium-Term
Oil & Gas Markets 2010 report, published today.  
 The adviser to developed world nations in the Organization
of Economic Cooperation and Development said supplies are
unlikely to tighten in the Atlantic Basin and Europe before 2015
even as European gas output is declining.  
 Surplus production capacity last year was estimated at 200
billion cubic meters, according to the report. That’s more than
twice the annual demand in the U.K., Europe’s biggest market for
the fuel. Producers in the former  Soviet Union , Canada, Algeria
and Nigeria curtailed production in 2009, the IEA said.  
 North American and Pacific regional members of the OECD
will have the strongest recovery after world gas demand fell an
“unprecedented” 3 percent last year, the biggest drop since
the 1970s.  
 A more “sluggish” increase in gas use is expected in
Europe, the IEA said. By 2013 European gas demand will be back
at 2007 levels. Still, that’s below the level of demand in the
first half of 2008, according to the agency.  
 “OECD gas demand will recover slowly, with an expected
return to 2008 levels by about 2012 but with large regional
variations,” according to the report.  
 OECD Demand  
 By 2013, OECD gas demand is expected to rise 2 percent
above 2008 levels to 1.6 trillion cubic meters a year, according
to the report. The main driver will be the pace of the economic
recovery after the worst recession since the Great Depression
cut gas demand in OECD regions by an average of 3.3 percent.  
 The growth of gas demand for power generation is also a key
factor after electricity use dropped 4 percent in the OECD
region in 2009, the IEA said. Electricity will be the “primary
driver” for gas demand growth, it said.  
 “The current low gas prices and improved prospects of
global gas supply, plus the very strong business advantages of
gas-fired power, continue to drive strong interest in investment
in gas-fired power plants in the OECD region,” the IEA said.  
 The agency said there are two supply side “revolutions”
as liquefied natural gas supply is forecast to jump 50 percent
in the four years through 2013 and unconventional gas production
rises in North America.  
 U.S. Shale  
 Rising rig counts in the U.S. may “drive production
further up in 2010,” the IEA said.  
 Some shale gas plays are now profitable at $2.50 a million
British thermal units, it said.  
 “There is a strong belief among the U.S. gas industry that
the most economic unconventional gas can reach lower prices than
conventional gas plays, the question is how much unconventional
gas can be produced at these low prices,” the IEA said.  
 Improved productivity at unconventional gas fields, falling
costs and the delivery of gas sold at high futures prices in
early 2008 may exacerbate the oversupply, the IEA said.  
 China’s gas demand is growing at about 10 percent a year
and may reach 150 billion cubic meters a year by 2015, the
report said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top energy, gas stories: ETOP <GO>, TGAS <GO>
IEA news: NI IEA <GO>
Commodity Forward Price Curves CCRV <GO>
Global Energy Statistics: ENST <GO>  
          
          


  


        