-- Insurance Sales Decline for 12th Straight Quarter as Employers Scale Back
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-06-23T16:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/insurance-sales-decline-for-12th-straight-quarter-as-employers-scale-back.html

          
          
             U.S. property and casualty insurance
sales dropped for the 12th straight quarter as employers scaled
back coverage with the  jobless rate  near a quarter-century high.  
 Policy sales fell 1.3 percent to $105.1 billion in the
three months ended March 31, the Property Casualty Insurers
Association of America said today in a  statement . Until the
slump began three years ago, quarterly sales had fallen only
twice since 1987.  
 Manufacturers and builders have cut purchases of workers’
compensation coverage while individuals pinched by the economic
slump have reduced spending, weighing on sales at insurers
including  American International Group Inc. , Travelers Cos. and
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. The jobless rate was
9.7 percent in each of the first three months of this year,
compared with less than 9 percent in the same period in 2009.  
 “The amount of insurance purchased is not coming back very
fast,” said Bruce Friedberg, chief actuary of Fireman’s Fund
Insurance Co., an  Allianz SE  unit, in an interview this month at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “I don’t view workers’
compensation as a very kind place to be right now because of the
combination of anemic payroll growth and rates coming down.”  
 Insurers have cut prices to win business in a declining
market, adding to the pressure on revenue. U.S. commercial
insurance rates fell 5.3 percent in the three months ended March
31 and have declined in every quarter since 2004, according to a
survey by the Council for Insurance Agents and Brokers, a
Washington-based trade group.  
 ‘Too Much Capital’  
 “There is basically too much capital in the markets
because of the recession and the drop in insured values,” said
 Richard Ward , chief executive officer of Lloyd’s of London, in
an interview yesterday. “We have too much capacity and rates
have fallen.”  
 The housing slump has pressured sales to individuals for
residential coverage. Purchases of new homes in the U.S.
fell in May to a record low as a tax credit expired, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  
 The decline in written premiums “reflects the ongoing
consequences of a once-in-a-generation economic storm,” PCI
President  David Sampson  said in the statement. “This challenging
economic environment reduces demand for insurance.”  
 Net income for the industry was $8.86 billion, compared
with a loss of $1.33 billion in the year-earlier period, as
carriers benefited from a rebound in the value of investment
holdings.  Net realized capital gains were $981 million in the
first quarter, compared with a loss of $7.99 billion in the
year-earlier period.  
 Direct insured catastrophe losses were $2.6 billion,
including costs from storms in the U.S. Northeast. That’s about
$700 million less than in the first quarter of 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        