-- Iran Says It Has Triple Amount of Enriched Uranium Found by UN in April
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-23T13:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/iran-says-it-has-triple-amount-of-enriched-uranium-found-by-un-in-april.html

          
          
             Iran said it has 17 kilograms of 20
percent-enriched uranium, more than triple the amount United
Nations nuclear inspectors found there in April and about 10
percent of what scientists say is needed to begin making a bomb.  
 “We can potentially produce 5 kilograms (11 pounds) a
month, but we are not in a rush,” Vice President  Ali Akbar Salehi , who heads Iran’s atomic agency, was  cited  as saying
today by the state-run Iranian Students News Agency. “Iran can
enrich to any percentage it wants as its legitimate right.”  
 A nuclear weapon could be made by enriching 150 to 200
kilograms of 20 percent uranium to a concentration of 80 to 90
percent,  Paul Ingram , executive director of the London-based
British American Security Information Council, said today in a
phone interview. “Enriching to 20 percent is like going about 80
percent of the way towards having military material,” he said.  
 Iran has refused UN Security Council demands to suspend
uranium enrichment, saying the work is necessary for civilian
purposes, such as power generation. The UN Security Council on
June 9 approved a fourth round of sanctions against Iran’s
nuclear development, which the U.S. and its allies say may be
intended for a weapons program.  
 ‘Playing Chicken’  
 “It’s a game of threat from the Security Council and then
a game of response by Iran, and they’re playing chicken with
each other,” Ingram said. “Iran is essentially underlining the
point that if the strategy of the Security Council is to
continue to attempt to impose more sanctions on them and isolate
them, then they will simply respond with their enrichment
program and they know that their enrichment to 20 percent
underlines the nervousness of the Security Council.”  
 By September 2011, Iran will begin operating a plant to
convert its 20 percent uranium into fuel to run a Tehran reactor
that produces medical isotopes, Salehi said. Under a proposed
international deal brokered by Turkey and Brazil on May 17, Iran
had said it would swap some of its 3.5 percent-enriched uranium
for imported fuel to run the reactor.  
 France and Argentina are the only countries with the
technology to make fuel for the type of reactor operating in
Tehran, Ingram said. Iran’s timeline for a plant to produce its
own fuel is “rather optimistic,” and the reactor may run out
before an Iranian-made supply is available, he said.  
 The UN’s  International Atomic Energy Agency  said its
inspectors confirmed during an April 7 visit that Iran had
produced 5.7 kilograms of 20 percent-enriched uranium, according
to a May 31 report.  
 Enriching uranium to 90 percent from 20 percent accounts
for about half the time needed to get the raw heavy metal into
the concentrated form needed for a weapon, Federation of
American Scientists physicist  Ivan Oelrich  said in a May 19
note. Iran is “perfectly capable” of enriching to 90 percent,
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        