-- Italian Government Sells First Euribor Certificates to Attract New Buyers
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-23T10:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/italian-government-sells-first-euribor-certificates-to-attract-new-buyers.html

          
          
             Italy is selling the first bonds
under its Treasury certificates program that are tied to the
euro interbank offered rate as the southern European country
reaches out to new investors to help tame its budget deficit.  
 The notes mature Dec. 15, 2015, and pay a discounted yield
of 82 basis points to 87 basis points more than six-month
Euribor, according to bankers involved in the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms are private. Investors
can either pay cash or swap certain outstanding notes that
reference Italy’s government bill rate.  
 “I would imagine that the new product will be more
attractive to international investors who are the main target
for this than the outgoing issue,” said  Sean Maloney , a fixed-
income strategist at Nomura International Plc in London. “The
six-month Euribor rate is a key element of the EMU money market,
while the previous rate that bills were linked to was less so.”  
 Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government approved 24
billion euros ($30 billion) of budget cuts last month as part of
a European effort to convince investors that euro nations can
trim deficits and defend the single currency. The budget package
was prompted by contagion from Greece’s near default, pushing
the risk premium on Italy’s 10-year bonds to a  euro-era high  of
178 basis points more than German debt on June 8.  
 Shrinking Program  
 Italy’s Certificati di Credto del Tesoro program has 150
billion euros ($184 billion) of notes in the market and makes up
about 10 percent of the country’s bonds outstanding, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The program primarily markets to domestic investors, and
the amount of outstanding certificates has been shrinking in
recent years, including a drop of 16 billion euros this year,
according to  Laurent Fransolet , head of European fixed-income
strategy at Barclays Capital in London.  
 The new notes tied to Euribor may help stop the decline and
relieve some funding pressure on other government financing
programs, he wrote in a June 18 report.  
 Italy’s sale via banks will take place as soon as today. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Euribor  measures the cost of borrowing euros between banks
and climbed to 1.02 percent today, the highest level in nine
months, according to the European Banking Federation. Frankfurt-
based EBF surveys banks and calculates the rate for a range of
maturities.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        