-- Mizuho Financial Says 6 Directors Were Paid More Than $1 Million Last Year
-- Takako Taniguchi
-- 2010-06-23T06:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/mizuho-financial-says-6-directors-were-paid-more-than-1-million-last-year.html

          
          
             Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest bank by assets, said it paid six of its directors,
including former chairman  Terunobu Maeda , more than 100 million
yen ($1.1 million) each last fiscal year.  
 Maeda, who stepped down as chairman yesterday, made 110
million yen including stock options, the bank said in a filing
today with the nation’s finance ministry. Chief Executive
Officer  Takashi Tsukamoto  was paid 114 million yen in the year
ended March 31, the Tokyo-based company said.  
 Compensation for executives at Japanese banks is coming
under scrutiny after the Financial Services Agency mandated that
listed Japanese companies disclose the compensation of board
members who earned 100 million yen or more. They now must give a
breakdown of compensation packages, including stock options,
bonuses and retirement payouts.  
 Among Japan’s listed companies, 1.4 percent of executives
and 8.3 percent of presidents were paid more than 100 million
yen, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in an April report.
Companies have been reporting executive compensation on a
voluntary basis often providing average salaries.  
 Mizuho earlier this month said 13 of its board members
earned a total of 356 million yen. Nomura Holdings Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Kenichi Watanabe  and nine of his executives
received average compensation of 145 million yen last fiscal
year, more than triple the 41.5 million yen a year earlier,
according to a financial report sent to the brokerage’s
shareholders.  
 Shinsei’s Gupta  
 Rahul Gupta , Chief Financial Officer of Tokyo-based Shinsei
Bank Ltd., will probably resign following government criticism
of the company’s compensation policy, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said last week. Former Financial
Services Minister  Shizuka Kamei  last month called annual
compensation in excess of 100 million yen for non-Japanese
executives at Shinsei “exorbitant.”  
 Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  is
the best paid leader of Japanese companies to have so far
declared individual’s compensation, having received 891 million
yen in salary and stock options last fiscal year. He’s
followed by Sony Corp. Chairman  Howard Stringer , who earned
about 810 million yen in salary, bonus and stock options.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        