-- Japan's Bond Yields Fall to Seven-Year Low on Signs Global Growth Slowing
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-24T06:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/japan-s-bond-yields-decline-to-lowest-since-2008-as-global-recovery-slows.html

          
          
             Japanese bonds rose, pushing yields
to a seven-year low, on speculation Europe’s fiscal problems
will spread to the U.S. and boost demand for safer assets.  
 Benchmark bonds advanced for a third day after government
reports showed U.S. new homes sales slumped last month and
Japanese export growth slowed. Ten-year bonds extended a third
week of gains after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  pledged two days
ago to balance the budget within a decade and demand increased
at an auction of two-year notes today.  
 “As nations focus on austerity, I’m not sure the global
economy will be able to withstand the impact, especially with
dimmed outlooks for Europe, the U.S. and Japan,” said  Satoshi Yamada , who helps oversee $10.5 billion as manager of fixed-
income trading at Okasan Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Kan is
showing resolve to work on fiscal rehabilitation, giving
confidence to bond investors at least for now.”  
 The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due June 2020 dropped 2.5
basis points to 1.14 percent as of 3:47 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price rose 0.227 yen to 101.433 yen. The yield is at the
lowest since Aug. 18, 2003.  
 Twenty-year yields slid four basis points to 1.89 percent,
the lowest since March 2009. Ten-year bond futures for September
delivery gained 0.14 to 141.06 at the afternoon close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 ‘Less Supportive’  
 Bonds rallied after the Federal Reserve’s policy statement
yesterday warned European indebtedness may harm U.S. growth.  
 “Financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments
abroad,” the Fed’s Open Market Committee said in a statement
after keeping interest rates at a record low.  
 Purchases of U.S. new homes dropped 33 percent to an annual
pace of 300,000 in May, the Commerce Department said yesterday.
U.S. durable goods orders declined 1.4 percent last month,
according to a Bloomberg survey before today’s report.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange yesterday showed an
11 percent chance U.S. policy makers will increase the Fed funds
target by at least a quarter-percentage point by the December
2010 meeting, down from 36 percent odds a month earlier.  
 “As expectations fade about the Fed’s rate increase this
year, Japan’s yields will be under downward pressure,” said
 Chotaro Morita , head of fixed-income strategy research at
Barclays Capital. “The U.S. economic recovery seems to be
peaking out in terms of speed.”  
 Exports Slow  
 Japan’s  exports  advanced 32.1 percent in May from a year
earlier, down from April’s 40.4 percent, the Finance Ministry
said in Tokyo. From the previous month, exports fell a
seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent.  
 The government said in a fiscal strategy released on June
22 it aimed to balance its books within 10 years, restrict debt
sales and overhaul the tax system. Japan would cap annual
spending at 71 trillion yen ($790 billion) over the next three
years, the government said.  
 Ten-year yields may fall to 1 percent by the end of
September, Okasan’s Yamada said. If his forecast proves accurate,
investors who bought the securities today would make a 1.5
percent return, Bloomberg calculations show.  
 Today’s sale of two-year notes drew bids for 4.31 times the
amount on offer, up from a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 3.68
times at the previous auction in May. The lowest price was
100.09 yen, matching the median estimate of 13 traders in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        