-- Japanese Lenders Plan to Boost Property Loans on Bet Prices Will Recover
-- Kathleen Chu
-- 2010-06-23T05:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/japanese-lenders-plan-to-boost-property-loans-on-bet-prices-will-recover.html

          
          
             Japanese lenders , which suffered a
decade of bad debts and loan losses after the property bubble
burst in 1990, are looking to provide more loans for real estate
investments as they bet prices will recover from a 36-year low.  
 Aozora Bank Ltd.  plans to increase loans to more than a net
of 100 billion yen ($1 billion) from 30 billion yen a year
earlier, said  Fumihiko Hirose , general manager of real estate
financing at the bank.  Orix Corp.  is looking for investors to
take over some $2 billion worth of existing loans this year,
said  Shoji Misawa , managing director of global coverage group.  
 “Bank lending is the most important indicator for the
future of the real estate market,” said  Yoji Otani , an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. “An increase in lending by banks
to real estate is very good news for the property market.”  
 The nation’s lenders are betting on a recovery in the
property market after values reached the lowest in at least 36
years. Outstanding loans by Japanese banks rose to 60.4 trillion
yen in March, from 58.5 trillion yen a year earlier, according
to  Bank of Japan  data.  
 Japan’s commercial land prices fell 6.1 percent in 2009,
the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism said
in a  report  in March. Values are at their lowest since the
ministry began collecting comparable data in 1974.  
 Property prices in Tokyo are likely to hit bottom by the
end of the year, said  Tomoyuki Yoshida , Japan president of GE
Capital Real Estate.  
 “Residential prices have reached bottom and prices for
office buildings are close to bottom,” he said at the Real
Estate Investment World conference in Singapore this week.  
 Aozora, Orix  
 Aozora Bank , the Japanese lender controlled by  Cerberus
Capital Management LP , resumed non-recourse lending in 2009
after taking a break in 2008, said Hirose. Non-recourse loans,
which limit claims to a specific asset or assets, account for
about 40 percent of Aozora’s total lending to real estate.  
 “The bank is very positive about the market so we plan to
increase our exposures to non-recourse loans by more than 100
billion yen,” said Hirose.  
 Orix, a Tokyo-based financial services company, has $6
billion in non-recourse loans with an average maturity of 3
years, said Orix’s  Misawa . The lender is seeking new investors
for its existing transactions, he said.  
 “We have a lot of liquidity,” he said in an interview at
the same conference in Singapore. “We have enough resource to
restructure debt which can be profitable for us.”  
 Japanese banks were saddled with as much as 52.4 trillion
yen of non-performing loans as of 2002 after the burst of  stock
market  and real estate bubbles in 1990, according to data from
Japan’s Financial Services Agency.  
 New lending to real estate by Japanese banks fell to 7.14
trillion yen in 2009, the lowest since 1999, according to the
Bank of Japan.  
 Earnings Recovery  
 Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., Japan’s fifth-largest bank,
expects operating profit from real estate to rise to 19 billion
yen for the year ending March 2011, from 10.6 billion yen a year
earlier, the bank said on its website.  
 Operating profit for  Chuo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. ’s real
estate business will rise to 18 billion yen for the year ending
March 2011, from 9.8 billion yen a year earlier, according to
the bank’s forecast as of May 27.  
 An Asian division of  Societe Generale SA , France’s second-
largest bank by market value, has already seen competition
rising in Japan as it looks to provide loans to investors, said
 David Gore , managing director and head of real estate & lodging
finance at Societe Generale Asia Ltd.  
 “The financing market in fact is quite competitive
today,” said Gore. “We would love to lend more. The main
constraint is the number of credit-worthy transactions.”  
 Societe Generale started to lend in Japan again in 2008
after pulling from the market in 2007, he said at the meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        