-- Jefferies Group Hires Michael Anderson From UBS for Global-Equity Group
-- Laura Keeley
-- 2010-06-23T14:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/jefferies-group-hires-michael-anderson-from-ubs-for-global-equity-group.html

          
          
             Jefferies Group Inc. , the New York-
based securities firm that specializes in mid-sized companies,
named  Michael Anderson  a managing director in its global equity
capital markets group.  
 Anderson will cover financial institutions, the company
said today in a statement. He previously served as managing
director and U.S. head of financial institutions equity capital
markets for  UBS AG , where he managed over $47 billion of book-
run equity offerings, according to the statement.  
 “The addition of such an experienced and respected capital
markets banker in the financial institutions sector as Michael
Anderson is part of our broader strategy to significantly expand
our investment banking presence in the financial institutions
business,”  Benjamin D. Lorello , global head of investment
banking and capital markets at Jefferies, said in the statement.  
 Jefferies has increased its headcount by more the 25
percent since 2008, taking advantage of the collapse of larger
investment banks. Lorello joined the firm from UBS in June 2009
and led the defection of 36 health-care bankers from Zurich-
based UBS to Jefferies. UBS, the largest Swiss bank by assets,
accused Jefferies in a lawsuit of raiding the company. The suit
was later settled.  
 Jefferies yesterday reported record  investment-banking 
revenue and posted a sixth straight quarter of rising profit.
Investment-banking  revenue  more than doubled to $256 million in
the quarter ended May 31 from $120.8 million in the second
quarter of 2009. Its stock has risen 1.9 percent this year
before today after jumping 69 percent in 2009.  
 Anderson has more than 25 years experience covering equity
capital markets and worked for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and
 Bank of America Corp.  before his most recent position at UBS,
Jefferies said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Keeley in New York at 
 lkeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        