-- Kagan Lacks `Mature' View of Law for High Court, Ex-U.S. Judge Bork Says
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-06-23T16:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/kagan-lacks-mature-view-of-law-for-high-court-ex-u-s-judge-bork-says.html

          
          
             Former federal judge  Robert Bork ,
whose failed 1987 nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court ignited a
partisan battle, said  Elena Kagan  isn’t qualified for the high
court because she has activist leanings and lacks a “mature”
view of the law.  
 “Ms. Kagan has not had time to develop a mature philosophy
of judging,” Bork said in a conference call today sponsored by
Americans United for Life, an anti-abortion group opposing her
confirmation. Kagan has the “inflated dreams” of a young
lawyer who believes the Constitution should be used to advance
individual rights, he said.  
 Bork, 83, singled out Kagan’s description of  Aharon Barak ,
the former president of Israel’s Supreme Court, as her
“judicial hero.” That is reason enough to reject her
nomination because Barak is an activist who “may be the worst
judge on the planet,” Bork said.  
 Both sides in the debate over Kagan’s nomination are
turning up the rhetoric as the  Senate Judiciary Committee 
prepares to hold confirmation hearings beginning June 28. A vote
by the full Senate probably will take place in July.  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by President  Barack Obama  on May
10 to replace retiring Justice  John Paul Stevens  on the nine-
member high court. A former dean of  Harvard Law School  who
worked for four years in President  Bill Clinton ’s White House,
Kagan is the U.S.’s first woman solicitor general, serving as
the Obama administration’s top courtroom lawyer.  
 Favored for Confirmation  
 Democrats control 59 of the Senate’s 100 seats, and,
barring an unlikely Republican filibuster, Kagan is favored to
win confirmation. Republicans and conservative groups plan to
use the hearings to question her lack of judicial experience and
portray her as a Democratic activist.  
 Today, the White House countered by releasing a letter from
29 Supreme Court clerks who were at the court at the same time
Kagan was a clerk for Justice  Thurgood Marshall  in 1987-88. They
said she was open-minded and demonstrated a suitable judicial
temperament.  
 “Each of us came to recognize during our clerkship year
that apart from her surpassing legal ability, Elena is
remarkably fair-minded and intellectually honest,” the clerks
wrote.  
 Bork is a proponent of “originalism,” a theory that says
judges should base their rulings on the intent of the framers of
the Constitution. He described Kagan as a product of academia
who would impose her own views.  
 “The danger of Ms. Kagan is that she hasn’t had any
experience that would lead her to mellow,” he said. “The
academic world is not a place in which you learn prudence and
caution and other virtues of a judge.”  
 Bork was solicitor general from 1973 to 1977 and a federal
appeals court judge in Washington from 1982 to 1988. Nominated
to the high court by President  Ronald Reagan  to succeed  Lewis Powell , he was defeated in the Senate after Democrats and
liberal groups accused him of threatening the rights and privacy
of Americans.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        