-- Kenmare, Merely OK, No Match for Sibling Little Owl: Food Buzz
-- Ryan Sutton
-- 2010-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/kenmare-merely-ok-no-match-for-sibling-little-owl-food-buzz.html

          
          
             An unusual thing happened after my
first few meals at Kenmare, a self-propelling hot spot in
Manhattan’s Nolita district: I had a hard time recalling what
I’d eaten there. Alcohol wasn’t the culprit. It was a case of
gustatory ennui.  
 To jog my memory, I visited Kenmare’s  website . No dice;
it’s way too cool for relevant information.  
 Luckily, I took notes, so I can report that the halibut was
neither overcooked nor undercooked. It was fine.  
 Then there was “The Chicken,” the definite article
pompously part of its title on the menu. The breast was whole.
The leg shredded and smoked. It too was fine, albeit
underseasoned and equally unremarkable on a later visit.  
 I had the “TLO meatball sliders,” whose name includes a
silly insider-ism for The Little Owl, the tiny West Village
boite where the dish had its debut and whose chef, Joey
Campanaro, also runs the kitchen here.  
 How did the sliders taste? Like sauced meat on a bun, like
any other leftover. I quickly forgot about them.  
 Of course, the place is hard to get into. Make a
reservation two weeks ahead unless you plan to eat very early or
very late.  
 Kenmare’s otherwise savvy brain trust -- Paul Sevigny of
the erstwhile Beatrice Inn, Nur Khan of Rose Bar -- have given
New York a fair, forgettable restaurant, another mess hall-cum-
social club (see also: Waverly Inn, Monkey Bar, The Lion).  
 Haughty Hosts  
 Hosts, who don’t deign to welcome you or send you off with
a “Come back soon,” are otherwise friendly once you crack
their defensive gazes. Walk past the human statues and sit at
one of seven tables for walk-ins; they’re in a lounge area where
there actually seems to be more room behind the bar than in
front of it.  
 Campanaro tips his hat to the volatile weather with a
satisfying summer-meets-winter combo: Basil gnocchi and short-
rib ragu. But the pasta’s too gummy to sop up the beefy
goodness. Then there’s tangy and wonderfully salty broccoli,
beer and cheddar soup, which may not fit the season, but who
cares?  
 Sardines were perfectly overcooked. Veal cutlet wasn’t as
thin or wan as other versions around town; neither was it
memorable. Same for strip steak, which arrived medium rare as
ordered, with an average beefy taste.  
 Smoked Lamb  
 There were two shellfish standouts: chunks of lobster in a
plate of toothsome spaghetti with tomato sauce, and risotto with
shrimp and cherry tomatoes that jangle the palate with jolts of
sweetness.  
 Curry, garlic and rosemary coax the gentle gaminess of a
lamb T-bone -- another  Little Owl  reprise -- into sweet
succulence. The pleasure is mitigated by the cigarette smoke if
you’re sitting by the open-air doors, beyond which patrons
regularly pop out for a puff. Maximum second-hand exposure is
guaranteed. Marble tables amplify noise; the lighting is dim.  
 Is this where Campanaro wants diners to have their first
exposure to his signature lamb? A few visits to Little Owl
suggest that Kenmare is diluting the chef’s brand.  
 The halibut, a sleeper at Kenmare, is cosseted by lobster
ravioli at the Owl, balanced by a tart, fragrant lobster
bullion. The fish flakes like a perfectly cooked potato; it
would even fool vegetarians.  
 The Owl feels more welcoming then Kenmare even though it’s
smaller and harder to get into. In deference to West Village
denizens, hosts stop answering the phones after 5:00 p.m. If you
don’t have a reservation, be prepared to wait as long as 90
minutes.  
 The View  
 For some, it may be worth it, because you sit not at a
packed bar, but on a padded shelf that overlooks the tiny
restaurant. It’s stunning. And so is this: soft squid, the
neutral counterpoint to a broth of tomatoes with salty lardo
croutons.  
 “The Pork Chop,” a briny, 2-inch-thick hit of fennel-
spiked ecstasy is a steak disguised as swine. Kenmare’s “The
Chicken” is no competition.  
 The corner-store ambience and ambitious American fare is
what sent New Yorkers into a fever about the Owl when it opened
in 2006; the city was done with mega-eateries like Buddakan and
Buddha Bar. The Owl, with its meatball sliders on the cover of
Bon Appetit magazine, became a paradox, a destination
neighborhood joint, a 32-seat spot with a national following.  
 What’s sad is that the sheer size of Kenmare will ensure
more diners will try the sliders there, which would be a
mistake, because the Owl’s neighborly charm is the secret
ingredient unavailable at its sibling spot. Sublimely balanced
tomato sauce, fluffy breadcrumb-studded meat and buttery buns
just taste better in this Sunday-dinner setting.  
 Ratings: Kenmare: * Little Owl: **  
 The Bloomberg Questions  
 Cost? Most dishes under $30 at both venues.  
 Sound Level? Loud, 80-85 decibels at both.  
 Date place? The Owl, yes. Kenmare, no.  
 Inside tip: Both kitchens might split dishes without your
permission to forcibly encourage sharing. It’s annoying.  
 Special feature? Kenmare’s soft banana beignets.  
 Will I be back? To the Little Owl; Kenmare probably not.  
 Kenmare is at 98 Kenmare St. Information: +1-212-274-9898;
 http://www.kenmarenyc.com/ . The Little Owl is at 90 Bedford
Street at Grove Street. Information: +1-212-741-4695;
 http://www.thelittleowlnyc.com/ .  

 

What the Stars Mean:

****         Incomparable food, service, ambience.
***          First-class of its kind.
**           Good, reliable.
*            Fair.
No stars     Poor.
 
 
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  
 51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  
 ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of Kenmare restaurant in New York. The restaurant is located at 98 Kenmare Street in Manhattan. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The bar area at Kenmare restaurant in New York. The restaurant is located at 98 Kenmare Street in Manhattan. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The dining room at Kenmare restaurant in New York. The restaurant is located at 98 Kenmare Street in Manhattan. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The dining room is shown at Kenmare restaurant in New York. The restaurant is located at 98 Kenmare Street in Manhattan. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Joey Campanaro's The Little Owl, a Mediterranean-flavored venue in the West Village. Photographer: Chris Goodney/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
