-- Kenya Cuts Sugar Production Forecast by 3.5% After Rains Curbed Deliveries
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-23T09:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/kenya-cuts-sugar-production-forecast-by-3-5-after-rains-curbed-deliveries.html

          
          
             Kenya , East Africa’s biggest sugar
producer, cut its forecast for this year’s crop by 3.5 percent
after heavy rains hampered harvesting and curbed deliveries.  
 The estimate was reduced to 550,000 metric tons from a
previous projection of 569,830 tons, Rosemary Mkok, chief
executive officer of the Kenya Sugar Board, said in an interview
in the capital, Nairobi, yesterday. The latest forecast is still
ahead of last year’s record production of 548,207 tons.  
 “The first quarter we weren’t performing well because there
was so much rain and the roads were bad and farmers couldn’t get
their heavy equipment through the fields,” Mkok said.  
 Heavy downpours during the March-to-May rainy season ended
an almost two-year drought in Kenya that had depleted hydropower
reserves and cut agricultural production.  
 Last year, sugar output rose 5.7 percent after Kibos Sugar
Co. built a new processing factory and West Kenya Sugar Co.
expanded its operations, said Mkok. The companies operate in
western Kenya along with rivals  Mumias Sugar Co.  and Soin Sugar
Co. The four Kenyan-owned companies account for 60 percent of
total production in the East African country.  
 Kenya’s government is expected to complete by December the
sale of stakes in five sugar refineries, Mkok said.  
 “The government wants to divest part of its shareholding to
get the capital to modernize and expand capacity,” Mkok said.  
 Kenya plans to sell majority stakes in the refineries to
private investors and 30 percent to growers, former Agriculture
Minister  William Ruto  said in January. The remainder will be
sold in initial public offerings once the profitability of each
refinery has improved, he said.  
 Kenya intends to raise sugar production to as much as
750,000 tons a year to meet demand in East Africa’s biggest
economy, Mkok said, without providing further details.  
 About 250,000 Kenyans farm sugar, more than 80 percent of
them on plots of less than a hectare (2.47 acres), in the Nyanza
and Western provinces and parts of the Rift Valley, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        