-- Australian Dollar Advances Against Kiwi as Gillard May Alter Mining Taxes
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-06-24T07:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/kiwi-dollar-trades-near-two-week-high-against-aussie-as-economy-expands.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar gained versus
New Zealand’s currency as Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  resigned
after a leadership challenge from his deputy, sparking
speculation the government will change a proposed mining tax.  
 New Zealand’s dollar also weakened after the nation’s
economic expansion in the first quarter met analysts’
expectations and on speculation its more than 1 percent gain
yesterday had been too rapid. Both currencies yesterday climbed
versus the greenback after the Federal Reserve indicated it will
keep interest rates at a record low for longer as Europe’s debt
crisis threatens growth.  
 “The good chance of a watering down of the mining tax is
giving the Australian dollar a boost,” said  John Kyriakopoulos ,
head of currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “Commodity prices and risk appetite will need to
recover for the Australian dollar to resume an upward trend.”  
 Australia’s currency rose 0.5 percent to NZ$1.2306 as of
5:24 p.m. in Sydney. It traded at 87.09 U.S. cents from 87.39
cents in New York yesterday and fell 0.4 percent to 78.17 yen.  
 New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.8 percent to 70.76 U.S.
cents from 71.36 cents yesterday, when it touched 71.60, the
strongest since May 13.  
 Rudd’s popularity plunged after criticism from mining
companies including Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd. and
London-based Rio Tinto Group over plans to impose a 40 percent
levy on mining profits from 2012.  Julia Gillard , who took over
from Rudd, said today she was “throwing open the government’s
door” to negotiate with the mining industry.  
 Shares Advance  
 “The Australian dollar, resources, and Australian equities
will be the likely beneficiaries and should find immediate and
longer-term support from today’s change of prime minister,”  Su- Lin Ong , senior economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney,
wrote in a note to clients. “The resolution of political
uncertainty also bodes well for the Australian dollar.”  
 New Zealand’s gross domestic product increased 0.6 percent
in the first quarter, Statistics New Zealand said today,
matching the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  
 “New Zealand is on the road to a very gradual recovery,”
said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Wellington with
Westpac Banking Corp. “Because the kiwi has had such a good
surge in the past 24 hours, it may struggle to reach higher.”  
 The currency was yesterday’s biggest gainer against the
dollar, advancing 1.4 percent. Benchmark interest rates are 4.5
percent in  Australia  and 2.75 percent in New Zealand, compared
with 0.1 percent in  Japan  and as low as zero in the U.S.,
attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’ higher-
yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency market
moves will erase profits.  
 The yield on Australia’s 10-year note fell two basis points
to 5.31 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, was at 4.27 percent from 4.28 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Ian Stannard, a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the impact of "accomodative" monetary policy on currency markets.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
