-- Korean Won Drops on Concern Stock Inflows, Yuan Appreciation Will Falter
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-23T07:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/korean-won-drops-on-concern-stock-inflows-yuan-appreciation-will-falter.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won fell for a second
day on speculation inflows into the nation’s stocks and gains in
the Chinese yuan will be limited because of a faltering global
economic recovery.  
 The currency has retreated from a one-month high set on
June 21 as foreigners cut their  holdings  of Korean shares. A
report yesterday showed U.S. housing sales unexpectedly fell in
May, highlighting the fragility of a recovery in the world’s
largest economy. The won pared earlier losses as the yuan held
this week’s gains against the dollar, after falling the most
since December 2008 yesterday.  
 The won weakened 0.5 percent to close at 1,187.50 per
dollar in Seoul, having earlier dropped as much as 1.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,169.25 two
days ago, the strongest level since May 20. The yuan gained 0.08
percent to 6.8083, giving a 0.26 percent gain for the week.  
 “Trading has been simplified. It’s trading according to
the yuan,” said  Ha Jun Woo , a currency dealer at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “Still the currency cut losses after we saw dollar-
selling offshore.”  
 The won is also seeing a correction after China’s
announcement that it will allow greater currency “flexibility”
boosted the won, said  Koh Yun Jin , a currency dealer for Kookmin
Bank in Seoul.  
 Korean authorities will intervene in the currency market if
volatility is excessive, Koh predicted. The central bank may
have been intervening near 1,180 per dollar today, according to
Daegu Bank’s Ha.  
 Chart Analysis  
 The won may climb 3.8 percent to 1,144.15 by the end of
next week, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. said,
citing chart analysis. The trend “should remain bullish so long
as it trades stronger than the 1,200 level,” said   Minoru Shioiri , chief manager of foreign-exchange trading in Tokyo.  
 U.S.  sales  of existing homes fell 2.2 percent in May,
according to figures released from the National Association of
Realtors in Washington yesterday. Economists expected a 6
percent increase, a Bloomberg survey showed.  
 South Korea’s central bank today said it will bar banks
from providing foreign-currency loans for domestic use from July
1, boosting efforts to curb volatility in capital flows and the
won. Rules unveiled June 13 will cap foreign lenders’ positions
in foreign-exchange forwards, options and swaps to 250 percent
of equity capital, a limit that must be met within two years.  
 The government’s benchmark three-year bonds fell for a
third day. The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013
climbed to 3.93 percent, the highest level for a benchmark
three-year note since March, according to Korea Stock Exchange.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        