-- Namibia's Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged at 7%
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-23T11:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/namibia-s-central-bank-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-7-.html

          
          
             Namibia’s  central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a sixth consecutive
meeting as rising energy costs offset lower food prices.  
 The repurchase rate was kept at 7 percent,  Bank of Namibia 
Governor  Ipumbu Shiimi  told reporters today in the capital,
Windhoek.  
 The state-owned power utility plans to raise electricity
prices by 18 percent this year, threatening to boost inflation
in Namibia, the world’s biggest miner of offshore diamonds, from
4.7 percent in May. Lower food costs are keeping inflation in
check for the moment. The central bank had cut its key rate four
times in 2009 to spur economic growth.  
 “No imminent inflationary pressures are anticipated on
account of lower food prices,” Shiimi said.  
 Economic growth in the southern African nation is
rebounding from a  last year. The central bank maintained its
forecast that the economy will expand 4.2 percent this year,
compared with a contraction of 0.8 percent in 2009.  
 “This expansion in the domestic economy will largely be
driven by the expected strengthening in commodity prices and
improved global demand,” Shiimi said. Private sector credit
growth accelerated to 9.2 percent in April from 7.3 in March, he
said.  
 Namibia’s currency is pegged to the South African rand and
the central bank generally follows monetary policy set by its
neighbor, Africa’s biggest economy. The South African Reserve
Bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 6.5 percent
on May 13, after reducing it seven times since December 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chamwe Kaira  in Windhoek via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        