-- New Zealand Economy Expanded 0.6% in First Quarter From Prior Three Months
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-23T23:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/new-zealand-s-economy-expands-0-6-in-fourth-straight-quarter-of-growth.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s economy expanded for a
fourth straight quarter as exports strengthened, giving the
central bank scope to raise interest rates for a second
consecutive month.  
 Gross domestic product  increased 0.6 percent from the
previous three months, Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington
today. That matched the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News
survey  of 14 economists and followed a revised 0.9 percent gain
in the fourth quarter.  
 The economy is in its second year of recovery from the
worst recession in three decades, prompting central bank
Governor  Alan Bollard  to raise interest rates this month for the
first time in three years. Growth could accelerate as China’s
move to allow a stronger yuan may stoke its demand for foreign
goods, including New Zealand’s timber logs and milk.  
 “The recovery has been distinctly export led thanks to
sky-rocketing commodity prices,”  Brendan O’Donovan , chief
economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Wellington, said ahead of
the report. “Confidence has remained high enough for businesses
to begin hiring. However, households are choosing to repair
balance sheets rather than spend.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar bought 71.29 U.S. cents at 10.49 a.m.
in Wellington from 71.31 cents before the  report  was released.  
 Rate Increase  
 Bollard on June 10 raised the  official cash rate  a quarter-
point to 2.75 percent after keeping it at a record low for 14
months, and said he expects to gradually remove monetary
stimulus. There is an 80 percent chance of a quarter-point rise
at the July 29 review, according to a Credit Suisse  index  based
on swaps trading.  
 The rate will rise to 3.75 percent by December, according
to the median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News this month.  
 The economy  grew 1.9 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, matching economists’ median forecast.  
 Bollard said after the June 10 rate decision that growth is
becoming more broad-based, buoyed by exports, a stronger labor
market and higher investment. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand
forecasts the 2010 expansion will be the strongest in five years.  
 The government expects annual average growth will exceed 3
percent for the next three years. Prime Minister  John Key ’s
government on May 20 announced income tax cuts and more spending
on roads and railways to encourage investment and boost demand.  
 Chinese Demand  
 Exports increased 1.4 percent in the quarter, led by logs
and machinery, today’s report showed. Exports of services fell
as visiting tourists spent less.  
 China’s demand for logs increased after Russia introduced a
tax on its exports, the  Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry  said
in a June 15 report. Log exports are likely to rise 22 percent
in the year ending June 30, the ministry forecast.  
 Stronger overseas shipments were hindered by a drought in
regions of the North Island that affected milk production.  
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s largest dairy
company, said April 15 that many of its farmer suppliers had
stopped milking earlier than expected, which will curb
production. Dairy export volumes fell in the first quarter,
according to government figures published June 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        