-- New York City Area Braces for Temperatures in Low 90s Leading Into Weekend
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-23T14:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/new-york-city-area-braces-for-temperatures-in-low-90s-leading-into-weekend.html

          
          
             Temperatures are likely to reach the
90s today in New York City and along much of the U.S. East Coast
as a blast of wilting heat settles on the region at least until
the weekend.  
 Central Park’s forecast is for 92 Fahrenheit today (33
Celsius) and 93 tomorrow, according to the  National Weather
Service  in Upton, New York. Officially, the city hasn’t had a
heat wave yet because that requires a temperature of at least 90
for three days in a row, said Matt Scalora, an agency
meteorologist.  
 “We could potentially have one through Friday,” Scalora
said.  
 Yesterday’s high was 87. The normal temperature is 81. New
York’s weekend temperatures are expected to be in the mid- to
upper-80s.  
 An excessive heat warning has been issued for Philadelphia,
Trenton and parts of Delaware, and all of New Jersey is covered
by an air quality alert that stretches through Baltimore and
Washington into Virginia, weather service maps show.  
 The heat is expected to break across the Great Lakes region
and the U.S. Northeast by next week, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior
energy meteorologist at commercial forecaster Planalytics Inc.
in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  
 Cold Front Approaching  
 “There is going to be a vigorous cold front that will drop
out of Canada,” Rouiller said by telephone. “It may be a
three-day or four-day shot of cool air. The air conditioning
demand will drop much lower as we go into next week.”  
 Natural gas for July delivery rose 6.5 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $4.821 per million British thermal units at 9:11
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gas futures have
gained 13 percent this year.  
 Rouiller said hot weather is likely to remain through much
of the southern U.S. while the Northeast cools.  
 “This has been some pretty intense heat we have been
dealing with lately,” Rouiller said.  
 An air quality alert is issued when high concentrations of
ground-level ozone and fine airborne particles are expected to
cause breathing difficulties, according to the weather service.  
 Hot weather extends across the eastern two-thirds of the
country, the weather service said. Excessive heat warnings and
heat advisories also have been issued from Kansas and Oklahoma
to Kentucky and for North and South Carolina.  
 Yesterday’s high in Houston was 98 degrees, with a cooling
degree days value of 22, or 5 above normal. In New York, the
value was 14, 6 above normal; in Philadelphia it was 17, 8
above; and in Baltimore it was 17, or 8 above normal, according
to the weather service.  
 Cooling degree days, calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        