-- New York State Government Is `Dysfunctional,' 83% of Voters Tell Pollster
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-06-23T22:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/new-york-state-government-is-dysfunctional-83-of-voters-tell-pollster.html

          
          
             New York ’s government is
dysfunctional in the view of four out of five state voters, a
 Quinnipiac University  poll shows, the highest measure of public
dissatisfaction in the survey’s 20-year history.  
 The poll, conducted as the state closes in on three months
without a budget, found that 76 percent of voters disapprove of
the Legislature, the highest level ever recorded. Governor  David Paterson  and the lawmakers haven’t agreed on how to close a $9.2
billion deficit for the fiscal year that began April 1,
requiring a succession of emergency bills to prevent a shutdown.  
 Fifty-one percent of respondents said their state senator
should be voted out of office in November, while 36 percent said
their senator deserves re-election. The poll said half of
respondents also want to oust their Assembly member, compared
with 34 percent who favor re-election. Ninety-five percent said
the late budget is a very or somewhat serious problem.  
 “The resentment is bigger than we’ve ever measured,” said
 Maurice Carroll , the director of the Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute in Hamden, Connecticut. “By now, the
adjective ‘dysfunctional’ seems to apply automatically to the
Legislature,” he said in a statement.  
 Eighty-three percent said they agreed with the description
of the state government as “dysfunctional,” up from 76 percent
in December and 71 percent in April 2009, the poll said.  
 ‘Glaring’ Problem  
 Asked if they were satisfied with the state’s direction, 47
percent said they were “very dissatisfied” and 33 percent were
“somewhat dissatisfied,” compared with 1 percent who said they
were “very satisfied,” and 18 percent who described themselves
as “somewhat satisfied.”  
 “The problem is so glaring, I wonder what the 17 percent
who said state government isn’t dysfunctional were thinking?”
said  Douglas Muzzio , a professor of urban politics at Baruch
College, a division of City University of New York. “Incumbents
should be worried, but you can’t beat somebody with nobody and
if challengers don’t have enough resources things won’t
change.”  
 Mark Hansen , a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Dean Skelos , blamed the Democrats, who hold a 32-30 majority in the
chamber.  
 “Voters have become more and more angry with them for
higher taxes, more spending, late budgets and more
dysfunction,” he said in an e-mail.  
 ‘Pass-the-Buck’  
 Senate Majority Leader  John Sampson , a Brooklyn Democrat,
said the voters were “right to be frustrated by pass-the-buck
politicians who failed them for far too long.” The Democrats
have made “smart cuts and tough choices to give New York a
budget it can afford and a government as good as its people,”
he said in a statement.  
 The governor’s office declined to comment. Assembly Speaker
 Sheldon Silver ’s spokesman didn’t return a telephone call or e-
mail.  
 The poll’s highest measure of satisfaction, 73 percent
either very or somewhat satisfied, came in February 1998.
Today’s poll reported the lowest level of public approval in the
institute’s 22-year history, Carroll said.  
 Twenty-seven percent put most of the blame on Democratic
lawmakers. About 24 percent held Paterson, a Democrat,
responsible and 19 percent most faulted the Republicans. Among
independent voters, 27 percent blamed the Democrats, 20 percent
Paterson and 17 percent the Republicans, the poll said.  
 When asked if all candidates should sign a pledge to create
an independent non-partisan group to redraw legislative district
boundaries, 59 percent agreed while 21 percent disagreed, with
no significant difference of opinion among Democrats,
Republicans or independents. Current district lines were drawn
by the Legislature.  
 Pollsters interviewed 1,592 registered voters by telephone
from June 15 to 20, and the results have a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.5 percentage points, the institute said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        