-- New Zealand Economy Expanded 0.6% in First Quarter From Prior Three Months
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-24T00:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/new-zealand-economy-expanded-0-6-in-first-quarter-from-prior-three-months.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s economy expanded for a
fourth straight quarter as exports strengthened, adding to the
case for the central bank to raise interest rates further.  
 Gross domestic product  increased 0.6 percent from the
previous three months, Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington
today. That matched the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News
survey  of 14 economists and followed a revised 0.9 percent gain
in the fourth quarter.  
 The economy is in its second year of recovery from its
worst recession in three decades, prompting central bank
Governor  Alan Bollard  to increase rates this month for the first
time in three years. Growth is poised to accelerate as China’s
move to allow a stronger yuan may stoke its demand for foreign
goods, including New Zealand’s timber logs and milk.  
 “It confirms the economy continues to recover, but we are
certainly not setting the world on fire,” said  Khoon Goh ,
senior economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “It
doesn’t really change the Reserve Bank’s view of the world. The
bank will have confidence in their policy outlook in terms of
continuing to remove stimulus.”  
 The New Zealand dollar was little changed after the release,
trading at 71.33 U.S. cents at 12:10 p.m. in Wellington from
71.31 cents before the  report ’s publication.  
 Rate Increase  
 Bollard on June 10 raised the  official cash rate  a quarter-
point to 2.75 percent after keeping it at a record low for 14
months, and said he expected to gradually remove monetary
stimulus. There is an 80 percent chance of a quarter-point rise
at the July 29 review, according to a Credit Suisse  index  based
on swaps trading.  
 The rate will rise to 3.75 percent by December, according
to the median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News this month.  
 The economy  grew 1.9 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, matching economists’ median forecast.  
 Bollard said after the June 10 rate decision that growth is
becoming more broad-based, buoyed by exports, a stronger labor
market and higher investment. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand
forecasts the 2010 expansion will be the strongest in five years.  
 The government expects annual average growth will exceed 3
percent for the next three years. Prime Minister  John Key ’s
government on May 20 announced income tax cuts and more spending
on roads and railways to encourage investment and boost demand.  
 “The continuing recovery is good news,” Finance Minister
 Bill English  said in an e-mailed statement today. “The economy
still faces serious challenges. We need to continue tilting the
economy toward savings, exports and productive industries.”  
 Chinese Demand  
 Exports increased 1.4 percent in the quarter, led by logs
and machinery, today’s report showed. Exports of services fell
as visiting tourists spent less.  
 China’s demand for logs increased after Russia introduced a
tax on its exports, the  Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry  said
in a June 15 report. Log exports are likely to rise 22 percent
in the year ending June 30, the ministry forecast.  
 Stronger overseas shipments were hindered by a drought in
regions of the North Island that affected milk production.  
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s largest dairy
company, said April 15 that many of its farmer suppliers had
stopped milking earlier than expected, which will curb
production. Dairy export volumes fell in the first quarter,
according to government figures published June 10.  
 Household Spending  
 Household spending, which makes up 60 percent of the
economy, rose 0.2 percent from the fourth quarter when it
increased 0.8 percent, today’s report showed. Sales of used cars,
home appliances and other so-called durable goods rose 2 percent.
Sales of food and non-durable items declined and spending on
services also fell.  
 Total investment rose 0.8 percent in the quarter, led by
increased oil and gas exploration and construction of bridges,
roads and residential buildings. Commercial construction
declined. Business investment in plant and equipment fell 0.3
percent.  
 Manufacturing rose 1.6 percent, led by output of machinery
and metal products. Production by food manufacturers fell.  
 Output from primary industries gained 1.7 percent in the
quarter, led by demand for logs and the move to full production
from the Kupe oil field, the statistics agency said. Farm output
increased 0.8 percent led by milk production.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard speaks during a news conference at the central bank, in Wellington. Photographer: Mark Coote/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
