-- Nigerian Senate Approves Creation of State Company to Buy Banks' Bad Debts
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-06-23T17:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/nigerian-senate-approves-creation-of-state-company-to-buy-banks-bad-debts.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s Senate approved a law to
set up a state-owned company that will buy bad debts from banks
in Africa’s most populous nation.  
 The legislation creating the Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria, or Amcon, is awaiting approval by President  Goodluck Jonathan , the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  said today in
an e-mailed statement.  
 “This will pave the way for the formal establishment of
the corporation, which is the principal vehicle for
recapitalizing distressed banks,” the bank said.  
 A debt crisis in 2009 left the country’s lenders with toxic
assets of about $10 billion, New York-based Eurasia Group
estimated a year ago. The central bank fired the top managers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders and gave the industry an
injection of 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) to stem the
decline.  
 The bad debts are now more than 1 trillion naira, central
bank spokesman Mohammed Abdullahi said on June 4. Much of it was
used to speculate in shares whose value then plummeted. The
 Nigerian Stock Exchange ’s All Share Index plunged 34 percent in
2009 and 46 percent in 2008. The  measure  has so far gained 23
percent this year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Buying the bad debts will “make a difference to the level
of non-performing loans, freeing up bank balance sheets so they
can extend credit again,” according to  Razia Khan , London-based
Africa analyst with Standard Chartered Plc.  
 Amcon will also inject funding into the banks through new
investors and promote mergers and acquisitions among rivals, the
central bank said. “The boards of directors of the banks have
led and reached an advanced state of discussion with interested
parties,” the bank said, without identifying the potential
investors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        