-- Norway's Krone Falls to Two-Week Low Against Euro as Rates Left on Hold
-- Bo Nielsen
-- 2010-06-23T14:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/norway-s-krone-falls-to-two-week-low-against-euro-as-rates-left-on-hold.html

          
          
             Norway’s krone fell to its weakest
level against the euro in two weeks after the central bank
maintained the benchmark deposit  rate  and said it would increase
it at a slower pace than suggested in a March estimate.  
 The krone also fell against the dollar after the Oslo-based
central bank kept the benchmark rate at 2 percent, in line with
all 16 economists in a  survey  by Bloomberg News. The bank said
weaker prospects for Europe and the Norwegian economy suggest
that the key policy rate should be raised later than projected,
according to the bank Executive Board’s monetary policy
statement posted on its website today.  
 “The statement was very dovish, but the market was also
pricing a very dovish statement,” said  Carl Hammer , a currency
strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm.  
 The krone was at 7.9557 per euro as of 4 p.m. in Oslo from
7.9394 late yesterday in New York. That’s the weakest level
since June 8. It was at 6.5153 per dollar from 6.4691. The
currency will trade between 7.95 per euro and 8 per euro in the
next month, Hammer said.  
 “The balance of risks and recent developments suggest that
the key policy rate should be raised somewhat later than
envisaged in March,” the Oslo-based central bank said. “The
risk of a prolonged period of turbulence in financial markets,
resulting in a weakened outlook for inflation, output and
employment in the Norwegian economy, suggests that the increase
in the key policy rate should be postponed.”  
 The bank lowered expectations for future rates for a second
time in three months. The benchmark rate will average 1.75
percent in 2010, it said, compared with a 2 percent average
estimate in its last monetary policy report on March 24. Rates
in 2011 will average 2.5 percent, down from the 2.75 percent
March estimate.  
 “The new rate path is based on the assumption that
financial markets normalize,” said  Arne Lohmann Rasmussen ,
chief currency analyst in Copenhagen at Danske Bank A/S,
forecasting the krone will depreciate to 8 per euro.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        