-- Norway Offers 12 Deepwater Oil, Gas Blocks, Is Studying BP Gulf Disaster
-- Vibeke Laroi
-- 2010-06-23T10:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/norway-offers-12-deepwater-oil-gas-blocks-is-studying-bp-gulf-disaster.html

          
          
             Norway offered 12 deepwater blocks
for offshore oil and gas drilling to stem a drop in production,
even as BP Plc seeks to halt the worst oil spill in U.S. history
at a similar depth in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Norway, the world’s sixth-biggest oil exporter, today
announced 12 new areas for drilling at a depth of more than
1,500 meters (4,900 feet), the same as BP’s leaking well at
about 5,000 feet, as part of the nation’s 21st licensing round.  
 “We’re holding off on blocks that are closest to land so
as to assess the risk,” Oil and Energy Minister  Terje Riis- Johansen  said today at press conference in Oslo. “But there
hasn’t been any natural reason to stop new projects so far,” he
said, adding that the nation’s regulator is “continuously
assessing what’s happening on deep water.”  
 Norway is opening more areas for exploration as its oil
output has dropped about 36 percent since peaking in 2000 amid
dwindling deposits at aging North Sea fields. The country has
said it will not allow new deepwater drilling as it analyzes the
April explosion of BP-leased rig in the Gulf of Mexico. BP has
so far failed to plug the leak, in part because of the
difficulties involved in operating at great depths.  
 In the U.S., a New Orleans federal judge yesterday lifted
a six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling imposed by
President Barack Obama. The U.S. administration in May
temporarily halted drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet.  
 Extensive Area  
 In total, Norway today offered 94 blocks for exploration in
its licensing round in new areas, including 51 in the Barents
Sea and 43 in the Norwegian Sea. The deadline for applying for
the licenses is Nov. 3.  
 “We’re satisfied with the fact that there wasn’t a panic
reaction to the blow-out in the Gulf of Mexico and that the
authorities see the importance of maintaining a high level of
exploration activity to prevent a dramatic drop in future oil
production,” Erik Haugane, chief executive officer at  Det
Norske Oljeselskap ASA , said today by telephone.  
 The country in March proposed 100 blocks for the round
after getting nominations for 307 from 43 companies. Norway
awarded 79 blocks in its 20th licensing round last year.  
 Norway removed four blocks from the Nordland V area, which
is closest to land in the Norwegian Sea.  
 “We’ve taken out the blocks that are closest to land and
the most vulnerable areas, in a better-safe-than-sorry way of
thinking given what happened in the Gulf of Mexico,” Riis-
Johanson said. “We wish to proceed with the work of assessing
various spill scenarios and gathering facts.”  
 Norway’s oil output peaked in 2000 and is forecast to drop
6 percent this year to about 1.87 million barrels a day,
according to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate. Norway is also
the world’s second-largest gas exporter.  
 “It’s very positive that the authorities kept to the
schedule with regards to offering the blocks and for the
remainder of the process and we’re satisfied that they’ve
offered such an extensive area,” said Gisle Johanson, a
spokesman at  Statoil  ASA, Norway’s largest oil producer. “But
what’s important for the industry and for Statoil is that the
schedule for the award of the licenses is respected.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vibeke Laroi  in Oslot ;
 Marianne Stigset  at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        