-- Obama's Proposal for Consumer Bureau Nears Final Approval in U.S. Congress
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-23T01:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/obama-s-proposal-for-consumer-bureau-nears-final-approval-in-u-s-congress.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to
create an agency to protect consumers in their financial-
services transactions neared final approval in Congress after
negotiators agreed to establish it as a division of the Federal
Reserve.  
 The consumer bureau, which would have the authority to
write and enforce rules policing banks and other financial
companies for lending abuses, was the centerpiece of Obama’s
plan to reform Wall Street regulations in response to the 2008
financial crisis. It was approved today by House and Senate
negotiators who are in their third week of shaping the final
bill to send to Obama for his signature.  
 “This was a very good day for consumer protections,”
Senator  Christopher Dodd , who is leading talks on behalf of the
Senate, told reporters after negotiators completed their
meeting. “This bill has what many have hoped for and that is
for the first time ever in our country a place where consumer
issues are going to be addressed in a very complete and thorough
fashion.”  
 The action marks a defeat for Republicans and the
financial-services industry, which lobbied against the idea.
Obama didn’t get exactly what he wanted either -- he originally
proposed a standalone Consumer Financial Protection Agency.  
 The House in December approved legislation that included a
standalone agency. The Senate version of the plan to house the
bureau at the central bank prevailed.  
 House and Senate negotiators also agreed to exempt auto
dealers from oversight by the consumer bureau after aggressive
lobbying from the industry. Obama, Dodd and House Financial
Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , who is leading the
negotiations, opposed the exemption, which was included in the
House version of the bill.  
 ‘Strong Support’  
 Frank said today he included the exemption in his offer to
Senate negotiators because it “has strong support in the
House.”  
 “The political reality is that those of us who have fought
against an auto dealer carve-out can’t prevail,” Representative
 Luis Gutierrez , an Illinois Democrat, said today during the
meeting.  
 Senate negotiators also accepted the House proposal to
allow the bureau to oversee payday lenders, money remitters,
check cashers and private student loan providers.  
 On other matters today, Senate negotiators accepted House
changes to a measure limiting fees that merchants pay when
consumers use debit cards, a step toward its inclusion in the
regulatory overhaul.  
 Swipe Fees  
 The measure would empower the Fed to set interchange, or
“swipe” fees, that are “reasonable and proportional” to the
cost of processing debit transactions.  
 The proposal pushed by Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois
Democrat, also would allow retailers to refuse credit cards for
purchases under $10 and offer discounts based on the form of
payment.  Visa Inc.  and MasterCard Inc., the world’s biggest
payment networks, set interchange fees and pass that money to
card-issuers including Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co.   
 Senate negotiators rejected a House proposal to eliminate a
Senate exemption for low-risk mortgages in a provision that
requires mortgage firms to retain a 5 percent stake in the loans
they sell to investors. The Senate bill wouldn’t require lenders
to keep a stake in fixed-rate mortgages that require proof of a
borrower’s income, don’t allow deferring payment of the loan
principal and have other qualities that shield them from
default.  
 Volcker  
 Negotiators tomorrow will take up proposed changes related
to the so-called Volcker rule, language that’s included in the
Senate bill to ban proprietary trading at U.S. banks. They said
they plan to focus on June 24 on the section of the legislation
dealing with derivatives oversight.  
 Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, said it was important that
lawmakers finish talks by June 24 so they can hold final votes
in the House and Senate next week. He pointed out that Congress
will be in recess the week of July 4.  
 “If we are not able to finish by Thursday, then this bill
cannot pass until the middle of July,” said Frank. “We think
that would be unwise from the standpoint of economic
stability.”  
 Dodd told reporters after today’s meeting: “We’re going to
get it done” this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        