-- Obama Pressed on China Currency Subsidy Complaint
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-06-23T22:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/obama-pressed-to-treat-china-yuan-as-subsidy-peg-change-named-baby-step-.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s
administration came under pressure to treat China’s currency
policy as a subsidy, as lawmakers said China’s pledge to change
its yuan peg was just a “baby step.”  
 Democrats and Republicans in Congress said they will press
legislation to let companies seek tariffs on imports to
compensate for advantages a weak currency gives Chinese
producers. They urged Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  to levy the
tariffs now, saying a bill isn’t needed for the department to
act.  
 “The government has not taken enough action, and that
includes both Treasury and Commerce,” Senator  Charles Schumer ,
a New York Democrat and sponsor of legislation, told Locke today
at a Senate Finance Committee hearing. The policy gives China an
“unfair trade advantage, yet the Commerce Department refuses to
exercise its authority under current law,” Schumer said.  
 China said on June 19 that it was lifting a two-year policy
of pegging its currency, the yuan, to the U.S. dollar. The yuan
closed at 6.8124 per dollar in Shanghai, little changed from
6.8136 yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It has gained 0.23 percent this week.  
 Locke reiterated the Obama administration’s conclusion that
the yuan is undervalued, and said he is reviewing petitions from
American makers of glossy paper and aluminum tubes, which say
that China’s currency creates a subsidy that should be countered
by so-called countervailing duties.  
 ‘Carefully Monitoring’  
 Locke said he is “carefully monitoring” the complaints.
“Given the scrutiny that such decisions face in U.S. courts, I
want to make sure our decision on whether to investigate is
warranted by the facts and the law,” he said.  
 Neither China’s move nor the Obama administration’s
reaction was enough to placate lawmakers, and a Senate vote on
the measure would come soon, Schumer said. The lawmaker gained
support today from Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus ,
who said he would reintroduce currency legislation his committee
approved in 2007. He didn’t say if that would be done in
addition or in place of Schumer’s measure.  
 The Baucus bill changed the definition of currency
manipulation to currency misalignment, and allowed domestic
producers to seek tariffs on imports through a different
mechanism.  
 “The U.S. needs to stand up for itself,” Baucus said.
“The concern here is that we are letting the Chinese take
advantage of us.”  
 Ohio Democrat  Tim Ryan  and Republican  Tim Murphy  of
Pennsylvania said today that they will push in the House of
Representatives for legislation similar to Schumer’s bill.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama makes remarks on the resignation of Army General Stanley McChrystal, in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama makes remarks on the resignation of Army General Stanley McChrystal, in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
