-- Obama Oil Ban Overreaches Says Overreaching Judge: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-06-23T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/obama-oil-ban-overreaches-says-stretching-judge-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             So President  Barack Obama  overdid it
by slapping a six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling in the
Gulf of Mexico. He acted more on fear of another Deepwater
Horizon explosion than on solid, articulated grounds another
would occur.  
 The already suffering Gulf Coast economy stands to take
another hit if the drilling moves out.  
 To lift the ban now, the law says U.S. District Judge
 Martin Feldman  had to find that the moratorium would likely be
eventually ruled arbitrary and capricious, not in the public
interest, more irreparably damaging than no moratorium.  
 That is what he did in his 22-page order yesterday, barely
a day after hearing arguments in his New Orleans courtroom.  
 What bothers me is that he did it with such relish.  
 I agree the administration should have used a smarter, more
targeted approach to ensuring safety with a more limited
economic impact.  
 I like the idea of Louisiana’s attorney general and
Governor  Bobby Jindal . Spend the next month re-inspecting each
of the 33 rigs, certifying equipment, training personnel and
bringing the operations into compliance with new precautions.
Then, station an inspector on each rig around the clock.  
 But that’s a policy decision, not a legal one. Feldman was
only supposed to say whether the ban violated the law. Like
Obama, he overreached.  
 Blanket Moratorium  
 “The blanket moratorium,” Feldman wrote, “seems to
assume that because one rig failed and although no one yet fully
knows why, all companies and rigs drilling new wells over 500
feet also universally present an imminent danger.”  
 No, it doesn’t assume that. It’s precisely because no one
knows why the Deepwater Horizon exploded that the administration
fears there might be trouble on some other as yet unidentified
rig. No one claims they are all out there waiting to explode.  
 The point is to stop all such drilling to make sure it’s
safe, given the horrific consequences of another such disaster.  
 No one has a workable plan to clean up after a spill, which
became clear when the chief executives of oil companies appeared
before Congress.  
 “The only thing worse than one oil rig in the bottom of
the Gulf of Mexico, would be two oil rigs in the bottom of the
Gulf of Mexico,” Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts
said last week.  
 It’s true that much of the evidence to date points to
problems specific to the Deepwater Horizon: safety shortcuts
taken, red flags ignored, regulations relaxed.  
 Drilling Deeper  
 But there are also indications that drilling deeper into
the ocean floor puts dangerous strain on equipment, or makes
regulations written for less risky operations insufficient.  
 Studies found critical safety equipment failing at times
when tested under the higher pressure of the sort found in
deepwater drilling.  
 Feldman essentially ridiculed that finding.  
 “If some drilling equipment parts are flawed, is it
rational to say all are?” he asked.  
 Of course not. No one says they are.  
 Feldman gives little weight to the public’s interest in
avoiding another explosion. The loss of 11 lives and the
economic and ecological devastation now unfolding get scant
mention.  
 Nor does he attempt to quantify the economic harm he finds
irreparable. He points out that the oil industry service
companies that sued to lift the moratorium employ almost 12,000
people. He says 150,000 people work in jobs directly related to
the industry.  
 Threatened Jobs  
 But the moratorium threatens few of those jobs. It applies
only to 33 rigs out of the 3,600 in the Gulf.  
 The judge also doesn’t mention that five days before filing
suit, Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. assured the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the investing  public  that the ban would
have little effect on it.  
 Still, as a policy matter, the moratorium is overkill.  
 With a more narrowly tailored moratorium, such as experts
recommended, even less economic damage would have resulted.  
 Feldman, 76, an appointee of President  Ronald Reagan , would
have had a harder time lifting a ban like that, though maybe he
would have found fault, anyway. His language in the order
signals he came to the case without a totally open mind.  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
he wrote. Fathom? Divine?  
 Not That Punitive  
 He calls the moratorium “punitive,” as if Obama stopped
the drilling because he is out to get innocent oil companies.
Yes, the ban is unfair to those companies that diligently keep
their rigs safe, but it isn’t meant to punish them.  
 Feldman does have a point when he chastises Interior
Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  for saying that experts had peer-
reviewed the recommendations when, in fact, they agreed only
with the safety recommendations. They didn’t see the moratorium
recommendations until after they were added to the final
version, and most of them publicly disagreed with it.  
 Feldman called that “a factor that might cause some
apprehension about the probity of the process that led” to the
Interior Department  report .  
 I agree.  
 At the same time, I harbor apprehension about the probity
of Feldman’s order.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        