-- Mobius Says Yuan Currency Shift Won't Make China's Stocks More Attractive
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T02:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/mobius-says-china-yuan-exchange-reform-hasn-t-made-stocks-more-attractive.html

          
          
             Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s
 Mark Mobius  said the end of the yuan’s exchange-rate peg hasn’t
made China’s stocks more attractive, challenging speculation
that a stronger currency will spark a rally in equities.  
 “The yuan appreciation will not have a dramatic impact
since the exchange rate change is not expected to be
significant,” said Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion in
emerging markets as Templeton Asset Management’s Singapore-based
chairman, in e-mailed comments. China’s stocks “have not become
more attractive generally,” he said.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  had gained the past two days
after the central bank said it will make the nation’s currency
more flexible, boosting speculation the yuan will strengthen and
reduce the need for interest-rate increases to tame inflation.
The benchmark measure was little changed at 10:39 a.m. today.  
 Mobius’ view contrasts with AMP Capital Investors Ltd., an
Australian asset manager with more than $90 billion in assets,
which said it may buy more yuan-denominated equities in China.
Nomura Holdings Inc. turned “bullish” on China’s shares for
the first time this year amid signs of improvement.  
 The Chinese currency declined the most against the dollar
since December 2008 yesterday, after surging 0.42 percent the
day before, on the prospect gains may be limited because the
yuan has already strengthened 18 percent against the euro this
year, eroding earnings for exporters to the European Union.  
 Yuan Rate  
 China will “ensure the exchange rate’s fluctuation is
controllable and prevent the possibility of market forces
causing excessive adjustment in the rate,” the central bank
said in the June 20 statement.  
 The People’s Bank of China set its reference rate for yuan
trading at 6.8102 per dollar today, 0.05 percent stronger than
yesterday’s close of 6.8136.  
 The Shanghai index has declined 21 percent this year, the
worst performer in Asia, as the government curbed bank lending
and restricted multiple home purchases to cool the property
market and restrain inflation.  
 Mobius said May 27 that he’s been buying stocks in China,
along with those in Brazil, Russia and India, and called the
slump in emerging-economy shares a “correction” in a bull
market.  
 ‘Largely Expected’  
 China’s decision to make its currency more flexible was
“largely expected” and the yuan may trade in a narrow range
this year, RCM Asia Pacific Ltd.’s Chief Executive Officer  Mark Konyn  said in a Bloomberg Television interview from Hong Kong
today.  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The yuan
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 The yuan policy shift may relieve pressure on the Chinese
government to step up measures to control economic growth, said
 Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital. The fund
manager may also buy more commodity shares because a stronger
yuan will boost Chinese demand for raw materials, Naeimi said.  
 “A number of liquidity indicators are close to turning,”
Nomura analysts led by  Sean Darby  said in a report today.
“Changes in the yuan’s peg to the U.S. dollar, large cash
holdings of domestic fund managers and improving risk appetite
are sufficient catalysts to turn around performance in the short
term.”  
 The change in currency policy won’t reverse the trend of
the stock market, as factors that constrain equities still
remain, according to Essence Securities.  
 Stock Caution  
 Shrinking liquidity, slowing economic and corporate
earnings growth and fundraising pressures still exist, analyst
 Gao Weidong  at Essence Securities said in a June 21 report. The
brokerage said it remains “cautious” about the stock market.  
 China’s central bank said that 16.3 percent of the nation’s
trading volume is with the EU, compared with 12.9 percent for
the U.S., making it important to manage the yuan with reference
to the basket of currencies.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho . With assistance by  Chen Shiyin  in Singapore.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Templeton Asset Management Chairman Mark Mobius  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Templeton Asset Management Chairman Mark Mobius pauses during an interview. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Templeton Asset Management Chairman Mark Mobius pauses during an interview. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
