-- Oil Companies in Limbo as Obama Promises Appeal of Drilling Ban Reversal
-- David Wethe
-- 2010-06-23T19:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/oil-drillers-won-t-rush-back-to-gulf-deepwater-after-judge-lifts-obama-ban.html

          
          
             Oil companies and contractors with
operations in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico won’t resume
drilling until they see how a federal judge’s decision to lift a
U.S. ban plays out, analysts said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  yesterday granted a
preliminary injunction, lifting a six-month moratorium President
 Barack Obama  put in place May 27 on new deep-water drilling
permits. The president also called for work to be stopped on 33
wells.  
 The moratorium followed an April 20 explosion on a rig
Transocean Ltd. leased to  BP Plc . That accident killed 11
workers and created the worst oil spill in U.S. history. Justice
Department attorney Michael Thorp said yesterday that the U.S.
will ask the judge to stay his ruling pending an appeal. The
government didn’t say how soon it would ask for a stay.  
 “No one’s going to go back to work,” said  Brian Uhlmer ,
an analyst at Pritchard Capital Partners in Houston, citing new
federal standards that allow the government to recall drilling
permits and require new filings. “You can have a non-moratorium
moratorium.”  
 Feldman in a separate order yesterday “immediately
prohibited” the U.S. from enforcing the drilling moratorium,
finding the offshore companies would otherwise incur
“irreparable harm.” The moratorium affects drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet (152 meters).  
 New Ban Order  
 Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  said in a statement last
night that he will issue a new order that “eliminates any
doubt” a moratorium is justified.  
 “We see clear evidence every day, as oil spills from BP’s
well, of the need for a pause on deep-water drilling,” Salazar
said. “Based on this ever-growing evidence, I will issue a new
order in the coming days that eliminates any doubt that a
moratorium is needed, appropriate, and within our authorities.”  
 Salazar said today at a hearing before a Senate
Appropriations Committee panel that the Obama administration may
let certain deep-water drilling operations resume during the
six-month halt.  
 White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters
yesterday that “continuing to drill at these depths without
knowing what happened does not make any sense.”  
 Energy companies won’t resume operations until they have
more certainty on drilling and what the federal government plans
to do, Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  said yesterday during a
press conference.  
 “You can’t just turn this switch on and off,” Jindal
said. “Once these rigs leave the Gulf, they may be gone for
years.”  
 ‘Back to Work’  
 The American Petroleum Institute said in a statement that
it welcomes Feldman’s decision. “With this ruling, our industry
and its people can get back to work to provide Americans with
the energy they need, and do it safely and without harming the
environment,” the industry trade group said yesterday.  
 Resumption of deep-water drilling will depend on what
permits have been approved by the federal government and what
happens with the appeals process, said Andy Radford, senior
policy adviser for offshore issues at the Institute. It will
take at least a few days for the situation to play out, he said.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc., which brought the suit
that led to yesterday’s decision, said it appreciated Feldman’s
quick decision.  
 ‘Small Victory’  
 “It’s a small victory for the industry, but clearly the
administration has dug in its heels and is going to try to keep
this moratorium, come hell or high water,” said  Jud Bailey , an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Houston. “Investors, as it
relates to the drillers, are for the most part staying away.
There’s too much uncertainty, too much headline risk.”  
 Even if operators don’t have to get re-permitted for
previously approved drilling projects, Bailey of Jefferies & Co.
said he doesn’t think many operators would immediately try to
resume operations. Companies don’t want to incur the cost or
potential wrath of the government, he said.  
 “You run the risk of this getting overturned by the
appellate court,” Bailey said.  
 Even if the injunction against the moratorium sticks, it’s
not clear whether companies operating in the deep-water Gulf of
Mexico have all the government approvals they need to go back to
work, said  Geoff Kieburtz , an analyst at Weeden & Co. in
Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 “They’ve got to have some confidence in the regulatory
stability,” Kieburtz said.  
 Markey Supports Appeal  
 U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Democrat from
Massachusetts, said in a statement yesterday that he supports
the Obama administration’s plan to appeal. The “judge’s
decision flies in the face of mounting evidence that there are
serious safety risks that must be examined with these 33 deep-
water rigs before they start drilling again,” Markey said.  
 Bill Tanner , a spokesman for Royal Dutch Shell Plc, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday that Feldman’s ruling is “an
important step in returning thousands of oil service workers to
their jobs.” He said Shell is confident in its procedures and
expertise to drill and complete deep-water wells.  
 Margaret Cooper , a spokeswoman for  Chevron Corp. , said the
company is pleased with the decision. Certain other companies
with deep-water operations, such as  Pride International Inc.  and
Transocean, either declined to comment on the judge’s decision
or didn’t respond to requests for comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        