-- Oil Industry-Backed Measure to Suspend California Climate Laws on Ballot
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-06-23T00:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/oil-industry-backed-measure-to-suspend-california-climate-laws-on-ballot.html

          
          
             An oil industry-supported measure
that would suspend California’s global warming laws has
qualified to be on the state’s Nov. 2 general election ballot.  
 The initiative, which would halt enforcement of the Global
Warming Solutions Act until the state’s unemployment rate falls
to 5.5 percent or less, had enough valid signatures needed for
ballot certification, California Secretary of State  Debra Bowen 
said in a  statement  on her website.  
 The California global warming law, known as AB 32 and
passed in 2006, requires that the state cut carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gas emissions that scientists have linked to
climate change to 1990 levels by 2020. The law authorized the
state Air Resources Board to establish programs to reduce
pollution, including a carbon cap-and-trade system, starting in
2012.  
 Supporters of the initiative including San Antonio-based
refiners  Tesoro Corp.  and  Valero Energy Corp. , Los Angeles-based
 Occidental Petroleum Corp ., and the  National Petrochemical and
Refiners Association  in Washington, say the state’s climate laws
will increase energy costs and lead to job losses. California’s
unemployment rate was 12.4 percent in May.  
 “AB 32 will impose billions of dollars of higher utility
rates and fuel prices on California families when they can least
afford it,” said Jon Coupal, president of the Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Association and co-chair of the proposition’s campaign
committee, in an e-mail statement.  
 Technology Companies  
 Opponents of the measure, which include environmental
groups, technology companies including Google Inc. and public
health organizations, say suspending AB 32 will hinder the
development of so-called clean energy industries and increase
pollution.  
 “This misguided proposition will seriously harm our effort
to encourage the growing entrepreneurial ventures that hold the
promise of important change toward cleaner energy,” said George
Schultz, who was secretary of state in the Reagan administration
and is co-chairman of Californians for Clean Energy and Jobs, in
an e-mail statement.  
 More than $3 million has been spent on the measure by
energy-related interests, according to the statement from
Californians for Clean Energy and Jobs, a group that is
campaigning to defeat the initiative.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        