-- Homebuilder Default Swaps Rise as New Sales Fall 33% to Record Low in May
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-06-23T20:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/homebuilder-default-swaps-rise-as-new-sales-fall-33-to-record-low-in-may.html

          
          
             The cost to protect against losses
on  homebuilder  bonds jumped after purchases of U.S. new homes
fell in May to the lowest level on record.  
 Credit-default swaps on D.R. Horton Inc. climbed to the
highest in 11 months, and contracts on KB Home and Lennar Corp.
also rose, according to CMA DataVision prices.  
 New home  sales  in May plunged 33 percent from April to an
annual pace of 300,000, less than the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the fewest in data
going back to 1963, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in Washington. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index Series 14, an indicator of corporate credit risk
that typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates,
increased a second day.  
 “New home sales definitely was a downer,”  Mikhail Foux , a
credit strategist at New York-based Citigroup Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “People expected a slowdown in light of
the homebuyer tax expiration, but they probably didn’t expect
one to this magnitude,” he said, referring to a tax-credit for
first-time purchasers.  
 Swaps on D.R. Horton increased 14.6 basis points to 264.9
basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices. A close at
that level would be the highest since July 22, end-of-day prices
show.  
 Purchases of new homes, which dropped in all four U.S.
regions last month, were projected to drop 19 percent to a
410,000 annual pace, according to the  median  estimate of 76
economists surveyed. A lack of inflation and concern over
housing and unemployment were among reasons Federal Reserve
policy makers renewed a pledge today to keep interest rates near
zero for an “extended period.”  
 KB Home, Lennar  
 Contracts tied to KB Home, the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that sells to first-time buyers, surged 35.3 basis
points to 502.7. Swaps on Lennar rose 17.4 basis points to
435.4. Pulte Group Inc. contracts climbed 12.1 to 264.8.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
14, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.5 basis
point to a mid-price of 115.6 basis points as of 4:19 p.m. in
New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The index rose a second
day for the first time in two weeks.  
 The cost to protect against a default of  BP Plc  bonds rose
a third day as U.S. Representative  Edward Markey  said sea-floor
leaks may thwart efforts to plug the damaged BP Plc Macondo well
in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Swaps on BP  
 Markey said in a  letter  to BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  dated today that oil and natural gas may be leaking
through the sea floor or the well pipe itself, making the relief
wells less effective.  
 BP swaps rose 32.2 basis points to 568.3 basis points,
according to CMA DataVision. Contracts tied to  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. , which owns one-quarter of BP’s Macondo well,
increased 15.7 to 645.6.  
 A tropical storm or even a hurricane may develop in the
Gulf of Mexico this weekend, according to forecasters including
Planalytics Inc. and  Weather Research Center , a potential threat
to BP’s efforts to halt and clean the worst oil spill in U.S.
history.  
 “We can expect a lot of volatility for the Gulf names,”
Citigroup’s Foux said. “The hurricane season is expected to be
pretty strong, and that could disrupt whatever work is happening
there.”  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        