-- London's Battersea Power Station to Sell Shares to Fund Regeneration Plan
-- Chris Bourke
-- 2010-06-23T15:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/london-s-battersea-power-station-to-sell-shares-to-fund-regeneration-plan.html

          
          
             The owner of London’s  Battersea
Power Station , Europe’s largest brick building, plans to attract
new investors by putting the property into a new, publicly
traded company separate from its Irish real estate.  
 Real Estate Opportunities Ltd . will split the assets by the
end of this year, the Jersey-based company said in a statement
today. REO reported a loss of 872 million pounds ($1.3 billion)
for the 14 months to the end of February after its Irish
properties lost half their value, causing the shares to fall the
most since they first traded.  
 REO wants to sell 50 percent of the power station, a
building on the Thames river that the company aims to convert
into homes, offices and shops. Two previous owners tried and
failed to revive the London landmark in the past 25 years.  
 “There are investors who are very keen on real estate
deals in London, and a very different group sniffing around
investments in Ireland,”  Rob Tincknell , a director of the
company, said by telephone. “Any future partner won’t want to
mix up the two.”  
 REO fell 42 percent to 9.51 pence in London, cutting the
company’s market value to 32 million pounds. The property
developer first sold shares to the public in 2001.  
 Potential Investors  
 The company is in “detailed discussions” with potential
investors from around the world, including sovereign wealth
funds and large real estate companies, Tincknell said. The
estimated value of the development project is 7.5 billion
pounds, he said.  
 The power station was valued at 388 million pounds at Feb.
28, according to the statement. New lending terms for the
building have been agreed with the National Asset Management
Agency, the government body set up to bail out Ireland’s banks,
it said.  
 The total value of REO’s properties fell by 43 percent to
1.1 billion pounds in the last fiscal year, with Battersea
losing 4 percent of its value, according to the statement. REO
also owns shopping centers, office buildings and warehouses in
Ireland, a market that “continued to suffer from the biggest
contraction of any developed economy,” the company said in the
statement. It has 1.7 billion pounds of debt.  
 REO plans to build 3,700 homes and 2.3 million square feet
(214,000 square meters) of offices and shops on Battersea’s
derelict 38-acre site. Wandsworth Council has yet to grant
permission for the project.  
 Planning Permission  
 “We are reasonably confident that planning consent will
occur in the third quarter of this year,” said Tincknell.  
 This is the second attempt by Dublin-based  Treasury
Holdings , REO’s majority owner run by millionaires  Richard Barrett  and  John Ronan , to obtain consent to develop the site,
acquired in 2006 for 400 million pounds. The revised proposals
reduced the office and retail space from architect  Rafael Vinoly ’s original plans, which featured a 300-meter (984-foot)
glass and steel chimney as part of a solar-driven ventilation
system.  
 Opponents of the initial proposals included London Mayor
 Boris Johnson . The structure would have overshadowed the
landmark former power station, which has four 350 foot-high
smokestacks and appears on the cover of  Pink Floyd ’s  “Animals” 
album.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in London at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Treasury Holdings U.K. managing director Rob Tincknell pictured outside Battersea Power Station . Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
