-- OneWest CEO Laughlin Steps Down, Will Replace Schakett at Bank of America
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-06-23T16:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/onewest-ceo-laughlin-steps-down-will-replace-schakett-at-bank-of-america.html

          
          
             OneWest Bank Chief Executive Officer
 Terry Laughlin  is stepping down to join Bank of  America Corp. ,
where he’ll be reunited with CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  and replace
mortgage executive  Jack Schakett .  
 Laughlin, 55, announced his resignation from Pasadena,
California-based OneWest on June 21 and will stay with the bank
through the end of July, according to spokeswoman  Diane Henry .
Laughlin will take over from Schakett, who announced his
retirement on June 15, Bank of America spokesman  Dan Frahm  said.  
 “Terry brings deep mortgage and financial services
leadership experience,”  Barbara Desoer , president of Bank of
America’s home-loan and insurance unit, told employees in a
memo. “He has played a critical role in the mortgage industry
developing creative mortgage finance solutions that balance the
need of customers, investors and shareholders.”  
 OneWest is the successor to IndyMac Bancorp, which was
seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in 2008 at an
estimated cost of $10.7 billion. The FDIC has since relied on
OneWest to absorb other failed California lenders. Laughlin was
on the executive committee at Fleet Bank at the same time as
Moynihan and will be one of six executives reporting to Desoer.  
 Home Loans  
 Laughlin will be in charge of limiting home-loan losses and
monitoring relations with mortgage investors, Frahm said.
Schakett, 58, a former Countrywide Financial Corp. executive,
plans to pursue entrepreneurial ventures, Frahm said. Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired Countrywide in
2008 and is the second-biggest U.S. home lender behind Wells
Fargo & Co.  
 Bank of America’s home-lending business has reported $8.4
billion in losses since January 2008 because of soaring defaults
by borrowers mainly in California, Florida and Arizona. Laughlin
left Fleet and joined Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2005 before its
acquisition by Bank of America, according to an FDIC  statement .  
 “The problems at Bank of America are the same as OneWest,
it’s just larger,” said Paul Hindman, managing director at
Management Advisors International, which recruits mortgage-
industry executives. “All the moving parts are going be very
similar, but the magnitude and scale of the business is much
larger.”  
 OneWest’s holding company is led by former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. banker  Steven Mnuchin  and owned by an investor group
that includes billionaire hedge-fund manager John Paulson, J.
Christopher Flowers’ private-equity firm, and hedge-fund manager
 George Soros .  
 OneWest reported a first-quarter profit of $435 million
after earning $1.57 billion last year, according to regulatory
filings. Mnuchin will work with the board in its search for a
new CEO, Henry said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        