-- Wimbledon's Longest Match Halted After 10 Hours, Will Move Into Third Day
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-23T21:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/longest-wimbledon-match-is-halted-after-10-hours-will-move-into-third-day.html

          
          
             The first-round Wimbledon match
between  John Isner  and  Nicolas Mahut  already is the longest in
tennis history, and will head into its third day.  
 Play was halted at 9:10 p.m. today tied at 6-4, 3-6, 6-7
(7-9), 7-6 (7-3), 59-59. The match, which also was suspended by
darkness yesterday, is 10 hours long -- so far.  
 “Nothing like this will ever happen again, ever,” Isner,
an American, said in a televised interview after the players
received a standing ovation from hundreds of fans and players at
Court 18. “He’s serving fantastic, I’m serving fantastic.”  
 The match started yesterday, and was halted at two sets
each. It is scheduled to continue tomorrow, starting no earlier
than 3:30 p.m. local time.  
 The longest match had been a six-hour, 33-minute first-
round contest at the 2004 French Open between Frenchmen  Fabrice Santoro  and  Arnaud Clement .  
 That wasn’t the only record to get broken. The 25-year-old
Isner and 28-year-old Frenchman Mahut have played 163 games so
far, the most in a match. Their 118-game fifth set also is the
longest in Grand Slam history.  
 Isner has served 98 aces, while Mahut has 95. Each has
broken  Ivo Karlovic ’s previous Wimbledon record of 51 aces in a
men’s singles match set during the first round in 2005.  
 “He is a champ,” Mahut said in a televised interview,
after the match was suspended. “We are just fighting like we
never did before.”  
 Their final set, which by itself has now lasted 7:06, took
more time than the previous longest match played on the London
grass courts.  
 The longest Wimbledon match had been a 6:09 men’s doubles
quarterfinal played over two days in 2006 with  Mark Knowles  of
the Bahamas and  Daniel Nestor  of Canada beating  Simon Aspelin  of
Sweden and Todd Perry of Australia. The longest men’s singles
match at Wimbledon had been a 5:28 second-round encounter
between Greg Holmes and fellow American Todd Witsken in 1989.  
 Crowds Pack Court  
 Crowds gathered around Court 18 as the fifth set reached
double digits. By the end of the evening, the small court was
packed with fans, photographers, players and media all trying to
watch history unfold.  
 The BBC switched its live coverage to the Isner-Mahut
match, even though defending champion  Roger Federer  was playing
on Court 1 at the same time.  
 “John is barely moving anymore, but he’s still able to
produce good serves when he has to,” Federer said in a news
conference after beating Serbia’s Ilija Bozoljac in four sets.
“It’s so impressive to see. I was watching this. I don’t know
if I was crying or laughing. It was too much.”  
 Mahut took a painkiller from the tournament doctor at 31-
31. The Frenchman, ranked 148th on the ATP World Tour, overcame
two match points as he served to stay in the match at 32-33.
He’d earlier fended off a match point at 9-10.  
 Even the scoreboard couldn’t cope, going blank as the men
played the 100th game of the fifth set.  
 ‘It’s Amazing’  
 “It’s amazing,” five-time women’s champion  Venus Williams 
said in a news conference after she beat Russia’s  Ekaterina Makarova  in straight sets. “It’s a marathon. It’s longer than a
marathon.”  
 “I definitely think there should be doctors out there,”
former Wimbledon champion  John McEnroe  told the BBC as the
players got a standing ovation after the changeover at 56-55.
“It looks like Isner is about to fall over. I would definitely
vote for a tie-break in the fifth set.”  
 Isner took a bathroom break at 58-58 at 8:56 p.m. as the
crowd shouted the names of both players.  
 Mahut overcame a fourth match point as he served at 58-59,
hitting his 95th ace of the match. After that, he went to the
umpire, telling him he didn’t want to play anymore because he
could no longer see the ball.  
 With the crowd shouting “We want more, we want more,”
officials suspended play.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London newsroom at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        