-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Retail Sales Decline in April More Than Forecast
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-23T20:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/loonie-falls-versus-u-s-dollar-for-3rd-day-on-speculation-gains-overdone.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar slid the most in
almost three weeks versus its U.S. counterpart after a report
showed retail sales fell five times faster in April than
economists predicted.  
 The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie, fell for a third
day as sales declined 2 percent, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
drop of 0.4 percent. Government bonds rallied.  
 “Not great results by any stretch of the imagination,”
 Matthew Perrier , director of foreign exchange at Bank of
Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “Weaker-than-expected
retail sales are adding to the bullish undertone of dollar-
Canada at this point, taking us through the highs of last
week.”  
 The Canadian currency weakened as much as 1.6 percent, the
most on an intraday basis since June 4, before trading at
C$1.0390 per U.S. dollar at 4:18 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0296
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 96.25 U.S. cents.  
 The loonie briefly pared declines and the U.S. dollar fell
after the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee maintained a pledge
to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low for an
“extended period” pledge to keep the benchmark interest rate
at a record low for an “extended period” and signaled that
European indebtedness may harm American growth.  
 ‘Not Unexpected’  
 “Basically everyone was looking for a change in the
verbiage in the FOMC statement,”  John Curran , a senior vice
president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer, said by phone from Toronto. “So they eased up a little
on risk before it. Now they’re putting it back on.” He advises
buying the loonie.  
 The loonie has gained 8.6 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices, the second-best
performance among its 10 developed-world counterparts. It gained
4.3 percent between May 25 and June 18, tracking advances in
crude oil and U.S. equities. The gains may be overdone,
according to  Michael Leavitt , a Montreal-based institutional-
derivatives broker at MF Global Holdings Ltd.  
 Today’s drop was “not unexpected, given the strong move
over the last month,” Leavitt said by e-mail before the retail
sales data was released. “Some consolidation may be in order
before making another move above par in the next quarter.”  
 The loonie, so-called for the image of the aquatic bird on
the one-dollar coin, reached parity for the first time in almost
two years on April 6. It will strengthen to C$1.02 and then
reach parity again by the end of the year, according to the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Bond Yields  
 U.S. stocks declined after a government report showed
purchases of new homes in the U.S. collapsed a record 33 percent
to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from April, showing the
market remains dependent on government support.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent and crude
oil futures dropped 1.8 percent. Canada’s currency is 68 percent
correlated to movements in crude and 90 percent correlated to
swings in the S&P 500, according to Bloomberg data. A 100
percent correlation would mean the measures move in lock step.  
 The yield on two-year government bonds fell 9 basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.60 percent, as the 1.5 percent
security due in June 2012 rose 17 cents to C$99.81.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said he’s watching
movements in the country’s dollar “closely,” Reuters reported.
The currency’s strength and volatility are both important,
Carney told Reuters today in Toronto.  
 Policy makers may raise their benchmark interest rate at
the next decision July 20. The rate will climb from 0.5 percent
now to 1.25 percent by the end of the year, according to the
median of 11 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
