-- Options Clearinghouse Lobbies for Access to Fed Funding During Emergencies
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-06-23T18:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/options-clearinghouse-lobbies-for-access-to-fed-funding-during-emergencies.html

          
          
             Options Clearing Corp., the firm
responsible for guaranteeing and settling all U.S. options
trades, is seeking access during times of distress to emergency
Federal Reserve funding.  
 The Chicago-based  clearinghouse  would exchange U.S.
Treasuries for cash using the Fed’s discount window should a
liquidity crunch develop because one of its member brokers is
unable to meet its financial obligations from buying and selling
derivatives contracts, according to Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Wayne Luthringshausen . Every morning, OCC has an hour to
collect and then distribute funds to about 120 firms.  
 While OCC never needed help during the financial crisis
that intensified after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed
in September 2008, the firm wants another source of financing
just in case a future crisis causes a shortfall, Luthringshausen
said. The financial-industry reform legislation under
consideration in the U.S. Congress may prevent the Fed from
giving emergency financing to clearinghouses.  
 “Providing us with secured liquidity for a short period of
time could help the financial system -- it wouldn’t compound a
crisis,” said Luthringshausen, who has run  OCC  since it was
founded in 1973. “The most logical place to take U.S.
Treasuries, pledge them and receive cash is at the Fed discount
window.”  
 The central bank relied on its authority for emergencies to
let securities firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Morgan
Stanley use a lending facility starting in March 2008 after Bear
Stearns Cos. neared collapse. The Fed was trying to eliminate
concern that Wall Street faced a cash shortage.  
 Cutting Risk  
 Clearinghouses are funded by their members and guarantee
all transactions. They reduce the risk that one firm’s failure
will bring down others by serving as the buyer to every seller
and vice versa. To join, securities firms must meet capital
requirements and pass operational and technology tests.  
 The OCC collects margin from its members at 10 a.m. New
York time, based on positions held at the end of the prior day,
and pays companies owed money at 11 a.m. If a member defaults,
the  clearinghouse  can cover that firm’s obligations by first
using its daily collateral and then its share of a $3 billion
Clearing Fund. If that’s not enough, OCC can tap lines of credit
at banks totaling $1.3 billion.  
 “This happens in a very quick timeframe,” said  Susan Milligan , the Washington-based senior vice president in charge
of government relations and communications at OCC. “If we
couldn’t raise sufficient cash fast enough, we’d then go to the
Fed because there would be a liquidity event. We’d have plenty
of collateral from the defaulting clearing member to make good
on what they owed us and we’d have their Clearing Fund deposit,
which is only in cash or Treasuries.”  
 Banks With Deposits  
 The reform bill in the U.S. House, passed in December,
limits the Fed’s ability to extend emergency financing to
institutions that aren’t deposit-collecting banks. The
legislation would allow lending only when the Treasury secretary
expects 99 percent of the money lent to be repaid.  
 While the legislation adopted by the Senate in May has a
provision allowing the central bank to fund “systemically
important financial market utilities” including clearinghouses,
the derivatives portion, written primarily by Senator  Blanche Lincoln , said these entities couldn’t receive Fed help.  
 Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat who heads the Agriculture
Committee, modified her position last week. She said
clearinghouses could be eligible for “collateralized lending”
through the Fed’s new broad-based liquidity facility, according
to Courtney Rowe, a spokeswoman for the committee.  
 Gensler, Schapiro  
 U.S. clearinghouses are overseen by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission or Securities and Exchange Commission,
depending on the products they guarantee. While CFTC Chairman
 Gary Gensler  and SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told lawmakers on
May 20 that the firms shouldn’t be able to get routine Fed
funding, they said they supported emergency access.  
 Terrence Duffy , the chairman of  CME  Group Inc., said during
the same hearing that his firm, which runs the world’s biggest
futures exchange, should have rights to the Fed discount window
even when there isn’t an emergency. OCC isn’t lobbying for that,
Luthringshausen said.  
 Emergency access is insufficient for clearinghouses, said
Jeremy Kress, who received a law degree from Harvard University
and in April wrote one of the first papers highlighting the
risks associated with centralized clearing. The organizations
should always be able to tap into Fed funding because of their
central role in enabling financial markets to operate, he said.  
 ‘Lulled Into Complacency’  
 “We’ve been lulled into complacency because clearinghouses
have been so successful in the past,” he said. “But with
Congress mandating the clearing of more derivatives, they may
not be as safe as they’ve been. Clearinghouses shouldn’t have to
get to exigent circumstances before they can go to the Fed.”  
 While the OCC has never needed Fed help, Luthringshausen
said the financial crisis altered his view of how fast losses
can spread. The same week in September 2008 that Lehman Brothers
filed history’s biggest bankruptcy,  American International Group
Inc . required a U.S. government bailout.  
 “We’ve never needed access to the Fed, and we don’t want a
bailout,” Luthringshausen said. “There is a significant
difference between a bailout and needing liquidity temporarily
with Treasuries as our collateral.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        