-- Mortgage Bonds Rise to `Insane' Highs as Refinancing Drops: Credit Markets
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-24T16:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/mortgage-bonds-rise-to-insane-highs-as-refinancing-drops-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Mortgage securities with U.S.-backed
guarantees are trading at record high prices on speculation
homeowner refinancing will fail to accelerate and as supply of
the bonds remains limited.  
 The average price of $5.2 trillion of bonds guaranteed by
government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or federal
agency Ginnie Mae climbed to 106.3 cents on the dollar
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Mortgage
Master Index. That’s up from 104.2 cents on March 31, when the
Federal Reserve ended its program purchasing $1.25 trillion of
the debt.  
 “It’s gotten insane,” said  Scott Simon , the head of
mortgage-backed securities at Newport Beach, California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund. “This is rarefied air.”  
 U.S. existing  home sales  unexpectedly fell last month and
purchases of new houses tumbled to a  record low , underscoring
how borrowers’ ability to qualify for financing is limited even
as rates drop. Bond prices show investors aren’t concerned
homeowners will pay back the mortgages underlying the securities
at a faster pace, handing them their money back at par and
forcing them to reinvest in new debt at lower yields.  
 Applications  for mortgage refinancings are off almost 57
percent from last year’s peak reached in January, according to
the Mortgage Bankers Association. The  average rate  on a typical
30-year home loan fell to a record low of 4.69 percent in the
week ended today, down from this year’s high of 5.21 percent in
April, McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac said today.  
 Refinancings Suppressed  
 Refinancings are being suppressed because more than 23
percent of homeowners with mortgages owe more than their houses
are worth, according to Seattle-based Zillow.com. Borrowers also
face tougher underwriting standards at lenders selling debt to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said  Tad Rivelle , head of fixed-
income investments at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., with
$115 billion in assets under management.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds instead of government debt was
unchanged at 194 basis points, or 1.94 percentage point, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate
Index shows. Yields averaged 4.002 percent.  
 Indicators of corporate bond risk in the U.S. and Europe
rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 3.65 basis points to a mid-price of 119.15 basis points
as of 11:44 a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. In
London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 4.95 to 129.75, Markit
prices show.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Yields  on Washington-based Fannie Mae’s current-coupon
mortgage bonds backed by 30-year fixed-rate home loans fell to
about 3.85 percent yesterday, the lowest since January 2009,
before rising to 3.86 percent as of 11:55 a.m. today in New
York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Their yields have fallen to within 76 basis points of 10-
year Treasuries from this year’s high of 93 basis points on May
24, after climbing from a record low of 59 reached March 29.  
 Yesterday, Fed officials retained a pledge to keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low for an “extended
period” and signaled that Europe’s debt crisis may harm
American growth.  
 ‘Extended Period’  
 The central bank, at a two-day meeting, left the overnight
interbank lending  rate  target unchanged in a range of zero to
0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008. High
unemployment, low inflation and stable price expectations “are
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds
rate for an extended period,” the Fed said, repeating language
from every policy meeting since March 2009.  
 Bond buyers view so-called agency mortgage securities as a
refuge, said  Andrew Harding , who oversees $22 billion as the
chief investment officer for taxable fixed-income at PNC Capital
Advisors LLC in Cleveland. The government is promising to help
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac honor their guarantees.  
 “They’ve become an anchor in portfolios,” Harding said.
“It’s not Treasuries. It’s got some yield, but it’s not equity-
like risk.”  
 The market for agency mortgage bonds has shrunk since it
peaked at $5.4 trillion in February, partly because Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac decided earlier this year to purchase about $200
billion of delinquent loans out of their securities to reduce
their expenses, according to Bank of America data.  
 Fed Purchases  
 Many outstanding securities are also no longer trading
after the Fed’s unprecedented purchases, which began in January
2009, and the Treasury’s acquisition of an additional $220
billion of the debt in a separate program begun after the U.S.
seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in September 2008.  
 The weak housing market will likely limit future issuance,
said  David Land , a mortgage-bond manager at St. Paul, Minnesota-
based Advantus Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $18
billion. Outstanding U.S. home-mortgage debt has dropped in
eight straight quarters since the third quarter of 2008, falling
3.6 percent to $10.2 billion, Fed  data  show.  
 New-home sales tumbled 33 percent last month to a record
low annual pace of 300,000, the Commerce Department said in a
report. Sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly fell 2.2
percent in May, the National Association of Realtors said.  
 Home Prices Fall  
 The  median U.S. home sales price  slid 29 percent to an
almost eight-year low of $164,600 in February from a peak of
$230,300 in July 2006, according to the National Association of
Realtors in Chicago.  
 Refinancing hasn’t climbed much partly because there are
fewer loan brokers competing to earn fees after being blamed for
creating more bad loans than direct lenders, Land said.  
 “There’s less of a solicitation effort going on,” he
said. “If anybody were to figure out a way to refinance people,
the mortgage-bond market would be in really bad shape.”  
 Only about 37 percent of 30-year loans are “actually
refinanceable” at current mortgage rates, about half of the
level suggested by “traditional measures,” Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts led by  Mahesh Swaminathan  wrote in a report. Rates
would need to decline to about 4.5 percent for refinangings to
begin to jump, the analysts and BNP Paribas’  Anish Lohokare 
wrote today.  
 Pimco Cuts Holdings  
 Pimco’s $228 billion  Total Return Fund  reduced its holdings
of mortgage securities to 16 percent last month, down from 83
percent in January 2009, according to disclosures on its
website. Even after ending, the Fed’s purchases are helping fuel
an imbalance between supply and demand, Simon said.  
 The mismatch has contributed to a jump in unsettled
mortgage-bond trades, which remain elevated after soaring to the
highest on record last month according to Fed  data , and a
related drop in the cost of borrowing to invest in certain home-
loan securities in the so-called dollar roll market.  
 With dollar rolls, an investor seeking to borrow money
enters into contracts to sell mortgage securities one month and
then buy similar bonds the next month; a lender would undertake
the opposite trades.  
 The implied cost of such financing for Fannie Mae’s 5.5
percent securities, backed by higher-rate loans than the
current-coupon bonds that guide mortgage rates, was about
negative 1 percent yesterday, according to Barclays Plc’s
estimates. That means debt investors are essentially being paid
to borrow rather than paying their lenders.  
 Prices for some securities have “benefited substantially”
from such “roll specialness,”  Nicholas Strand , an analyst in
New York at Barclays, wrote in a June 18 report. The Fed may
“look into helping to facilitate market liquidity” through
temporary sales into the roll market, hurting values, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        