-- Osborne's Budget Is `Supportive' of U.K.'s AAA Credit Rating, Moody's Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-23T13:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/osborne-s-budget-is-supportive-of-u-k-s-aaa-credit-rating-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             Moody’s Investors Service said the
U.K.’s budget is a “key step” toward repairing the public
finances and “supportive” of the country’s top credit rating.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  unveiled an
emergency budget yesterday that cuts the U.K.’s deficit by an
extra 40 billion pounds ($60 billion) by the end of this
Parliament’s term in 2015 on top of the 44 billion pounds
planned by the previous Labour government. Osborne also said
he’d eliminate the structural deficit by then.  
 “The budget confirmed the U.K. government’s intention to
eliminate the structural current deficit by 2015-16,” London-
based Moody’s analyst  Kenneth Orchard  said in a report today.
“Successful implementation would return the government’s
finances to a more sustainable trend.”  
 The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition expects net
debt to stabilise at around 70 percent of gross domestic product
in 2013-14, lower than Moody’s had forecast. If that is
achieved, it should ensure the U.K.’s debt affordability will
“remain consistent” with an Aaa rating, Moody’s said. Fitch
Ratings also endorsed the budget, saying yesterday that it
ensured Britain would keep its AAA credit grade.  
 The budget “is a key step towards reversing the
significant deterioration in the government’s financial position
that occurred over the past two years,” Moody’s said.  
 Osborne yesterday raised value-added tax, imposed a levy on
banks’ balance sheets and cut welfare benefits to eliminate a
 budget gap  that reached 11 percent of gross domestic product in
the last fiscal year. He also lowered the growth outlook for
2010 and 2011 to 1.2 percent and 2.3 percent.  
 While the forecasts are “conservative,” the budget has
“implementation risks,” Moody’s said. The cuts will have a
“strong negative impact” on domestic demand, “which is
assumed to be offset by robust growth in net exports,” it said.  
 “Moody’s believes these assumptions to be sound,” Orchard
said. “But it should be emphasised that, if these assumptions
do not hold up, the decline in the deficit may be lower than
assumed.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        