-- New Doctor Intern Inspections to Cost Hospitals $15,000 Yearly
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-06-24T01:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/hospitals-to-be-inspected-for-adherence-to-stricter-rules-on-intern-hours.html

          
          
             Hospitals will be required to reduce
physician interns’ working hours and be inspected yearly to
ensure the first-year doctors are properly supervised and
getting enough time off under newly proposed rules.  
 The  Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education , a
nonprofit organization that evaluates more than 8,800 U.S.
residency programs, outlined the proposed policies in a paper
published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The
procedures would trim the length of time interns can be on call
to 16 hours from 30 previously and require greater supervision
of the new doctors.  
 Long schedules for interns, medical school graduates in
their first year of hospital training, were once a rite of
passage, with reports that some new doctors worked 140 hours a
week. In July 2003, the accreditation council restricted intern
working hours to no more than 80 a week and 30 at one stretch
after a 1999  Institute of Medicine  report found medical errors
claimed 44,000 to 98,000 lives annually.  
 “Patient safety in teaching hospitals is not just about
duty hours, it is much more about supervision,” said  Thomas J. Nasca , chief executive officer of the council, on a conference
call. Among the responsibilities are “controlling workload,
establishing effective teamwork and communications, establishing
policies and procedure for transitions in care,” he said.  
 Unannounced Visits  
 A  2008 report  by the Institute of Medicine, a nonprofit
U.S. government advisory group, said that a lack of adherence to
the current limits on duty hours was common and underreported.
The report recommended the council execute unannounced visits
and strengthen whistle-blower processes, where residents report
violations of work hour limitations.  
 The institute gave the council “two years to implement
most of these changes,” according to the accreditation group’s
July 2009 newsletter.  
 The report estimated the total cost to U.S. hospitals of
hiring staff substitutes for residents’ excess time may be as
much as $1.7 billion.  
 The council has commissioned an external review of the
“financial implications” for hospitals of the new standards
for physician interns, Nasca said today.  
 The reduction in hours for physician interns will challenge
traditional teaching hospitals financially, said  John Mendelsohn , president of the Houston-based University of Texas
 MD Anderson Cancer Center , in an interview today.  
 ‘Cat Naps’  
 “I am a product of the old system -- you learn how to take
cat naps,” Mendelsohn said. “But I’m for the new system
because frankly, it would be nice to have more time at home”
for the interns, he said.  
 Medical educators may comment on the proposed rules until
Aug. 9, the association said. The changes will likely take
effect in July 2011, the organization said.  
 “If residents work fewer hours, then someone has to pick
up the slack and it’s either going to be faculty or physician
extenders,” said Tom Blackwell, who oversees 600 interns as
associate dean of graduate medical education at the University
of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, Texas. “So costs are
going to go up. It’s tough, everyone’s budget is tight, I just
think it’s something we’ve got to do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        