-- Motorola Says Droid X Will Be Workhorse Driving Sales
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-06-23T20:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/motorola-says-droid-x-phone-will-be-workhorse-driving-its-sales-recovery.html

          
          
             Motorola Inc. , trailing Apple Inc.
and Research In Motion Ltd. in smartphone sales, unveiled a new
version of its Droid handset with a faster processor and
improved camera.  
 The Droid X, based on Google Inc.’s Android software, has a
4.3-inch touch display and virtual keyboard, co-Chief Executive
Officer  Sanjay Jha  said today in an interview. Verizon Wireless,
the largest U.S. mobile carrier, will sell the phone for $199.99
with a two-year contract and a mail-in rebate, starting July 15.  
 “This will be a workhorse in driving our volume over the
next couple of quarters,” Jha said.  
 Jha is trying to take back share from U.S. market leaders
Apple and  RIM  who have led the industry with phones equipped
with Web browsers and e-mail. Motorola lost its title as North
America’s biggest phone maker after  Apple ’s iPhone and RIM’s
BlackBerry overtook Motorola handsets in global unit sales last
quarter, according to researcher ISuppli Corp.  
 The first Droid, introduced in November, has become the
top-selling Android device, Verizon Wireless and Motorola said
today in a statement. Phone manufacturers sell 160,000 devices
that run the software a day,  Andy Rubin , Google vice president
of engineering, said at a press conference today.  
 Motorola, based in the Chicago suburb of Schaumburg,  rose 
10 cents to $7.30 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock has declined 5.9 percent this year after
climbing 75 percent last year.  
 Flash Video  
 Motorola’s handset unit lost more than $3 billion in the
past two years as it struggled to compete with the iPhone and
BlackBerry. The Droid helped Motorola narrow the loss at the
unit to $192 million  last quarter  from $545 million a year
earlier. The unit’s revenue fell 8.9 percent to $1.64 billion.  
 The company is still confident the handset business will
make money in the fourth quarter and that a planned spinoff of
that unit and the set-top box business into a new company will
occur in the first quarter, Jha said.  
 The Droid X lets users shoot video, watch movies and browse
the Web. Its camera has a resolution of 8 megapixels, compared
with 5 megapixels for Apple’s iPhone 4, which is scheduled to
start selling tomorrow. The Droid X’s display is also larger
than the 3.5-inch screen of the iPhone 4.  
 The Droid X also will be able to play video on sites that
use Adobe Systems Inc.’s Flash technology. Apple CEO  Steve Jobs 
has banned Flash from Apple’s iPhone and iPad mobile devices and
faulted it as slow, buggy and power hungry.  
 Jha defended Flash, saying handsets without the technology
aren’t able to fully access features and video on sites such as
YouTube.  
 “There is a huge amount of content that consumers want
access to, and it is my job to make that access possible through
my devices,” Jha said. “He has decided that’s not the case.
That’s his choice,” Jha said, referring to Jobs.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        