-- Motorola's Jha Says Carl Icahn Has Been a `Force for Good'
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-06-23T16:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/motorola-s-jha-says-carl-icahn-has-been-a-force-for-good-.html

          
          
             Motorola Inc.  co-Chief Executive
Officer  Sanjay Jha  said billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who
pressured the company into a planned spinoff of its handset
business, has been “a force for good.”  
 “Carl is seen as an agitator, but in this instance I think
he’s agitated in the right ways,” Jha said today in an interview
at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “He’s pushed for us to
think about our business in the right way from a  balance sheet 
point of view, from a focus on businesses point of view.”  
 Following demands from Icahn, Motorola agreed to change its
structure in 2008 to try and reverse the performance of its
ailing  handset business . Jha, who was brought in from chipmaker
Qualcomm Inc. to revive phone sales, is rebuilding that business
by focusing on a smaller range of more profitable smartphones
that use  Google Inc. ’s Android platform.  
 Icahn, who built his fortune by investing in companies and
pressuring managements into making changes, said in a regulatory
filing on May 7 that he had lifted his stake in Motorola to 8.75
percent from 5.15 percent at the end of 2009.  
 “The board has acted extremely responsibly in bringing
Sanjay on board and also in splitting up the company, both of
which are very positive steps,” Icahn, 74, said in an interview
today. “We’re extremely happy with what’s been happening. I
believe the company is undervalued.”  
 ‘Work to Be Done’  
 Jha, 47, is chasing Apple Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd.
for a larger share of the smartphone market after Apple’s iPhone
and RIM’s BlackBerry overtook Motorola handsets in global unit
sales last quarter, according to researcher ISuppli Corp.  
 Smartphones allow users to surf the Web, play videos and
send e-mail. Their sales are outpacing the market for basic
phones, used mainly for calls and text messages that were
Motorola’s traditional strength.  
 Motorola, based in the Chicago suburb of Schaumburg,  fell 
5 cents to $7.15 at 12:26 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Before today, the stock had declined
7.2 percent this year after climbing 75 percent  last year .  
 Asked to assess his own performance in his almost two years
at Motorola, Jha said: “I would give myself a B to B plus.”  
 “There’s a lot of work to be done,” he said. “What we
have done fundamentally is transitioned ourselves from a voice-
centric company, a feature-phone centric company, to a
smartphone-centric company.”  
 ‘Value’ in Tablets  
 Motorola is contemplating devices beyond smartphones and
the company will “participate in that over the course of the
next nine months,” Jha said, declining to elaborate on the kind
of products under development.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, said yesterday that
it sold 3 million of its iPad tablet computers in the 80 days
since they debuted in the U.S., demonstrating the mainstream
appeal of a device that straddles the divide between smartphones
and notebook computers.  
 Jha said that while he sees “value” in tablets as a
product group between computers and phones, “I don’t know that
I see that as being the last word in how to define that space.”  
 Jha also said he’s open to adding another operating system
other than Android for Motorola’s phones, though it would have
to be a “very compelling proposition” that offers features
Android doesn’t have.  
 “Google is probably out-innovating any other ecosystem
today,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Carl Icahn, a billionaire investor, speaks during the World Business Forum in New York. Photographer: Chip East/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
