-- House Judiciary Committee Approves Bill to Expand BP's Liability in Spill
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-06-23T20:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/house-judiciary-committe-approves-bill-to-expand-bp-s-liability-in-spill.html

          
          
             Legislation expanding the categories
of liability facing BP Plc and Transocean Ltd. after the biggest
U.S. oil spill won approval today by the U.S. House Judiciary
Committee.  
 The panel also approved by voice vote giving itself power
to subpoena London-based BP as part of an investigation into the
April 20 explosion of a Transocean rig leased by BP in the Gulf
of Mexico.  
 The liability legislation, sent to the House floor on a
vote of 16 to 11, would be retroactive and apply to all oil
companies. Without changing a $75 million ceiling on economic
damages under the Oil Pollution Act, the bill would overhaul
certain laws dating back to the 1800s that lawmakers say are
outdated and could hurt the claims process.  
 The oil spill “not only highlighted gaps in our ability to
engage and regulate deepwater drilling, but also major legal
loopholes,”  John Conyers , a Michigan Democrat who heads the
committee, said today before the vote.  
 BP spokesman  Mark Salt  wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  
 The bill would change existing law so that relatives of 11
workers who died on the Deepwater Horizon rig can make claims
based on loss of companionship. The measure also would repeal an
1851 law under which Geneva-based Transocean says it was
responsible for no more than $27 million in damages, the value
of the rig’s unpaid drilling rental fees.  
 ‘Negligent Corporations’  
 Today’s vote “was a crucial step towards ensuring that the
negligent corporations responsible for this tragedy will foot
their share of the bill,” said  Anthony Tarricone , president of
the Washington-based American Association for Justice, a trade
group for trial lawyers.  
 Mike Geczi, a spokesman representing Transocean, said the
company had no comment. Transocean has said the $27 million cap
doesn’t apply to environmental losses by the U.S. and Gulf Coast
states.  
 The bill would change bankruptcy rules to prevent companies
from fencing off their assets from claims.  
 Representative  Lamar Smith  of Texas, the committee’s senior
Republican, said the bill is overly broad and would have
“unintended consequences” beyond the Gulf of Mexico spill.  
 “We should not rush this provision through,” he said.  
 Democratic efforts to remove the $75 million limit on
liability for offshore drillers have been blocked by Republicans
who say it would make it financially prohibitive for independent
producers to drill. The limit doesn’t include cleanup costs from
a spill, and BP has said it would honor all “legitimate”
claims from the spill regardless of the $75 million ceiling.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        