-- House Votes to Give Subpoena Power to Presidential Panel on BP Oil Spill
-- Laurie Asseo
-- 2010-06-23T20:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/house-votes-to-give-subpoena-power-to-presidential-panel-on-bp-oil-spill.html

          
          
             The U.S. House voted to give
subpoena power to the presidential commission investigating the
 BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 The measure, passed 420-1, would let the National
Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore
Drilling compel testimony and the production of documents.
Lawmakers say such power would ensure a more complete
accounting.  
 “We are giving the commission some teeth,” said
Representative  Nick Rahall , a West Virginia Democrat. “Without
subpoena power, the commission runs the risk of allowing BP to
write its own history of what happened in the gulf.”  
 Democrats  Lois Capps  of California and  Edward Markey  of
Massachusetts are sponsoring the proposal. In the Senate,
Democrat  Jeanne Shaheen  of New Hampshire has introduced a
similar measure.  
 “BP must be held 100 percent accountable for their
actions,” said Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana
Republican, while also criticizing the Obama administration for
what he described as an inadequate response to the spill. Future
spills “can only be prevented if we know what went wrong,”
Fleming said.  
 President  Barack Obama  created the commission by executive
order on May 22, appointing former Senator  Bob Graham , a Florida
Democrat, and Republican  William Reilly , a former Environmental
Protection Agency administrator, to lead the effort.  
 The commission is modeled on panels that investigated the
Three Mile Island nuclear accident in 1979 and the assassination
of President  John F. Kennedy  in 1963. Obama directed the panel
to issue a report before the end of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurie Asseo  in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        