-- House Backs Off $150 Billion Reserve Fund for Unwinding Failed U.S. Firms
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-23T15:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/house-backs-off-150-billion-reserve-fund-for-unwinding-failed-u-s-firms.html

          
          
             U.S. House negotiators relented on
their proposal to set up a $150 billion reserve fund to pay for
the government’s liquidation of failing financial firms,
agreeing with the Senate that those costs could be recouped from
creditors and the industry after a collapse.  
 House negotiators indicated their support for the Senate
language in a counteroffer that was obtained today by Bloomberg
News.  
 A committee of Senate and House lawmakers is negotiating
the final shape of the financial-regulatory bill, reconciling
the separate legislation passed in each chamber.  
 The House bill passed in December included a proposal to
set up a $150 billion fund supported through fees on the
financial industry, aimed at preventing a repeat of the $700
billion bailout Congress approved in 2008 to rescue U.S. banks.
The fund was to be used by Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to
unwind failing firms whose collapse could threaten the economy.  
 Senate Republicans objected to the idea of the fund, saying
it would encourage bailouts rather than prevent them. They
blocked progress of the overall bill in the Senate until
Democrats agreed to eliminate the idea.  
 Adding it back in the bill could have eroded Republican
support for the measure, which still has to get a final vote
from the House and Senate before it can be sent to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature.  
 Under the Senate plan, the FDIC could borrow funds to
liquidate a firm and recoup the costs from the sale of the
company’s assets. If the FDIC had expenses beyond the value of
the assets, it would recover the costs by taking back payments
from creditors or imposing fees on large financial firms.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        