-- China Housing Market Avoids `Bubble' on Economy's Strength, UBS, ING Say
-- Kathleen Chu
-- 2010-06-23T02:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/housing-market-in-china-underpinned-by-economy-isn-t-bubble-ubs-ing-say.html

          
          
             China’s housing market is not in a
bubble and economic expansion and urbanization will support
gains in property prices in the long term, UBS Global Asset
Management and ING Real Estate Investment Management said.  
 Economic growth  will underpin the market even amid concern
that a bubble has formed in first-tier cities and some second-
tier ones, Lijian Chen, head of global real estate for Greater
China at UBS Global Asset Management, told a property conference
in Singapore yesterday.  
 The Chinese government has introduced measures to rein in
record price gains, including a ban on loans for third-home
purchases, higher mortgage rates and down-payment requirements
for second homes. Real-estate prices jumped 12.4 percent across
70 cities in May, after a 12.8 percent surge in April that was
the most since the data series began in 2005.  
 “The market is not suffering from a bubble,” said  Richard Van Den Berg , managing director at  ING Real Estate , a global
fund manager with about $87.7 billion of assets. “There are
price corrections going to take place in primary cities. In
secondary cities, because of government measures, there will be
a bit of cooling off, lower volume, and wait and see. In
principle, the market is very, very healthy.”  
 The country’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in almost three years, boosted by
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s $586 billion stimulus package. The World
Bank, in an economic outlook published June 9, forecast 9.5
percent GDP growth for the year.  
 Hot Market  
 “At the end of the day, the real estate market will
continue to grow,” said UBS’s Chen. “The economy will grow at
10 percent and that will translate into income growth.”  
 UBS Global Asset Management, a division of UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, invested $560 billion in assets as
of March 2010.  
 China overtook Hong Kong as the world’s hottest housing
market in the first quarter, with prices rising at more than
double the rate of anywhere else, property adviser  Knight Frank
LLP  said June 17.  
 China’s retail and residential properties remain the top
desired investments for the three years ending 2012, according
to a survey of 75 investors and fund managers this year by Hong
Kong-based Anrev, a non-for-profit organization.  
 UBS’s and ING’s optimism contrasts with Nomura Holdings Inc.
The “bubble” in  China’s property market  is going to burst very
quickly, with prices set to fall as much as 20 percent in the
next 12 to 18 months,  Sun Mingchun , a Hong Kong-based economist
at Nomura, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on June 16.  
 No Bubble  
 Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd., said
the government’s measures are working “by all accounts.”
China’s property boom isn’t a bubble because it’s supported by
“solid” demand for residential housing, he said in a radio
interview from Hong Kong with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Surveillance.  
 There is demand for ING Real Estate’s residential projects
in second-tier cities in China, despite the government’s cooling
measures, said Van Den Berg. About 20 percent of buyers pay in
cash, while the rest will borrow less than half the purchase
price, he said.  
 Affordability and the level of borrowing are supporting
second-tier cities, he said.  
 “Affordability in second-tier cities, not all, but most,
is still extremely healthy, where you see between 20 to 30
percent of people’s disposable income is utilized for paying a
mortgage,” he said, citing ING Real Estate’s research.
“Leverage in China across the board is very low. The risk in
regards to people not being able to fund their mortgage
commitment is not very high. The backdrop is economic growth.”  
 Medium-Term Promise  
 While the government’s measures to curb real estate
investment have created more uncertainties, there are
opportunities in the long term, real estate fund managers such
as Grosvenor,  RREEF , and Morgan Stanley said at the Real Estate
Investment World conference in Singapore.  
 “China holds a lot of promise in the medium and long
term,” said  Nicholas Loup , chief executive for the Asia-Pacific
region at  Grosvenor , an Edinburgh-based privately owned property
group.  
 China is “going to be an attractive market in the long run,
but at the moment, it feels a bit over-heated,” said  Willem De Geus , a managing director of Morgan Stanley Real Estate
Investment Management. “Nothing is easy in China.”  
 While it’s challenging to manage assets in China with some
tenants in default, the nation looks more interesting than India
because of the size of the economy, said  Paul Keogh , chief
investment officer for Asia-Pacific at RREEF, the real estate
investment management business of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
AG, with about $54 billion in assets managed.  
 “China has emerged more rapidly over the last few years,”
Keogh said. “From an economic perspective, infrastructure,
urbanization, you’ve got GDP growth that’s three times more than
what India is on a per-capita basis.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        