-- Housing Market Threatens U.S. Recovery as Slide Resumes
-- Kathleen M. Howley
-- 2010-06-23T14:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/housing-sales-slide-resumes-in-threat-to-obama-s-stimulus-driven-recovery.html

          
          
             The U.S. real estate market
threatens to undercut the Obama administration’s stimulus-driven
economic recovery as  home sales  resume their record slide
following the end of the federal homebuyer tax credit.  
 New-home sales tumbled 33 percent last month to a record
low annual pace of 300,000, the Commerce Department said in a
report today. Sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly fell
2.2 percent in May, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday, even as mortgage rates remained near an all-time low.  
 The end of the tax credit in April is putting a strain on a
market still hurting from the worst collapse since the Great
Depression.  Foreclosures  may reach 1.9 million this year after a
record 2 million in 2009, according to  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. It would take 8.3 months to sell all available
3.89 million existing homes, the Realtors’ association said.  
 “We’re going to see a home-sales air pocket after the end
of the tax-credit stimulus,” said  Richard DeKaser , a former
economist at the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis who founded
Washington-based Woodley Park Research. “That means housing
will be a drag on third-quarter economic growth.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index fell 0.7 percent at 10:12
a.m. New York time, adding to yesterday’s 1.6 percent loss, amid
concerns that the home-sales data show economic growth isn’t
strong enough to justify the 6 percent run-up in stock prices in
the previous two weeks.  
 Prices Are Crucial  
 The U.S. economy will expand 3 percent from July through
September, down from 3.3 percent this quarter and 5.6 percent in
the final three months of 2009, according to the median forecast
of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The falloff may be
steeper if the property market deteriorates more than currently
expected.  
 “If there is a sharp decline not only in housing sales but
in housing prices, that could threaten a recovery,” said  Susan Wachter , a real estate professor at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School in Philadelphia.  
 Combined sales of new and existing homes will drop 12
percent in the third quarter from the three months ending June
30, according to a forecast by  Fannie Mae , the largest mortgage
financier, before yesterday’s report. Freddie Mac, which ranks
second after Fannie Mae, is projecting a 7.1 percent decline.  
 The  median U.S. home price  slid 29 percent to an almost
eight-year low of $164,600 in February from a peak of $230,300
in July 2006, according to data from the Realtors group. Prices
will drop 3.6 percent this year after falling 4.5 percent in
2009, the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association
estimates.  
 Consumer Spending  
 Lower prices, fewer home sales and a drop in residential
construction will sap consumer spending that accounts for about
70 percent of the world’s largest economy, according to Woodley
Park’s DeKaser.  
 “There’s a tight relationship between home sales and
outlays on furniture, appliances and building materials,” he
said. “We’ve already seen some pullback on housing-related
items because of the drop in home construction.”  
 Sales at  U.S. retailers  fell 1.2 percent in May, the first
decline in eight months, led by a record 9.3 percent plunge at
building-material stores, the Commerce Department said June 11.  
 Residential investment -- comprised of home construction,
renovation and real estate broker commissions -- will slice 0.03
percentage point from U.S. economic growth in the third quarter
before adding 0.4 percentage point in the final three months of
2010, according to IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts.  
 ‘Tepid Recovery’  
 Such investment boosted GDP by 0.4 percentage point in the
third quarter of 2009, the first positive contribution in four
years. In the fourth quarter it added 0.1 percentage point.  
 “A tepid economic recovery -- that’s what we’re going to
get, because housing is only very slowly going to return to
normal,” said  Edward Leamer , an economist at the University of
California, Los Angeles, and director of the UCLA/Anderson
Business Forecast. “We’ve had a medicated market because of the
tax credit and the meds have been removed, so it’s going to be
difficult to sell homes in the next few months.”  
 The homebuyer tax credit of as much as $8,000 required
buyers to have a signed contract by April 30 and close on a
property by July 1. The credit resulted in 1 million additional
home sales from its inception in February 2009 to expiration,
according to  Lawrence Yun , chief economist of the Chicago-based
National Association of Realtors.  
 Rescue Efforts  
 “Without a doubt the economy would be much more sluggish
without the homebuyer tax credit,” Yun said.  
 The Federal Reserve, in an effort to keep home loans
flowing, spent $1.25 trillion to buy mortgage-backed securities.
The program, which ended in March, pushed the average U.S. 30-
year fixed-mortgage rate to an all-time low of 4.71 percent in
December. Last week the  rate  was 4.75 percent.  
 Unemployment is the main reason housing is weakening
without the tax credit to spur demand, Leamer of UCLA said. GDP
would have to grow at a 5 percent to 6 percent rate to create
“significant reductions” in joblessness, Leamer said.  
 “People won’t buy homes when they are worried about their
jobs,” he said.  
 The  jobless rate  will stay above 9 percent through the
second quarter of 2011, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 Home construction and property sales led the way out of the
previous seven recessions going back to 1960, according to  PMI
Group Inc. , a mortgage insurer in Walnut Creek, California. New-
home sales improved an average of eight months before the
beginning of economic growth, and single-family housing starts
improved seven months before recovery.  
 That didn’t happen this time. Sales of new houses fell in
five of the eight months before economic expansion began in
2009’s second half. Housing starts fell in two of seven months.  
 “This is a recession that was induced by housing, and
housing is not going to carry us out like it has done in the
past,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist of Chicago-based
Mesirow Financial Holdings Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Foreclosures may reach 1.9 million this year after a record 2 million in 2009, according to chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. Mark Zandi. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Shiller, an economics professor at Yale University and chief economist at MacroMarkets LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about U.S. sales of previously owned homes in May, the impact of a government tax credit on home sales and the outlook for the housing market.
     Purchases of existing houses, which are tabulated when a contract closes, decreased 2.2 percent to a 5.66 million annual rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
