-- Picasso Portrait Fetches $52 Million; Monet Flops
-- Scott Reyburn
-- 2010-06-24T00:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/lloyd-webber-s-picasso-portrait-sells-for-52-million-at-christie-s-london.html

          
          
             The headline-grabbing sale of
composer  Andrew Lloyd Webber’s   Pablo Picasso  portrait for 34.8
million pounds ($52 million) helped make a London art auction
the biggest ever held in the U.K.  
 Still, 25 percent of the 62 lots of Impressionist and
modern art failed to sell -- including a  Claude Monet  painting,
which like the Picasso was forecast to fetch as much as 40
million pounds at hammer prices. Both works had tipped to set
records for the artists or even for any work of art at auction.
Lloyd Webber’s lot was one of 35 that sold within or below
forecast as the top end of the art market had a reality check,
said dealers.  
 “The Monet consignor was greedy,” the New York-based
dealer  Richard Feigen  said in an interview. “It was a sweet
painting, not a great Monet. Except for two or three works, this
was an average sale.”  
 Buyers are being selective near the start of two weeks of
London sales that are a bellwether for the market. During the
last six months, bidding from Russia, the Middle East and Asia
has helped push auction prices of trophy-quality artworks to
record levels. This time there was less buying from the emerging
markets, said Sotheby’s and Christie’s. Last night’s record
total of 152.6 million pounds with fees fell short of the low
estimate of 163.7 million pounds, based on hammer prices.  
 Monet’s 1906 “Nympheas” failed to attract any bidding,
drawing gasps from a packed saleroom.  
 “I had four people on phones waiting for the Monet and no
one pulled the trigger,”  Thomas Seydoux , Christie’s
international head of Impressionist and modern art said in an
interview after the sale. “We were a bit too bullish. Once an
estimate gets to 30 million pounds, it does create caution.”  
 Manet Cloud  
 As at Sotheby’s the previous evening, where a Manet self-
portrait fell to a lone bid of 22.4 million pounds, within-
estimate buying was the norm.  
 “That disappointing price definitely cast a cloud over the
hugely estimated lots,” the London-based dealer Richard Nagy
said in an interview. “Everyone expects ever-increasing record
prices and the auction houses can’t keep pulling rabbits out of
hats. The market is still solid, though, and whatever sold
fetched the correct price.”  
 Picasso’s 1903 “Portrait of Angel Fernandez de Soto (The
Absinthe Drinker),” attracted three bidders before selling to
New York-based Christie’s specialist Sheri Farber, representing
a client on the telephone, underbid by an Asian collector.  
 “It was slightly Edwardian in feel,” said Nagy. “What
people want now is modernism.”  
 Gustav Klimt’s  recently restituted 1917 to 1918
“Frauenbildnis (Portrait of Ria Munk III),” sold just above
the high estimate to a telephone bidder for 18.8 million pounds,
despite having been offered privately before the sale.  
 Guaranteed Picasso  
 Picasso’s 1969 figure painting “Le baiser” -- sold to a
phone bidder represented by Seydoux for 12.1 million pounds,
just above the high estimate -- was the third of a trio of works
to sell for more than 10 million pounds. It was the only lot to
carry a guaranteed minimum price, provided by a third party.  
 Vincent van Gogh’s  1889 landscape, “Parc de l’hopital
Saint-Paul,” estimated at 8 million pounds to 12 million
pounds, found a telephone bidder for 9 million pounds. A
lifetime cast of  Auguste Rodin’s  bronze “L’age d’airain” sold
for 3.4 million pounds, double the upper estimate.  
 “People are looking at the works and not just the catalog,
and some works just don’t measure up,” Jonathon P. Binstock, a
New York-based art adviser at Citi Private Bank, said in an
interview. “The market is recovering, but we’re not quite there
yet.”  
 The equivalent sale last year, held during the financial
crisis, raised 37.1 million pounds from 44 lots.  
 ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Portrait of Angel Fernandez de Soto"  
                       
                         
                           Christie's Images via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Portrait of Angel Fernandez de Soto" (1903) by Pablo Picasso was offered for sale by the Andrew Lloyd Webber Foundation at Christie's International's June 23 auction of Impressionist and Modern Art, in London, and was expected to fetch between 30 million pounds and 40 million pounds. It sold for 34.8 million pounds. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Portrait of Angel Fernandez de Soto" (1903) by Pablo Picasso was offered for sale by the Andrew Lloyd Webber Foundation at Christie's International's June 23 auction of Impressionist and Modern Art, in London, and was expected to fetch between 30 million pounds and 40 million pounds. It sold for 34.8 million pounds. Source: Christie's Images via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Nympheas" by Claude Monet. The painting failed to sell after being estimated to fetch between 30 million pounds and 40 million pounds at Christie's International in London. The work is one of a series of ``Nympheas'' paintings exhibited by Monet at Paris dealers Durand-Ruel in 1906. Source: Christie's Images via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Frauenbildnis (Portrait of Ria Munk III)  
                       
                         
                           Christie's Images Ltd. 2010 via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The unfinished Gustav Klimt painting "Frauenbildnis (Portrait of Ria Munk III)." The painting sold for 18.8 million pounds. It was expected to fetch between 14 million pounds and 18 million pounds at Christie's International Ltd.'s June 23 sale of Impressionist and Modern art in London. Executed between 1917 and 1918, the painting is a posthumous study of Ria Munk, the daughter of a Viennese industrialist, who committed suicide in 1911. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The unfinished Gustav Klimt painting "Frauenbildnis (Portrait of Ria Munk III)." The painting sold for 18.8 million pounds. It was expected to fetch between 14 million pounds and 18 million pounds at Christie's International Ltd.'s June 23 sale of Impressionist and Modern art in London. Executed between 1917 and 1918, the painting is a posthumous study of Ria Munk, the daughter of a Viennese industrialist, who committed suicide in 1911. Source: Christie's Images Ltd. 2010 via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
