-- Toyota Must Tell Dealers to Keep Evidence, Judge in Federal Lawsuits Rules
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-23T21:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/toyota-must-tell-dealers-to-keep-evidence-judge-in-federal-lawsuits-rules.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  must direct its
dealers to preserve documents related to allegations of sudden
acceleration, a judge overseeing federal lawsuits ruled.  
 The company has to order the preservation of material held
by Lexus and Toyota dealers because such evidence could be
relevant to hundreds of lawsuits, U.S. District Judge  James V. Selna  in Santa Ana, California, said today at a hearing. Selna
is overseeing all federal suits against the automaker over
sudden-acceleration claims.  
 Toyota lawyers told the judge that the company doesn’t have
direct control over dealerships, particularly those that don’t
file documents electronically, and that it couldn’t enforce such
an order.  
 Brian Lyons, a Toyota spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment after the ruling.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest  automaker , faces more than 300
federal and state lawsuits including proposed class actions over
economic losses and claims of personal injuries or deaths caused
by sudden-acceleration incidents. The federal  lawsuits  in April
were combined before Selna in a multidistrict litigation, or
MDL.  
 The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for repaired related to sudden,
unintended acceleration. In September the automaker announced a
recall of 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles because of a
defect that may cause floor mats to jam accelerator pedals. The
company later recalled vehicles over defects involving the
pedals themselves.  
 All the class actions and most of the individual lawsuits
were filed after September.  
 The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego
at   callahan@san.rr.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        