-- Palm Oil Rallies From Near Seven-Month Low as Ringgit Slide Boosts Appeal
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-06-23T10:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/palm-oil-rallies-from-near-seven-month-low-as-ringgit-slide-boosts-appeal.html

          
          
             Palm oil climbed, rallying from the
lowest closing price in almost seven months, as the Malaysian
ringgit weakened for a second day, making the oil more
attractive for refiners.  
 Palm oil for September delivery on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange gained 0.3 percent to 2,384 ringgit ($737) a metric ton,
after dropping to the lowest close since Nov. 19 yesterday. The
contract rose as high as 2,393 ringgit earlier.  
 The Malaysian ringgit fell for a second day, losing as much
as 2.2 percent to 3.28 a dollar on concern over a slowing global
economic recovery, extending yesterday’s 0.6 percent slide. The
currency gained for four of the first five months this year, and
is set to extend its rally in June, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Palm oil prices are well supported by demand “given that
more than 90 percent is used for food products,” making the
commodity “a defensive consumer staple,” said Tanuj Shori, a
plantation analyst at Nomura Singapore Ltd. “We do not expect a
severe impact from macro-economic factors.”  
 Prices are also supported as “production yields remain
questionable” after dry weather caused by the El Nino weather
phenomenon hurt crops, Shori said.  
 Prices may also be supported if South American soybean
farmers hold back sales to reduce crushing amid a record soybean
harvest this year and on the prospect of dry weather hurting the
U.S. soybean crop, said  Ben Santoso , a plantation analyst at DBS
Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte., yesterday.  
 Soybean oil in Chicago for December delivery gained 0.1
percent to 38.94 cents a pound at 5:52 p.m. Singapore time, down
4.5 percent for this year. Palm oil has fallen almost 11 percent.  
 Tight Supply  
 Soybean futures may rally to $10 a bushel within the next
two weeks on “short-term tightness” and speculative covering,
said  Scott Briggs , a agricultural commodities strategist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. yesterday. Soybeans
for November delivery dropped 0.1 percent to $9.35 a bushel.  
 CME Group Inc.’s September-delivery palm oil contract,
hich is pegged to the Malaysian benchmark price, dropped 1
percent to $736.50 a ton.  
 On the Dalian Commodity Exchange, January-delivery palm oil
was little changed, rising 4 yuan at 6,496 yuan ($954) a ton
while Dalian soybean oil eased 0.3 percent to 7,598 yuan a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        