-- Parkway Shares Fall After Morgan Stanley Says Khazanah Bid Not Compelling
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-06-23T09:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/parkway-shares-fall-after-morgan-stanley-says-khazanah-bid-not-compelling.html

          
          
             Parkway Holdings Ltd. , the target of
a S$1.18 billion ($851 million) bid for control by  Khazanah
Nasional Bhd. , fell the most in two weeks in Singapore trading
after Morgan Stanley said the offer wasn’t compelling.  
 Parkway, Asia’s biggest hospital operator, lost 1.9 percent
to S$3.68, the  lowest close  since June 7. The price is less than
the S$3.78 a share Khazanah offered on May 27 to more than
double its stake to 51.5 percent and overtake  Fortis Healthcare
Ltd.  as Singapore-based Parkway’s largest stakeholder.  
 Morgan Stanley made the comments as adviser to independent
directors of Parkway in a circular distributed by the hospital
operator today. Fortis, which owns 25.4 percent of Parkway, said
June 15 it is “keeping its options open” after Kuala Lumpur-
based Khazanah made the offer.  
 “Although the value implied by the offer price is
reasonable, the offer price is not compelling in the context of
a partial offer involving a change of control,” Morgan Stanley
said in the circular. Parkway’s  independent directors  concur
with the advice, according to the circular.  
 Fortis said on June 9 it plans to raise 27.5 billion rupees
($595 million) and its board approved doubling its borrowing
limit to 60 billion rupees. The New Delhi-based hospital
operator’s capital-raising and increased borrowing limits
indicate preparation for countering Khazanah’s bid, Batlivala &
Karani Securities India Pvt. said in a June 16 report.  
 Offer Deadline  
 The offer from Khazanah, a Malaysian state investment
company, closes July 8. Fortis must announce by July 30 whether
it plans to make a general offer for Parkway, Singapore’s
Securities Industry Council, or SIC, said June 16.  
 Five of Parkway’s 17 directors are considered independent
for the purposes of the Khazanah bid, according to the circular.
Among the five, two plan to vote in favor of the bid and sell
their shares, one doesn’t plan to vote and will keep his stake,
and two don’t own shares in Parkway.  
 Three other directors, Chief Executive Officer  Tan See Leng ,
former CEO  Lim Cheok Peng  and Vice Chairman  Seow Yung Liang ,
will vote against Khazanah’s offer and won’t sell their shares,
according to the circular.  
 Tan, Lim and Seow entered into an agreement with Fortis in
March allowing the Indian company to tell them how to vote at
shareholder and director meetings, according to the circular.
Fortis also gave the three men a right to participate in
“certain economic benefits,” the circular said.  
 Singapore’s SIC , which regulates takeovers, doesn’t
consider the three directors independent for the purpose of
Khazanah’s offer and they are exempted from making a
recommendation to shareholders, according to the document.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        