-- Patel Engineering May Raise $260 Million by Divesting 30% of Energy Unit
-- Hemal Savai
-- 2010-06-23T00:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/patel-engineering-may-raise-260-million-by-divesting-30-of-energy-unit.html

          
          
             Patel Engineering Ltd. , an Indian
construction company that counts power producers including NTPC
Ltd. as customers, plans to raise about 12 billion rupees ($260
million) selling as much as 30 percent of its energy unit.  
 “The funds will be used to build the first power plant,
which we’ll start constructing next year,” Managing Director
 Rupen Patel  said in an interview yesterday. “Any additional
funds will be put in by the company.”  
 Patel Engineering is building a 1,050 megawatt thermal
power project in India’s southern Tamil Nadu state. The nation
plans to double installed power generation capacity in the next
seven years to meet surging demand and reduce blackouts in
Asia’s third-largest economy.  
 Patel Engineering has spent about 3 billion rupees on the
Tamil Nadu power project and plans to invest a further 2 billion
rupees before it sells a stake,  Gopal Ritolia  and  Anupam Gupta ,
analysts at IIFL, a unit of India Infoline Ltd., wrote in a June
10 note, where they advised investors to buy the stock.  
 The  shares  have lost 6.3 percent this year, compared with a
2.8 percent gain in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s BSE200 Index.  
 Mumbai-based Patel Engineering expects its  orders  to
increase 60 percent in the year through March as it builds more
dams, irrigation projects and tunnels. The company is also
developing real estate to help finance its power project.  
 “We expect 1.8 billion rupees this year from Bangalore and
Mumbai real-estate projects,” Patel said. “We see revenue
growth of as much as 50 percent in the following year in real
estate sales.”  
 Overall  sales  will increase by as much as 30 percent this
financial year, Patel said. That compares with last year’s 26
percent gain, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
will be “slightly better” than the previous year, he said,
without elaborating. Patel posted profit of 1.93 billion rupees
in the year ended March 31.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hemal Savai  in Mumbai at  at
 hsavai@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        