-- Petrobras Delays $25 Billion Stock Offering Until September
-- Peter Millard
-- 2010-06-23T21:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/petrobras-25-billion-share-sale-may-be-delayed-until-reserves-value-set.html

          
          
             Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Latin
America’s biggest company by market value, fell the most in
three weeks after delaying the sale of as much as $25 billion of
stock until September because a price hasn’t been set in a
related deal to buy oil reserves from the government.  
 Petrobras dropped the most since June 1, losing 2.1 percent
to 28.50 reais in Sao Paulo  trading , while the benchmark Bovespa
index rose 0.5 percent.  
 The offering to minority shareholders, originally planned
for July, is tied to an agreement to buy rights to as much as 5
billion barrels of oil from the government with stock.
Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, said in a statement late
yesterday that industry regulators will assess the value of such
reserves by the end of August.  
 Petrobras needs the proceeds from the sale to complete the
2010 portion of a $224 billion spending plan, said  Anisa Redman ,
an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. The delay increases
concern that the sale may be further postponed because of the
presidential election in October, said  Greg Lesko , who helps
manage $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York.  
 “The market gets a little disappointed,” Lesko said.
“The election has people concerned. As we get closer to that,
will there be enough time to get this done?”  
 $244 Billion Plan  
 Petrobras’s 2010-2014 investment plan, the oil-industry’s
biggest, aims to more than double output to 5.38 million barrels
a day by 2020. The company is looking to develop reserves in the
so-called pre-salt region off Brazil’s coast, home to
discoveries including Tupi, the largest find since Mexico’s
Cantarell in 1976.  
 “The election is the cut-off point,” Redman said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “After that, it will be more
difficult.”  
 Brazil’s oil regulator, known by its Portuguese acronym
ANP, said yesterday its board authorized the hiring of Gaffney,
Cline & Associates to assess the value of the barrels that the
government plans to sell Petrobras in exchange for stock.  
 Senator Delcidio Amaral, who was in charge of drafting the
bill authorizing the stock-for-oil swap, said in an interview in
Brasilia that “what matters is that Petrobras has a deal for
September,” adding that delays are part of the process.  
 Higher Yields  
 Petrobras said June 21 it expects to raise $58 billion
through  debt  and equity sales over the 2010-2014 period,
including the share sale this year.  
 BP Plc’s April 20 spill in the Gulf of Mexico may cause
Petrobras to pay higher yields on bonds as costs for the
industry increase because of the accident, said Gianna Bern,
president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in Flossmoor,
Illinois.  
 “The situation in the Gulf of Mexico is going to impact
the whole industry,” Bern said. “Cost structures are going to
go up across the board for all producers.”  
 Petrobras said June 2 it named Banco Bradesco SA, Citigroup
Inc., Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Banco Santander SA as global
coordinators of the sale. The following week, Petrobras said it
hired Banco do Brasil SA, Latin America’s largest bank by
assets, to manage the domestic sale.  
 Brazilian Energy Ministry official  Marco Antonio Almeida 
said June 17 that the share sale and the oil swap happening at
the same time are “indispensable.”  
 “Things will have to match somehow; this marriage looks
indispensable to me,” Almeida, the ministry’s secretary for
oil, gas and renewable fuels, said in an interview in Brasilia.
“Either the capital increase happens a bit later or we succeed
in accelerating the oil pricing process.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Petroleo Brasileiro SA chief executive officer Jose Sergio Gabrelli. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
