-- Philippine Deficit Threatens Record Stocks Rally, Top-Performing Fund Says
-- Ian C. Sayson
-- 2010-06-23T09:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/philippine-deficit-threatens-record-stocks-rally-top-performing-fund-says.html

          
          
             The Philippines’s near-record  budget
deficit  may stall the longest stretch of quarterly gains in the
stock market, according to the best-performing fund manager in
the country.  
 The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  will probably rise a
maximum 7.7 percent to 3,600 unless President-elect  Benigno Aquino  draws up a “clear” plan to cut the deficit, according
to  Steve Sevidal , who helps manage $880 million at United
Coconut Planters Bank. The government revenue shortfall widened
to 162.1 billion pesos ($3.5 billion) in the five months ended
May, breaching the target, data showed yesterday.  
 “We have the ingredients for a very good story: inflation
is benign, interest rates are stable, the economy is recovering
and companies have regained profitability,” Sevidal, whose
 United Equity Fund  is ranked highest in the country with a total
return of 32 percent over three years, said by phone in Manila.
“The only missing piece is how Aquino will deal with the
government’s fiscal position.”  
 The nation’s  benchmark stock index  has risen 5.7 percent
this quarter, the best performer among Asia’s 12 biggest markets,
on expectations a global recovery will boost economic growth.
The gauge is set for a sixth quarterly gain, the longest-winning
streak based on Bloomberg data since 1987, partly on optimism
Aquino’s election will reduce corruption.  
 The  gauge  fell 0.3 percent to 3,342.97 at the noon close in
Manila. The government yesterday said the  deficit  ballooned by
almost a quarter in May, and that it’s raising the six-month
target to 178.5 billion pesos from 145.2 billion pesos.  
 Record Deficit  
 The deficit reached a record 298.5 billion pesos in 2009
when a global slump sent the nation to its slowest  economic
growth  in 11 years and cut tax revenue. This year the shortfall
is forecast by the government to reach 297.2 billion pesos,
partly on stimulus spending to sustain economic recovery.  
 The  benchmark stock index  “could go beyond 3,600 this year
and reach 3,800 if Aquino’s administration shows a clear plan in
addressing the deficit,” said Sevidal. “Expectations are high
and the market wants to see that something’s done.”  
 The deficit won’t stop the  index  from rising beyond 3,600
as the government is able to turn to funds such as national
savings and inflows from overseas including remittances from
citizens working abroad, according to  Eduardo Banaag , who helps
manage about $563 million at First Metro Investment Corp.
Banaag’s  Save & Learn Equity Fund  has returned 11 percent over
three years, the fourth-best among Philippine equity funds.  
 ‘No Refinancing Risk’  
 “There is practically no refinancing risk,” said Banaag,
who told reporters this week he expects the stock index to rise
as high as 3,800 in the second half.  
 Finance Secretary  Gary Teves  urged Aquino at a media
briefing in Manila yesterday to increase taxes and boost revenue
by 94 billion pesos in 2011 to cut the deficit. Aquino, who
assumes office on June 30, told reporters in April he will go
after tax evaders and corrupt government officials to ease the
revenue shortfall and on June 9 said new taxes will be the
“last step” to narrow the deficit.  
 “Aquino’s biggest challenge is how to manage the
deficit,” said Sevidal. “If this isn’t properly addressed the
confidence in his administration’s ability to manage government
and the economy will be put under question.”  
 Energy, Infrastructure  
 Sevidal favors energy and infrastructure companies to beat
the index for the remainder of the year as these sectors benefit
most from accelerating economic growth. The government raised
this year’s growth target to as much as 6 percent after the
economy expanded by a better-than-expected 7.3 percent in the
first quarter. The economy grew 1.1 percent in 2009.  
 Aboitiz Power Corp. , owner of power plants and
distributors,  First Philippine Holdings Corp. , owner of the
nation’s biggest power producer, and  DMCI Holdings Inc. , the
largest construction company, are among Sevidal’s top holdings,
he said.  
 “The economic condition and tight energy supply are
favorable for power producers,” Sevidal said. “Infrastructure
will be a good long-term bet because it’s an area the country
needs to build.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        