-- Pig's Blood Cakes, Luxury Hotels Poised for Sales Boost From Stronger Yuan
-- Chinmei Sung
-- 2010-06-24T11:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/pig-s-blood-cakes-luxury-hotels-set-for-sales-boost-from-stronger-yuan.html

          
          
             Chen-Hsu Liyu, who sells pig’s blood
cakes from a suitcase-sized steamer in Taipei’s Monga Night
Market, expects to profit from China’s decision to relax the
yuan’s peg to the dollar.  
 About 54 million Chinese may travel abroad this year, and a
stronger yuan may boost their spending in Taiwan as the
government in Beijing allows more citizens to visit the island.
Travelers from mainland China -- which excludes Taiwan, Hong
Kong and Macau -- increased their  spending  21 percent to $43.7
billion last year as worldwide tourism spending fell 9.6 percent
to $852 billion, the UN’s  World Tourism Organization  said.  
 The yuan gained the most in almost five years June 21 after
the People’s Bank of China pledged to make the currency more
flexible. It ruled out a one-time revaluation and kept the
yuan’s 0.5 percent daily trading band unchanged.  
 “Chinese travelers like to visit night markets,” said
Chen-Hsu, 62, who sells the cakes for NT$10 (31 cents) apiece.
“A stronger yuan will mean more money for them when they
convert into local currency. That’s good for my business.”  
 The yuan was pegged to the dollar for 23 months, prompting
international criticism that China’s currency was undervalued.
It may climb to 6.7 per dollar by year’s end, according to a
June 20 Bloomberg analyst survey.  
 Six-Star Bookings  
 A currency appreciation, which the central bank hopes will
curb rising  inflation  and spur investment in the services
industry, makes it cheaper for Chinese to travel abroad.  
 “We expect summer bookings will increase significantly, as
we already saw a jump in booking six-star hotels in Europe,”
said Carol Chan, sales manager at  The Leading Hotels of the
World Ltd. , a New York-based organization of 450 hotels, resorts
and spas operating a reservation and marketing group.  
 “High-end mainland tourists tend to go to Europe to shop
for luxury items on the dropping of the euro and rise of the
yuan.” The yuan has already strengthened 18 percent against the
euro this year.  
 As many as 54 million Chinese will travel overseas this
year, the  China National Tourism Administration  forecast.
Euromonitor International estimated Chinese departures in 2009
at 35 million, almost triple the number a decade ago.  
 China overtook France last year as the world’s fourth-
largest source of  travel  expenditure, according to the UN
tourism agency.  
 100 Million Travelers  
 The number of millionaires in Asia-Pacific nations equaled
Europe’s for the first time last year, according to a June 22
report by Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 “The number of Chinese traveling internationally will grow
to more than 100 million over the next decade,” said  Andrew Cosslett , chief executive officer of the Intercontinental Hotel
Group.  
 Marriott International Inc. , the largest U.S. hotel chain,
is increasingly catering to Chinese visitors.  
 “We have Chinese-speaking associates and a Chinese
breakfast on our menu,” Kathleen Duffy, a spokeswoman, said in
New York.  
 More than 80 percent of Chinese travelers stay in Asia,
according to the UN agency, which cited data from China’s annual
tourism report. More than half go to Hong Kong and Macau.  
 Hong Kong was the most-visited destination by Chinese
tourists in 2008, followed by Macau, Singapore, France and
Taiwan, according to the latest figures by Nielsen Holdings BV.  
 Hong Kong Benefits  
 A total of 8.9 million Chinese have visited Hong Kong this
year through May, a 23 percent increase from a year ago,
according to the  Hong Kong Tourism Board .  
 Simon Hau, chairman of the Inbound Tour Operators
Association in Hong Kong, a group of more than 170 travel agents,
said he expects mainland Chinese tourist arrivals to surge
another 10 percent if the yuan rises 5 percent in value.  
 “They will end up coming more and spending more,” he said.  
 China’s move on the yuan is “very positive” for Macau,
the world’s biggest gambling hub,  Bill Lerner , a Las Vegas-based
analyst at Union Gaming Group, said in a research note. Casino
gambling  revenue  in Macau almost doubled last month to about 17
billion patacas ($2.12 billion).  
 Taiwan will receive 1.2 million tourists and businesspeople
from mainland China, exceeding the expected 1.13 million
Japanese in 2010, according to Taiwan’s tourism bureau.  
 ‘It Will Be Peanuts’  
 “Hong Kong’s tourism and retail sales saw robust growth
after China opened individuals to travel there,” said  Tomo Kinoshita , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “We expect
Taiwan to enjoy similar benefits.”  
 China considers Taiwan part of its territory and has more
than 1,000 missiles pointed at the island, which has been off-
limits to most China citizens for six decades. The island
dropped a ban on visits by tourists from mainland China in July
2008 after President  Ma Ying-jeou  took office and abandoned his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance.  
 Currently, the mainland government only allows residents of
25 provinces and cities to cross the 180-kilometer-wide (112-
mile-wide) Taiwan Strait. Starting July 18, all Chinese can
visit the island.  
 Wu Hsiu-peng, who sells pork-chop soup as a traditional
medicine at the  Raohe Street Night Market  in eastern Taipei,
said business is about to get better than ever.  
 “Chinese tour groups come and go like marching soldiers,”
said Wu, 53. “More of them means more business.”  
 Restaurant sales in Taiwan rose to a record NT$86 billion
($2.7 billion) in the three months ended March, as mainland
Chinese visitors surpassed Japanese for the first time, said
 Wayne Liu , chief secretary of Taiwan’s tourism bureau.  
 Chen-Hsu steams her popsicle-sized blood cakes before
dipping them in soy sauce and coating them with peanut powder.
The black delicacy was voted the weirdest food in the world by
visitors to  VirtualTourist.com , a British travel site.  
 “The bigger the money, the more you can buy,” she said.
“It will be peanuts to Chinese, since their money is bigger.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A group tourists from Jiangsu province, China, shop for accessories at a night market in Taipei. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pig-blood cakes  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pig-blood cakes are displayed for sale at a night market in Taipei. The black delicacy was voted the weirdest food in the world by visitors to VirtualTourist.com, a British travel site. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pig-blood cakes are displayed for sale at a night market in Taipei. The black delicacy was voted the weirdest food in the world by visitors to VirtualTourist.com, a British travel site. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wu Hsiu-peng ladles a bowl of her pork-chop soup  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Wu Hsiu-peng ladles a bowl of her pork-chop soup. She said her business is about to get better than ever. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Wu Hsiu-peng ladles a bowl of her pork-chop soup. She said her business is about to get better than ever. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
