-- PKO's Bid for Zachodni May Be `Negative Factor' for Polish Zloty, BNP Says
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-23T15:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/pko-s-bid-for-zachodni-may-be-negative-factor-for-polish-zloty-bnp-says.html

          
          
             PKO Bank Polski SA ’s bid for a
majority stake in  Bank Zachodni WBK SA  may be a “substantial
negative factor” for the Polish zloty if the deal goes through,
BNP Paribas SA wrote in a note to clients today.  
 The transaction would mean that the zloty would face
“significant outflow” in the coming months as the Polish bank
would have to pay for the stake in euros, according to emerging-
market strategists led by  Shahin Vallee  in London. The zloty
weakened 0.6 percent to 4.0798 per euro as of 4:44 p.m. in
Warsaw.  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc is selling a 70 percent stake in
Zachodni, Poland’s third-biggest bank by market value, to help
meet capital requirements set by Irish banking regulators.
Poland’s government supports state-controlled PKO’s bid to buy
the shares, Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  told reporters
yesterday. The stake is worth about 10 billion zloty ($3
billion) at current market prices.  
 “The Polish banking system would find it even more
difficult than right now to expand credit action as the
transaction would remove a lot of earnings that could be
retained as additional capital,” BNP said.  
 PKO, Poland’s largest lender by assets, may use retained
earnings from 2008 and 2009 as well as proceeds from last year’s
share sale to buy Zachodni, Grad told Gazeta Wyborcza in an
interview today. The bank has 2 billion zloty remaining from
2008 profit, 2.4 billion zloty from last year’s profit and 5
billion zloty from the share sale, Grad said.  
 ‘Too High’  
 News of the potential purchase “is not yet impacting
prices,” the French lender said in its note.  
 BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and OAO Sberbank of
Russia are among banks considering a bid for Allied Irish’s
stake in Bank Zachodni, three people with knowledge of the
matter said on June 15.  
 The price seems “too high,” Societe Generale Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said on that day. Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA is “looking at” the Polish bank, Chief Executive
Officer  Corrado Passera  said on June 11.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        