-- Pound Advances on Osborne Budget, Sentance Hawkish Interest-Rate Stance
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-23T16:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/pound-advances-on-osborne-s-budget-sentance-s-hawkish-stand-on-boe-rates.html

          
          
             The pound rose against the dollar
and euro as a report showed policy makers were split on whether
to raise interest rates this month.  
 The pound also advanced against 14 of 16 of its most active
counterparts on speculation that Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s budget will help Britain safeguard its top
credit rating without sacrificing growth. The Bank of England’s
minutes today indicated policy maker  Andrew Sentance  wanted an
interest-rate increase at the most recent meeting, the first
push for an advance in almost two years.  
 “Sentance’s view caught some in the market by surprise and
it provided an excuse for the pound to remain well-bid,” said
 Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at UniCredit SpA
in Milan. “This meeting took place before the emergency budget
yesterday. It’s crucial to see if he will stick to this view
next month after a deep cut in government spending.”  
 The pound, which has posted the greatest gains amongst
major currencies against the dollar over the past two days, rose
0.5 percent to $1.4895 as of 5:16 p.m. in London. It appreciated
0.9 percent to 82.12 pence per euro after reaching 82.02 pence,
the most since November 2008.  
 The U.K. has kept its main interest rate at a record low of
0.5 percent since March 2009. The yield on the short-sterling
futures contract maturing in March 2011 climbed six basis points
to 1.12 percent as investors pared bets the Bank of England will
keep down borrowing costs. It slid eight basis points yesterday.  
 ‘Balance of Risks’  
 “Despite current uncertainties, for this member, it was
appropriate to begin to withdraw gradually some of the
exceptional monetary stimulus,” the central bank minutes said.
“Other members thought that changes to the balance of risks
were insufficient to warrant a change in the stance.”  
 The Debt Management Office yesterday reduced the amount of
bonds to be sold in the fiscal year to 165 billion pounds ($245
billion) from the previous target of 185.2 billion pounds in the
wake of Osborne’s cuts.  
 The budget was largely anticipated by bond investors and a
step in the right direction, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Michael Amey . However, “we shouldn’t declare
victory on the back of intentions,” Amey, executive vice-
president of U.K. fixed income for Newport Beach, California-
based Pimco, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  
 Sentance made the first push for higher rates in almost two
years this month, the Bank of England’s notes from the June 10
rate decision showed today, opening a split among officials on
the strength of the economic recovery. Sentance argued that
inflation was proving to be “resilient.”  
 ‘Credible’ Plan  
 The yield on the 10-year gilts dipped two basis points to
3.43 percent after falling to 3.41 percent earlier, less than
one basis point from the lowest level since Oct. 14 reached
yesterday. The two-year yield fell one basis points to 0.76
percent.  
 Osborne said today that the reaction of businesses,
investors and ratings companies to his emergency budget shows he
has a “credible” plan to reduce the deficit. Moody’s Investors
Service said the U.K.’s budget is a “key step” toward
repairing the public finances and “supportive” of the
country’s top credit rating.  
 “The market liked what it heard,” said  Neil Jones , head
of European hedge fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “Osborne is walking a fine line between winning the
confidence of rating agencies and making sure Britain will avoid
a double-dip recession. I think he’s got it right. Let’s see how
these measures are delivered.”  
 Gilts outperformed Treasuries, handing investors a 5.3
percent return this year compared with a 4.8 percent gain from
U.S. government bonds, according indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The pound rose agains the dollar and euro after Osborne's budget. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
