-- Protesters Gather as Hong Kong Debates Tsang's Proposed Electoral Changes
-- Marco Lui
-- 2010-06-23T07:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/protesters-gather-as-hong-kong-debates-tsang-s-proposed-electoral-changes.html

          
          
             Hundreds of protesters demonstrated
outside Hong Kong’s  Legislative Council  as lawmakers debated
Chief Executive  Donald Tsang ’s proposed electoral system changes
that will determine the pace of democratic reforms.  
 A crowd of demonstrators, many of them students and
retirees, shouted “Abolish the functional constituencies” and
“Realize universal suffrage.” The package is likely to receive
the necessary two-thirds vote among the council’s 60 lawmakers
after a last-minute decision by the government to adjust it on
June 21.  
 As the issue came up for debate, pro-democracy lawmaker Cyd
Ho sought to delay a vote, saying the public needs more time to
consider the compromise measure released two days earlier as
Tsang attempted to ensure passage of his reforms.  
 The revised version adopts a proposal by the opposition
 Democratic Party  that the 10 new seats on the council are chosen
by voters. Originally only five were to be directly elected and
five chosen by 405 elected district councilors. The revision was
enough to convince Democratic Party lawmakers to support the
package they had previously opposed.  
 “The Democratic Party has betrayed its supporters,” said
protester Joseph Ng, a 68-year-old retiree. “I used to vote for
them in the LegCo elections but I won’t anymore.”  
 Vuvuzelas, Vendetta Masks  
 Some in the crowd blew vuvuzelas, the foot-long plastic
horns that have become popular at this year’s World Cup soccer
tournament in South Africa. Others wore masks used in the movie
 “V for Vendetta,”  about a revolutionary who tries to destroy a
totalitarian government.  
 “We are demonstrating against the government reforms which
won’t move us towards universal suffrage,” said Chan Po Ying, a
woman wearing patchwork trousers, sandals and brandishing a
yellow vuvuzela who identified herself as a member of the League
of Social Democrats party.  
 Nearby, men banged large drums while protesters on their
hands and knees used color chalk to write the Chinese characters
“Hong Kong People Govern Hong Kong” on the sidewalk. About a
dozen police vans were parked on an adjacent street.  
 If passed, the new reforms will set the pace at which Hong
Kong moves toward full universal suffrage. Currently, half the
council’s 60  members  are directly elected, while 30 are chosen
by business groups and associations representing so-called
functional constituencies.  
 Before Tsang amended the package 23 pro-democracy lawmakers
said they would block the proposals.  
 Make It Harder  
 “We are worried that these detours in the government
proposal will make it even harder to achieve universal
suffrage,”  Alan Leong , a Civic Party legislator, said on June
21. The proposal will pass with the likely support of all nine
Democratic Party lawmakers, he said.  
 The Civic Party’s five lawmakers are calling for universal
suffrage in 2012, five years earlier than China’s plans for
letting the public vote for the chief executive and eight years
before planned direct elections of all LegCo members. They also
wish to see the abolition of all functional constituency seats.  
 While Hong Kong has multiple political parties and more
civil liberties than mainland China, the central government
controls the pace and direction of constitutional changes under
the “one country, two systems” formula  struck  when Britain
handed the territory back in 1997. The timetable for greater
democracy was set by the National People’s Congress Standing
Committee.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net ;
 Marco Lui  in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        