-- Rajaratnam, Chiesi Seek Order for Details of Charges (Correct)
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-06-24T18:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/rajaratnam-chiesi-seek-court-order-for-detail-on-charges-separate-trial.html

          
          
             (Corrects attribution of comment in 10th paragraph of story
published June 23.)  
 Raj Rajaratnam and Danielle S.
Chiesi, co-defendants in the biggest hedge-fund insider-trading
case, sought to force prosecutors to give them separate trials,
drop some charges and provide more information about the
charges.  
 The pair appeared today before U.S. District Judge Richard
J. Holwell in New York. Rajaratnam’s lawyer Robert H. Hotz urged
the judge to compel prosecutors to disclose details of alleged
insider trades in 31 stocks.  
 “It’s been heralded as the biggest insider-trading case in
history, but we don’t have the trades,” Hotz said.  
 Rajaratnam, 53, and Chiesi, 44, are among more than 20
people accused since October in overlapping criminal and civil
insider-trading cases.  
 Rajaratnam, co-founder of New York-based Galleon Group, is
accused of using secret tips from corporate officials and hedge-
fund executives including Chiesi to earn millions of dollars in
illegal stock trades. The allegations involve trading shares in
12 companies, including Intel Corp., International Business
Machines Corp., Akamai Technologies Inc., Google Inc. and
Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  
 Motion to Strike  
 John M. Dowd, another Rajaratnam lawyer, asked Holwell to
strike what he said are new charges brought by prosecutors
rather than by a grand jury as required by the U.S.
Constitution.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky argued that the
government was providing additional details of an existing
conspiracy charge, not new charges.  
 Lawyers for Rajaratnam and Chiesi told Holwell their
clients should be tried separately, arguing that prosecutors
have improperly joined their cases together.  
 Another Rajaratnam lawyer, Terence Lynam, argued that only
one of the seven counts in the indictment includes both
Rajaratnam and Chiesi. Four counts implicate Rajaratnam only, he
said. Two others are directed only at Chiesi.  
 “The players aren’t the same, the dates aren’t the same,
the stocks are completely different, and they have nothing to do
with one another,” said James Keneally, a lawyer for Chiesi.  
 Andrew Michaelson, one of the prosecutors, said the two
defendants conspired together and that the separate counts are
part of related schemes.  
 The judge didn’t say when he will rule on the defense
requests. He also said he will wait to rule on a request by
Rajaratnam’s lawyers to postpone the Oct. 25 trial date.  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184; the
civil case is SEC v. Galleon Management LP, 09-cv-08811, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, leaves federal court after a hearing in New York. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
