-- Real Estate Investor Schron Sues Partner, Lawyer Over Fiduciary Breaches
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-06-23T22:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/real-estate-investor-schron-sues-partner-lawyer-over-fiduciary-breaches.html

          
          
             New York real estate investor Rubin
Schron sued property attorney  Leonard Grunstein  and his law firm
 Troutman Sanders LLP , as well as Grunstein’s business partner
Murray Forman, accusing them of breaching fiduciary duties to
benefit themselves at their clients’ expense.  
 Their conduct caused hundreds of millions of dollars in
damages to Schron and entities controlled by his family, he said
today in a complaint filed in state court in New York. Plaintiff
companies included SMV Property Holdings LLC, SWC Property
Holdings LLC and Cam-Elm Co. LLC.  
 Grunstein represented Schron and his entities from the
1980s to the fall of 2009, according to the suit. He later
brought deals to Schron’s attention and took equity interests in
them for himself and others, the suit says.  
 In the past seven years, Grunstein and Forman became
involved in a series of companies that operate more than 300
nursing homes. The operators of the facilities are among the
defendants in the suit.  
 The transactions were financed by Schron, the complaint
alleges. Grunstein and Forman allegedly got “extremely valuable
ownership interests” without contributing cash or taking risk,
“stealing for themselves tens of millions of dollars of value,
properties and rights that actually belong to Schron.”  
 Grunstein, a partner at Troutman Sanders, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment. He is on a leave of
absence, according to Mark Braykovich, a spokesman for the firm.
Braykovich had no immediate comment on the suit.  
 Forman couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  
 Millions in Damages  
 Schron is seeking damages including hundreds of millions of
dollars in misappropriated assets. More than $100 million he
says is owed under loan agreements, tens of millions are claimed
in legal and professional fees for conflicted and fraudulent
services, and $50 million in losses arising from a Citibank
interest-rate swap transaction.  
 In February, the U.S. reached a $14 million settlement with
nursing home chains and  SavaSeniorCare Administrative Services
LLC  over allegations of kickbacks from a supplier of drugs to
nursing home patients. The government accord resolved claims
that the companies and their principals,  Grunstein , Forman and
Schron, solicited kickbacks from  Omnicare Inc. , the U.S. Justice
Department said in an e-mailed statement at the time.  
 Mariner and SavaSeniorCare are among the defendants in
Schron’s suit.  
 The case is Schron v. Grunstein, 650702/2010, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 -- Editor:  Fred Strasser, Glen Holdcraft   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        