-- Treasuries Rally Before Fed's Decision as New Home Sales Drop to a Record
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-06-23T16:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/treasuries-rally-before-fed-s-decicion-as-new-home-sales-drop-to-record.html

          
          
             Treasury 10-year note yields fell to
the lowest since May as a government report showing new home
sales plunged to a record low added to speculation Federal
Reserve policy makers may lower their economic outlook.  
 U.S. government debt gained for a second day before the
Treasury auctions $38 billion of five-year notes, a day after
attracting the lowest yield on record for a two-year note
auction. The Federal Open Market Committee is expected by
analysts to to reiterate its commitment to an “extended
period” of low interest rates.  
 “The reality is that the market is coming to grips with
the fact that we need to be at lower yields with the economic
data, and demand for U.S. assets is still strong,” said  Thomas Tucci,  head of U.S. government bond trading at Royal Bank of
Canada in New York, one of 18 firms that trade directly with the
central bank. “People are saying they may tweak their growth
estimates.”  
 The 10-year note’s yield dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.12 percent at 12:23 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in May 2020 increased 12/32, or $3.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 103 7/32. The yield touched 3.09 percent,
the lowest level since May 25.  
 The five-year note’s yield decreased as much as seven basis
points to 1.90 percent, also the lowest since May 25. The yield
on the 30-year bond fell to 4.06 percent.  
 New Home Sales  
 The five-year notes being sold today yielded 1.969 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.13 percent at the
previous offering on May 26. Investors bid for 2.71  times  the
amount on sale last month, compared with an average of 2.65 for
the past 10 auctions. Indirect bidders purchased 41 percent of
the securities, compared with the 10-sale average of 48 percent.  
 Sales of  new homes  in the U.S. dropped 32.7 percent in May
to a 300,000 annual pace, the Commerce Department reported. The
median forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for an 18.7 percent decrease.  
 “That was one ugly home sales release,” said  Guy Lebas ,
chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “With the 10-year yield, there’s a
risk of a break lower. It’s one more check mark in the negative
box.”  
 “Economic conditions, including low rates of resource
utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation
expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of
the federal funds rate for an extended period,” the Federal
Open Market Committee said in an April 28 statement in
Washington.  
 Yield Curve  
 “It is possible an FOMC statement infected by the new
gloomy could convince more diehards to surrender their bond
shorts,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial Group in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to
clients. “In times past, a dovish Fed might have actually
prompted steepening on inflation fears. Housing’s performance,
however, is now the dominant influence on price psychology.”  
 The difference in yield between 10- and 2-year notes dropped
to 2.43 percentage points, the narrowest level since May 25. It
reached a record 2.91 percentage points on Feb. 22 on concern
inflation would accelerate.  
 The consumer price index dropped 0.2 percent last month in
the biggest decrease since December 2008, following April’s 0.1
percent slide, the Labor Department reported June 17.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s efforts to keep U.S. prices
and employment from falling may get a helping hand from China’s
decision to let its currency gain against the dollar.  
 Chinese Yuan  
 Greater yuan flexibility will eventually raise prices of
goods imported to the U.S. after a decline in the consumer price
index for two straight months and as some Fed officials voice
concern about inflation slowing too much. The move should also
eventually increase U.S. exports of aircraft, steel and wheat to
China, said Charles Lieberman, a former New York Fed official.  
 China indicated June 19 it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg
to the dollar adopted during the global financial crisis to
protect exporters  
 The Fed will hold its  target rate  for overnight lending
between banks at a record low zero to 0.25 percent, according to
all 98 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Policy makers have
kept the benchmark at that level since December 2008.  
 Treasury yields remained higher on April 28 even after the
Fed reiterated that it will keep interest rates low for an
“extended period.”  
 Treasury Returns  
 U.S. securities are set for their best first half in a
decade. Treasuries have returned 4.8 percent since Dec. 31,
heading for the largest gain in the first six months of a year
since 2000, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  
 At yesterday’s auction of $40 billion of U.S. two-year
notes, the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of debt on offer, was 3.45, the
highest since October. Indirect bidders, an investor class that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 41.4 percent of the
notes, the most since February.  
 The U.S. is scheduled to auction $30 billion of seven-year
notes tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        