-- Treasury Yields Near One-Month Low on Fed Outlook, Signs Economy Slowing
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-06-23T20:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/treasuries-rise-on-federal-reserve-s-statement-plunge-in-new-home-sales.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose, pushing the two-
year note’s  yield  to the lowest level this year, as the Federal
Reserve signaled that European indebtedness may harm America’s
growth and a report showed new home sales plunged.  
 U.S. debt advanced for a second straight day as the central
bank reiterated its commitment to an “extended period” of low
interest rates. Treasuries earlier pared  gains  as the
government’s $38 billion auction of five-year notes drew a
higher yield than forecast.  
 “Rates can stay very low for a long time,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo &
Co. in Milwaukee. “Tightening is in the realm of the
theoretical at this point.”  
 The 10-year note’s  yield  slid five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.12 percent at 4:23 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in May 2020 gained 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000
face amount, to 103 7/32.  
 Policy makers held the target rate for overnight lending
between banks at a record low zero to 0.25 percent, a  decision 
forecast by all of the 98 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “The economic recovery is proceeding” and “the labor
market is improving gradually,” the Federal Open Market
Committee said in its statement. Still, “financial conditions
have become less supportive of economic growth on balance,
largely reflecting developments abroad,” the central bank said.  
 Two-Year Yield  
 The  yield  on the two-year note dropped as much as two basis
points to 0.66 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 2. It
touched the record low of 0.6044 percent on Dec. 17, 2008.  
 “It’s hard to say if there is a Treasury bubble, because
it is hard to say what is an appropriate rate level,” Mueller
said. “It depends on how quickly we get out of this. Rates are
fairly low.”  
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., and  Kenneth Volpert , head of
taxable fixed-income at Vanguard Group Inc., both said in an
interview on CNBC that they don’t think there is a bubble.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed an 18 percent
chance policy makers will increase the fed funds target by at
least a quarter-percentage point by the December 2010 meeting,
down from 37 percent odds a month earlier.  
 “It’s going to be a long, drawn-out process of recovery,”
said  Richard Schlanger , who helps invest $18 billion in fixed-
income securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments in
Boston. “Until bank lending expands, the economy is going to be
running on quicksand. They’re going to keep the pedal to the
metal.”  
 U.S. Housing Drop  
 Sales of  new homes  in the U.S. dropped 32.7 percent in May
to a 300,000 annual pace after a tax credit expired, the
Commerce Department reported today in Washington. The median
forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
18.7 percent decrease.  
 “That was one ugly home sales release,” said  Guy Lebas ,
chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “It’s one more check mark in the
negative box.”  
 The difference in yield between 10- and 2-year notes dropped
to 2.45 percentage points, the narrowest level on a closing
basis since June 9, on speculation inflation is contained. The
spread reached a  record high  2.91 percentage points on Feb. 22.  
 The consumer price index dropped 0.2 percent last month in
the biggest decrease since December 2008, following April’s 0.1
percent slide, the Labor Department reported June 17.  
 Swap Spreads  
 U.S. swap spreads widened for a second day as corporate
bond issuance slowed, reducing demand for hedging.  
 The difference between the rate to exchange floating- for
fixed-interest payments for two years and the comparable-
maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap spread,
increased 1.56 basis points to 35.81 basis points. The 10-year
 spread  widened 1.50 basis points, to 5.31 basis points.  
 Today’s auction of five-year notes drew a yield of 1.995
percent, compared with the average forecast of 1.961 percent in
a Bloomberg News survey of 9 of the Fed’s 18 primary dealers.
The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.58, compared
with an average of 2.65 for the previous 10 sales.  
 Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 34.6 percent of the notes, the lowest
level since April 2009.  
 ‘Repriced’ Market  
 “It was surprising,” said  Christopher Bury , co-head of
fixed-income rates in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., which as
a primary dealer is obligated to participate in government
auctions. “We’re still at an all-time low in yields, and it
sounds like there were a few key investors who stayed away. The
market immediately got repriced.”  
 Yesterday’s sale of $40 billion in two-year notes produced
a record low yield of 0.738 percent. The U.S. is scheduled to
auction $30 billion of seven-year notes tomorrow.  
 At the last Federal Open Market Committee meeting in April,
some policy makers saw inflation risks as “tilted to the
downside in the near term” because of slack in the economy and
the chance price expectations may decline. Other officials said
inflation may pick up because of an expanding global economy and
U.S. budget deficits.  
 Treasuries declined that day as the refuge appeal of
government securities faded and the U.S. sold $42 billion of
five-year notes.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        