-- Record BRIC-Led Share Sales Leave Emerging Markets Inundated With Equity
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-06-23T18:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/record-bric-led-share-sales-leave-emerging-markets-inundated-with-equity.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  and
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  may hit the market with $50 billion of
shares by the end of September after state-backed sales pushed
initial public offerings in emerging markets above developed
nations for a record fifth straight quarter.  
 While at least 47 initial sales worldwide were shelved
since March, China’s government-owned Agricultural Bank is
forging ahead with a July IPO of as much as $28 billion that
would be the world’s biggest ever. Petrobras, Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company, plans to raise $25 billion in September,
the Western Hemisphere’s largest sale in at least a decade,
after delaying the offering by two months yesterday.  
 IPOs in developing countries raised $29.3 billion this
quarter, almost three times the amount in industrialized
nations, as the European debt crisis sent stock indexes from
Tokyo to Paris and  New York  to their lowest levels of 2010.
While bears say the new sales will inundate emerging countries
and choke off capital to private companies, bulls say economic
growth that’s double developed nations will underpin demand.  
 “They’re probably pushing the outside of the envelope,”
said  Jeff Urbina , who helps oversee $44 billion at Chicago-based
William Blair & Co. “People are still reasonably comfortable
with the fiscal situation and growth prospects of emerging
markets. I don’t know if they’ll necessarily crowd out other
IPOs, but they’re certainly going to soak up capital.”  
 Greece, Spain  
 Stocks declined  worldwide  this quarter on concern the
global economic recovery will be curbed as countries from Greece
to Portugal and Spain struggle to fund their liabilities.  
 While the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  sank as much as 18
percent this quarter, government-owned companies from Poland to
India pushed ahead with share sales.  
 IPOs from nations in MSCI’s emerging-markets gauge exceeded
those by companies in industrialized countries by $18.1 billion,
extending a five-quarter streak that is the longest since at
least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deals in
emerging markets rose 9.4 percent from the prior quarter, while
developed-market offerings fell 54 percent to $11.2 billion.  
 “The investor appetite is just not there right now” for
initial sales in industrialized nations, said  Robert Froehlich ,
senior managing director at Connecticut-based Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc., which oversees about $396 billion. “The
U.S. is getting painted with the European brush, and that’s
laying into the sweet spot for emerging-market IPOs.”  
 PZU Sale  
 PZU SA , Poland’s biggest insurer, raised  8.1 billion zloty 
($2.7 billion) in April in Europe’s largest initial offering
since 2007. The government and Zeist, Netherlands-based Eureko
BV sold a 30 percent stake in the Warsaw-based company at the
high end of its estimated price range.  
 The IPO, a record for the 19-year-old Warsaw Stock
Exchange, was part of Poland’s state asset sales aimed at
raising $10 billion to help finance a widening  budget deficit .  
 SJVN Ltd. , the operator of India’s largest hydropower
plant, sold 10.79 billion rupees ($240 million) of shares in an
initial offering at the top of its forecast range in May. The
state-owned company, based in Shimla in the northern state of
Himachal Pradesh, priced 415 million shares at 26 rupees each.  
 State sales “will have more support from domestic
institutions for strategic reasons, like in the case of PZU,”
said  Jeff Chowdhry , London-based head of emerging-market
equities at F&C Asset Management, which oversees more than $148
billion. “It will also be true for Agricultural Bank.”  
 Economic Growth  
 Emerging economies tracked by the International Monetary
Fund are forecast to expand 6.3 percent this year, compared with
the 2.3 percent projected for advanced economies.  
 China, the world’s fastest growing major economy, will
expand 10 percent this year and India will increase 8.8 percent,
the Washington-based IMF said. Poland was the only European
Union country to avoid a recession last year.  
 “There are no slam dunks in these markets, but if you had
to find growth, Brazil, China and India are very compelling,”
said  Christopher Turner , head of capital markets at New York-
based private-equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC, which oversees
about $30 billion.  
 The BRICs acronym was coined for Brazil, Russia, India and
China in November 2001 by  Jim O’Neill , the chief economist at
New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. He said the countries
would join the U.S. and Japan as the biggest economies in the
world by 2050, eclipsing most of today’s developed nations.  
 Mao’s Lender  
 Agricultural Bank , the first Chinese commercial lender
established during Communist rule by  Mao Zedong , may sell as
much as $28 billion of stock in Hong Kong and Shanghai,
according to an e-mail sent to investors this month.  
 The Beijing-based lender will seek to raise as much as
HK$88.4 billion ($11.4 billion) in the Hong Kong portion of its
sale, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  
 Agricultural Bank will offer 25.4 billion shares in Hong
Kong at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 apiece, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the price details are private. The
Beijing-based bank may also sell 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai
at a price that hasn’t been disclosed.  
 The lender’s deal, scheduled to price July 6, may exceed
the $22 billion offer by  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  of Beijing in 2006 that was the world’s biggest IPO.  
 The Qatar Investment Authority, the Persian Gulf state’s
$58 billion fund, agreed last week to invest $2.8 billion in
Agricultural Bank’s offering, two people with knowledge of the
matter said. The Kuwait Investment Authority will buy $800
million of shares.  
 Sovereign Wealth Funds  
 “It’s a long-term investment,” Kuwaiti Finance Minister
 Mustafa al-Shimali  told reporters on June 22 in parliament.  
 Petrobras is seeking to raise as much as $25 billion from
minority investors and issue shares to the government in
exchange for the rights to tap 5 billion barrels of reserves off
the country’s coast. The offering would exceed the $19.7 billion
sale by San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.  in March 2008 as the
biggest in the Western Hemisphere since at least 1999, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Brazil, which owns 32 percent of Rio de Janeiro-based
 Petrobras  and controls a majority through its voting shares,
will buy enough shares to maintain its stake, Chief Financial
Officer  Almir Barbassa  said May 18. The company is raising money
to help fund as much as $224 billion of spending through 2014 in
the world’s biggest oil-industry investment program.  
 ‘Cut-Off Point’  
 Petrobras, which said on June 11 that it planned to sell
shares by the end of July, delayed its offering by two months
yesterday as it waits for a price to be set on the oil reserves
the company plans to buy from the government. It aims to sell
the stock in September, according to a regulatory filing.  
 The delay increases the possibility that the sale may not
be completed before the October presidential election, according
to  Anisa Redman , an oil analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  
 “The election is the cut-off point,” Redman said
yesterday. “After that, it will be more difficult.”  
 Coal India Ltd. , the country’s monopoly producer, also
pushed back its $2.8 billion IPO from July this month. The West
Bengal-based company may sell shares by September if market
conditions improve, Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said.  
 In Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, only three
companies priced IPOs this quarter, raising about $500 million.  
 Russia’s First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  urged
investors this month in a Bloomberg Television interview to be
wary of the country’s stocks as policy makers try to prevent the
economy from overheating and encourage long-term investment.  
 ‘Too Much’  
 Even if the share sales raise the amount sought, the glut
of equity may crowd out some companies, according to  Komal Sri- Kumar , who helps manage about $100 billion as chief global
strategist at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc.  
 Agricultural Bank and  Petrobras  combined would eclipse the
$38.2 billion that 199 developing-nation companies have raised
through share sales this quarter, Bloomberg data show.  
 “Each is saying they can do it, but collectively I think
it’s going to be too much for the market to take all of them,”
said Sri-Kumar. “It does make it harder for the other
institutions to raise money.”  
 While the offerings may also leave shareholders with a
smaller slice of earnings for every dollar they invest,  Kenneth Fisher , chief executive officer of Fisher Investments Inc., who
oversees $35 billion in Woodside, California, says the potential
growth in developing countries offsets that risk.  
 “Emerging markets have a fundamental growth force behind
them, which tends to make people more optimistic about them,”
he said. “That quality makes people more prone to take a flyer
on something in the emerging markets, where they wouldn’t want
to in the developed world.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Uri Landesman, president of Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage, and Katherine Schapiro, a portfolio manager at Sentinel Asset Management, talk about the outlook for emerging-market stocks including China. 
     Landesman and Schapiro also discuss their investment strategies. They speak with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (This is an excerpt from the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
