-- Tribune Examiner Seeks More Time for Probe of Alleged Fraudulent Transfer
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-23T18:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/tribune-examiner-seeks-more-time-for-probe-of-alleged-fraudulent-transfer.html

          
          
             The lawyer investigating  Tribune
Co. ’s 2007 buyout asked a judge for more time to report on
whether the deal, which added at least $8.7 billion to the
publisher’s  debt , can be successfully challenged in court.  
 Kenneth N. Klee  told the judge overseeing the company’s
bankruptcy that he needs an extra 15 days to file his court-
ordered report. Tribune said in a statement that Klee’s
extension may delay a court hearing on the company’s
reorganization proposal “for a short period of time.”  
 After beginning his investigation last month, Klee
concluded he “is going to have to conduct more witness
interviews than previously anticipated,” according to court
documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  approved the buyout
investigation by Klee, a University of California Los Angeles
law professor who helped rewrite the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the
late 1970s.  
 Carey asked Klee to turn in the report July 12, a deadline
the examiner is seeking to extend to July 27.  
 Klee is investigating claims by low-ranking  bondholders 
that the buyout was a fraudulent transfer because it loaded  debt 
onto Tribune without benefiting the company.  
 The owner of the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago Tribune
filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, one year after the
buyout.  
 Zell’s Buyout  
 The  buyout , led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell , has
divided creditors. The lenders behind the deal are split over
whether to fight the allegations of lower-ranking creditors or
settle with some of them, according to court documents.  
 A group noteholders owed $1.3 billion has agreed not to sue
over the claims in return for a stake in the company and cash.  
 Buyout lenders led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  would get more
than 90 percent of the company under a reorganization proposal
that creditors must vote by July 30. Carey has said in court
that creditors must have a chance to read Klee’s report before
they vote on the plan.  
 Low-ranking bondholders owed $1.2 billion are the main
advocates for suing Zell and the lenders over the buyout. They
say the buyout violated bankruptcy law and seek to strip the
lenders of their repayment priority. Under the lender-supported
plan, the bondholders would get nothing.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        