-- Rice Production in Thailand May Decline 10% Next Season on Drought, Flood
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-23T08:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/rice-production-in-thailand-may-decline-10-next-season-on-drought-flood.html

          
          
             Production of Thailand’s main rice
crop may decline by at least 10 percent in the season starting
October as delayed rains followed by possible flooding may hurt
crops, according to the  Thai Rice Mills Association .  
 “Production of the main crop may be damaged,” Banjong
Tungjitwattanakun, the association’s vice president, said in a
phone interview. Thailand, the largest exporter, usually
produces about 23 million metric tons of unmilled rice from the
main crop, accounting for about 75 percent of its output.  
 The Thai government advised farmers to postpone planting to
the end of July because of delayed rains and warned of possible
crop damage after the  Meteorological Department  said there may
by heavy rains and flooding in September and October.  
 This is the second time this year the authority has advised
farmers to delay planting as the El Nino weather pattern reduced
rainfall. The main rice crop is usually planted in May and
harvesting begins in October.  
 Falling supplies may drive the price of Thai 100 percent
grade-B white rice, the benchmark for Asia, to $500 a ton by the
end of the year, Banjong said.  
 Thai rice prices  have recovered from a two-year low of $469
a ton on June 9 as a strengthening local currency makes exports
more expensive. The price of 100 percent grade-B white rice
gained 1.7 percent today to $479 a ton. That’s near the lowest
since February 2008, when the price averaged $466.25, according
to data from the  Thai Rice Exporters Association’s  website.  
 Rough rice futures traded in Chicago have tumbled 27
percent this year. The September-delivery contract lost 0.2
percent to $10.82 per 100 pounds at 4:02 p.m. in Singapore.  
 ‘Double Impact’  
 “Farmers will suffer from the double impact of drought and
flood,” Banjong said. “Drought already damaged 38 percent of
the current crop, lowering output to 5 million tons from 8
million estimated earlier.”  
 Drought has damaged crops in 20 of Thailand’s 76 provinces,
mostly in the north and northeast, which are major planting
areas for rice and sugar. Drought linked to the El Nino weather
pattern has affected a swathe of Asia, damaging crops from
southern China to Southeast Asia.  
 “In the next season, total production may decline from a
normal level of around 31 million tons,” said Banjong. The
extent of the impact has yet to be assessed, he said.  
 Production may be even lower than estimated as some farmers
will likely shift to crops that yield better returns, such as
sugar cane, cassava, corn and rubber, as rice prices decline,
Banjong said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        