-- RIM Volatility Rises as Hedge Funds See Apple, Google Threat
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-06-23T20:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/rim-volatility-rises-as-hedge-funds-see-apple-google-threat.html

          
          
             BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion
Ltd. ’s stock has become twice as volatile as rivals’ around
earnings announcements as investors look for evidence the
company will keep pace with  Apple Inc.  and  Google Inc.   
 RIM, which reports fiscal first-quarter profit tomorrow,
rose or fell an average of 14 percent the day after earnings
over the past eight quarters. That’s more than three times
Apple’s average swing of 4.2 percent and above the 8.9 percent
of  Motorola Inc. , which makes mobile phones that run on Google’s
Android software.  
 RIM, which helped define the smartphone category a decade
ago with mobile e-mail, has struggled to create a touchscreen
device with the appeal of Apple’s iPhone or Motorola’s Droid for
surfing the Web or watching video. While the Waterloo, Ontario-
based company debuted a revamped Web browser in April that will
begin appearing on BlackBerrys next quarter, concerns about its
prospects lead to sharp stock moves, said  Paul Taylor , chief
investment officer at BMO Harris Private Banking in Toronto.  
 “There’s no doubt it’s highly volatile, there is a lot of
hot money in RIM,” said Taylor, who oversees about C$12.7
billion ($12.5 billion) in assets including at least C$30
million worth of RIM shares. There is “a constant expectation
that management is not up to the task of competing in that very
competitive landscape.”  
 RIM’s  share  of the smartphone market fell to 19.4 percent
of the global shipments last quarter, down from 20.9 percent a
year ago, according to researcher IDC, though its share of the
overall handset market is climbing. Apple claimed 16.1 percent
of the smartphone market, up from 10.9 percent a year ago.  
 RIM  rose 97 cents to $59.64 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has declined 12 percent this
year, while Apple has climbed 29 percent.  
 ‘Do Something Dramatic’  
 Cougar Trading LLC, a New York-based hedge fund, has been
actively trading RIM’s stock, Chief Executive Officer  Buzzy Geduld  said in an interview. RIM has moved in and out of his top
10 holdings over the past three quarters. The parent company of
Cougar Trading held 20,000 shares as recently as last quarter,
according to regulatory filings, and the firm has since sold all
its shares, the CEO said.  
 “RIM has to do something dramatic in terms of a handset
and more importantly they have to come out with some new
technology,” said Geduld, who said he’s waiting to see new
products before buying or selling more stock.  
 More than 100 hedge funds traded RIM shares in the first
quarter, according to Bloomberg data based on regulatory
filings. As of the end of March,  RIM’s biggest shareholders 
included Edgewood Management LLC and Citadel Advisors LLC.
Edgewood, a hedge fund based in New York, held 6.1 million RIM
shares, while Chicago-based Citadel held 1.2 million shares.  
 Hedge Fund Sales  
 Jim Carrier, director of marketing at Edgewood, said the
company doesn’t speak to the media about its trading.  Devon Spurgeon , a Citadel spokeswoman, said the company doesn’t
discuss its holdings.  
 At least 25 hedge funds sold all their RIM holdings in the
first quarter, according to  Bloomberg data . They include Artis
Capital Management, a San Francisco firm that sold 1.03 million
shares, and Alkeon Capital Management, a New York firm that sold
549,452 shares. Artis Chief Financial Officer Rob Riemer said
the firm doesn’t comment on holdings; a call to  Greg Jakubowsky ,
an executive with Alkeon, wasn’t immediately returned.  
 Movement in RIM shares after earnings has been in both
directions. Over the past eight quarters, the stock has dropped
five times, with the largest drop being 27 percent, and climbed
three times, with one 21 percent rise.  
 Goldman ‘Sell’  
 Options traders are betting the shares will swing 11.5
percent on June 25, the day after RIM is scheduled to report
earnings at 4 p.m. New York time, according to options market
data compiled by Bloomberg. RIM forecast March 31 that fiscal
first-quarter sales will be $4.25 billion to $4.45 billion,
while earnings per share will be at least $1.31.  
 No one from RIM was available to comment, said Jamie Ernst,
a spokeswoman for the company.  
 While 66 percent of  analysts  who cover RIM recommend buying
the stock and 11 percent recommend selling it, 94 percent of the
analysts tracking Apple rate the stock a “buy” and none have a
“sell” rating.  
 Simona Jankowski , an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co.,
reiterated her “sell” rating on June 20. RIM’s “lack of
product differentiation and an antiquated operating system place
the company at a disadvantage in the fast-growing consumer
segment,” Jankowski wrote.  
 Fast-Growing Market  
 Mike Abramsky , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in
Toronto, has a “top pick” rating on the stock because of the
fast growth in the smartphone market and the opportunity for
RIM, which gets most of its revenue from North America, to
expand overseas.  
 “If RIM can hold its own it has a gigantic market ahead
even with the presence of Android and Apple,” he said.  
 Smartphone sales have been growing about three times faster
than the overall mobile phone market, according to the market-
research firm Gartner Inc. Though RIM supporters believe the
company will benefit from such growth, skeptics such as
Jankowski say the company will lose out as software developers
create more new applications for its Silicon Valley rivals.  
 RIM has historically seen major swings after earnings,
including a one-day gain of 51 percent in 2003 and a drop of 44
percent in 2000. Still, the stock’s volatility has climbed in
the past two years from its average change over the past decade
of 12 percent. In that time, Apple averaged swings of 6.7
percent and Motorola, 4.5 percent, the data shows.  
 Short-seller Magnet  
 RIM attracts more short-sellers than its peers. Investors
taking short positions borrow a stock, expecting it to decline,
then aim to repay the borrowed stock at a lower price and pocket
the profit.  
 The number of short positions on RIM’s shares is equivalent
to 3.1 percent of its shares outstanding, compared with 1.3
percent for Apple and 2 percent for Motorola,  according to
Bloomberg data .  
 “RIM is a stock you’re guaranteed to get a major move
either way,” said  Steven Li , an analyst at Raymond James Ltd.
in Toronto, who rates RIM “market perform.” “So the hedge
funds like to play the stock, especially in the U.S.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     RIM's BlackBerry Bold 9700 mobile device. Photographer: Matt Stroshane/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
