-- Ringgit Leads Asian Currencies Decline as U.S. Home Sales Damps Optimism
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-23T09:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/ringgit-leads-asian-currencies-decline-as-u-s-home-sales-damps-optimism.html

          
          
             Asian currencies fell, led by the
Malaysian ringgit and the Philippine peso, after an unexpected
drop in U.S. home sales highlighted concern that a recovery in
the world’s largest economy is faltering.  
 The ringgit dropped as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
shares slid the most in two weeks after the National Association
of Realtors said yesterday  sales  of previously owned homes in
the U.S. dropped 2.2 percent in May. South Korea’s won dropped
as foreigners cut their  holdings  of the nation’s shares. The
peso weakened a second day on a widening budget deficit.  
 “The U.S. data led to concern the global economy will not
be as strong as people expected, discouraging investment in
riskier assets,” said  Akira Banno , a treasury adviser at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The main trend
remains for the ringgit to appreciate on the Chinese yuan story,
but the currency sees a correction when investors sell stocks.”  
 Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.7 percent to 3.2308 per dollar as
of 4:41 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur and the Philippine peso slid 0.8
percent to 46.055. South Korea’s won weakened 0.5 percent to
1,187.5 and Thailand’s baht slid 0.1 percent to 32.36.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  reached a one-
month high on June 21 after the scrapping of the yuan’s peg to
the dollar fueled optimism about the region’s exports to China.  
 Central Banks  
 “Trading has been simplified. It’s trading according to
the yuan,” said Ha Jun Woo, a currency dealer at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “Still the currency cut losses after we saw dollar-
selling offshore.” The central bank may have been intervening
at 1,180 won per dollar yesterday, Ha said.  
 China’s yuan held this week’s gains against the dollar,
even as Asian currencies dropped, on speculation the central
bank is allowing a stronger currency to curb inflation after
ending a two-year peg.  
 The People’s Bank of China set its reference rate for yuan
trading, 0.05 percent stronger than yesterday’s close. The yuan
rose 0.04 percent to 6.8108 per dollar, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. It has gained 0.22 percent this
week. The 12-month non-deliverable forward traded at 6.6618,
compared with 6.6463 yesterday, reflecting bets for 2.4 percent
appreciation.  
 Currency Flexibility  
 “China stands to gain the most from greater exchange-rate
flexibility and appreciation,” said  Michael Hasenstab , who
oversees the $2 billion Templeton Emerging Markets Bond Fund in
San Mateo, California. “Such dynamics will help facilitate the
greater internationalization of the yuan, assist in the
rebalancing of the economy away from an over-reliance on exports,
and help stem inflation.”  
 The cost of protecting Philippine sovereign debt from
default rose as the outgoing administration of President Gloria
Arroyo yesterday reported that the shortfall in the first five
months exceeded the 145.2 billion pesos ($3.2 billion) forecast
for the first half. The  budget gap  for the six-month period is
expected to reach 178.5 billion pesos, Finance Secretary  Gary Teves  said yesterday.  
 “The deficit in May was a very big disappointment,” said
 Yvette Marquez , who helps manage 470 billion pesos at BPI Asset
Management in Manila. “They say they will still meet the full-
year target, which I doubt. Where will they get the money to
fund the wider deficit?”  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.3 percent to 9,050
and the Singapore dollar fell 0.2 percent to S$1.3864. Taiwan’s
dollar retreated 0.3 percent to NT$32.189.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        