-- Rio Maintains `Firm Rights' to Guinea Mine Project After Government Threat
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-23T09:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/rio-maintains-firm-rights-to-guinea-mine-project-after-government-threat.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said it maintains “firm rights” to the
Simandou iron-ore concession in Guinea after receiving a letter
from the government over its ownership of the site.  
 “We received the letter and will be responding to the
government in due course,” London-based Rio said today in an e-
mailed statement. “We have always maintained our firm rights to
the entire mining concession that was granted based on the 2003
Mining Convention between Rio Tinto and the government.”  
 The Financial Times reported yesterday that Guinea had
written to Rio this week, threatening to strip it of more of its
rights to Simandou, described by Rio Chief Executive Officer  Tom Albanese  in 2008 as the world’s “top” undeveloped iron-ore
deposit. Brazil’s  Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-ore
exporter, agreed in April to pay $2.5 billion for a stake in
part of the deposit earlier confiscated from Rio.  
 “Pre-feasibility studies are complete and Rio Tinto is
keen to move the development forward quickly,” the company said
in today’s statement.  
 Rio  declined  as much as 2.8 percent in London trading and
was down 2 percent at 3,377.5 pence as of 9:50 a.m. local time.  
 In March, Rio said it had spent $600 million on the
Simandou venture.  Aluminum Corp. of China  agreed to pay $1.35
billion for a 44.65 percent stake in the project that month.  
 Rio controlled the entire Simandou deposit until it was
ordered by the government in December 2008 to hand over the
northern half to BSG Resources Ltd., the closely held company
that sold the stake to Vale. BSG is controlled by Israeli
diamond investor  Beny Steinmetz .  
 There were a “number of issues related to security of
tenure” that remained to be resolved with Guinea, Rio said
March 15 in its annual report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        