-- Romania's Vladescu `Optimistic' About Next IMF Payment After Court Ruling
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-23T15:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/romania-s-vladescu-optimistic-about-next-imf-payment-after-court-ruling.html

          
          
             Romanian Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu  said he is “optimistic” the country will receive the
next bailout payment from the International Monetary Fund after
a court decides whether government austerity measures are legal.  
 The Constitutional Court tomorrow will review challenges to
spending cuts the government proposed to meet an IMF-mandated
budget deficit of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product.  
 “I’m optimistic about the next payment,” Vladescu told
reporters today after a government meeting in Bucharest. “If
the Constitutional Court clears the law, then the IMF board will
discuss it on the 28th. I have no reason to doubt Romania will
get the IMF money.”  
 The EU’s second-poorest member is relying on 20 billion
euros ($24.5 billion) of loans to resurrect its economy after
the worst recession in 60 years. The next IMF installment would
be 850 million euros, with 1.2 billion euros scheduled to come
from the European Commission.  
 Prime Minister  Emil Boc  survived a no-confidence vote last
week after opposition parties opposed his plan to reduce the
wages of public employees by 25 percent and pensions and jobless
benefits by 15 percent.  
 The government today extended the 16 percent flat tax to
meal tickets, copyrights, interest on bank deposits and capital
gains from July 1 as it seeks to boost dwindling revenue,
Vladescu said. The measures will generate revenue equal to 0.3
percent of GDP he said.  
 In addition, state-controlled companies, including publicly
traded utilities  Transelectrica SA  and  Transgaz SA , will
transfer 90 percent of their annual profit to the state budget,
up from 50 percent, Boc said at the same briefing as Vladescu.  
 “State-owned companies must be part of the solidarity
effort to support the state budget,” Boc said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        