-- Rousseff Takes Lead From Serra in Brazil's Presidential Race, Poll Shows
-- Maria Luiza Rabello
-- 2010-06-23T20:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/rousseff-takes-lead-from-serra-in-brazil-s-presidential-race-poll-shows.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Dilma Rousseff  took the
lead in the country’s presidential race, according to a new
poll, increasing the chances President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da
Silva’s chosen successor will win in the first round of voting
in October.  
 Rousseff, Lula’s former cabinet chief, is supported by 40
percent of those surveyed, according to an Ibope poll for the
National Industrial Confederation, or CNI, that was published
today in Brasilia. Former Sao Paulo Governor  Jose Serra , of the
opposition Social Democracy Party, had 35 percent. The
nationwide poll of 2,002 people was taken June 19 to June 21 and
has a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  
 “It’s becoming more and more likely that Rousseff will be
elected in the first round,” said  Rafael Cortez , a political
analyst at Sao Paulo-based Tendencias Consultoria Integrada.
“Little by little the electorate is realizing that Rousseff is
supported by Lula. That reinforces her favoritism.”  
 Today was the first time Rousseff, 62, surpassed Serra in a
CNI/Ibope poll. In March, the  Workers’ Party  candidate trailed
with 33 percent to Serra’s 38 percent. Green Party candidate
 Marina Silva , a former environment minister in Lula’s
government, had 9 percent compared with 8 percent in March.  
 If no candidate wins a majority in the first round of
voting Oct. 3, the top two finishers will compete in a runoff
four weeks later. Rousseff is favored to beat Serra 45 percent
to 38 percent in a second-round scenario, according to the poll.  
 Preferred Successor  
 Rousseff has been rising in the polls as voters come to
identify her as the president’s preferred successor. According
to Ibope, 73 percent of those surveyed in June recognized her as
Lula’s candidate compared with 58 percent in March.  
 Lula, 64, is barred by the constitution from running for a
third consecutive term. His approval rating in today’s poll rose
to a record 85 percent from 83 percent in March.  
 Rousseff has a 70 percent change of winning the election,
 Christopher Garman , the Eurasia Group’s director for Latin
America, wrote in a May 18 report.  
 Serra, 68, served as health minister when his party last
held the presidency, from 1995 through 2002, under  Fernando Henrique Cardoso . The former governor of Brazil’s most populous
and richest state lost a presidential runoff in October 2002
with 39 percent of the vote to Lula’s 61 percent.  
 Serra, in June 21 television interview, criticized Brazil’s
central bank for waiting too long to cut interest rates
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008.  
 Rousseff has pledged to maintain Lula’s current support for
the bank’s operational autonomy and make the bank chief a member
of her cabinet if elected, as current president  Henrique Meirelles  is.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        