-- Rubber Climbs on Expectations of Chinese Purchases, Slowing Thai Supplies
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-23T07:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/rubber-advances-on-expectations-of-chinese-buying-slowing-thai-supplies.html

          
          
             Rubber advanced for a second time
in three days on expectations of Chinese buying as stockpiles
fall and supplies from Thailand, the largest grower, increase
at a slower pace than estimated.  
 Futures in Tokyo climbed as much as 0.5 percent to 279.1
yen per kilogram ($3,087 a metric ton) after falling 1.4
percent earlier today. The most-active contract is heading for
a second weekly gain amid optimism that Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis may not substantially weaken demand for the commodity
used to make tires and gloves.  
 “Heavy rainfall in southern Thailand has sparked worries
that supplies may not be as much as expected,” Varut Rungkhum,
analyst at commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd., said by phone
from Bangkok. “Low stockpiles in China also boosted optimism
the biggest buyers will soon start building inventories.”  
 Rubber for November-delivery settled at 277.9 yen per
kilogram, adding 0.1 percent from yesterday, on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange.  
 The November-delivery contract on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange gained 0.1 percent to settle at 21,520 yuan ($3,161) a
ton.  
 “Low level of rubber stocks in Japan and Shanghai”
supported the market gains, said Hiroyuki Kikukawa, general
manager of research at Tokyo-based IDO Securities Co.  
 China’s natural rubber  inventories  fell 1,440 tons to
16,441 tons, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in Shanghai,
Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the Shanghai Futures
Exchange said June 18. It is the lowest level since 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China Imports  
 China, the world’s largest auto market, is the biggest
user of natural rubber. The nation may increase gross imports
of the raw material to 1.68 million tons this year, from 1.59
million in 2009, according to a May report from the Association
of Natural Rubber Producing Countries.  
 Rains are spreading in southern Thailand, with heavy rains
in some province, the  Meteorological Department  said on its
website today. Thailand’s southern provinces represent 68
percent of total rubber plantation area.  
 “Nearby contracts will probably stabilize as production
from Thailand will increasingly come onto the market,” Katsumi
Kinoshita, senior manager for Institutional Department, Orion
Koeki Co. Ltd., said by phone from Kobe.  
 Rubber for June-delivery gained as much as 2.8 percent to
settle at 364 yen per kilogram.  
 Global rubber output may total 9.7 million to 10.2 million
tons this year as drought and heavy rainfall in key producing
countries including Thailand and Indonesia damage supply,
Stephen Evans, the secretary-general of the International
Rubber Study Group, said in an interview last week. That
compares with the group’s forecast range of 10.1 million to
10.6 million tons on March 17.  
 Demand will probably increase by 4.4 percent this year to
9.8 million tons, based on the assumption that the economic
recovery will slow, Evans said. The group forecast 10.2 million
tons in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        