-- Australia's Rudd, Deputy to Contest Leadership Ballot
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-06-23T14:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/rudd-faces-australia-leadership-challenge-will-remain-as-prime-minister.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
will face a leadership challenge from deputy  Julia Gillard 
tomorrow after a proposed tax on the mining industry caused his
poll ratings to plunge.  
 Gillard requested the vote, Rudd told reporters at a press
conference in Canberra today, adding he had lost the support of
some parts of his center-left Labor Party. Gillard confirmed she
would seek to oust Rudd without making any further comment.  
 Support for Rudd began to slide after he shelved the
government’s carbon-trading plans in April, a key campaign
pledge when he won office in November 2007. Then he proposed a
40 percent tax on the “super profits” of resource projects in
Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron ore, and
refused to back down even after members of his party objected.  
 “I believe I am quite capable of winning this ballot based
on the counting we have done,” Rudd said. “Politics is a tough
business.”  
 Shares of Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s
largest mining company, and London-based Rio Tinto Plc, both
opponents of the tax, rose after the leadership vote by party
lawmakers was announced, then sank when Rudd said he expected to
win. Both were down 2.4 percent at 3:29 p.m. in London.
Australia’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to 86.71 per U.S. cents at
10:30 a.m. in New York from 87.16 cents yesterday, after
touching 86.88, the lowest since June 18.  
 Record Dissatisfaction  
 Dissatisfaction with Rudd, 52, hit a record 55 percent,
according to a telephone survey of 1,147 people between June 18
and 20 published in the Australian newspaper this week. The
margin of error was 3 percentage points.  
 Were Gillard to topple Rudd, she would become Australia’s
first female prime minister. Elections are required within 10
months. Welsh-born Gillard, 48, has been Rudd’s deputy since
December 2006 and helped Labor win government after almost 12
years in opposition. She was minister for education, employment
and social inclusion in Rudd’s cabinet.  
 Awarded the so-called “super portfolio” of education and
employment in 2008, Gillard was responsible for dismantling
former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s Work Choices labor laws that
decreased the power of unions and access to workplace benefits
while giving employers more power. Voter backlash to the laws
was seen as the pivotal issue in the 2007 election victory.  
 Rudd won in 2007 with promises to withdraw Australian
troops from Iraq and ratify the Kyoto treaty on climate change.
While the troops were out by July 2009, his efforts to pass a
carbon trading plan similar to systems used in Europe were
scuttled by the opposition coalition in the Senate.  
 Tax Opposition  
 The mining tax was widely opposed. Zug, Switzerland-based
 Xstrata Plc , the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, shelved
spending on projects worth A$6.6 billion in the state of
Queensland.  
 Some 78 percent of voters surveyed in nine parliamentary
districts in Western Australia and Queensland said the tax
should be scrapped or changed, according to a Newspoll survey
commissioned by the mining industry and published in the
Australian newspaper on June 7. The survey of 1,800 people taken
between May 31 and June 3 didn’t provide a margin of error.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australian deputy Prime Minister Julia Gillard.  Photographer: Jack Atley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
