-- S&P Opposes Putting Muni Ratings on Board Website Without Compensation
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-06-24T00:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/s-p-rejects-municipal-bond-rulemaker-s-proposal-to-disclose-credit-ratings.html

          
          
             Standard & Poor’s rejected a
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board proposal to post ratings
on the group’s website because the company wouldn’t be
compensated, S&P said in a regulatory filing.  
 The Alexandria, Virginia-based board, which makes rules for
the $2.8 trillion municipal-bond market, said last month that it
would ask the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to approve
adding ratings to its  Electronic Municipal Market Access , or
EMMA, website to provide more information to investors. S&P
 responded  to  the proposal  in a June 22 statement to the SEC.  
 The board’s plan is “commercially untenable and does not
appropriately account for the value” of the rating company’s
intellectual property, S&P President  Deven Sharma  said in the
statement. The company is a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill
Cos.   
 “The absence of fair compensation and adequate
intellectual-property protections for our proprietary
information renders the proposal’s underlying assumptions
unreasonably burdensome,” Sharma said.  
 The EMMA site last year began providing public access to
official statements, trade data and disclosures by state and
municipal governments that borrow in the market. The board
announced plans to add ratings after its quarterly meeting in
Philadelphia. New board rules are subject to SEC approval.  
 Board’s Purpose  
 S&P spokesman  Ed Sweeney  pointed out that Sharma’s
statement cites the fact that the company already makes its
ratings available to the public on its website. The board’s
proposal says its purpose is in part “to provide credit rating
and related information regarding municipal securities.”  
 “The MSRB has proposed displaying municipal securities
ratings on EMMA to provide this important information as part of
a consolidated display of key municipal market data and
documents,”  Lynnette Kelly Hotchkiss , the board’s executive
director, said in a statement.  
 “We hope that all nationally recognized statistical-
ratings organizations choose to participate and if they do, the
MSRB will work with these organizations to establish appropriate
protections for their intellectual property rights,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        