-- Salazar Says New Moratorium May Permit Some Drilling
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-06-23T18:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/salazar-says-revised-deepwater-drilling-moratorium-may-allow-some-activity.html

          
          
             The Obama administration may let
certain deepwater drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico
resume during a six-month halt, U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.  
 Rules to be issued “will include the criteria under which
it is appropriate to take a look at the lifting of the
moratoria,” Salazar said today in Washington at a hearing of a
Senate Appropriations Committee panel.  
 A six-month halt to deepwater exploration, imposed last
month by President  Barack Obama  in response to the  BP Plc  spill,
was overturned yesterday by U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman 
in New Orleans. The administration said it will appeal the
decision, and Salazar announced he will reformulate the rules.
Republicans and Gulf Coast Democrats have said the ban is too
broad and jeopardizes tens of thousands of jobs.  
 “We will in the weeks and months ahead take a look at how
it is that the moratorium in place might be refined,” Salazar
said today. “It might be that there are demarcations that can
be made based on reservoirs, when we actually do know the
pressures and the risks associated with that versus those
reservoirs which are exploratory in nature where you don’t know
as a company what it is that you are drilling in.”  
 The drilling ban was imposed May 27 in response to the
explosion and sinking in April of the BP-leased Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig 40 miles (64 kilometers) off Louisiana’s
coast. The halt was called during the investigation by a
presidential commission of the spill that continues to spew oil
into the Gulf.  
 33 Rigs Idled  
 The moratorium has idled 33 rigs, some of which are being
moved from the Gulf to other oil fields. Five rigs were drilling
exploratory wells and 28 were in the development phase, said
Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican.  
 “The risk factors are much, much different between a well
that is in this appraisal and development status, as opposed to
the exploratory when we don’t know what the pressures are,”
Murkowski said. “The judge’s decision yesterday, you have to
admit, is pretty scathing.”  
 Salazar told Murkowski that “there is a difference”
between the two types of wells. “Those are exactly the kinds of
issues that we are looking at,” he said.  
 The moratorium, if left in place for six months, may result
in a loss of 140,000 jobs in Louisiana, Senator  David Vitter , a
Republican from the state, said last week. The commission formed
by Obama to investigate the spill should release its work in
stages and “in a few weeks, not months” issue safety
guidelines that will let drilling resume, Vitter said.  
 Judge’s Ruling  
 In his ruling, Feldman said the administration must
“cogently explain why it has exercised its discretion in a
given manner. It has not done so.”  
 Feldman said a section of Salazar’s May 27 report, which
stated the moratorium recommendation was “peer-reviewed by
seven experts identified by the National Academy of
Engineering,” was “misleading” and members of the group said
it was a “misrepresentation.”  
 Five of the experts said the recommendation for a six-month
ban was added after their final review of the report, Feldman
said.  Kenneth Arnold , an oil-industry consultant in Houston and
a contributor to the report, said in an interview that it was
wrong to “use us as justification for the moratorium.”  
 The ban requires drillers to temporarily abandon wells,
which can increase risks, Arnold said. It will also increase
U.S. dependence on foreign supplies, which are transported by
tankers that have greater risk of a spill than oil carried by
pipeline from Gulf platforms, he said.  
 ‘Modify The Moratorium’  
 “The Department of Interior has apologized” for the
characterization of the groups’ position, Arnold said. “We are
working with them at the moment to see if there’s a way to
modify the moratorium in a way that makes sense from a safety
standpoint.”  
 Senator  Lamar Alexander , a Republican from Tennessee, said
a revised drilling ban should be drafted to ensure that the
economic consequences are weighed against environmental impacts.  
 “I would hope that, in devising any other moratorium, that
you take into account the judge’s reasoning and the
countervailing public interest pressures that involve jobs, and
make sure that the economic consequences aren’t worse than the
environmental consequences,” Alexander said.  
 The new head of the Interior Department agency regulating
offshore oil-and-gas drilling said today that he created an
investigations unit to help with oversight, enforcement and
reorganization.  
 “The new unit will provide us the capacity to investigate
allegations of misconduct, to provide unified and coordinated
monitoring of compliance with laws and regulations, and to
respond swiftly to emerging and urgent issues,”  Michael Bromwich  said in a statement issued as he testified before a
Senate hearing on the reorganization.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ken Salazar, U.S. secretary of the interior, testifies at a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Jay Westcott/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Louisiana State Treasurer John Kennedy talks about the outlook for deepwater oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and its impact on Louisiana's economy and culture.
     U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman yesterday granted a preliminary injunction, lifting a six-month moratorium President Barack Obama put in place May 27 on new deepwater drilling permits. The president also called for work to be stopped on 33 exploration wells. Kennedy speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
