-- Sales of U.S. New Houses Plunge to Lowest Level on Record
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-23T20:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/sales-of-u-s-new-houses-plunge-to-lowest-level-on-record.html

          
          
             Purchases of U.S. new homes fell in
May to the lowest level on record after a tax credit expired,
showing the market remains dependent on government support.  
 Sales  collapsed an unprecedented 33 percent from April to
an annual pace of 300,000, less than the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the fewest in data
going back to 1963, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in Washington. Demand in prior months was revised down.  
 Stocks fell and Treasuries rose as the report added to
signs of weakness in the economy, including a decline in retail
sales and a slowdown in private job growth. A lack of inflation
and concern over unemployment and housing were among reasons
Federal Reserve policy makers renewed a pledge today to keep
interest rates near zero for an “extended period.”  
 “May was a bad month for the economy,” J.  Alfred Broaddus , former Richmond Fed president, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In Business With Margaret Brennan.”
“You have these soft patches in the early stages of recovery.”  
 At their meeting, Fed policy makers left the overnight
interbank lending rate target unchanged in a range of zero to
0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008. Central
bankers said limited inflation was “likely to warrant
exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an
extended period.” Housing starts, they said in their statement,
“remain at a depressed level.”  
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.11 percent
at 4:23 p.m. in New York from 3.17 percent late yesterday. The
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  fell 0.3 percent to close at
1,092.04.  
 Sales Forecasts  
 Sales were projected to drop 19 percent to a 410,000 annual
pace, according to the  median  estimate of 76 economists
surveyed. Forecasts ranged from 300,000 to 530,000. The
government revised April’s purchase rate down to 446,000 from a
previously reported 504,000.  
 The  median price  decreased 9.6 percent from the same month
last year, to $200,900, the lowest since December 2003, today’s
report showed.  
 Purchases dropped in all four U.S. regions last month, led
by a record 53 percent decrease in the West.  
 The supply of homes at the current sales rate jumped to 8.5
months’ worth from 5.8 months in April. There were 213,000 new
houses  on the market  at the end of May, the fewest since 1970.  
 Less Inventory  
 The reduction in inventory puts builders in a better
position to deal with the slump in demand than when housing
peaked in 2005, said  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at
High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New York. There were
a record 572,000 new houses for sale in July 2006, one year
after sales reached the highest point.  
 “We see no chance of a quick, sustained recovery, though
we are hopeful there is little further downside,” Shepherdson,
who correctly forecast the drop in sales, said in a note to
clients. “We expect the very favorable affordability picture to
start pulling people back into the market, but the next few
months are likely to be very grim.”  
 The data come on the heels of a report from the Labor
Department this month that showed companies hired 41,000 workers
in May, fewer than forecast and the smallest gain in four
months. Figures from the Commerce Department showed  purchases  at
retailers dropped in May for the first time in eight months.  
 Effect on GDP  
 Housing’s role has shrunk so much that a renewed slump will
do less damage to the world’s largest economy, said  Jay Feldman ,
an economist at Credit Suisse in New York. Residential
construction accounts for a record-low 2.4 percent of gross
domestic product, down from 6.3 percent when the boom peaked in
2005, he said.  
 Housing’s “capacity to do the portfolio of GDP activities
marginal harm going forward is greatly diminished,” Feldman
said in a note to clients.  
 Other data confirm the market is stumbling. Sales of
existing homes, housing  starts , building permits, builder
 confidence  and mortgage applications have all declined.  
 The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder  Index , which includes
Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., has dropped 28 percent
through yesterday since reaching a 19-month high on May 3. The
broader S&P 500 Index is down 10 percent from April 23’s 19-
month peak.  
 Builders are also concerned that the Gulf oil spill and
European debt crisis are hurting buyer confidence. Toll, the
largest U.S. luxury homebuilder, said deposits have been running
20 percent behind the year-earlier period the past three weeks.  
 Financial Crisis  
 “Concerns about the financial crisis in Europe and
escalating regional political tensions, coupled with worries
about the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and its effects on the
economy and the environment have negatively impacted the outlook
of American consumers,”  Joel H. Rassman , chief financial
officer at Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll, said in a June 16
statement.  
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., the largest homebuilder in New
Jersey, said orders fell 17 percent in the quarter ended April
30 from a year earlier, and contract signings slowed in May,
indicating the tax credit helped pull some sales forward.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sales of new U.S. homes dropped to a record 33 percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from April. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President J. Alfred Broaddus talks about the possibility of a double-dip recession and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Broaddus speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Avery Shenfeld, chief economist at CIBC World Markets, and Terry Loebs, a managing director at Macromarkets LLC, talk with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about the outlook for the U.S. housing market.    
     Purchases of new homes fell in May to the lowest level on record after a tax credit expired, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Jim O'Sullivan, global chief economist at MF Global Ltd., talks about the record decline in U.S. new homes in May.
     Sales collapsed a record 33 percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from April, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington. O'Sullivan speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, discusses U.S. new-home sales data for May and the state of the housing market.
     Purchases of U.S. new homes fell in May to the lowest level on record after a tax credit expired, showing the market remains dependent on government support. Lebas speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
