-- SAP's McDermott Sees No Big Acquisitions After Sybase
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-06-23T17:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/sap-s-mcdermott-sees-no-big-acquisitions-after-sybase.html

          
          
             SAP AG  co-Chief Executive Officer
 Bill McDermott  said the business-software maker isn’t planning
more large acquisitions as the company works to integrate its
pending $5.8 billion purchase of  Sybase Inc.   
 “We will not be in the market making large-scale
acquisitions as a matter of habit,” McDermott, 48, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Washington office today. Sybase
“should be viewed as an exceptional case,” he said.  
 SAP, the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software, is “primarily an organic growth company,” and
pursued Sybase to more rapidly expand in the burgeoning market
for mobile applications, McDermott said. There are no plans to
reduce Sybase’s workforce, and SAP will seek to “grow the top
line” to get a return on its investment, he said.  
 With Sybase, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP is seeking to add
products that help corporate customers run applications on
mobile devices and enable it to expand into software that can be
used on  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and iPad.  
 “We see this as one of the most important business trends
in the information-technology industry,” McDermott said. Sybase
“brings a whole new market segment for us that would have taken
us too long to build, and we wanted to be first mover in this
explosive market.”  
 Mobile is Future  
 McDermott, who said he can manage the company through SAP
software running on his personal iPad, said “mobile is the new
PC” and it’s important to move more business applications to
wireless devices. Sybase is a “unique asset” that lets SAP
expand deeper into that market, he said.  
 The cash acquisition of Dublin, California-based Sybase is
expected to close at the end of July, McDermott said.  
 SAP isn’t interested in buying  Software AG , Germany’s
second-largest software maker, McDermott said. Software AG CEO
 Karl-Heinz Streibich  said in an interview this month that his
company would be a good fit for SAP.  
 McDermott, who works from offices in Newtown Square,
Pennsylvania, and co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe  in Germany took the
helm at SAP in February. They have sought to reduce internal
bureaucracy, appease customers angered over support contracts
and get new products to market more quickly.  
 Siemens AG, Exxon Mobil Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are
among customers using SAP software to order goods, plan
inventory and deliveries, and manage sales. SAP also provides
software behind Apple’s iTunes media download service.  
 Positive Business Trends  
 McDermott reiterated today a growth target of 4 percent to
8 percent for software and related services sales in 2010, at
constant currency rates. Such products made up about 77 percent,
or 8.2 billion euros ($10 billion), of the company’s total
revenue in 2009, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Economic conditions are improving, and customers aren’t
moving away from major projects, McDermott said.  
 “The business trends are positive,” McDermott said. “Our
crystal ball looks good.”  
 SAP’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, have fallen 2.1 percent this year. They were
unchanged at $45.83 at 1:26 p.m. in New York trading.  
 A target for new sales is with the U.S. government, where
SAP sells software to the Army, Navy, Energy Department and the
U.S. Postal Service. The federal government spends $76 billion a
year on information technology, and President Barack Obama is
relying on IT and software to increase public access to
information and make the government more efficient, according to
 Aneesh Chopra , the administration’s chief technology officer.  
 Government Contracts  
 The administration has met with businesses to discuss ways
information technology can be used to implement the president’s
policies on health care, energy and the environment, Chopra said
in telephone interview yesterday. He said it’s a long-term
project, likening it to “shifting a large battleship.”  
 McDermott said SAP is working with federal agencies to
ensure that efforts to reduce the U.S. deficit don’t lead to a
scaling back of spending on information technology.  
 “You can’t cut budgets in IT if you want to be a best-run
government,” he said. The government needs to get rid of some
“pet projects that aren’t delivering” and instead invest in
new ideas, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        