-- Sarkozy to Curb Elysee, Ministry Expenses as Pressure for Cuts Increases
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-23T13:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/sarkozy-needs-sharp-turn-to-meet-deficit-target-in-france-auditor-says.html

          
          
             President  Nicolas Sarkozy  plans to
cut spending at his  Elysee Palace  and government ministries amid
calls for deficit reduction by the national auditing office.  
 “The measures will apply to the entire executive branch,”
said  Franck Louvrier , Sarkozy’s spokesman, in an interview
today. “These will be long-term policies” that are part a plan
to “set an example.” Specifics will be announced next week, he
said.  
 The national auditor  said today Sarkozy must make a “very
sharp turn” on France’s public finances, as European
governments announce budget cuts in the wake of the debt crisis
triggered by Greece. Expenditure cuts may include canceling the
yearly  garden party  at the Elysee, the newspaper Le Parisien
reported. Last year 7,500 people attend the party. Louvrier
declined to confirm the move.  
 Savings of 45 billion euros ($55 billion) need to be found
in addition to the withdrawal of stimulus measures put in place
to counter last year’s recession,  Didier Migaud , the head of the
 audit office , said today in a report.  
 “We need to act immediately,” Migaud told journalists.
“Not acting will be costly because debt service costs will
snowball.”  
 France, alone among the biggest European economies, has yet
to detail a savings plan. Britain set out deficit-cutting
measures totaling 113 billion pounds ($167 billion) yesterday
and Germany announced cuts of 81.6 billion euros two weeks ago.  
 ‘Beauty Contest’  
 “There is a beauty contest right now in Europe,” said
 Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“Everyone has to participate.” Even though “France is seen as
a robust country,” its deficit is relatively high, he said.  
 France’s Budget Ministry currently plans a total deficit,
including local governments and the social-security system, of 8
percent of  gross domestic product  this year, before trimming it
to 6 percent in 2011 and within the European Union limit of 3
percent in 2013.  
 The  spread between French and German bond yields  surged to
55.6 points on June 8, the highest in more than a year.  
 The gap has since narrowed, falling to 40 basis points
today, after Sarkozy’s June 16 pledge to lift the minimum
retirement age in France to 62 from 60 and the age at which full
benefits kick in to 67 from 65.  
 The retirement changes and accompanying tax increases will
eliminate half a percentage point of the deficit by 2013,
according to Finance Ministry estimates.  
 The government faces a nationwide protest against the
pension proposals tomorrow.  
 Sarkozy’s administration said May 20 it intends to freeze
spending for three years and will consider a constitutional
amendment introducing binding deficit limits. Including
inflation, that implies an increase in spending of 0.6 percent a
year, the audit office said. By comparison, spending has risen
on average 2.3 percent a year over the past decade, it
estimates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        