-- Shinsei's Gupta, 3 Foreign Executives Leave as Japan Forces Pay Disclosure
-- Takahiko Hyuga
-- 2010-06-23T08:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/shinsei-foreign-executives-leave-as-japan-forces-pay-disclosure.html

          
          
             Shinsei Bank Ltd. , the Japanese
lender part-owned by U.S. investor J. Christopher Flowers ,
replaced four foreign executives after two years of losses, a
failed merger and government criticism of the company’s
compensation policy.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Rahul Gupta , 50, who earned 116
million yen ($1.3 million) in the year ended March 31, resigned
today, the Tokyo-based bank said in a regulatory filing. Chief
Information Officer  Dhananjaya Dvivedi ;  Sang-Ho Sohn , head of
the bank’s investment banking business; and Chief Risk Officer
 Michael Cook  also stepped down.  
 Flowers, the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner who
shared in as much as $7 billion of profits when foreign
investors sold shares in Shinsei more than five years ago, has
watched the stock slump about  75 percent  since leading a second
investment in the bank in November 2007. Former Financial
Services Minister  Shizuka Kamei  last month called annual
compensation in excess of 100 million yen for non-Japanese
executives at Shinsei “exorbitant.”  
 “Company performance should be in line with management
compensation, and if it isn’t justified, it’s only natural that
they have to take responsibility,” said  Kengo Nishiyama , a
Tokyo-based strategist at Nomura Securities Co.  
 Dvivedi was paid 113 million yen, Sohn 110 million yen and
Cook 149 million yen. Former Chief Executive Officer  Masamoto Yashiro , who was replaced by  Shigeki Toma  today, was paid 8.5
million yen.  
 New Driver  
 Toma, who joined from automaker Isuzu Motors Ltd., is
focusing on plans to raise as much as 100 billion yen to boost
capital after a plan to merge with Aozora Bank Ltd. collapsed.
Shinsei reported a  loss  of 140.2 billion yen for the year ended
March 31, following a deficit of 143.1 billion yen 12 months
earlier.  
 Last year’s loss was driven by 104.7 billion yen in charges
related to Shinsei’s consumer finance business, 70.2 billion yen
in costs for its real estate business and 18.9 billion yen in
losses and credit costs on overseas investments. By comparison,
 Aozora , which raised concerns about Shinsei’s capital before
scrapping the tie-up, reported a return to full-year profit with
net income of 8.3 billion yen.  
 Speaking at Shinsei’s annual shareholders meeting today, he
also said the bank will “strengthen” its consumer finance
business.  
 Fitch Ratings on May 11 cut Shinsei’s credit rating two
levels to BB+, below investment grade, citing an unclear
business strategy and the risk that the quality of its assets
may deteriorate.  
 Financial Disclosure  
 The Financial Services Agency this year began forcing
listed companies to disclose compensation of board members or
executive officers exceeding 100 million yen in filings to the
Ministry of Finance. Companies now must give a breakdown of
compensation packages, including stock options, bonuses and
retirement payouts under new corporate disclosure rules.  
 Among Japan’s listed companies, 1.4 percent of executives
and 8.3 percent of presidents were paid more than 100 million
yen, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in an April report.
Companies have been reporting executive compensation on a
voluntary basis often providing average salaries.  
 Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  is
the best paid leader of Japanese companies to have so far
declared compensation, having received 891 million yen in salary
and stock options last fiscal year. He’s followed by Sony Corp.
Chairman  Howard Stringer , who earned about 810 million yen in
salary, bonus and stock options.  
 Flowers Deal  
 Flowers was part of a group that bought Shinsei’s
predecessor, Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd., for 121
billion yen in 2000 in the first acquisition of a Japanese bank
by overseas investors, after the company was nationalized in
1998. They raised 555 billion yen in an initial public offering
of the lender in 2004 and a subsequent share sale a year later,
contributed to profits of as much as $7 billion for investors.  
 In November 2007, Flowers reappeared, with the announcement
that he and a group including Spain’s Banco Santander SA,
Zurich-based Swiss Reinsurance Co. and Shinsei’s senior
management, would offer 202 billion yen to raise their stake in
the bank to as high as 32.6 percent.  
 Shigeru Tsukamoto will replace Gupta as chief financial
officer, Shinsei said in a statement.  Yukio Nakamura  was
appointed chief risk officer,  Izumi Ogura  will lead the bank’s
institutional group and Akira Kagiichi was named chief of staff,
according to today’s statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rahul Gupta, chief financial officer of Shinsei Bank  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photograph shows Rahul Gupta, chief financial officer of Shinsei Bank Ltd., speaking during an interview in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photograph shows Rahul Gupta, chief financial officer of Shinsei Bank Ltd., speaking during an interview in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
