-- Singapore's Inflation Holds at 14-Month High as Recovery Spurs Price Gains
-- Stephanie Phang
-- 2010-06-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/singapore-s-inflation-holds-at-14-month-high-as-recovery-spurs-price-gains.html

          
          
             Singapore’s  inflation  held at a 14-
month high in May as the island’s economic rebound boosted food,
housing and car prices.  
 The consumer price index climbed 3.2 percent from a year
earlier, Singapore’s Department of Statistics said today in a
statement. That was more than the 3 percent median estimate of
11 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Prices rose 0.6
percent from April, without adjusting for seasonal factors.  
 Singapore’s  economy expanded  an annualized 38.6 percent
from the previous three months in the first quarter as overseas
demand for its manufactured goods recovered from last year’s
slump. That’s boosted hiring and brought the  unemployment rate 
to 2.2 percent, the lowest level in almost two years.  
 “Wages are rising as the labor market starts to tighten,
and that should set the conditions for demand-pull inflationary
pressure to kick in,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report. “Though
growth momentum is expected to moderate going forward, inflation
will still hang above the 3 percent mark for the rest of the
year.”  
 Housing prices, the biggest component of the consumer price
index, climbed 1.6 percent from a year earlier, and transport
costs increased 15 percent. Food prices rose 1.3 percent.  
 The cost of buying cars and motorcycles has surged as
rising demand and falling supply caused the prices for some
vehicle permits to more than double since the end of December.
Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling a limited number of permits every year for each category
of vehicles.  
 Monetary Policy  
 The decline in the Singapore dollar in May probably pushed
consumer prices higher by making imports more expensive, Seah
said. The currency slid about 2 percent against the U.S. dollar
during the month.  
 The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which uses the
currency instead of interest rates to conduct monetary policy,
said in April it would undertake a one-time revaluation of the
currency and allow a gradual and modest appreciation. Inflation
will probably average between 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent this
year, the central bank said.  
 “There is nothing really much monetary policy can do if
higher inflation is driven by food prices,”  Song Seng-Wun , an
economist at CIMB Research Pte in Singapore, said before the
report. “If we see higher prices outside of food, accommodation
and transportation, then the central bank will pay more
attention.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Phang  in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        