-- Singapore Gambles Low Crime Rate With $10.2 Billion Casino Push
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-06-23T12:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/singapore-gambles-low-crime-rate-with-10-2-billion-casino-push.html

          
          
             Singapore’s casinos have attracted
more than three million visitors, created thousands of jobs and
spurred spending at hotels, restaurants and shopping malls.
They’re also keeping the courts busy.  
 Since the opening of  Resorts World Sentosa  in February and
Marina Bay Sands in April, the island-state has seen cases of
fraud, embezzlement and identity theft. Some offenders were
fined or sent to prison, three European suspects have jumped
bail and two Africans have been charged for cheating the casinos
out of about S$140,000 ($102,000).  
 Named Asia’s most livable city in a Mercer Consulting
survey last month, Singapore dropped its 45-year ban on casinos
to help double  tourism  revenue by 2015 and shed what Prime
Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  called an “unexciting” image. One of
the world’s safest countries according to the U.S. Overseas
Security Advisory Council, Singapore has prepared for a
potential increase in loan sharking, pimping and fraud.  
 “Casinos mean money, money means temptation and temptation
means there’s bound to be some sort of crime,” said  Song Seng- Wun , an economist at CIMB Research Pte in Singapore. “Is it
worth it in terms of its impact and contribution to the
Singapore  economy ? Definitely.”  
 The $5.5 billion Marina Bay Sands, owned by billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las Vegas Sands Corp. , hosts its grand opening
today after unveiling the casino, some convention facilities, a
mall and 963 of 2,560 hotel rooms on April 27.  Genting Singapore
Plc ’s $4.7 billion Resorts World casino on Sentosa island,
featuring a Universal Studios Inc. theme park, opened Feb. 14.  
 ‘Undesirable Activities’  
 Singapore’s per-capita crime rate of 684 per 100,000 people
in 2008 was about a third that of New York City, Law Minister  K. Shanmugam  said last year. The “handful” of casino-linked cases
so far hasn’t contributed “significantly” to the Singapore
Subordinate Courts’ caseload, the court said in an e-mail.  
 “As the emergence of these cases is a recent phenomenon,
the actual impact remains to be seen,” the court said.  
 Prime Minister Lee rejected a proposal for casinos in 2002
when he was heading a committee to seek growth strategies for
Singapore. He said they could lead to “undesirable activities”
such as money laundering, illegal lending and organized crime.  
 Three years later, Lee justified the decision to allow
gambling by saying the country had “no choice but to proceed”
with the casinos to keep attracting tourists.  
 Economic Boost  
 The popularity of  Macau  supports his view. The southern
Chinese city surpassed the Las Vegas Strip as the world’s
biggest gambling center in 2006. Revenue there may rise 50
percent this year,  Karen Tang , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in a June 11 report.  
 About 3 million to 4 million people have visited
Singapore’s casinos so far, according to  Jonathan Galaviz , an
independent gambling industry strategist. The resorts may add
about 0.8 percentage point to Singapore’s  gross domestic product 
this year when fully operational, Song said, helping to reduce a
reliance on manufacturing that led to three recessions in a
decade. The most recent contraction was the deepest since
Singapore’s independence in 1965.  
 Early visitor numbers at  Marina Bay Sands  are “more than
sustainable,” Adelson said in an interview. About 550,000
people visited the casino in the first 25 days of May with two-
thirds either tourists or foreigners living in Singapore.  
 Tax Revenue  
 The resorts, which the government says employ about 16,000
workers, may generate tax revenue of more than $400 million this
year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on estimates
provided by  Aaron Fischer , CLSA Ltd.’s Hong Kong-based gambling
analyst. Fischer estimates the casinos will attract 9.2 million
visitors this year and 15.1 million in 2011.  
 Tourism receipts account for about 5 percent of the economy.
The city aims to boost revenue to S$30 billion by 2015 from
S$12.8 billion last year, the  Singapore Tourism Board  said.  
 Efforts to attract 17 million tourists annually by 2015
from 9.7 million last year may be working. Room and food revenue
at the nation’s hotels rose 32 percent to S$223.7 million in
April from a year earlier, according to the tourism agency.  
 “We were never tempted to come to Singapore before, but
now there seems to be more things to do and more places to go,”
said New Zealand retiree David Brooke after visiting the Marina
Bay Sands casino during a three-day visit with his wife, en
route to the U.K. “We are thinking of stopping over on our
return trip as well.”  
 Cheating, Escorts  
 Resorts World ’s security officers and thousands of cameras
watch out for any crime and flouting of casino rules, working
“very closely” with authorities, said  Robin Goh , a spokesman.
A  Marina Bay Sands  spokeswoman declined to comment.  
 While Singapore says it’s too early to assess any social
impact, local newspapers have detailed punters caught placing
bets after a winning number was declared, a Resorts World
cashier who stole S$10,000 from the casino and gambled it away,
and three Europeans who jumped bail after being charged with
cheating at the roulette tables.  
 The Singapore Police Force is already serving 3,500 so-
called exclusion orders prohibiting entry to the casinos to
convicted criminals “such as loan shark syndicate members,
secret society members, money launderers, pimps and drug
traffickers,” Michael Ang, who heads the  Casino Crime
Investigation Branch , said in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 Money to Spend  
 Prostitution, which is legal in the country of 5 million,
may also increase as casino visitors celebrate or spend their
winnings, said Gerrie Lim, author of “Invisible Trade,” a book
on Singapore’s high-end escort industry. Public solicitation,
pimping or living off the earnings of a prostitute, as well as
maintaining a brothel, are illegal in Singapore.  
 “There will be business travelers, clients, who fly into
Singapore and who want to check out the casino, and as part of
the entertainment will call to book a few of these girls to come
party with them,” Lim said.  
 William, a 30-year-old former banker and owner of Singapore
Model Escorts, expects business to triple.  
 “People who win money will spend money,” he said, asking
that only his first name be used. Escorts earn up to S$1,500 an
hour with some bookings lasting as long as 10 hours, he said.  
 Some of his competitors have geared up for gamblers.
Singapore Exquisite Social Escort Services has set up websites
offering services under names such as Singapore Casino Escort,
Sentosa Casino Escorts and Marina Bay Casino Escorts. Calls to
the company were left unanswered.  
 Problem Gambling  
 Singapore citizens and permanent residents must pay a S$100
daily levy to enter the casinos, or S$2,000 for an annual pass,
in a government effort to deter those who can’t afford to gamble.
The casinos had collected about S$70 million in entrance fees as
of May 10,  Vivian Balakrishnan , the minister for community
development, youth and sports, said last month.  
 Malvin Lim, 39 and  unemployed , says he’s gambled more than
20 times since they opened, betting as much as S$3,000 each time.
He’s lost about S$8,000 at baccarat.  
 “I’m using my savings to gamble and so far I haven’t had
to borrow any money to play,” Lim said.  
 The  National Council on Problem Gambling , set up in 2005,
said calls to its helpline have increased “significantly”
since Resorts World opened and more people have asked to be
added to a list preventing them from entering the casinos.  
 V. Radakrishnan, a 27-year-old interior designer for
offices and pubs, said he’s spent S$13,000 at Resorts World
Sentosa’s jackpot machines and baccarat tables. While he’s won
about S$6,000 at the slot machines, he said he has yet to
“conquer” the baccarat tables.  
 “It’s just for fun and I don’t mind losing,” Radakrishnan
said as he entered the Marina Bay Sands. “I look at it as my
contribution to the economy. The government should be happy.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Las Vegas Sands Chairman and CEO Sheldon Adelson at the opening of the company's Marina Bay Sands resort and casino in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     (Corrects video graphics in Bloomberg Television report that aired June 23 to show that Derek da Cunha is the author of "Singapore Places Its Bets" and not a Singapore opposition politician or a member of any political party. Bloomberg apologizes for any inconvenience.)      June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin reports on some Singaporeans' concerns about potential social ills arising from the introduction of casinos to the island-state.     The $5.5 billion Marina Bay Sands, owned by billionaire Sheldon Adelson’s Las Vegas Sands Corp., hosts its grand opening today. Singapore dropped its 45-year ban on casinos to help double tourism revenue by 2015 and shed what Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong called an "unexciting" image. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Las Vegas Sands Marina Bay Sands resort and casino in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Visitors line up to enter the casino at Genting Singapore's Resorts World Sentosa on its first day of operation, in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
