-- Radicova to Be Slovakia's First Female Premier After Asked to Form Cabinet
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-06-23T14:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/slovakia-s-probable-new-government-to-make-deficit-reduction-top-priority.html

          
          
             Iveta Radicova , likely to become
Slovakia’s first female prime minister, was asked by President
 Ivan Gasparovic  to create a four-party government that will
restore fiscal prudence and reduce corruption.  
 Consolidating public finances is the priority for the
coalition that won 79 of 150 seats in parliament in June 12
elections, said Radicova, the leader of SDKU, the largest of the
parties. The 2010  budget deficit  is set to reach 7 percent of
gross domestic product, exceeding 5.5 percent of GDP target,
according to a Finance Ministry forecast released today.  
 “We will be a responsible government,” Radicova told
journalists in Bratislava, the east European nation’s capital,
after meeting with the president. “We will also try to be a
transparent government.”  
 Job losses and a recession last year caused tax revenue to
fall short of the target as the budget deficit widened to 6.8
percent of GDP. The shortfall may swell to 7.4 percent in
2010 unless a new government takes “significant” steps,
according to a survey of economists by the Club of Economic
Analysts issued on June 2.  
 ‘Respect’ Result  
 SDKU, the Christian Democrats, Freedom & Solidarity, and
Most-Hid have all promised to rein in the fiscal deficit.
Outgoing Premier  Robert Fico , whose Smer party took the most
votes, had until today to try to form a government. He failed to
find any coalition partners.  
 “We have to respect the election result,” Fico said after
meeting with Gasparovic. “My idea about creating a two-party
coalition hasn’t materialized.”  
 Gasparovic called for the first session of the new
Parliament to take place on July 8, when Fico’s Cabinet will
formally resign.  
 Other priorities for the future coalition include a
“fundamental” overhaul of Slovakia’s welfare system, reducing
corruption, introducing more flexible labor laws and improving
the business environment, which companies say deteriorated under
Fico’s reign, according to Radicova.  
 Asset Sales  
 The potential coalition partners won’t use sales of public
assets to reduce debt, Radicova said. Fico’s administration
suspended asset sales, including a majority stake in Bratislava
airport, as it sought to strengthen the role of the state in the
economy.  
 The four parties are currently discussing division of
ministries. They are scheduled to hold a press conference later
today after the talks.  
 “Fiscal consolidation should be the government’s top
priority, even though it isn’t realistic to expect much savings
as early as this year,” said  Michal Musak , an economist at
Slovenska Sporitelna AS in Bratislava. “They should also reduce
the role of the state in the economy.”  
 Slovakia is emerging from its first  recession  and may post
the fastest growth in the European Union this year, the bloc’s
estimates show. The central bank expects the economy to expand
3.7 percent this year, after a 4.7 percent contraction in 2009.  
 Slovakia’s A+ credit rating may be raised if the four
parties create a stable, cohesive government that is “able to
implement fiscal and structural reforms,” Fitch Ratings said in
a June 21 statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        