-- Societe Generale Hires Ahmuty From Newedge to Run ETF Trading in New York
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-06-24T14:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/societe-generale-hires-newedge-group-s-bill-ahmuty-to-run-trading-of-etfs.html

          
          
             Societe Generale SA, France’s
second-biggest bank by market value, hired  Bill Ahmuty  of
Newedge Group as head of trading for exchange-traded funds in
New York.  
 Ahmuty, 37, reports to  Jonathan Bensimon , head of equities
and derivatives trading for the Americas, according to  Jim Galvin , a New York-based spokesman for Societe Generale. His job
is a new position, Galvin said. Newedge is a joint venture  owned 
equally by Paris-based Societe Generale and Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank.  
 ETFs in the U.S.  tripled  assets to $830.9 billion in April
from the end of 2005, according to data compiled by the
Investment Company Institute, a Washington-based trade group for
the fund industry. SocGen has traded 46.5 billion euros ($57.3
billion) of the securities globally in 2010, a rate implying 57
percent growth over 2009 and almost a 10-fold gain from five
years ago, the firm said.  
 “This area is hot right now,” said  Jeanne Branthover ,
head of the financial-services practice at Boyden Global
Executive Search in New York. “Firms have recognized it as a
moneymaker, and anything firms think can create revenue is what
they’re going after, and they know they have to hire players and
pay them. So you’re really seeing musical chairs right now.”  
 Newedge  
 Briton Ryan , an ETF trader who joined Newedge last year
from Macquarie Group Ltd., will take over Ahmuty’s position as
head of U.S. ETF sales and trading, spokesman Valery Lepinette
said. He declined to comment on Ahmuty’s departure. Newedge
hired Ahmuty in July from Morgan Stanley, where he was head of
U.S. ETF trading.  
 ETFs, first introduced in the U.S. in 1993, reached $1
trillion in assets for the first time last year, according to
BlackRock Inc., the biggest ETF manager and the world’s largest
asset manager.  
 “Investors like ETFs because they are simple, transparent,
and do what they say they are going to do,”  Deborah Fuhr ,
BlackRock’s global head of ETF research and implementation
strategy, said this month in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“You can trade them during the day with multiple brokers
because when there is a lot of volatility, if you are using
traditional mutual funds, you have to wait until the end of the
day for the fund to price its assets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        