-- South Africa's World Cup of Firsts Ends in Disappointment for Host Nation
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-06-23T08:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/south-africa-players-face-disappointment-of-soccer-world-cup-at-home.html

          
          
             South Africa exited the World Cup
yesterday, after achieving several ‘firsts’ in the most
watched sporting event, not all of them positive.  
 The country was the first on the continent to host the
soccer tournament. Yesterday’s win over France, the first in
four tries, wasn’t enough to prevent South Africa from becoming
the first host nation to exit in the first round of the event.  
 South Africa came into the tournament undefeated in its
last 12 matches, boosting the hopes of millions of South
Africans who wore the squad’s yellow colors each Friday since
the start of the year in support of their team.  
 The tournament was a “disappointment,”  Steven Pienaar ,
South African and Everton midfielder, said after the team beat
10-man France 2-1 but still didn’t qualify for the second stage
on goal difference. The hosts finished tied with Mexico with
four points, but lost out on progressing as the second-place
team on an inferior goal difference. The team drew 1-1 against
Mexico in their opening match, and lost 3-0 to Uruguay.  
 “It was decent in the beginning and at the end of the
tournament, the middle section is what brought us to where we
are,” South African assistant coach,  Pitso Mosimane  said.  
 South Africa, nicknamed “Bafana Bafana,” started the
tournament as the second-lowest ranked team in the 32-nation
championship and rated by bookmakers as an outsider to make it
out of their four-team group. No host nation has failed to reach
the second round in the World Cup’s 80-year history.  
 History of Champions  
 Bafana Bafana, which means “our boys” in Zulu, have
struggled to replace talent over the last several years,
according to Ian Hawkey, author of Feet of the Chameleon, which
tracks the history of football in Africa.  
 “They were African champions 14 years ago when they
certainly had a stronger team than this and certainly a more-
worldly team,” he said.  
 South Africa is ranked 83rd in the world by FIFA, soccer’s
governing body. The only team in the tournament with a lower
ranking is North Korea, at 105th. Brazil is No. 1, ahead of
Spain and Portugal. South Africa achieved its highest ranking of
16 after winning the African Cup of Nations in 1996.  
 The South African team that took on France was mainly made
up of players that ply their trade in the Premier Soccer League,
one of Africa’s richest leagues.  
 Spoilt  
 “The players here are a bit spoilt,” Hawkey said. “They
get very good salaries, certainly by African standards and South
African standards, and there is a bit of a comfort zone which
makes it hard for them to raise their level.”  
 Mosimane said the main reason for the country’s early exit
was the lack of goal scorers, a problem that tracks back to
development.  
 “We need more finishers,” he said. “It’s a weakness that
we should face and agree that we don’t have depth in terms of
goal-scorers.”  
 Carlos Alberto Parreira , who won the 1994 title with
Brazil, is South Africa’s fifteenth coach since its readmission
to FIFA in 1992 after the whites-only government began to
dismantle the apartheid system. He returned for a second stint
in November last year after quitting in April 2008 to take care
of his ill wife.  
 South Africa “historically always goes through this
reactionary phase of local, then foreign coaches. It’s rather
schizophrenic,” Hawkey said.  
 The other five African countries have not fared much
better, with only one victory achieved in the 11 matches played
to date, with Cameroon, led by Inter Milan striker Eto’o,
already out of this year’s event. Nigeria drew with South Korea
yesterday, eliminating the squad.  
 Algeria need to beat the U.S. today to ensure it
advances out of the group after losing to Slovenia and drawing
with England. Ghana need at least a draw against Germany
today to advance. Ivory Coast need to defeat North Korea by a
convincing margin on June 25 and have Brazil beat Portugal to
stay in the competition.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        