-- South African Inflation Slows to 4.6%, Adding to Interest Rate Cut Hopes
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-23T11:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/south-african-inflation-slows-to-4-6-adding-to-interest-rate-cut-hopes.html

          
          
             South African inflation slowed for a
fifth consecutive month in May, reaching 4.6 percent and giving
the central bank an opportunity to cut interest rates once more
before rising energy and wage costs add to price pressures.  
 Inflation eased from 4.8 percent in April, the Pretoria-
based statistics office said on its  website  today. It was in
line with the median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.2 percent in the month.  
 The Reserve Bank has cut its benchmark interest  rate  seven
times to 6.5 percent since December 2008 to help pull Africa’s
biggest economy out of  recession . Consumer spending has been
slow to recover and the window for more rate cuts may be closing
as workers push for higher pay and electricity costs increase.  
 “We are in the sweet spot for inflation,” said  Kevin Lings , a Johannesburg-based economist with Stanlib Asset
Management. “It will go lower over the next couple of months”
and “you can make the argument” for rate cuts, though that is
unlikely to happen, he said.  
 A bumper corn crop and the rand’s gains in the first
quarter helped to bring inflation back inside the central bank’s
3 percent to 6 percent target range. The Reserve Bank, which
will make its next interest rate decision on July 22, expects
inflation to stay within the target until the end of next year.  
 European Crisis  
 A further rate cut may help to boost consumer spending,
which makes up two-thirds of demand in the economy, and offset a
drop in exports as the European debt crisis threatens to stall
economic growth in that region.  
 “South Africa’s recovery is weak and dependent on external
factors,”  Razia Khan , chief economist for Africa at Standard
Chartered Plc in London, said in e-mailed comments. “The risks
of renewed rate easing to give the economy that additional bit
of stimulus is high.”  
 Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  on May 20 raised concern
about weak growth in Europe, which buys almost a third of South
African exports. She also cited rising electricity costs as the
main risk to inflation.  
 “This data doesn’t mean a rate cut,”  Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at Nomura International Plc in London,
said in an e-mailed note. “It is the cyclical low in consumer
price inflation which the South African Reserve Bank is already
expecting. They will look through this to see inflation rising”
to more than 5 percent over the medium-term and accelerated
growth.  
 Wage Increases  
 In the past few months, wage settlements have surged,
adding to price pressures. Workers at Transnet Ltd., the state-
owned rail and ports company, won an 11 percent pay increase
following an 18-day strike in May. Power utility Eskom Holdings
Ltd. is currently in talks with workers, offering to raise wages
by 8 percent, while workers are demanding 15 percent.  
 The rand traded at 7.5602 per dollar at 12:56 p.m. in
Johannesburg, little changed from before the release of the
inflation data. The South African currency has declined 2.6
percent against the dollar this year, after posting a 1.6
percent gain in the first quarter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        