-- Spain Stress Tests May Improve Bank Access to Capital Markets, Campa Says
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-06-23T08:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/spain-stress-tests-may-improve-bank-access-to-capital-markets-campa-says.html

          
          
             Spain’s plan to publish bank stress
tests may help lenders regain access to capital markets by
improving sentiment toward the nation, Deputy Finance Minister
 Jose Manuel Campa  said.  
 The government’s role is to “promote the transparency and
the information that generates that confidence because sometimes
to be solvent you don’t only have to be solvent but you also
have to show and convince people that you are,” Campa said in
an interview late yesterday in Madrid. “The stress tests are
clearly part of that strategy.”  
 His remarks follow comments from  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA  Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  on June 14 that
international capital markets are closed to “the greater part
of Spanish companies and financial institutions.”  
 “I’m very confident that it will not last,” said Campa, a
45-year-old former professor at New York University’s Stern
School of Business.  
 As the  risk premium  on Spanish debt surged to the highest
in the euro’s lifetime last week, the Bank of Spain announced it
would publish stress tests on banks, prompting the rest of
Europe to follow suit. The country is trying to convince
investors it can bolster savings banks hobbled by an increase in
bad loans while cutting the third-largest budget  deficit  in the
euro region and steering the economy back to growth.  
 Rescue Fund  
 Most of Spain’s 45 savings banks, which are foundation-
based lenders linked to regional governments, are merging in
deals that can be financed by the state’s bank-rescue fund. Bank
of Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said yesterday
that lenders may receive around 10 billion euros ($12.3 billion)
in loans from the fund.  
 The stress tests must be “credible,” Campa said. “It
should include a scenario that’s sufficiently stressed so that
the markets perceive that the likelihood of that scenario is
sufficiently small,” he said.  
 “It’s probably not going to cover 100 percent of the
banking sector because there are very, very small institutions,
but it will be institution by institution and we want the
coverage to be very, very thorough of the system,” he said.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of German equivalents surged to 221 basis points
on June 16, the highest since the start of the euro. The yield
fell after the Bank of Spain said it would publish the stress
tests and was at 191 basis points at 10:07 a.m. in Madrid today.  
 Campa said Spain would have no problem financing 24.7
billion euros of debt redemptions falling due in July, which
include the last bond redemption of the year.  
 “The markets know perfectly well that we have been
executing our funding strategy beyond our needs with no
particular concern,” he said. “To give you an example, we had
an unexpected funding need which was our contribution to the
Greek loan; we made that contribution without announcing any
additional funding needs.”  
 Spain’s contribution to the loan package for Greece last
month, aimed at avoiding the first default in the euro region,
was 9.79 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said lenders may receive around 10 billion euros in loans from the fund. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
