-- Spirit Workers to Vote on `Precedent-Setting' Labor Contract
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-06-24T01:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/spirit-workers-to-vote-on-pact-that-may-set-boeing-precedent-union-says.html

          
          
             Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc.’s 
machinists will vote on a 10-year labor contract on June 25 that
may set a standard for longer-term agreements with companies
such as  Boeing Co. , the workers’ union said.  
 Labor contracts in the aerospace industry usually span
three to four years. The tentative agreement with the Wichita,
Kansas-based aircraft-parts maker is “precedent-setting” and
contains “the strongest job security language in the
industry,” the International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers said today in a statement.  
 Spirit Aero Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Turner  and the
president of the union,  Tom Buffenbarger , began meeting in
January to lay the framework for longer accords that protect
 employees  while giving companies flexibility. Buffenbarger has
said he hopes the agreement will be a model for other suppliers
and planemakers, including Boeing, which has seen two strikes
since 2008 and is facing a third next week.  
 If approved, the contract would be “the first of its kind
in the industry, the first of its kind in the nation,” IAM
Local Lodge 839 said today in a letter to its 5,900 members
announcing the details of the agreement reached yesterday.  
 “We have 10,000 aircraft workers in Wichita laid off,
we’re having outsourcing to Mexico and other states and plant
closures across the industry,” said IAM spokesman  Bob Wood .
“We think this could be a new model for other aerospace
contracts we have in Wichita and elsewhere, like Boeing, because
we’re tired of seeing jobs fly away.”  
 Incentive-Based Raises  
 Machinists would get pension improvements through the
entire contract, medical costs that will be kept “in check,”
salary increases that are more incentive-based and are linked to
progress toward goals similar to those set for senior
management, and 150 shares of stock, Wood said.  
 The company, in turn, gets labor stability, the flexibility
needed to adapt to changing demand and a new performance-based
reward system that’s a first for the IAM and will keep costs
from escalating beyond market norms, said Spirit spokesman  Ken Evans .  
 “This is a whole new kind of relationship where we’ve got
both parties focused on positive improvement versus on
renegotiating the next contract in three years,” Evans said.
“We’re talking about a 10-year contract with no strikes, and
you can imagine what a big selling tool that’s going to be for
customers.”  
 Strike, Walkout  
 Spirit Aero makes sections of every Boeing model, including
the entire fuselage for the 737, so profit was hurt by a two-
month strike by Boeing machinists in 2008 that shuttered the
planemaker’s Seattle-area commercial manufacturing hub. Boeing’s
C-17 military transport plant in California was closed for a
month by a walkout there, and machinists at the St. Louis
fighter-jet factory have threatened to stop work on June 28.  
 Boeing cited labor stability last year as the reason behind
its decision to build a new assembly plant in South Carolina,
where workers can’t be forced to join unions, instead of in
Seattle, where it’s built commercial jets since 1916.  
 Boeing wants to restart its unsuccessful talks with the
IAM, conducted before the factory decision last year, about a
longer-term agreement, said company spokesman  Tim Healy  in
Seattle. The union had offered to extend the contract by eight
years before talks broke down. The current four-year deal ends
in 2012.  
 “We want a long-term agreement so we have labor stability,
and we also need to address our long-term competitiveness,”
Healy said. “The best way to make sure we keep providing jobs
is that we need to remain competitive on things like being a
reliable supplier of airplanes.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace workers Tom Buffenbarger. Source: International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
