-- Stanford Will Be Tried Alone, Without Co-Defendants
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-06-24T04:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/stanford-will-be-tried-alone-ahead-of-three-co-defendants-judge-decides.html

          
          
             R. Allen Stanford  will face a
federal jury alone on charges he swindled investors of more than
$7 billion, and his alleged co-conspirators can be tried later,
a judge ruled.  
 The Texas financier is in jail in Houston awaiting trial on
21 criminal charges he defrauded more than 20,000 investors
through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd.  
 U.S. District Judge  David Hittner  in Houston ruled
yesterday that Stanford’s trial will go forward in January as
previously set. In a three-paragraph order, Hittner granted a
request by three former Stanford executives also charged in the
scheme that they be tried separately from their former boss.  
 Laura Pendergest-Holt , the former chief investment officer
of the Houston-based Stanford Financial Group of companies,
“very much wanted to be tried on her own conduct,” her
attorney,  Dan Cogdell , said in a phone interview.  
 Pendergest-Holt made the request after Stanford repeatedly
changed defense attorneys and engaged in conduct Cogdell
described in a June 9 filing as “egregious and circus-like.”
Stanford’s former accounting chief  Gil Lopez  and global
controller  Mark Kuhrt  joined Pendergest-Holt’s request for a
separate trial. In yesterday’s order, Hittner said the three
colleagues will be tried together sometime after Stanford’s
trial concludes.  
 ‘Innocent as Charged’  
 “This decision by the court was expected, and we will
welcome an opportunity to show that R. Allen Stanford is
innocent as charged,” his lawyer,  Robert Bennett  of Houston,
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Bennett also said he was continuing to press for his
client’s release from pretrial detention so that he can more
readily assist in the preparation of his defense. Harvard
University law professor  Alan Dershowitz  is aiding in the bid
for release, which has been opposed by the U.S.  
 “This severance helps Laura in every way possible,”
Cogdell said. With Stanford being tried first, the other
defendants will have “free discovery, the opportunity to
evaluate government witnesses and to be able to impeach them if
their story changes. It’s a critical advantage,” he said.  
 Justice Department spokesman Alisa Finelli declined to
comment on the judge’s ruling.  
 Parallel Fraud Claims  
 Stanford, his former colleagues and several Stanford
companies face parallel civil fraud claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The regulators alleged in a
February 2009 complaint that the Stanford executives misled
investors about the safety and oversight of their investments,
in a scheme that paid early investors with funds taken from
later investors.  
 The criminal case against Stanford and the other defendants
is U.S. v. Stanford, H-09-342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The civil case is SEC v. Stanford
International Bank, 3:09-cv-00298-N, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Harris  in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       R. Allen Stanford  
                       
                         
                           F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg 
                         
                         R. Allen Stanford will face a federal jury alone on charges he swindled investors of more than $7 billion, and his alleged co-conspirators can be tried later, a judge ruled. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     R. Allen Stanford will face a federal jury alone on charges he swindled investors of more than $7 billion, and his alleged co-conspirators can be tried later, a judge ruled. Photographer: F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
