-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Fed's Europe Comments, Home Sales Drop
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-06-23T20:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/stock-index-futures-rise-philip-morris-gains-on-improved-profit-outlook.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, with the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  dropping for a third day, after the Federal
Reserve signaled that European indebtedness may harm American
growth and new-home sales sank to a record low.  
 General Electric Co.,  Chevron Corp.  and Microsoft Corp.
retreated more than 1.7 percent after the Fed’s Open Market
Committee said “financial conditions have become less
supportive of economic growth on balance.”  Adobe Systems Inc. 
dropped 7.3 percent, reaching the lowest price since July, after
forecasting revenue that may miss the average analyst estimate.  
 The  S&P 500  declined 0.3 percent to 1,092.04 at 4 p.m. in
New York, extending this week’s slump to 2.3 percent. The index
had risen as much as 0.4 percent after the Fed released its
statement at 2:15 p.m.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained
4.92 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,298.44.  
 “The Fed’s comments are really just reflecting reality,”
said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York. “The economy is growing, just not as much as
one would like nor as much as the previous decline would
suggest. The statement is very much as we expected, reflecting
the weaker growth data and the troubling inflationary data.”  
 Declines by stocks earlier in the day were driven by a U.S.
Commerce Department report showing purchases of new homes fell
in May to a record low as a tax credit expired, showing the
market remains dependent on government support.  Sales  collapsed
a record 33 percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from
April, less than the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and the fewest in data going back to 1963. Demand
in prior months was revised down.  
 ‘Ugly’  
 “Housing numbers are ugly with a capital ‘U’,” said
 Michael Mullaney , who manages $9 billion at Fiduciary Trust Co.
in Boston. “It looks like we’re going to double dip in housing.
Investors are concerned.”  
 Builders rallied despite the drop in home sales. An index
of homebuilders across S&P indexes, which had fallen five
straight days for a loss of 8.6 percent,  climbed  2.4 percent
today.  
 “The perception is we will have a double bottom, but those
valuations may already be reflected in the building sector,”
said  David Lutz , managing director of equity trading at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  
 U.S. stocks sank yesterday as existing-home sales
unexpectedly dropped and the S&P 500 slipped for a second day
below chart levels monitored by analysts. The benchmark for U.S.
equities has gained 4 percent since June 7 and completed its
biggest two-week rally since November on June 18 as concern
about Europe’s debt crisis eased.  
 ‘Mixed Interpretation’  
 The S&P 500 initially advanced today after the Fed’s
statement. Policy makers left the overnight interbank lending
rate target unchanged in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008.  
 “The Fed said what the market wanted to hear,” said  Burt White , who helps oversee $284 billion as chief investment
officer at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston. “The FOMC
acknowledged the extension of European credit issues. It has
signaled that it’s going to keep interest-rates low for a while
and it indicated that we’re going to have moderate growth. The
economic recovery may be constrained because of Europe, but not
going to be derailed because of that.  
 The swing between gains and losses for the S&P 500 was
caused by a “mixed interpretation of the Fed’s statement,”
said  Chad Morganlander , a Florham Park, New Jersey-based money
manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees $98 billion.
“The FOMC has essentially said it’s going to keep interest-
rates low, which is good for stocks. On the negative side, there
was a mild downgrade of optimism on the outlook for the
economy.”  
 Energy Slump  
 Energy  producers fell 1 percent as crude oil dropped 1.9
percent to $76.35 a barrel.  
 Chevron declined 2.4 percent to $72.26, while Exxon Mobil
Corp. dropped 1.4 percent to $61.10.  
 Adobe had the biggest decline in the S&P 500, falling 7.3
percent to $30.38. The biggest maker of graphic-design programs
forecast third-quarter revenue will be $950 million to $1
billion. Analysts on average estimated $962 million in sales.  
 Phone companies had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 10
industries, rising 0.6 percent. Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded
the industry to “market weight” from “underweight” saying
wireless pricing appears to be stabilizing.  Verizon
Communications Inc.  rose 0.9 percent to $29.33.  
 Jabil Circuit Inc.  had the biggest gain in the S&P 500,
rising 11 percent to $15.03. The St. Petersburg, Florida-based
electronics manufacturer reported third-quarter profit excluding
some items of 40 cents a share, beating the average analyst
estimate of 34 cents a share in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “Nobody said the recovery was going to be robust,” said
 James Dunigan , chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management
in Philadelphia, which oversees $104 billion. “However,
businesses are doing well, valuations are in pretty good shape.
There are some pretty good values out there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. stocks sank yesterday as existing-home sales unexpectedly dropped and the S&P 500 slipped for a second day below chart levels monitored by analysts. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Edward McKelvey, senior U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., talks about Federal Reserve monetary policy and the U.S. economic outlook.
     McKelvey talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deborah Kostroun reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today. 
     Stocks dropped, Treasuries rose and the dollar weakened against the euro and yen after the Federal Reserve said European debt may harm economic growth and American new-home sales sank to a record low. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, talks about his investment strategy and outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Wren talks with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Adam Johnson and Julie Hyman on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Kelly, chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his strategy for U.S. stocks and fixed-income investments.
     U.S. stocks sank yesterday, with benchmark gauges declining the most in almost three weeks, as home sales unexpectedly dropped and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped for a second day below chart levels monitored by analysts. Kelly, speaking from Cleveland, Ohio, also discusses Federal Reserve policy, the outlook for the U.S. economy, and China's shift in currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
