-- Stocks Fall the Most in Two Weeks on U.S. Home Sales, Yen; Toyota Declines
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-06-23T06:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/stocks-drop-on-weaker-u-s-home-sales-stronger-yen-honda-canon-decline.html

          
          
             Japanese  stocks  fell the most in
more than two weeks on concern the U.S. economic recovery may
falter after home sales in the country unexpectedly dropped.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , a carmaker that generates 67 percent of
its revenue abroad, sank 1.7 percent as the dollar and euro
weakened against the yen.  Mitsubishi Corp. , a trading company
that relies on commodities for 41 percent of its sales, lost 1.5
percent after oil and copper prices decreased. Nippon Yusen K.K.
led shipping lines lower after a gauge of freight rates declined
for an 18th consecutive day.  
 “Investors are avoiding risk because concern is emerging
that the global economy will slow,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a
fund manager in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $6 billion. “This isn’t the right time to draw
up an investment strategy.”  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1.9 percent to close at
9,923.70 in Tokyo, the biggest decrease among equity benchmarks
in the Asia-Pacific region. The broader  Topix index  lost 1.5
percent to 880.84, with almost eight stocks declining for each
that advanced. Both gauges dropped the most since June 7.  
 The Nikkei 225 lost 1.2 percent yesterday on renewed
concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the global economy after
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut its forecast for economic
growth in Spain, and Fitch Ratings lowered the credit grade of
France’s biggest bank.  
 “I’ve already sold what has to be sold and I’m paying
close attention to individual stocks,” Yamashita said.  
 The Nikkei 225 has risen 5.1 percent from this year’s low
on June 9 as reports showed New York manufacturing grew,
sentiment among American consumers improved and China signaled
an end to the yuan’s fixed rate against the dollar.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        