-- Sun Life's Growth Comes With `Talent' From Bailed-Out Rivals AIG, Lincoln
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-06-23T17:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/sun-life-s-growth-comes-with-talent-from-bailed-out-rivals-aig-lincoln.html

          
          
             Sun Life Financial Inc. , the
Canadian insurer whose sales of variable annuities in the U.S.
jumped last year, said growth was spurred in part by salespeople
it hired from bailed-out rivals like  Lincoln National Corp.   
 “We were able to pick off some of their talent,”  Steve Deschenes , general manager of Sun Life’s U.S. annuities
business, said today in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters
in New York. The financial crisis of 2008 “was a great
opportunity.”  
 Sun Life hired 50 variable annuity wholesalers, who
coordinate and promote distribution, in the last year and a
half, said  Alexi Maravel , a Sun Life spokesman. In that time
period, the number of Sun Life wholesalers rose to 84 from
around 80, he said. Deschenes said some of the hires came from
Philadelphia-based Lincoln and  American International Group Inc.   
 Sun Life is seeking a greater share of individual savings
in the world’s biggest economy as U.S. insurers scale back to
conserve capital. Sales of variable annuities, the equity-linked
retirement accounts, fell at Lincoln, AIG and  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc.  last year as stock declines forced the
carriers into government rescues.  
 “Capital, some people have it, some people don’t,”
Deschenes said. “Those with capital are able to acquire books
of businesses and franchises and expand.”  
 Sun Life President  Jon Boscia  said in November that the
company needs a U.S. insurance acquisition over the next two
years to significantly expand in that market. Sun Life bought
naming rights to the host stadium of the 2010 Pro Bowl and Super
Bowl football games in Miami Gardens, Florida.  
 Acquisition Possible  
 “We’re evaluating options for growth,” said Deschenes.
“We would potentially grow more quickly through an
acquisition.”  
 Sun Life rose to  14th  from  18th  among U.S. variable annuity
providers last year as sales surged 61 percent to $3.21 billion,
according to trade group Limra International. New York-based AIG
fell to 10th from eighth as sales dropped 42 percent to $4.75
billion. Hartford dropped to 15th from ninth as sales plummeted
by two-thirds. Lincoln remained in fifth place as sales declined
28 percent.  
 Lincoln sold stock this month and announced it will repay
the $950 million bailout it took from Treasury last year.
Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name, repaid
its $3.4 billion rescue in March. AIG, which took a bailout
valued at $182.3 billion, owed about $26 billion on a Federal
Reserve credit line and $49 billion to Treasury as of last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        