-- Sundance Can't Say When Plane Crash Bodies Will Be Moved From Congo Site
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-06-23T02:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/sundance-resources-says-bodies-of-executives-killed-in-crash-still-at-site.html

          
          
             Sundance Resources Ltd., whose board
members died in an aircraft crash in the Republic of Congo, said
the bodies remained at the site as recovery work continued.  
 “The bodies have not been removed from the site and the
company cannot predict when this will take place,” Perth-based
Sundance said today in a statement. “The objective of this
stage of the operation is to clear vegetation to provide access
to the site to facilitate recovery of the deceased.”  
 Six Australian, two British, one U.S. and two French
citizens were on the twin turboprop Casa C212 plane chartered by
Sundance that went missing June 19 on a flight from Cameroon’s
capital Yaounde to Yangadou in Congo. The site has been secured
by the French military and Sundance’s emergency response
specialists Dynamiq, the company said.  
 “The company is working closely with the relevant
consulates and high commissions regarding the repatriation of
the deceased,” Sundance said. Its shares are suspended from
trading in Sydney.  
 Sundance is among companies exploring and building mines in
Africa, attracted by its mineral riches, including the world’s
biggest deposits of platinum, chrome and diamonds. The company
aims to complete an initial study for its $3.4 billion Mbalam
iron-ore project in Cameroon by the end of 2010.  
 Work at  Sundance’s operations  in Cameroon has been
suspended, the company said June 20. Its Mbalam iron-ore project
includes a planned rail and port operation. Construction is
scheduled to start next year, the company said in a presentation
this month. It has exploration permits in Cameroon as well as
Congo, where it has been drilling.  
 The wreckage was found June 21 on the western ridge of the
Avima Range in the Republic of Congo, near the Gabonese border,
the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        