-- Swiss Banks Winning Investors With Weakening Euro Buoying Franc
-- Warren Giles
-- 2010-06-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/swiss-banks-winning-funds-from-investors-with-weakening-euro-buoying-franc.html

          
          
             Swiss banks, the haven of choice for
the wealthy until last year’s purge against financial secrecy,
are winning funds as mounting debt in Europe spooks investors.  
 Lombard Odier, Geneva’s oldest private bank,  Julius Baer
Group Ltd.  and Pictet & Cie. are among the Swiss companies
catering to millionaires that are reporting an increase in
business as clients seek to protect their assets from the 8
percent drop in the euro against the Swiss franc this year.  
 “While we’re not seeing huge inflows, there’s a clear
trend for clients wanting to have custody of their assets in
Switzerland,” said  Anne-Marie de Weck , a managing partner at
Lombard Odier, in an interview. “There’s an increasing interest
that wasn’t there six or 12 months ago.”  
 Swiss banks have been under pressure from foreign
governments to disclose more information about customers as part
of a global hunt for tax evaders. This year, their reputation
for financial security is helping attract wealth as the euro
plunges to a  record low  against the franc because of concern
about a debt crisis in Greece spreading across Europe.  
 Lombard Odier’s assets have climbed 6 percent to about 156
billion francs ($141 billion) so far in 2010, based on de Weck’s
estimate. Zurich-based Julius Baer managed 175 billion francs in
April, up 14 percent from the end of last year.  
 The increase occurred as  stock markets  fell worldwide, with
the MSCI World Index of developed markets declining 5.4 percent
this year after rising 27 percent in 2009.  
 Positive Inflows  
 “Flows have turned positive again from Europe for all
banks in the last three or four months,” said  Boris Collardi ,
chief executive officer of Zurich-based Julius Baer, in an
interview.  
 Swiss banks held onto 27 percent, or $2 trillion, of the
world’s privately invested riches last year, unchanged from
before the financial crisis started in 2007,  Boston Consulting
Group  said in a report published this month.  
 They also earned an average 14 basis points more than their
European rivals, or an extra $1.4 million for every $1 billion
overseen for clients, according to the report.  
 It’s too early to quantify how much Switzerland will
benefit from the decline in the euro,  Gregoire Bordier , the CEO
of Geneva-based private bank Bordier & Cie., said in an
interview. His bank’s assets rose about 6 percent to 9.5 billion
francs since the end of 2009 and the company may manage as much
as 10.3 billion francs by the end of the year, he said.  
 No ‘Flood’  
 “We’d expected that it might lead to a flood of Greeks
leaving the country, but it’s not been the case because people
already have structures in place,” Bordier said. By the end of
the year, Switzerland may see more inflows as Europeans look to
spread their risk further, he said.  
 The new money deposited from clients in the euro region may
leave just as quickly as it arrived, said  Nicolas Pictet , a
partner at Pictet & Cie. in Geneva.  
 “This is hot money, which doesn’t make the basis for a
strong client relationship,” he said in an interview. “No one
comes to Switzerland because it’s ugly at home, they come to
Switzerland for its traditional attributes.”  
 Pictet’s assets rose 3.5 percent in the first quarter to
260.7 billion francs, according to the bank’s latest figures.  
 European budget deficits, spending cuts and tougher banking
regulations are helping Switzerland, said  Urs Roth , chief
executive officer of the Swiss Bankers Association in Basel.  
 Good ‘Housekeeping’  
 Switzerland posted a budget surplus equal to 0.7 percent of
gross domestic product, or 2.7 billion francs, last year and the
government forecasts a deficit of 1.2 percent this year. That
compares with a deficit of 6.3 percent of GDP in the euro region
in 2009 and a projected shortfall of 6.6 percent in 2010,
according to the European Commission.  
 “We’re benefitting from careful housekeeping,” Roth, who
represents more than 300 banks, said in an interview. “There’s
a general feeling that Switzerland is one of the most
politically, socially and economically stable countries.”  
 After threats led by the U.S., Germany and France,
Switzerland avoided a blacklisting at the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development by signing
a series of taxation accords and pledging to implement an
international standard for combating tax evasion.  
 UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, had fund outflows of
almost 90 billion francs from its wealth management and Swiss
bank unit last year amid a dispute with the U.S. over tax
dodgers. The country’s private banks, excluding UBS and Credit
Suisse Group AG, had a net outflow of 16 billion francs from
their Swiss businesses in 2009, according to statistics from the
 Swiss National Bank .  
 “Lots of clients are coming back to Switzerland with their
wealth,” Swiss Economy Minister  Doris Leuthard  told reporters
in Geneva on June 2. “It’s proof to me that attacks on the
country were politically motivated and that only undeclared
assets are under pressure,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian passes a Julius Baer branch in Zurich. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
