-- U.K. Is `Going Down' on Osborne's Spending Cuts, Weinberg Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-23T15:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/u-k-is-going-down-on-osborne-s-spending-cuts-weinberg-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Spending cuts in the U.K. will send
the country’s stagnant economic recovery into a contraction,
according to  Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High Frequency
Economics Ltd.  
 Government agencies outside the National Health Service and
overseas aid budgets face a 25 percent cut over four years,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced yesterday.
The reductions come too soon for an economy that can’t yet stand
without government support, Weinberg said in a radio interview
today with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 “The U.K.’s going down,” Weinberg said. “This
contraction of public-sector stimulus is directly responsible
for at least part of it. The economy was going to be flat or
down slightly anyhow. This just makes it worse.”  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  won the endorsement of
bond investors and Fitch Ratings for the biggest budget squeeze
in 50 years. Fitch yesterday said the “ambitious” plan ensured
Britain would keep its AAA credit rating. The pound and gilts
rose for a second day.  
 The U.K.’s spending will be cut by 30 billion pounds ($44.4
billion) a year, including 11 billion pounds from welfare. The
increase in value-added tax to 20 percent in January from 17.5
percent is projected by the government to yield 13 billion
pounds a year by 2015.  
 Good Intentions  
 The VAT will push prices higher, after months of inflation
exceeding targets, Weinberg said.  
 Before the announcement, Weinberg had forecast little
growth in the U.K economy through the end of the year due to
falling real wages and increasing prices and unemployment. He
now sees negative growth through this year and output stagnating
into the second quarter of next year.  
 Osborne, 39, the youngest chancellor since 1886, is aiming
to reduce a deficit that reached 11 percent of gross domestic
product in the last fiscal year.  
 While Osborne’s intentions are good, Weinberg said, his
timing is off. Easing of emergency measures is important for
Group of 20 countries, and should start when metrics show
economies are ready, he said.  
 “The need for an exit plan is imperative for fiscal
stimulus -- I don’t think this is the right time to implement
it,” he said. “What I would propose is that the G-20 leaders
set up their exit strategies but have them triggered by
concrete, quantifiable economic developments.”  
 Weinberg, who’s based in Valhalla, New York, suggested an
unemployment rate threshold that would trigger a tightening of
monetary policy, or a VAT that kicks in when GDP reaches 2
percent.  
 “This way you can have a plan and have a convincing
statement for the credit raters, but still not slam the economy
while it’s still going down,” Weinberg said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        