-- U.S. Soccer Win Is Halfway Mark in Bigger Plan: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-06-23T17:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/u-s-soccer-win-is-halfway-mark-in-big-plan-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Of course it was  Landon Donovan , the
face of U.S. Soccer who waited four years to make amends for a
lackluster showing in the last World Cup.  
 The hairline is receding, but the team is advancing. Soccer
in the U.S. is advancing. Believe that. Believe the eruption on
Capitol Hill or your office or the street. Americans were
watching, all right. They were waiting. They were rewarded with
a moment to remember.  
 It had to be Donovan who in the 91st minute would direct a
rebound past the Algerian goalkeeper, giving a U.S. side that
had missed countless opportunities the only goal that it needed
to avoid elimination.  
 “We’re not done yet,” Donovan, who was in tears, said in
a televised interview.  
 No wonder the kids in Central Park spent the past few weeks
wearing replica jerseys with the names Donovan, Altidore or
Dempsey on the back instead of the usual sporting suspects like
Jeter or Wright or Manning.  
 Kids are getting their kicks with kicks. Something is
afoot.  
 Three minutes from disappointment, Donovan led a
counterattack in Pretoria, South Africa.  Jozy Altidore ’s cross
found  Clint Dempsey , whose redirection was stopped but not
controlled. Donovan slid the waiting ball into the goal,
triggering celebrations here, there and who knows where.  
 The goal won the game and, for the first time since 1930,
the group.  
 “Time kind of stopped,” Donovan said.  
 Argument Ends  
 Speaking of time, this isn’t a once-every-four-year
argument over whether soccer can, at long last, succeed in the
U.S. There is no argument. Not anymore. Not after this.  
 Not when you consider the U.S. ranked 23rd globally in
World Cup viewing in 1998. Four years later the U.S. was 13th,
and in 2006 it climbed to eighth. You can bet the pattern will
continue this year as Donovan gave all those kids watching on TV
a reason to dream.  
 The interest is there. Only the most oblivious among us
could have missed the outrage and outcry directed at referee
Koman Coulibaly, who incorrectly disallowed a likely game-
winning goal for the U.S. against Slovenia. Soccer became the
lead item at the water cooler. The officials disallowed another
U.S. goal against Algeria. Questionable call. Doesn’t matter
now.  
 So much of soccer’s future in the U.S. depends on the
national team, which has a number of reasons for optimism.  
 Learning to Compete  
 First, though, let’s remember what constitutes success. The
U.S. team finished dead last among 32 teams at the 1998 World
Cup. To put things in perspective, the Americans, at the
national level, were considered a laughingstock. Now the U.S.
regularly  competes  against historical heavyweights like England,
which played the Americans to a 1-1 draw earlier in the
tournament and Brazil, which edged the U.S. 3-2 in last year’s
Confederations Cup.  
 I grew up playing soccer, watching soccer, and believing
that, some day, when the best athletes in a country of some 300
million were for whatever reason motivated to trade traditional
sports like football, basketball and baseball for the world’s
most popular game the U.S. would find equal footing with the
best.  
 It’s beginning to happen. Look, say, at Oguchi Onyewu, or
“Gooch” as the defender is known to teammates.  
 Surely Dabo Swinney, the football coach at Clemson
University, where Onyewu played soccer, could find a helmet for
this fellow.  
 “When you see a guy like that, at 6-4 and 220 pounds, you
think he could be a great outside linebacker,” Swinney said.  
 Soccer Potential  
 That was precisely the thought held by Pat Cilento, the
football coach at Sherwood High School in Sandy Spring,
Maryland, Onyewu’s alma mater.  
 “He is a specimen,” said Cilento, noting that he’s got
about two dozen players in shoulder pads right now that would
make excellent soccer players.  
 The key is to persuade the best athletes to pursue soccer.  
 The kids watching the World Cup will get more than a few
glimpses of Onyewu, 28, Altidore, 20, and Dempsey, 27.  
 Gone are the days when the best American  players 
disappeared until the next time around. The U.S. players are
securing positions in the best leagues in the world, including
Italy’s Serie A, England’s Premier League and Germany’s
Bundesliga.  
 Onyewu last year signed as a free agent with AC Milan.
Altidore, meantime, last season could be seen with Hull City of
the EPL while Dempsey works for Fulham.  
 “American youngsters see they can achieve that kind of
glory,” says  Jay Emmett , an executive at  Warner Communications
Inc.  when it owned the defunct New York Cosmos. “It’s a long
process.”  
 False Start  
 The Cosmos bought the best players, including  Pele  of
Brazil,  Franz Beckenbauer  of Germany and  Giorgio Chinaglia  of
Italy, but lost millions each year and the North American Soccer
League eventually folded.  
 No one anytime soon is going to confuse the U.S.’s top
domestic league, Major League Soccer, with the EPL. The long-
term goal, shared by FIFA, soccer’s governing body, is for MLS
to attract the world’s top talent by paying top dollar.  
 Those who love to hate soccer are fond of pointing out that
they have been hearing about a boom for decades. They’re right.
It has been years -- 25 or so.  
 Those who inhabit an instant-gratification society are
under the impression that, somehow, a sporting overhaul should
occur right away.  
 Doesn’t work that way. U.S. Soccer’s plan, hatched in 1984,
spans 50 years, which means it’s only halfway done. Goals like
Donovan’s help.  
 Former President  Bill Clinton  was on hand for the win,
sitting beside  FIFA  President  Sepp Blatter  and working on behalf
of U.S. Soccer to secure the World Cup in either 2018 or 2022.  
 “We’re alive, baby,” Donovan said.  
 So, too, is soccer in the U.S.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        