-- Safety Agency Faulted for Limiting Oversight of U.S. Coal Mines
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-06-23T22:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/u-s-mine-safety-regulator-is-faulted-for-limiting-oversight-of-coal-seams.html

          
          
             The U.S. mine safety regulator has
failed to subject mines with repeated violations to the
“enhanced oversight” required when an operator shows disregard
for miner health, the Labor Department said today in a report.  
 The  Mine Safety and Health Administration  in 2009
restricted the list of mines with recurring violations because
of resource limits, removing 10 for reasons that don’t appear to
be appropriate, the Labor Department’s Office of Inspector
General said. The department asked MSHA to immediately re-
evaluate the 10 mines removed from the 2009 list.  
 “It’s clear that we need to scrap the current system and
put a new system in place that is focused on protecting miners’
safety and health,” Labor Secretary  Hilda Solis  said in an e-
mailed statement after the report was released.  
 The mine safety agency is under scrutiny since an April 5
explosion at  Massey Energy Co. ’s Upper Big Branch mine in
Montcoal, West Virginia, killed 29 miners. President  Barack Obama  has said mine-safety laws are “so riddled with loopholes
they allow unsafe conditions to continue” and on April 15
ordered inspections of mines with troubling safety records.  
 Representative George Miller, a California Democrat and
chairman of the House Labor Committee, said he plans to
introduce changes to mine health and safety laws in the coming
days. Miller said the report raises questions about adequate
funding for MSHA’s regional offices to enforce the law.  
 MSHA “obstructed a key safety enforcement tool that could
have endangered the lives of mine workers,” Miller said in an
e-mailed statement. Miller and Solis said the actions by MSHA
occurred before the Obama administration’s nominee to lead the
agency, Joe Main, was confirmed.  
 Lawmakers’ Request  
 The Inspector General issued the report at the request of
lawmakers including Miller, who had sought an investigation into
the April disclosure that a computer error prevented MSHA from
notifying Massey that the Upper Big Branch mine may be placed
under a so-called “pattern of violations” enforcement.  
 Once a mine is notified that they may be under a pattern of
violations, the mine must take immediate actions to come up with
a plan to reduce future violations, or face tougher sanctions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        