-- Hulu Said to Be in Talks With CBS, Viacom for Shows as Paid Service Nears
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/hulu-said-to-be-in-talks-with-cbs-viacom-for-shows-as-paid-service-nears.html

          
          
             Hulu LLC  is in talks with  CBS Corp. ,
 Viacom Inc.  and  Time Warner Inc.  to add their television shows
to the video website’s planned paid subscription service, people
with direct knowledge of the discussions said.  
 CBS, the only one of the four major U.S. broadcast networks
without an ownership stake in Hulu, may begin providing programs
after the TV season starts in September, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  
 Hulu, which now lets users watch programs for free and gets
its revenue from advertising, is seeking new shows to attract
paying subscribers. The Los Angeles-based website will also need
to renew rights to programs from owners such as NBC at the end
of 2011, according to  Laura Martin , a Needham & Co. analyst.
Hulu’s audience shrank in April after Viacom pulled “The Daily
Show with  Jon Stewart ” and “The Colbert Report.”  
 “Charging a subscription is possibly Hulu’s best way to
improve its library of TV shows and films,” said  Tony Wible , an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  
 Christina Lee , a Hulu spokeswoman, said the company doesn’t
comment on negotiations.  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for Time
Warner, declined to comment, as did  Kelly McAndrew , a Viacom
spokeswoman.  
 Much of Hulu’s TV programming comes from the broadcast
divisions of its owners:  News Corp. ’s Fox and  General Electric
Co. ’s NBC, the co-founders; and  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC. The
networks also offer shows on their own websites.  
 Cable networks, including channels belonging to Hulu’s
current owners, have been slower to make shows available online
because they don’t want to upset pay-TV operators that provide
the bulk of their revenue, Wible said.  
 “In its current form, Hulu isn’t just a threat to the
cable operators, but also to the cable networks,” Wible said.  
 Revenue-Sharing  
 The website, a distant second to Google Inc.’s YouTube in
online viewers, would share subscriber income to encourage TV
programmers to join, said the people, who have taken part in
negotiations or were briefed on the talks. When the service
begins, Hulu may offer paying customers a deeper catalog and
also insert more ads in free shows, the people said. The company
has expressed a willingness to increase commercial minutes.  
 To be successful, Hulu must meet the programmers’ financial
demands and not exceed what subscribers will pay, said  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets Ltd. in New York.  
 Viacom, the New York-based owner of MTV and Comedy Central,
and Time Warner, parent of TBS and TNT, are seeking arrangements
that don’t threaten existing businesses or limit other
opportunities, said the people. Time Warner, also based in New
York, is focused on TV Everywhere, a service to let cable and
satellite pay-TV customers watch shows online at no added cost.  
 Programming Loss  
 Hulu, founded in 2007, hasn’t fully recovered from Viacom’s
March decision to pull the two cable shows from the service. The
site averaged 12.2 million visitors in March and 13.1 million in
April, down from 14.1 million in February, before the programs
were removed, according to Nielsen Co. data.  
 The $9.95-a-month service is expected to be called Hulu
Plus, the Los Angeles Times reported in April.  
 New York-based CBS, home to eight of the top 10 scripted
shows in prime time, including “CSI” and “NCIS,” would be
likely to sign up if there are no demands for online
exclusivity, one person said. Hulu and CBS have held on-and-off
talks since the site started.  
 “We have a profitable, non-exclusive distribution strategy
on the Web and in the mobile arena,” CBS said in a statement.
“We’re in constant discussions with partners and entrepreneurs
about how to generate incremental revenue for getting our
content to consumers when and where they want it.”  
 Ad-Supported Model  
 In a May 5 conference call, CBS Chief Executive Officer
 Leslie Moonves  stressed the importance of maintaining control
over the use of its programs, including on its own TV.com site.  
 Hulu CEO  Jason Kilar  has said the site’s ad-supported model
is profitable on a cash-flow basis.  
 The website garnered $52.4 million in net revenue in
February, with 72 percent going to the content owners, according
to estimates from research firm SNL Kagan. That left Hulu with
$14.7 million in revenue, $12.6 million in costs and a $2.04
million profit, SNL Kagan calculates.  
 A subscription fee would address concerns among investors
that TV programmers are cannibalizing their businesses by
offering shows for free online with fewer ads.  
 Martin, the Needham analyst in Pasadena, California, says
Hulu shows have four minutes of commercials per hour, compared
with 16 on broadcast TV.  
 “Consumers should not be retrained that premium TV content
is cheaper on any platform, especially the Internet,” Martin
wrote in a June 1 report.  
 A subscription would put Hulu in more direct competition
with  Netflix Inc. , which supplies online and mail-order access
to movies and past-season TV shows starting at $8.99 a month.  
 Older film titles provide Netflix’s streaming service with
an advantage, said Crockett.  
 “You may still remember a movie that was released 20 years
ago and still want to see it,” Crockett said. “Far fewer TV
shows fit that description.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     CBS, the only one of the four major U.S. broadcast networks without an ownership stake in Hulu, may begin providing programs in September, said someone with direct knowledge of discussions. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
