-- Hungarian Premier Orban Nominates Fidesz Ally Schmitt as Next President
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-23T10:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/hungarian-premier-orban-nominates-fidesz-ally-schmitt-as-next-president.html

          
          
             Pal Schmitt , a two-time Olympic
champion and the speaker of Hungary’s parliament since last
month, was nominated to become the country’s next president by
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban .  
 Schmitt, 68, is set to succeed  Laszlo Solyom  as the
country’s fourth president since Hungary’s transition from
communism to democracy 20 years ago. Orban’s spokesman  Peter Szijjarto  announced the nomination.  
 “It’s a solemn, yet honorable duty to be the first citizen
of the republic and Viktor Orban thinks Pal Schmitt can, and
will, perform that duty reputably,” Szijjarto told reporters in
Budapest today. Solyom’s five-year mandate expires on Aug. 4.  
 The prime minister’s  Fidesz  party swept to power in April
elections, winning an unprecedented two-thirds majority in the
legislature, which gives it enough votes to pass all
appointments and rewrite the Constitution. Orban’s backing
assures Schmitt, who has been a leading sports administration
official since communist times, will be elected on June 29.  
 Hungary’s prime minister has the bulk of executive power,
while the president’s role is largely ceremonial.
Responsibilities include signing bills into law, with the option
of sending legislation back to lawmakers for reconsideration or
to the Constitutional Court for a legal probe.  
 Olympic Fencer  
 Schmitt, who won Olympic gold medals in fencing in 1968 and
1972, was a deputy chairman of Fidesz from 2003 to 2007 and a
vice president of the European Parliament from July 2009 to May
2010. He has headed the Hungarian Olympic Committee since 1990
and was vice president of the International Olympic Committee
from 1995 to 1999. He was a deputy state secretary for sports
under communism from 1981 to 1990.  
 Orban’s ruling party has been exerting its power to take
control of institutions and government agencies. Fidesz
nominated Laszlo Domokos, one of its parliamentary deputies, to
head the independent State Audit Office. Solyom this week sent
back to lawmakers a proposal that would have allowed the ruling
party to hand-pick Constitutional Court justices.  
 Fidesz plans to replace  Adam Farkas , the president of the
financial regulator Pszaf, by the autumn, Magyar Hirlap reported
today without citing anyone. Orban is also trying to oust
central bank President  Andras Simor , who has dismissed calls for
his resignation, saying it was his “constitutional duty” to
serve out his term until 2013.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        