-- United Nation's Ban to Ask G-20 for $60 Billion to Save Mothers, Children
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-06-23T22:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/united-nation-s-ban-to-ask-g-20-for-60-billion-to-save-mothers-children.html

          
          
             United Nations  Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said he will ask the  Group of 20  nations this week to
fulfill their aid commitments to poor countries and devote an
additional $60 billion over five years to reduce maternal and
child mortality.  
 “During the last 10 years, not much attention has been
given to these particular two areas,” Ban told reporters at the
UN. “When mothers are healthy, families are healthy, the
children are healthy. That means we have a very sound and
healthy community, and community means country and the world.”  
 Ban previewed his message to the G-20 meeting, on June 26
and 27 in Toronto, during a news conference in which he
announced a panel of “superheroes” to help the UN meet goals
for reducing poverty, sickness and hunger by 2015. Rwanda’s
President  Paul Kagame  and Spain’s Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  will lead a group that includes  Microsoft
Corp.  co-founder  Bill Gates .  
 “It is unlikely to be gotten, and won’t be all that is
needed,” Harold Alderman, an economist and nutritionist for the
World Bank, said of Ban’s pending request to the G-20. “But it
would save many lives, and then give you much higher lifetime
consequences. So it is not something just good to do. It would
be a good investment.”  
 The UN chief said that among so-called millennium
development goals, progress was “slowest” toward reducing
child mortality by two-thirds and maternal mortality by 75
percent. While the mortality rates for children under 5 and
women giving birth have been declining, they are “far short”
of what is needed to reach the 2015 goal, the UN said in a
report on the development goals.  
 Preliminary Data  
 The UN said it has “preliminary data” showing declines in
maternal mortality smaller than what’s needed to meet the 2015
target.  
 Infant deaths have decreased by only 28 percent since 1990,
the report said.  
 By contrast, the UN said the number of people subsisting on
less than $1.25 a day is expected to drop to 15 percent in 2015
from 46 percent in 1990.  
 “The developing world remains on track to achieve the
poverty reduction target by 2015,” the report said.  
 Alderman said $60 billion might prevent “a million deaths
a year and make another 100 million more productive” over their
lifetimes.  
 “It is not just because we don’t want to see children
die,” Alderman said. “We are saving their lives because their
lives will be more productive and the next generation will be
far better off.”  
 Ban said he would attend the first meeting of the UN panel
led by Zapatero and Kagame next month in Madrid.  
 “Economic uncertainty cannot be an excuse to slow down our
development efforts,” Ban said, “It is a reason to speed them
up. They should never slow down their commitment and political
will.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        