-- Uranium One Says Russian Owners No Cowboys
-- Juan Pablo Spinetto
-- 2010-06-23T20:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/uranium-one-says-russian-owners-no-cowboys-help-keep-lights-on-in-u-s-.html

          
          
             Uranium One Inc. , which slumped in
Toronto trading this month after agreeing to a takeover by
Moscow-based Uranium Holding ARMZ, said  shareholders  have
nothing to fear from Russian state control.  
 “There were some concerns with having a controlling
Russian shareholder,”  Jean Nortier , chief executive officer of
Canada’s Uranium One, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in London. “Shareholders are starting to understand it’s not a
bunch of cowboy Russians but it’s a very responsible entity.”  
 ARMZ, as the unit of state-run Rosatom Corp. is known, said
June 8 it plans to raise its stake in Uranium One to at least 51
percent from 23 percent for $610 million in cash and stakes in
two Kazakh mines. Russia, seeking more uranium to supply planned
reactors abroad, said June 19 it would staff embassies around
the world with nuclear officials to win more orders for Rosatom.  
 Uranium One and ARMZ are seeking to benefit from a global
revival of nuclear power as nations promote the technology to
meet energy demand while curbing carbon output. Techsnabexport,
another Rosatom unit, sold $8.8 billion of uranium to the U.S.
from 1993 to 2009 as part of the so-called HEU Agreement.
Shipments under the deal will be sufficient to fuel about half
the U.S.’s reactors for 20 years, according to the  company .  
 “If you look at the amount of uranium that Rosatom has
been shipping off to the United States and Canada, you can
effectively say that a portion of America’s lights have been
kept on by Russia,” Nortier said.  
 Industry Expansion  
 The U.S. is among governments seeking to reduce dependence
on fossil fuels, and the heightened concern triggered by BP
Plc’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico can only aid the growth of
the nuclear industry, according to ARMZ CEO  Vadim Zhivov .  
 “I am 100 percent positive that it will serve as an
additional help for expansion of the nuclear deals, especially
in the United States,” Zhivov told Bloomberg Television in
London. “There are more and more filings for licenses for new
nuclear power plants in the United States.”  
 Uranium One will become the first North American mine
operator controlled by a Russian state company, according to
Troika Dialog, a Moscow-based investment bank. That shouldn’t
concern shareholders because “the nuclear industry is very
highly regulated and all the major players are one way or
another controlled by governments,” Zhivov said, citing the
example of France’s  Areva SA .  
 More Transparent  
 “Russia’s nuclear industry went through significant
reform, and all the divisions within Rosatom right now are fully
market-oriented,” Zhivov said. “This transformation will make
Rosatom much more transparent for the whole world.”  
 Uranium One  rose 18 cents, or 7.4 percent, to close at
C$2.61 in Toronto, the biggest one-day gain in three weeks. The
stock tumbled 16 percent in the two days after the takeover was
announced.  
 The Toronto-based company plans to pay a special  cash
dividend  of at least $1.06 a share to minority investors when
the deal is completed.  
 “It’s a complex transaction,” Nortier said.
“Shareholders didn’t entirely understand that the change-of-
control premium is coming to them in cash through the
dividend.”  
 Stockholders will benefit as uranium prices recover because
demand will outstrip supply as the industry expands, Nortier
said. More than 50 reactors are under construction in 13
countries, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  
 Uranium Prices  
 Uranium oxide concentrate for immediate delivery traded at
$40.75 a pound in the week through June 21,  Ux Consulting Co. 
said in a report. Prices have sunk 8.4 percent since the start
of the year, according to the Roswell, Georgia-based company.  
 “The new supply that’s coming in on the uranium side is
not filling all these new reactors that are being built, so
we’re still operating in a supply shortage environment,”
Nortier said. “We need a significantly higher uranium price to
actually fill that gap. We’re certainly bullish on uranium
prices going forward.”  
 Uranium One expects the transaction with ARMZ, subject to
approval from regulatory bodies in Kazakhstan, Canada, the U.S.
and Australia, to close by the end of the year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Amanda Jordan  in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        