-- Turkey Trading Like Investment Grade as Default Swaps Top Emerging Europe
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-24T13:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/turkey-trading-like-investment-grade-as-default-swaps-top-emerging-europe.html

          
          
             Turkey is trading as an investment-
grade nation in the credit-default swaps market after its dollar
bonds outperformed European developing nations by the most since
2008 on accelerating economic growth.  
 Turkey’s  debt  returned 2.7 percent this quarter, compared
with a 0.6 percent gain in notes sold by emerging nations from
Ukraine to Poland, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
Credit-default swaps insuring Turkish bonds against default for
five years cost 190 basis points, or 1.90 percentage points, CMA
DataVision prices show. Contracts for Russia, whose BBB rating
from Standard & Poor’s is three steps higher than Turkey’s BB,
also trade at 190. Swaps on AA rated Spain are higher at 266.  
 While government budget deficits widen across Europe,
Turkey posted its biggest surplus in almost two years in May as
tax revenue surged. The government estimates the economy grew 12
percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in more than a
decade, giving Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  room to limit
spending, according to analysts at Nomura International Plc.  
 “We have a very strong view on Turkish credit quality for
the next six to 10 months,”  Luis Costa , an emerging market
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s positioning itself for an upgrade.”  
 Turkey, which needed about $53 billion in loans from the
International Monetary Fund from 1999 to 2008 to finance budget
deficits that swelled to more than 20 percent of gross domestic
product, had its credit rating upgraded by S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings Ltd. since December.  
 Outperformer  
 Moody’s rates Turkey Ba2, two levels below investment
grade, after lifting the country in January. Fitch raised its
rating to BB+ in December, or one step below investment grade,
while S&P boosted its ranking in February.  
 The EMBI Global Index of Turkish bonds is outperforming the
emerging Europe gauge by the widest margin on a quarterly basis
since the last three months of 2008, according to JPMorgan data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Turkey’s credit-default swaps rose 4.2 basis points this
quarter through June 22, compared with an increase of 34 for the
Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps for
emerging Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Contracts on Russia
climbed 33 basis points, while Spain’s soared 130 basis points.  
 Credit-default swaps are used to speculate on the
creditworthiness of a company or government, or to hedge against
losses on bonds and loans, and let buyers demand payment from
sellers if the underlying borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 Deficit to Surplus  
 “The market is taking an opinion about Turkey that is more
sanguine” than ratings companies,  Bill O’Neill , chief
investment officer for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s wealth-management unit, said in
an interview in Istanbul.  
 Erdogan ended almost two years of talks on a possible loan
program with the IMF in March. The government reduced spending
2.1 percent in May and boosted tax income 28 percent to produce
the budget surplus.  
 The budget committee of Turkey’s parliament approved plans
for a fiscal rule on June 18 that would force the government to
target a budget deficit of 1 percent of economic output. The
legislation, which aims to reduce the ratio of debt to gross
domestic product to 15 percent in the long term from about 49
percent in 2009, will be discussed in the assembly in Ankara in
the coming days, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said June 18.  
 Ratings Outlook  
 Fitch wants to see “prudent” implementation of the rule
before considering an increase in Turkey’s rating,  Ayse Botan Berker , head of Fitch Turkey, said in an interview in Istanbul
on June 16. The rule may contribute to a revised rating, Moody’s
said in a report e-mailed May 28.  
 Turkey’s credit rating gives investors an accurate
reflection of default risk, said  Frank Gill , a London-based S&P
analyst who focuses on the country.  
 Credit-default swaps aren’t “a reliable indicator of any
country’s borrowing costs,” Gill said. “Our ratings reflect
credit fundamentals.”  
 While Turkey’s “positive” outlook implies a one-in-three
chance of an upgrade in the next two years, the country’s
“external balance sheet remains a key weakness” in part
because of the foreign debt of Turkish companies, Gill said.  
 Turkish firms had a total of $120 billion of foreign loans
in April compared with $121.4 billion the previous month,
according to central bank data.  
 ‘No Glaring Anomaly’  
 Credit-default swap prices show that debt ratings on some
developed countries are too high, not that Turkey’s are too low,
said  Paul McNamara , who oversees about $3.5 billion of emerging-
market bonds and currencies at Augustus Asset Managers in
London.  
 There’s “no glaring anomaly” between Turkey credit-
default swap levels and the country’s debt ratings, McNamara
said in an interview.  
 Turkey’s 49 percent debt to GDP ratio last year compares
with 75 percent in Portugal and 50 percent for Spain, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter, has a ratio of 6.9 percent.  
 Turkey’s GDP expanded 6 percent on an annual basis during
the final three months of 2009, after four quarters of
contraction. The economy may have expanded 12 percent in the
first quarter as the lowest interest rates on record helped
boost consumer confidence and industrial production, Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in Brussels on June 3. China’s
economy grew 11.9 percent in the period, the fastest pace among
Group of 20 industrialized nations that reported official
figures.  
 Nomura Says Buy  
 Nomura’s emerging-market strategist  Olgay Buyukkayali  in
London recommends investors buy Turkish debt. Yields on the
country’s 10-year lira bonds will fall to below 9 percent from
about 9.8 percent, while credit-default swaps may drop 40 basis
points should the country be raised to investment grade,
Buyukkayali said.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
$10 million of debt from nonpayment for five years is equivalent
to $1,000 a year.  
 Bonds will get a boost from “stronger fiscal policy, debt
dynamics decoupling from other countries and slowing
inflation,” Buyukkayali said. That “will all be supportive for
more tightening of CDS spreads.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Seda Sezer  in Istanbul at 
 ssezer2@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Turkey's prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan,Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
