-- Vegas Sands Targets Asia for Sales as Rollers Return (Update1)
-- Haslinda Amin
-- 2010-06-23T07:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/vegas-sands-targets-asia-for-sales-as-rollers-return-update1-.html

          
          
             Las Vegas Sands Corp ., the casino
company of billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , expects 90 percent of
its revenue to come from Asia by 2020, as its Singapore resort
ramps up and more of China’s gamblers visit Macau.  
 “I don’t think there was a recession in this part of the
world, and therefore that didn’t affect gaming very much,”
Adelson said in an interview while in Singapore for the Marina
Bay Sands resort’s grand opening. “We hope that 90 percent of
our income comes from Asia” within 10 years, he said.  
 Asia accounted for about 73 percent of the company’s
revenue at the end of last year. The casino operator is
investing $5.5 billion in the Marina Bay Sands complex, a bet
that economic growth in China and the region will boost demand
for shopping, entertainment, gambling and tourism. Singapore has
said the resort will help the city lure 17 million visitors and
triple annual tourism revenue to S$30 billion ($22 billion) by
2015.  
 Marina Bay Sands’ second phase, which includes a sky park
and 160 meter-long swimming pool atop three 55-floor hotel
towers,  opens this week . The casino, some convention facilities,
shops and restaurants opened in late April. The island nation’s
other casino,  Genting Bhd.’s  $4.7 billion Resorts World Sentosa
development, which includes a Universal Studios theme park,
opened in February.  
 Gambling Rebound  
 “I think Marina Bay Sands will do very well, and has the
potential do to better than Resorts World Sentosa,”  Edward Ong ,
a Kuala Lumpur-based gaming analyst with Macquarie Securities
Ltd., said in a phone interview today. “If Marina Bay Sands can
bring in VIPs from mainland China they could be looking at
record-breaking numbers because that’s a very lucrative base.”  
 Adelson, in a Bloomberg Television interview, said gambling
and tourism have recovered in Macau and in Las Vegas after the
global credit crisis slashed demand in 2008. He said at a media
briefing in Singapore today that Las Vegas Sands was interested
in opening a casino in South Korea, and had explored developing
a Las Vegas-style strip complete with luxury hotels and spas in
either Italy, Greece or Spain. In December, he said the company
was “actively looking” at projects in Japan, Taiwan and India.  
 Casino gambling revenue in Macau, the world’s biggest
gambling hub, almost doubled last month, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Adelson said today the primary feeder
markets for Marina Bay Sands would be Singapore, Malaysia and
Indonesia, rather than China.  
 Gambling revenue for Macau’s casinos in May rose to 17
billion patacas ($2.12 billion) from 8.8 billion patacas a year
earlier, according to the person, who requested anonymity
because the data isn’t public. The total for the five months
through May rose to about 72 billion patacas from 43 billion
patacas a year earlier, the person said.  
 Profit Outlook  
 Las Vegas Sands’ Venetian Macao gets about 40,000 visitors
to its shopping malls during the week and about 65,000 on
weekends, Adelson said. Visitors to Marina Bay Sands’ shops
should be “more than twice as many” within the same timeframe,
Adelson said.  
 The Venetian Macao opened on Macau’s Cotai strip in August
2007. Macau surpassed Las Vegas as the world’s biggest gambling
center in 2006.  
 Marina Bay Sands is forecast to  generate  earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $329 million in
2010, based on the average of 13 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The casino attracted close to 500,000 visitors this
month, Thomas Arasi, the resort’s chief executive, said at a
press conference in Singapore today.  
 U.S. Recovery  
 Las Vegas Sands on June 3 estimated it will generate as
much as $3 billion in adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in 2011. The company’s majority-
owned Chinese unit may generate $1 billion to $1.2 billion in
2010, it said in a June 3 regulatory filing.  
 The company’s U.S. gambling business is also recovering,
Adelson said.  
 “Las Vegas got hit pretty hard during the recession and
wasn’t helped by  President Obama  saying we don’t want companies
who use debt to pay us money to bail out their balance sheets to
go to Las Vegas for the Super Bowl,” he said. “But now we have
a big automobile company that received a lot of money from the
government, who’s going to have a very big event in our property
in Vegas.”  
 As much as 50 percent of the company’s Las Vegas hotel
bookings come from conferences and exhibitions that are
sometimes organized years in advance.  
 Pre-Crisis Levels  
 Gaming in Las Vegas should return to pre-crisis levels
within two years, Adelson said.  
 “It’s not a case of optimism, but listening to our
customers and seeing the bookings in our hotel that are more
vibrant than they were before,” he said. Gaming activity in Las
Vegas will return to “80 percent plus” of pre-crisis levels in
2011 and “probably about 100 percent in 2012.”  
 The company’s new Singapore property has surmounted some of
the problems that led to complaints at its opening in April,
Adelson said.  
 The Marina Bay Sands resort sued the organizers of the
first conference it hosted after payment was withheld following
a power failure. The Walt Disney Co. musical “The Lion King” has
been delayed because the building isn’t ready. The stage show
will open in the first quarter of 2011, Adelson said today.  
 Adelson also said opening glitches were “normal” and
early visitor numbers at Marina Bay Sands are “more than
sustainable.” About 550,000 people visited the casino in the
first 25 days of May with two-thirds either tourists or
foreigners living in Singapore, and one-third Singaporeans, who
pay a S$100 ($72) government fee to enter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Las Vegas Sands Chairman and CEO Sheldon Adelson speaks at a news conference during the grand opening of the company's Marina Bay Sands resort and casino in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Las Vegas Sands Corp. Chairman Sheldon Adelson talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin in Singapore about the outlook for the Marina Bay Sands casino resort.
     The $5.5 billion Marina Bay Sands, owned by billionaire Adelson’s Las Vegas Sands, hosts its grand opening today after unveiling the casino, some convention facilities, a mall and 963 of 2,560 hotel rooms on April 27. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     (Corrects video graphics in Bloomberg Television report that aired June 23 to show that Derek da Cunha is the author of "Singapore Places Its Bets" and not a Singapore opposition politician or a member of any political party. Bloomberg apologizes for any inconvenience.)      June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin reports on some Singaporeans' concerns about potential social ills arising from the introduction of casinos to the island-state.     The $5.5 billion Marina Bay Sands, owned by billionaire Sheldon Adelson’s Las Vegas Sands Corp., hosts its grand opening today. Singapore dropped its 45-year ban on casinos to help double tourism revenue by 2015 and shed what Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong called an "unexciting" image. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
