-- Villeroy, Sanitec, Grohe Fined $767 Million in EU Bathroom-Fittings Cartel
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-06-23T15:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/villeroy-sanitec-grohe-fined-767-million-in-eu-bathroom-fittings-cartel.html

          
          
             Ideal Standard,  Villeroy & Boch AG ,
Sanitec Oyj and 14 other bathroom fittings companies were fined
a total of 622 million euros ($767 million) by the  European
Commission  for colluding on prices for toilets, tubs and taps.  
 Ideal Standard, owned by U.S. private equity company Bain
Capital LLC, received the single biggest fine of 326 million
euros the commission said in an e-mailed statement. Villeroy &
Boch was fined 71 million euros.  
 The commission in November 2004 raided the offices of
Grohe, American Standard and other bathroom-products makers in
five European countries and in March 2007 sent official
objections to a number of the companies, including Grohe and
American Standard.  
 “It was a really well organized cartel,”  Joaquin Almunia ,
the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said in Brussels today.
“I can think of no better illustration for the need for strong
competition enforcement.”  
 The price-fixing meetings took place at trade association
conferences, with more than 200 meetings occurring between 1992
and 2004, the commission said.  
 The fine against Villeroy & Boch is “not justifed” and
the company, based in Mettlach, Germany, will take legal
measures to respond, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Villeroy & Boch  shares  Villeroy & Boch fell 1.24 euros, or
24 percent, to 3.883 euros in Frankfurt trading, the biggest
drop since October 1998.  
 Cash in Hand  
 Wabco Holdings Inc. , which was spun off from the now
defunct American Standard in 2007, is required to indemnify
Ideal Standard in relation to the probe against any fine and
said in a statement it can pay from existing cash on hand.  
 “It’s our obligation to pay,” said Tom McGuire, a
spokesman for Wabco in Brussels said in a phone interview.
“When Wabco was spun off it took on the obligation” to pay the
possible antitrust fines “of American Standard entities in
Europe,” including Ideal Standard, he said.  
 Ideal Standard’s fine was cut by 30 percent reduction
because it cooperated with the investigation. Still, Wabco said
in the statement the penalty is “ excessive” and that the
company sees “strong grounds to appeal.”  
 The commission said it reduced the fines of three companies
by 50 percent, and two fines by 25 percent, after taking into
account their “difficult financial situation.”  
 ‘Off the Cliff’  
 The size of the fines “shouldn’t push the companies off
the cliff,”  Almunia  said. “We wouldn’t want a company to go
bankrupt because of a fine.”  
 The commission has been “under a lot of pressure” to take
into account current financial conditions” in antitrust cases,
Matthew Hall, competition lawyer at  McGuireWoods LLP  in
Brussels, said in a telephone interview today. Today’s decision
“will set a precedent and make it more difficult for the
commission to ignore the argument in the future.”  
 A 25 percent discount in a fine “doesn’t really represent
very much if these companies are going to the wall,” said  Frank Fine , a Brussels-based antitrust lawyer in a phone interview.  
 Masco Corp., whose units include Hansgrohe and shower-
fittings maker Hueppe, received immunity in the case because it
was the “first to provide information about the cartel,” the
commission said.  
 “The size of the fine will likely negatively impact
anticipated investment decisions,” Grohe said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The EU's antitrust commissioner Joaquin Almunia said the Commission 'will continue its fight on cartels'. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
