-- Visteon Shareholders Appeal Bankuptcy Court Decision to Allow Stock Sale
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-23T21:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/visteon-shareholders-appeal-bankuptcy-court-decision-to-allow-stock-sale.html

          
          
             Visteon Corp.  shareholders appealed
a decision by the bankruptcy court that lets the auto-parts
maker issue $1.25 billion of new stock to help fund its
reorganization.  
 Shareholders asked the U.S. District Court in Wilmington
Delaware to overturn a decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Christopher S. Sontchi  to allow Visteon to sign an agreement
with bondholders to sponsor the stock sale.  
 In their appeal, shareholders claimed Sontchi used the
wrong legal standard in allowing Visteon to “pay $50 million of
fees to creditors in exchange for the creditors’ support of the
debtors’ joint plan.”  
 Sontchi sided with Visteon and the bondholders in his June
17 order allowing the stock sale to be organized by holders of
about half of Visteon’s $870 million in unsecured notes. Those
holders will receive fees for sponsoring the sale and
guaranteeing purchase of the stock.  
 Visteon, based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, was spun
off from  Ford Motor Co.  in 2000. The company filed for
bankruptcy in 2009, listing assets of $4.58 billion and  debt  of
$5.32 billion in its Chapter 11 documents.  
 Should the company eventually win final approval for its
reorganization plan, the bondholders and other unsecured
creditors would own 95 percent of the company in exchange for
their $1.25 billion investment. Shareholders would get up to 5
percent of the company.  
 More than 40 bondholders have agreed to invest $300 million
in Visteon and guarantee that $950 million worth of new shares
will be purchased when Visteon leaves bankruptcy.  
 The bondholders include the distressed investing units of
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co., and
hedge fund manager Stark Investments.  
 The shareholders include Davidson Kempner Partners,
Plainfield Asset Management LLC and Brigade Capital Management
LLC.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        