-- Volkswagen Said to Shuffle Managers at Porsche, Bentley Brands Amid Merger
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-06-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/volkswagen-said-to-shuffle-managers-at-porsche-bentley-brands-amid-merger.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, is planning an extensive reorganization of managers at
its luxury brands as part of a merger with  Porsche AG , according
to people with direct knowledge of the matter.  
 Wolfgang Duerheimer , Porsche’s development chief, may
succeed  Franz-Josef Paefgen  as head of VW’s ultra-luxury unit
Bentley Motors Ltd., said two people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are confidential. Porsche
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Macht  is the preferred candidate
to run production at VW, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News on June 18.  
 The reorganization underscores Volkswagen’s aim of putting
executives with product-development experience in charge of its
luxury brands. Porsche shares rose 5.5 percent Monday on
optimism VW will name  Matthias Mueller , its chief product
strategist, to succeed Macht as chief executive.  
 “Volkswagen is gearing up for its battle to become the
world’s biggest manufacturer,” said  Frank Schwope , an analyst
at NordLB in Hanover who recommends selling the stock. “This
seems like a broader reshuffle stretching into various corners
of the VW group structure.”  
 Volkswagen, which aims to overtake Toyota Motor Corp. by
deliveries and profitability in 2018, is integrating Porsche as
the carmakers develop a model strategy that includes sharing
platforms. As part of the plan, Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche
aims to expand its lineup to reach a target of doubling
deliveries to 150,000 vehicles in the medium term.  
 Dual Role?  
 Duerheimer, 52, is currently Porsche’s board member
responsible for research and development. He is the favored
candidate to replace Paefgen, 64, who is set to retire, the
people said. A final decision hasn’t been made, they said.  
 Fred Baerbock , a spokesman for Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW,
declined to comment, citing company policy. Bentley and Porsche
spokesmen also declined to comment.  
 It’s unclear whether Duerheimer would assume Paefgen’s dual
role as CEO of Bentley and Bugatti, both part of VW’s super-
luxury brands that also includes Lamborghini SpA, according to
the people. Duerheimer’s position at Porsche may be filled by
 Wolfgang Hatz , head of engine development at VW, people familiar
with the matter said June 18.  
 The new CEO will need to turn around Bentley’s fortunes as
customers have fled the carmaker’s aging models such as the
Continental, which starts in the U.S. at $177,600. Bentley’s
sales plunged 50 percent to 4,000 vehicles last year.  
 Continental GT, Arnage  
 Crewe, England-based Bentley posted a 2009 operating loss
of 194 million euros ($237 million), compared with a profit of
10 million euros a year earlier. The only other VW car unit to
report a loss last year was the Spanish Seat brand.  
 At the time of the purchase of the brand in 1998,
Volkswagen invested 500 million pounds ($745 million) in the
Crewe factory to upgrade the facilities and expand production.
Bentley, which builds cars by hand, takes 150 work hours to
assemble a Continental GT and 400 hours to build an Arnage,
according to its website.  
 Bentley, which also makes the Brooklands Coupe and Azure
convertible, as recently as 2007 sold more than 10,000 vehicles
and posted an operating profit of 150 million euros, according
to its website. The U.K. carmaker, which was founded in 1919,
employs 4,000 people.  
 Paefgen took over Bentley after being replaced as the Audi
chief in March 2002 by VW CEO  Martin Winterkorn .  
 Volkswagen’s preferred shares rose 16 cents, or 0.2
percent, to 76.81 euros yesterday in Frankfurt trading, valuing
the automaker at 34.5 billion euros. Porsche fell 1.2 percent to
36.40 euros, giving the company a market value of 6.3 billion
euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        