-- Won, Ringgit to Gain as China Spurs Asia Trade, Templeton's Hasenstab Says
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-06-23T05:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/won-ringgit-to-gain-as-china-spurs-asia-trade-templeton-s-hasenstab-says.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s
ringgit are likely to lead gains in Asian currencies as Chinese
demand spurs trade in the region, according to Franklin
Templeton Investments.  
 A strengthening yuan and lending curbs announced this year
have lowered the risk of asset bubbles in China, helping sustain
expansion in the world’s fastest-growing major economy, said
 Michael Hasenstab , co-director of international fixed income at
Franklin Templeton. The yuan rose on June 21 by the most in five
years after policy makers scrapped a two-year peg to the dollar.  
 “Robust regional growth should in particular favor
countries like Malaysia and Korea that are closely integrated to
the broader region,” Hasenstab, who oversees the $34 billion
Templeton Global Bond Fund at San Mateo, California, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Increasing outward investment
by China should also benefit the region.”  
 The won has gained 1.6 percent this week as of 1 p.m. in
Singapore, the best performance among Asia’s 10 most-used
currencies, and the ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan has gained 0.23 percent
to 6.8102 per dollar, after been kept at about 6.83 for almost
two years, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  
 China, including Hong Kong, is the biggest export market
for regional economies including Malaysia, the Philippines,
Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. South Korea’s
shipments to China surged 50 percent in the first 20 days of May,
helping drive the 42 percent increase in overall exports
reported for the whole month, official figures show.  
 China Growth  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it was prepared
to resume appreciation because the “upturn in the Chinese
economy has become more solid” and a stronger  yuan  would help
curb inflation.  Gross domestic product  increased 11.9 percent in
the first quarter from the same period of 2009, the best
performance in almost three years.  
 That growth will support expansion across regional
economies, driving gains in Asian currencies, as recoveries in
the U.S. and Europe encounter hurdles, Hasenstab said.  
 Credit Agricole SA announced yesterday it will take a 400
million euro ($491 million) writedown on its stake in a Greek
bank, while Standard & Poor’s a day earlier said Spanish lenders
face “difficult years” in 2010 and 2011 as credit losses mount.
U.S. benchmark stock indexes yesterday fell the most in almost
three weeks after a report showed homes sales unexpectedly
dropped in May.  
 “Incoming data continue to support our view that as the
global economic recovery gets under way, differences in growth
performance across regions and countries will become more and
more visible,” Hasenstab said. “Asia will continue to benefit
from stronger macroeconomic fundamentals and therefore a
sustained tendency for currencies to appreciate versus the euro,
yen and U.S. dollar.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        