-- Yuan Shift Pits Morgan Stanley Against HSBC on China Interest-Rate Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/yuan-shift-pits-morgan-stanley-against-hsbc-on-china-interest-rate-outlook.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc, founded 145 years
ago in Shanghai, and Morgan Stanley, the first foreign firm to
run an investment bank in China, are split over whether a rising
yuan will avert the need to raise interest rates this year.  
 China’s move to allow more flexibility in the currency
triggered the biggest rise in the yuan in half a decade this
week, and Morgan Stanley economist  Wang Qing  said the policy
change should damp import costs. HSBC’s  Sun Junwei  said the
yuan’s gain won’t be enough to prevent consumer prices jumping
in excess of 4 percent by August, the most in two years.  
 The divergence reflects the difficulty in charting a course
for the world’s third-largest economy that sustains its economic
rebound and stokes domestic demand while heading off a property-
market bubble and spiral in retail prices. Concern that policy
tightening will impair growth has already left Chinese stocks
heading for their biggest quarterly slump since the 2008 crisis.  
 “The rate decision is a challenging call this year,” said
 Lu Ting , a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch, who has expected one rate increase in the fourth quarter
since the start of 2010. “With so many factors at play”
officials may “observe the situation before making major policy
moves.”  
 A Bloomberg News survey this week showed eight of 14
economists predict the People’s Bank of China will raise the
5.31 percent benchmark one-year lending rate by the end of
December, while six see no change.  
 PBOC’s Hope  
 Ending the fixed 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar should help
“contain inflation and asset bubbles,” the PBOC said in a June
20 statement. The bank the day before said China would allow a
more flexible currency, after it prevented appreciation for 23
months to shield exporters during the world trade contraction.  
 A stronger exchange rate can restrain inflation by making
imports, and the domestic goods that compete with foreign
products or include imported components, cheaper.  
 Wang, Morgan Stanley’s chief economist for Greater China
and who used to work at the International Monetary Fund, said in
a note that the decision “reduces the probability of aggressive
monetary tightening.”  
 Morgan Stanley changed its forecast from “no more than one
rate hike” in the second half of the year to “no rate hikes
through 2010.”  
 Overheating Risk  
 Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has relied so far on
regulatory tools to rein in liquidity after a record 9.59
trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) of  credit growth  in 2009. With the
economic expansion reaching an 11.9 percent annual pace in the
first quarter and property prices rising the most in at least
half a decade, officials are seeking to avoid an overheating.  
 The measures include a target to shrink new loans to 7.5
trillion yuan, increased requirements for the amount of money
lenders must hold as reserves, and bill sales to withdraw cash
from the financial system. The government has also targeted
specific measures to stem speculation in the property market.
Deputy PBOC Governor  Zhu Min  in March said that interest rates
were a “heavy-duty weapon” that should be kept in reserve.  
 Macquarie Securities Ltd. said in a report this week that
increasing benchmark rates could be “at best redundant and at
worst overkill” when asset prices have already softened and
government data show households are putting more money into bank
savings, rather than pouring it into stocks or other investments.  
 Stock Slide  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  closed at 2,569.87 yesterday,
heading for a 17 percent decline for the second quarter.
 Property prices  have also shown some signs of slowing, as May’s
12.4 percent advance marked the first easing in the annual rate
of increases in 11 months.  
 Consumer prices are still accelerating, with the 3.1
percent annual gain in May exceeding the government’s target for
the annual average in 2010. Worker demands for higher wages are
the latest dynamic to add to pressures, with employers from
 Honda Motor Co.  to Taiwan’s  Foxconn Technology Group  being
forced to award higher paychecks.  
 “The likely modest appreciation in the exchange rate
wouldn’t be enough to anchor inflation expectations,” said Sun,
a Beijing-based economist at HBSC, whose founding member, The
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp., was established in 1865.  
 HSBC predicts two rate increases of 27 basis points this
year, bringing the benchmark to 5.85 percent. Australia and New
Zealand Banking Group economist  Liu Li-Gang  expects more
aggressive action, with borrowing costs rising as soon as mid-
July.  
 The divergence among economists may in part reflect China’s
opaque policymaking that leaves investors with few clues to the
outlook. Rate changes must be approved by the State Council, or
Cabinet. By contrast, the central banks of the U.S., U.K., Japan
and euro region make independent decisions, though politicians
may voice their opinions.  
 “The People’s Bank of China isn’t in a position to maintain
a steady stream of communication on the policy outlook” because
it must get the approval of political leaders, said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London who
previously worked at the U.K. Treasury as an adviser on China.  
 -- Li Yanping ,  Sophie Leung ,  Jay Wang ,  Paul Panckhurst . Editors:
 Chris Anstey , Stephanie Phang  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net 
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Indonesian Trade Minister Mari Pangestu talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for regional trade.
     Pangestu, speaking from Jakarta, also discusses the outlook for Indonesia's palm oil industry, and global efforts to fight climate change. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
