-- Yuan About 50% Undervalued Against Dollar, May Rise 5%, Credit Suisse Says
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-23T06:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/yuan-about-50-undervalued-against-dollar-may-rise-5-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             China policy makers will let the
yuan appreciate as much as 5 percent over the next 12 months,
more than forward contracts suggest, Credit Suisse Group AG
predicted following this week’s scrapping of a peg to the dollar.  
 The yuan is about 50 percent “undervalued,” the Swiss
lender estimated in a June 21 research note, citing factors
including trade. The yuan will strengthen about 10 percent by
the end of 2011, Morgan Stanley said in a report today.  
 “We would not be surprised to see a 5 percent
appreciation,” wrote  Andrew Garthwaite , global equity
strategist in London at Credit Suisse. “Clearly, every
commentator including us believes the move will be gradual.”  
 China is allowing the yuan to move more freely to deflect
criticism from its trading partners and curb  inflation , while
protecting a recovery in its exports. The scrapping of the peg
was announced a week before President Hu Jintao meets with Group
of 20 leaders this weekend in Toronto.  
 The yuan was 0.05 percent stronger at 6.8099 per dollar as
of 2:35 p.m. in Shanghai, extending this week’s advance to 0.24
percent, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
Non-deliverable forwards show investors are betting on 2.2
percent appreciation over the next 12 months.  
 The Chinese authorities “will almost certainly not permit
a rapid change” in the yuan and it is unlikely to have an
impact on the economic outlook in the near term, according to
Morgan Stanley.  
 “The currency change may have almost no effect on the
near-term base-case macro outlook, but it may have a material
effect on investor perception of tail risks,” said the Morgan
Stanley report written by strategists  Gerard Minack  and  Jason Todd . “In particular, it will likely reduce the risk of
destabilizing trade tension with the U.S.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        