-- Yuan Holds Gains on Signs Central Bank to Allow Strength to Curb Inflation
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T09:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-23/yuan-reference-rate-set-0-18-weaker-by-china-s-central-bank-as-euro-drops.html

          
          
             China’s yuan held this week’s gains
against the dollar, even as Asian currencies dropped, on
speculation the central bank is allowing a stronger currency to
curb inflation after ending a two-year peg.  
 The People’s Bank of China set its reference rate for yuan
trading at 6.8102 per dollar, 0.05 percent stronger than
yesterday’s close of 6.8136. Asian currencies including the
South Korean won declined after French lender Credit Agricole SA
said yesterday it will write down the value of its stake in a
Greek bank. Government bonds were little changed.  
 “China stands to gain the most from greater exchange rate
flexibility and appreciation,” said  Michael Hasenstab , who
oversees the $2 billion Templeton Emerging Markets Bond Fund in
San Mateo, California. “Such dynamics will help facilitate the
greater internationalization of the yuan, assist in the
rebalancing of the economy away from an over-reliance on exports,
and help stem inflation.”  
 The yuan closed at 6.8124 per dollar in Shanghai, little
changed from 6.8136 yesterday, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. It has gained 0.23 percent this week. The
12-month non-deliverable forward traded at 6.6680, compared with
6.6463 yesterday, reflecting bets for 2.2 percent appreciation.  
 China is allowing the yuan to move more freely to deflect
criticism from its trading partners and curb inflation, while
protecting a recovery in its exports. The scrapping of the peg
was announced a week before President Hu Jintao meets with Group
of 20 leaders this weekend in Toronto.  
 Inflation Battle  
 The World Bank said last week that a stronger yuan would
help China cool inflation, which accelerated to a 19-month high
of 3.1 percent in May, exceeding the government’s full-year
target of 3 percent.  
 “President Hu has real tangible evidence that there have
been substantial changes to the currency,” said Brian  Jackson ,
a Hong Kong-based strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. “If they
want even more meaningful evidence, they may give more guidance
with the currency’s fixing ahead of the G-20.”  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 Weaker Euro  
 Gains this time round may be limited because the yuan has
already strengthened 18 percent against the euro this year,
eroding earnings for Chinese exporters in the European Union,
the nation’s largest market. The yuan has climbed 0.9 percent
against the euro so far this week.  
 Authorities will “ensure the exchange rate’s fluctuation
is controllable and prevent the possibility of market forces
causing excessive adjustment in the rate,” the central bank
said in a June 20 statement. It noted that 16.3 percent of
China’s trading volume is with the EU, compared with 12.9
percent for the U.S., making it important to manage the yuan
with reference to the basket of currencies.  
 The currency is allowed to fluctuate 0.5 percent either
side of the reference rate, which was fixed at 6.7980 yesterday.  
 A strengthening of the yuan against the dollar will help
spur the global economic recovery, reduce imbalances and support
prices of commodities and emerging-market assets, Schroders Plc
said in an e-mailed report to clients.  Andrew Garthwaite , global
equity strategist at Credit Suisse AG, said the currency is
almost 50 percent undervalued and will appreciate more in the
next 12 months than forwards contracts suggest.  
 Bonds Stable  
 Government bonds were little changed after the finance
ministry sold 10-year debt at a higher yield than was predicted
by analysts and traders.  
 The ministry sold 28 billion yuan ($4.1 billion) of 10-year
bonds at an average rate of 3.41 percent, two basis points more
than the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “Cash shortage at banks will continue to curb debt demand
till mid-July,” said  Huang Wentao , a bond analyst at China
Securities Co. in Beijing. “The change in yuan rate policy
hasn’t immediately added more cash into financial markets.”  
 The yield on the 2.33 percent note due in June 2013 was
little changed at 2.5 percent, and the price was 99.52 per 100
yuan face amount, the funding center data showed.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , a measure of lending cost
between banks, declined 12 basis points to 2.72 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate by the National Interbank
Funding Center. It yesterday increased 20 basis points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net 
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net 
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Kelly, chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his strategy for U.S. stocks and fixed-income investments.
     U.S. stocks sank yesterday, with benchmark gauges declining the most in almost three weeks, as home sales unexpectedly dropped and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped for a second day below chart levels monitored by analysts. Kelly, speaking from Cleveland, Ohio, also discusses Federal Reserve policy, the outlook for the U.S. economy, and China's shift in currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
