-- State bank regulator worried over farm land values
-- By  John Poirier
-- Tue Mar 4, 2008 1:26pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/04/businesspro-usa-banks-farmland-dc-idUSN0448356920080304

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - A state banking regulator raised a 
warning flag about soaring agricultural land values on Tuesday, 
telling a congressional hearing that the U.S. farm land bubble 
could burst and unleash a fresh set of economic problems. 

  "If there has been too much leveraged or loaned against the 
inflated value of farm land, the bubble will burst, and we will 
once again experience an economic crisis similar to that of the 
1980s," Iowa Superintendent of Banking Thomas Gronstal told the 
Senate Banking Committee.  Gronstal, who represented the Conference of State Bank 
Supervisors, was one of several regulators who testified about 
the subprime mortgage and credit problems that banks are 
facing.  "My fellow state supervisors and I are closely watching the 
agricultural sector," he said.  Gronstal warned that the current agricultural conditions 
appear similar to the conditions seen in the 1970s that led to 
the economic and financial collapse of the 1980s.  "The dramatic increase of farm land value in the last few 
years makes the agricultural sector look strong," Gronstal 
said. "In the future, should the price of corn, soybeans and 
other commodities decrease, the price of farm land would most 
likely also fall."  The average value of U.S. crop land hit a record high of 
$2,700 per acre in 2007, compared with $1,340 per acre in 1998, 
according to U.S. Agriculture Department data. The value of 
crop land in some key Midwestern states was much higher, with 
Illinois averaging $4,460 per acre in 2007, the data showed.  Gronstal also said that smaller or community banks have 
felt the impact of the declining U.S. housing market due to the 
subprime mortgage crisis.  State banking regulators are preparing to handle a rising 
number of bank failures. "Based on current information and 
conditions, we do not expect widespread failures," Gronstal 
said.  The state banking regulators group launched a nationwide 
mortgage licensing system in January 2008 to fight mortgage 
fraud and unify state license procedures for mortgage lenders 
and brokers. Seven states have begun using the system, and 
another four to six states are expected to join the licensing 
system each quarter, Gronstal said.  The licensing system tracks state-licensed mortgage 
companies and individuals across state lines.  "Honest mortgage bankers and brokers will benefit from the 
removal of fraudulent and incompetent operators, and from 
having one central point of contact for submitting and updating 
license applications," Gronstal said.  (Reporting by John Poirier; editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)