-- Ford wants Volvo to run on more stand-alone basis
-- 
-- Tue Mar 4, 2008 2:35pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/04/businesspro-ford-volvo-dc-idUSN0447964120080304

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co ( F.N ) said on Tuesday it 
is developing a new business plan for Volvo that will include 
the Swedish luxury brand operating on a more stand-alone basis. 

  The U.S. automaker said in slides posted on its Web site 
that it wants to "establish appropriate business arrangements 
to allow Volvo to operate on a more stand-alone basis."  It also said a "top priority is to return Volvo to 
sustainable profitability," according to the slides.  Analysts say Volvo is the most valuable of Ford's three 
European luxury brands. Ford, which has not broken out results 
for individual brands in the past, said that beginning this 
year it plans to disclose results for Volvo, which it acquired 
in 1999.  Volvo Chief Executive Fredrik Arp told the Frankfurter 
Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper that Volvo had a loss last year of 
about $160 million but had made progress and no major job cuts 
were planned.  "In the fourth quarter, we pretty much exactly broke even 
again already," he told the German paper.  Ford in November took Volvo off the auction block and said 
it would integrate Volvo more closely into purchasing and 
development efforts. At the time, Ford CEO Alan Mulally said 
the focus would be on improving Volvo's cost structure and 
brand positioning, although he stopped short of ruling out an 
eventual sale of the unit.  Ford is in the process of selling its Land Rover and Jaguar 
operations to India's Tata Motors Ltd ( TAMO.BO ) in a deal 
expected to close in the current quarter. Ford said in the 
slides that "significant progress" had been made in the talks 
with Tata and that "no major roadblocks" remain.  The slides were posted ahead of a presentation to analysts 
in conjunction with the Geneva auto show. The presentation was 
by Lewis Booth, a Ford executive vice president overseeing the 
automaker's European operations and its stable of European 
luxury brands.  Shares of Ford were down 15 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $6.03 
in afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Additional reporting by  James Regan  in Frankfurt)  (Reporting by  Ben Klayman ; Editing by  Mark Porter  and Steve 
Orlofsky)