-- H&R Block Drops After Saying It May Not Offer Refund Loans in 2011 Season
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-18T21:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/h-r-block-drops-after-saying-it-may-not-offer-refund-loans-in-2011-season.html
H&R Block Inc. , the biggest U.S.
tax-preparation firm, tumbled to the lowest since 2001 after
saying it may not be able to provide customers refund loans next
year because of a dispute with  HSBC Holdings Plc .  H&R Block plunged 11 percent to $10.94 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 52
percent this year, the worst in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Absent performance by HSBC during the next two months,
Block will not be able to offer these products” during the 2011
tax season, Kansas City, Missouri-based H&R Block said in an
Oct. 15 lawsuit that was disclosed today in a regulatory filing.
The complaint was filed at federal court in St. Louis.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has said it will no
longer help banks including HSBC and  Republic Bancorp Inc. 
underwrite tax refund loans that lawmakers and consumer groups
say carry unfairly high interest rates. H&R Block has a contract
with London-based HSBC to provide the loans through 2013.  “We began exiting the tax refund loan business in 2007,
and by 2008 we had exited all partnerships with the exception of
H&R Block, with whom we have a contractual obligation,” HSBC
spokesman Rob Sherman said in a telephone interview. “Our focus
right now is on reaching a solution with H&R Block, given the
IRS decision.”  ‘Contractual Obligations’  The agency said in August that it will withhold a digital
indicator that tells banks when taxpayers qualify for refunds
claimed on their tax forms and that a deposit is imminent. Tax
firms such as H&R Block,  Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc.  and
 Liberty Tax Service  advertise the loans as a way to get
immediate cash.  The IRS had contemplated eliminating the debt indicator
before the two companies signed their contract in September
2005, H&R Block said in the lawsuit.  “HSBC is using the elimination of the debt indicator as a
way to avoid its clear contractual obligations,” H&R Block
spokesman Kate O’Neill Rauber said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our agreement with HSBC specifically states that the removal
of the debt indicator, a tool banks use when considering whether
to loan taxpayers money, does not allow HSBC to default on its
contractual commitments.”  The plunge in H&R Block’s stock added to last week’s 11
percent drop on concerns that faulty handling of home loans and
foreclosures will fuel costs for financial firms. The tax
preparer originated mortgages through January 2008 and some of
the mortgages were bundled into mortgage-backed securities.  H&R Block’s “exposure” to put-backs may range from $1.20
a share to $12.60 a share “depending on the frequency of claims
and the severity of losses that are assumed,” said  Bill Carcache , a Macquarie Research analyst, in an Oct. 14 note to
clients.  The cost of protecting debt issued by H&R Block unit Block
Financial LLC soared to a record today. Credit-default swaps
jumped 91.8 basis points to a record 680.5, according to data
provider CMA. A basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.
The contracts typically rise as investor confidence wanes.  The case is HRB Tax Group Inc. et al v. HSBC Bank USA,
National Association et al, 10-cv-01946, U.S. District Court for
Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  