-- Abbas Says Palestinians May Renounce Future Claims on Israel
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-18T14:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/abbas-says-palestinians-are-willing-to-renounce-future-claims-on-israel.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said he is willing to renounce all future claims
on Israel after a Palestinian state is established, though he
stopped short of recognizing Israel as a Jewish state.  “We are ready to put an end to historic demands” once a
Palestinian state is established on land outside Israel’s 1967
borders, Abbas said in an  interview  with Israel’s Channel 1
television late yesterday. Asked about Israeli demands that he
explicitly recognize Israel as a Jewish state, Abbas said:
“Enough with that. We recognize the state of Israel, and it is
already a Jewish state.”  Yigal Palmor , spokesman for Israel’s Foreign Ministry
said “the best way to move forward is not in statements to the
press but to renew direct talks as soon as possible.” Palmor
also said Abbas’s statement was not a new position.  Abbas has said he is willing to return to negotiations only
if Israel halts all construction in Jewish settlements in the
West Bank. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said last
week that he won’t renew a moratorium on settlement building
unless the Palestinians show more flexibility, offering as one
example a willingness to recognize Israel as a Jewish state.  Israel and the Palestinians agreed last month to try to
reach an agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace
accord within a year. All the issues at the core of the conflict
would be on the table, including the borders of a future
Palestinian state, security arrangements for Israel and the
right of Palestinian refugees to return.  Abbas’s comment “has symbolic significance,” said  Mark Heller , a senior research fellow at the Institute for National
Security Studies in Tel Aviv. “However, it doesn’t really
qualify what the conditions of a final agreement would be.”  Direct Talks  Mkhaimar Abusada , a political scientist at Al-Azhar
University in Gaza City, said: “If Israel is going to put an
end to its occupation of the Palestinian territories and there
is a just solution to the refugee problem it would mean the end
of the conflict.”  Palestinian Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad  said in an
interview yesterday in Ramallah that he was pressing ahead with
a two-year plan to finish building government institutions to
make the creation of an independent state “inevitable.”  Government Institutions  “Palestine is not going to emerge in a vacuum but on the
strength of the institutions of government,” Fayyad said.
“People on both sides are beginning to see statehood translated
and transformed from the realm of concept to the realm of
reality. This is enormously powerful.”  Fayyad said his program is establishing a new reality that
is likely to push forward “the prospects of the political
process.”  The Palestinians reject Israel’s demand that they recognize
it as the state of the Jewish people on the grounds it
undermines the right of return for Palestinian refugees. Israel
says such recognition is necessary to ensure the Palestinians
don’t make additional claims once a peace treaty has been
signed.  Abbas didn’t address the Palestinian right of return in his
interview with Channel 1. He reiterated his call for Israel to
halt all construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem,
saying the Palestinians aren’t asking for more than is being
demanded by the international community.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since 1967. The United Nations says that settlements
are illegal, and the International Committee of the Red Cross
says they breach the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions
on occupied territory. U.S. President  Barack Obama  has said the
settlements aren’t legitimate.  Israeli Stance  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 Middle East war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  Abbas said that Netanyahu told him he cannot extend the 10-
month settlement freeze which expired on Sept. 26 because of
concerns that the governing Israeli coalition, which includes a
majority of parties that support building in the West Bank,
might collapse. “Governments are not more important than
peace,” Abbas told Channel 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 