-- Abu Dhabi Islamic Plans Investor Meetings in Asia, Europe Before Bond Sale
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-18T07:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/abu-dhabi-islamic-plans-to-hold-investor-meetings-in-asia-europe-mideast.html
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, the
United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest lender complying with
Shariah principles, will start meeting overseas investors this
week before a possible sale of Islamic bonds.  The bank will hold “non-equity” meetings in Asia, Europe
and the Middle East from Oct. 20, the lender said in a statement
to the Abu Dhabi bourse today. Abu Dhabi Islamic hired  HSBC
Holdings Plc ,  Standard Chartered Plc  and  Barclays Plc  to help
sell bonds, two bankers familiar with the plan said last week.  Bond sales from the Persian Gulf have picked up since Dubai
World in September reached an agreement with 99 percent of its
creditors to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  Qatar
Islamic Bank SAQ  issued $750 million of five-year Islamic bonds
on Sept. 30. The Dubai government last month raised $1.25
billion in its first bond sale since the Dubai World debt
crisis.  “The success of recent bond issues from this region
clearly demonstrates there is strong demand for high quality
Gulf credits,” said  Chavan Bhogaita , head of credit research at
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC, the U.A.E.’s second-biggest
bank by assets. “Discussions with institutional investors lead
us to believe that investor sentiment toward the Abu Dhabi story
is very positive.”  ADIB has a $5 billion sukuk trust certificate program,
according to a  base prospectus  dated July 8 posted by the bank
on the London Stock Exchange’s website. The bonds will be issued
from “time to time” in any currency, it said.  ADIB’s  five-year, floating-rate sukuk due December 2011
traded at 98.63 cents on the dollar on Oct. 15, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank is rated A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the sixth-highest investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on   Hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  