-- Lack of Mortgages Frustrates Young Saudi Homebuyers
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-10-18T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/lack-of-mortgages-frustrates-young-saudi-homebuyers-as-elders-debate-law.html
After five years of searching for a
mortgage in the Saudi Arabian capital, Riyadh, 28-year-old
Abdulaziz Al Salem has some advice for his peers: Forget it.  “Home ownership in this country is nothing short of a
nightmare,” said the father of one. “If you’re not descended
from a wealthy family or have an extremely successful business,
you probably should give the whole thing a pass.”  Frustrated young Saudis like Al Salem could spark a lending
market that  Capitas Group International  estimates at $32 billion
a year for the next decade if the kingdom passes a mortgage law
that’s been a decade in the making. Saudi Arabia is literally
millions of homes short of meeting its needs, after housing
finance failed to keep up with a  population  that has quadrupled
over 40 years to 28.7 million.  The proposed law is part of a planned overhaul of the
kingdom’s home finance market, regulating all parts of the
industry: from registering mortgages to allowing judges to
prosecute police officers who refuse to carry out eviction
orders. The changes are aimed at easing the concerns of lenders
discouraged by unclear regulation that could lead to lengthy
court disputes.  “You can’t function as a mortgage finance business without
having a law that regulates all activities,” said  Henry Azzam ,
chairman of  Deutsche Bank AG  in the Middle East and North
Africa. The new law will encourage banks to lend by making it
easier to take action when a borrower doesn’t pay, he said.  Vote Imminent  A vote by the country’s Shura Council on disputed sections
of the law is expected within the next few weeks, said Abdulaziz
Al Gasim, a partner at Al Gasim Law Firm who was involved with
drafting the mortgage law alongside  Allen & Overy LLP . If the
government and the council can’t agree,  King Abdullah  will have
to make the decision himself.  Credit Suisse Group AG  estimates that 2 million homes must
be built by 2014. Saleh Al-Shoaibi, head of the Shura Council’s
Economic Affairs and Energy Committee, says the country will
need 18 million to 20 million homes over 10 years.  “The demand is huge and can’t be easily met,” Al-Shoaibi
said. “It will require a system that facilitates home
ownership.”  Saudi authorities began drafting the new property laws
about a decade ago. Provisions about evictions and home
foreclosures led to disagreements between the government and the
Shura Council, delaying its passage for years. The latest hurdle
involves the way Islamic products should be regulated and which
authorities will be responsible, Al Gasim said.  Islamic Law  Saudi Arabia, the most populous of the  Gulf Cooperation
Council  countries, favors a strict interpretation of Islamic law
that’s overseen by religious authorities. Lending for the
purpose of receiving interest payments is banned, prompting
Islamic finance arrangements akin to shared ownership or payment
by installments. Sixty percent of the country’s 28.7 million
people are below the age of 25.  Less than 1 percent of all Saudi home purchases are
financed by mortgages. That compares with 7 percent in
neighboring United Arab Emirates and 66 percent in the United
States, Deutsche Bank estimated in November.  Banks have avoided lending because the Saudi notary public
doesn’t recognize conventional loans and conflicts with non-
paying buyers would lead to battles in an untested legal system,
said Glenn Lovell, an associate at law firm  Al Tamimi & Co .  Delays in passing the mortgage law haven’t damped the
enthusiasm of all lenders. Deutsche Bank formed a $110 million
joint venture for mortgages compliant with Islamic sharia law in
April and it’s already giving out 5-year to 20-year mortgages to
both Saudis and foreigners living in the kingdom.  Young Couples  “The segment that we’re targeting is the 500,000 riyal
($133,000) home mortgage,” said Paul Loiacono, chief operating
officer at Deutsche Gulf Finance. “The person looking for that
is part of a young up-and-coming couple looking to buy a first
home.”  Builders in the Persian Gulf region, hit by slumping orders
in their home countries, are eager to expand in Saudi Arabia
when lending picks up.  Sorooh Investment  of Kuwait started its
property development unit in the kingdom after the financial
crisis hit the region in mid-2008. It’s now building two
projects in the country’s eastern province, gaining a foothold
in the market ahead of the law.  “When a mortgage law passes, Saudi Arabia will pull in
most of the region’s real estate developers and construction
companies,” said Tariq Ali Al-Binali, Sorooh’s vice president
of investment. “Every company will be looking to do business in
Saudi.”  Strings Attached  Though mortgages are available to young Saudis, they tend to
come with strings attached that are unpopular with borrowers.
Lenders often demand the title to the property, stress their
right to evict defaulters and seek complete control over
borrowers’ accounts to prevent them from obtaining loans
elsewhere.  “I’ve been renting for the past 10 years and that’s money
down the drain,” said Badr Abdulla, a 29-year-old resident of
Riyadh. “But that’s still better than putting my life and bank
account under the direct control of banks.”  Right now, most buyers pay cash or get interest-free loans
from the country’s  Real Estate Development Fund , which can’t
keep up with the large number of applicants, according to
Deutsche Bank. Some use money provided by the fund to buy land
before tapping into consumer loans, end-of-service pay or
pensions to fund the construction of homes. Others rely on cash
gifts from their families combined with personal loans to build
or buy homes.  No Collateral  Banks are “simply looking at the pay of an individual,
mostly in the high-income segment, because they don’t have
direct recourse to an asset,” said Naveed Siddiqui, chief
executive officer of  Capitas Group International , a Saudi
Arabia-based holding company focused on Islamic financing. “The
law will give them that recourse and that’s a big, big
stimulus.”  Most of Saudi Arabia’s demand is centered in the low-and
mid-income segment with prices of about 500,000  riyals . Most
projects under construction are at the upper end of the market,
where prices are three times higher, according to Imad Damrah,
country director at property consultants  Colliers International .  “It’s virtually impossible to find a good-quality
apartment at a reasonable price,” said Al Salem, who is still
no closer to making purchase. “Most buildings lack proper
facilities and the designs are very old. The finishing in many
of the new developments is also not worth the money they are
demanding.”  Mismatch  The mismatch is unlikely to be resolved without government
intervention through public-private partnerships that would
subsidize developers, said Al Gasim, who sits on the mortgage
law committee.  “The government may have to finance the building of low-to
mid-income housing the same way it financed  petrochemical
projects ,” he said. “Effectively, it would have to lead both
supply and demand.”  The Saudi government may extend an experimental program
that allows some developers to sell properties before they are
built to help secure funding for construction. Previously,
companies had to finance projects in full before offering
properties for sale, according to Credit Suisse.  It may take a couple of years for a new mortgage law to
have a significant impact on the market, analysts say. Banks may
remain wary of courts overseen by religious judges, especially
in cases involving interest, which is prohibited under Islamic
law. Regulations on originating and securitizing loans will also
take time to work out.  Lending ‘Flat’  “When you look at Saudi banks’ loan growth, it has been
flat or contracting,” said  Tarik El Mejjad , a London-based
analyst at  Nomura International Plc . “Banks have to first deal
with issues of loan securitization if they are to broaden their
funding sources.”  Though there are many hurdles to overcome, passing a
mortgage law is a matter of when, not if, Deutsche Gulf
Finance’s Loiacono said.  “There are huge social pressures that I see every day with
my customers,” he said. The law “is the only way to free up
the real estate market and bring it to the masses. It has to
happen.”  Al Salem plans to wait a few years before resuming his long
search for an affordable mortgage.  “Maybe in five years home prices will have come down and
mortgages will be more affordable as more banks get into the
market and compete for my business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 