-- Thai Ruling Party Denies Effort to Sway Trial That Threatens Abhisit Rule
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-18T07:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/thai-party-denies-claims-it-tried-to-sway-trial-threatening-abhisit-rule.html
Thailand’s ruling party denied
allegations it attempted to influence a court ruling that might
trigger its dissolution and disqualify Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  from office.  Video  clips  posted on Youtube showing a meeting between a
lawmaker from Abhisit’s Democrat party and a Constitutional
Court official reveal nothing incriminating, party spokesman
 Buranaj Smutharaks  said today. The court official, Pasit
Sakdanarong, has been fired, INN News reported, without citing
anyone.  The video footage adds to claims from supporters of exiled
former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  that Thailand’s
judicial system is biased. Since Thaksin’s ouster in a 2006 coup,
courts have disbanded the two parties linked to him that won the
past two elections.  “The system is biased” against Thaksin and those
affiliated with him, said Pithaya Pookaman, a spokesman for the
pro-Thaksin Puea Thai party. “We will definitely expose the
double standards in our election campaign.”  The video clip with the Democrat lawmaker shows three
people sitting in a Bangkok restaurant discussing witness
testimony in the case. The meeting was arranged by Pasit, the
secretary to the Constitutional Court president, Buranaj said.  ‘No Evidence’  “The party doesn’t have a need or the intention to lobby
judges,” Abhisit told reporters today. “We’re ready to fight
based on fact and law. We would like to see the court consider
the case without any pressure.”  Abhisit attended court this morning to testify at the final
hearing. The court will hear closing statements on Nov. 29.  “There is no evidence that the Democrat party tried to
obstruct or influence the Constitutional Court,” Buranaj said.
“Whatever the outcome, we’ll respect that.”  Abhisit took power in December 2008 after a court disbanded
the then-ruling party for election fraud. Now the Democrat party
faces the same fate in two separate cases, one involving
misusing government funds to make campaign posters and the other
for accepting an illegal donation.  Abhisit’s ability to withstand demonstrations against his
administration has helped lift Thai assets. The SET Index is the
third-best performer among Asia’s 15 biggest markets this year,
and the baht has strengthened the most of Asia’s 10-most traded
currencies outside Japan.  Judicial inconsistencies were one rallying cry during
protests in Bangkok earlier this year that left 89 people dead.  Abhisit must call an election by the end of next year.
Thaksin, who lives abroad since fleeing a jail sentence for
abuse of power in 2008, has seen parties linked to him win the
most seats in every national ballot since 2001.  The  constitution  was written by a military-appointed panel
after the coup. It allows a party to be disbanded and its
leaders banned for five years if one executive board member is
found guilty of a crime. A committee Abhisit set up after the
street protests to promote reconciliation has proposed changing
that clause.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  