-- AIA Said to Stop Taking IPO Orders From Funds Two Days Early
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-18T07:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/aia-said-to-stop-taking-ipo-orders-from-funds-two-days-early.html
AIA Group Ltd. ’s initial public
offering will be closed to institutional investors two days
earlier than planned in the share sale that may be boosted to
$20.5 billion, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Demand for the stock of American International Group 
Inc.’s main Asian insurance unit and the time needed to 
allocate shares in the IPO were behind the decision, said the
people, speaking on condition of anonymity because no 
announcement has been made. The institutional book for the IPO
will close at 5 p.m. in each region tomorrow, said the people.  AIG  is reducing its stake in the unit to help repay
$182.3 billion in government bailouts. The New York-based
insurer is selling a stake of about 49 percent, which would
value AIA at as much as $30.6 billion, reviving a previously 
scrapped listing after  Prudential Plc  backed out of a deal to
buy the unit for $35.5 billion in June.  “It’s quite obvious they have good demand from
investors,” said  Binay Chandgothia , the chief investment
officer in the Hong Kong office of Principal Global Investors,
an asset manager with more than $200 billion of assets under
management. “It’s a combination of a strong market, a good
position of the company and the pricing that’s lower than the
Prudential bid.”  Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index has climbed 24
percent from a low in May.  Institutional investors have ordered “mid-single-digit”
times the shares on offer even if AIG exercises options to boost
the sale to the maximum amount, two of the people said. Patricia
Chua, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for AIA, declined to comment.  ‘Not Enough Hours’  The IPO of the company marketing itself as the Asian life
insurer with the broadest geographical reach has drawn strong
investor interest, AIA Chief Executive Officer  Mark Tucker  said
at a press conference announcing the start of the retail portion
of the share sale yesterday, without giving details.  “The major concern we have is that there are not enough
hours in the day to have all the meetings that we need to
have,” Tucker said. “There’s been an incredibly enthusiastic
response to this and if we could add another 20 hours a day,
that would be perfect.”  Tracing its roots in the region to more than 90 years ago,
Hong Kong-based AIA operates in 15 Asian markets with 309,000
agents, 24,500 employees and more than 23 million in-force
policies. It forecasts operating profit of at least $2 billion
for the year ending November.  Its in-force policies are worth $13.9 billion, according to
a Sept. 24 report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The company will
probably post operating profit of at least $2 billion in the 12
months ending Nov. 30, AIG said last month.  IPO Resurgence  AIG is selling 5.9 billion existing  shares , or a 48.6
percent stake in AIA, at HK$18.38 to HK$19.68 each for as much
as HK$115.3 billion ($14.9 billion), the prospectus said. AIG
may use options to increase the shares sold to as many as 8.1
billion, or a 67 percent stake, it said.  At the top of the price range, the enlarged sale would
fetch $20.5 billion, eclipsing the $16 billion raised by
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. in 2006 as the
largest Hong Kong IPO, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The AIA IPO, which will be priced Oct. 22, comes amid a
resurgence of share sales in Asia.  Coal India Ltd. , the state-
owned coal producer, starts selling shares today in the nation’s
biggest initial share sale that may raise as much as 151.5
billion rupees ($3.4 billion).  Global Logistic Properties Ltd. , the overseas warehousing
unit of Government of Singapore Investment Corp., rose as much
as 12 percent on its first trading day today after raising
S$3.45 billion ($2.7 billion) in Singapore’s biggest initial
public offering since 1993.  Thai Market  Hong Kong is AIA’s biggest market and may contribute 34
percent of operating profit this year, according to Goldman
Sachs. Thailand is the second-largest market, accounting for 22
percent, followed by Singapore at 20 percent. China is expected
to contribute 5 percent, Goldman Sachs estimates.  Tucker, who built up Prudential’s Asian operations before
becoming Prudential CEO, was picked by AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche 
to head AIA in July.  “I have admired AIA from a distance for a long while,” he
said yesterday.  AIG’s status as AIA’s controlling shareholder after the
public listing won’t affect how the unit is run, Tucker said.  “AIG is very supportive of allowing AIA to be able to run
the company for the benefits and value of all shareholders,” he
said.  China Expansion  AIG or its units cannot vote on AIA’s dividend payout as
long as AIG owns more than 10 percent of the outstanding shares
of the Asian unit or controls more than 10 percent of voting
rights, according to the prospectus.  Already the largest foreign insurer in China with 1 percent
of the life insurance market, AIA plans to expand its business
into smaller cities and boost its agency force in the country,
Tucker said yesterday.  AIA last month announced that it struck a long-term
strategic partnership deal with ICBC, China’s largest bank, to
cooperate in areas such as bancassurance and banking areas
including asset management, deposits and credit cards, according
to a statement.  China accounted for 5 percent of AIA’s pretax operating
 profit  in the year ended Nov. 30, 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  