-- AIG Discloses $125 Million Price of Fortress Deal After SEC Pushed Insurer
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-18T16:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/aig-discloses-125-million-price-of-fortress-stake-sale-in-letter-to-sec.html
American International Group Inc. 
will receive $125 million for a majority stake in its consumer-
lending unit, the insurer told regulators after being asked why
it withheld information in an August filing disclosing the deal.  AIG opted against announcing the figure in an Aug. 11
regulatory filing because it considered the sum “immaterial,”
the insurer said in a letter later that month to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC had asked AIG on
Aug. 18 to explain why the deal wasn’t “a material definitive
agreement not made in your ordinary course of business.” The
correspondence was released today.  The SEC has pressed AIG since its 2008 bailout to improve
disclosure on payments tied to derivative contracts and to
explain an “apparent inconsistency” in its description of
trades with European banks. The latest exchange of letters
focuses on New York-based AIG’s deal to sell an 80 percent stake
in  American General Finance Inc.  to  Fortress Investment Group
LLC , getting rid of a unit that accumulated more than $17
billion in debt.  “The only material aspect of the transaction is the pretax
loss of $1.9 billion that AIG will recognize in the third
quarter of 2010, which AIG disclosed” when it announced the
deal, the company said in an Aug. 31 letter to the SEC. AIG had
previously valued the lender at $2.4 billion.  The SEC said Sept. 2 that it had no further comment on the
American General deal. Such correspondence may be released about
45 days after a review is closed.  Mark Herr , a spokesman for
AIG, declined to comment.  John Nester  of the SEC and New York-
based Fortress’s  Lilly Donohue  also declined to comment.  Bloomberg News reported on Aug. 11 that the sale price was
about $130 million, citing unidentified people familiar with the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  