-- Akre Adding Cash Joins Stock Pickers Looking Beyond Valuations
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-10-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/akre-holds-more-cash-as-bottom-up-stock-pickers-look-beyond-valuations.html
Chuck Akre  beat 99 percent of peers
over more than a decade picking stocks based on price and
ignoring much of what happened in the economy and government. He
changed his approach after his fund declined 34 percent in 2008.  “It’s not clear how our economic and political situation
will unfold so you have to bear more things in mind today,”
said Akre, 67, who last year left FBR Funds and started his own
 Akre Focus Fund . “We need to do a better job of integrating our
world view than we have in the past.”  Akre joins a handful of “bottom-up” stock pickers who say
they can no longer afford to tune out the larger economic
picture after underestimating the financial crisis. Retail
investors have pulled $180 billion from U.S. stock mutual funds
since 2007, when the crisis started in subprime mortgages before
spreading across the global economy and financial markets.  Akre, who returned 12 percent a year as manager of the  FBR
Focus Fund  from 1997 through July 2009, compared with an 8.7
percent annual gain in the Standard & Poor’s Midcap 400 Index,
said his concern about the economy prompted him to increase cash
holdings in his own fund. He also put money into discount
retailers such as Dollar Tree Inc., which can thrive even if
U.S. consumers pinch pennies.  Stock pickers are struggling to add value because
correlation among assets jumped during the crisis and has stayed
above historical averages as investors, worried about another
economic slowdown, move in and out of markets without
discriminating between individual securities.  ‘Correlation’  “We’re at the highest level of correlation since the
1930s, there’s no dispersion among stock prices,”  Lee Ainslie ,
managing partner at Maverick Capital Management LLC, said last
week at the Value Investing Congress in New York. “As you can
guess, that makes it very difficult for fundamental stock
pickers.”  Since climbing to a record 72 percent on July 16, the
correlation between the Russell 3000 and its stocks has remained
near that level, data from Birinyi Associates Inc. show.
Currently, 95 percent of Russell 3000 stocks have a 50-day
correlation coefficient greater than the historical average.  “The world is a riskier place,” said  Keith Goddard ,
president of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Capital Advisors Inc., which
manages $820 million. Historically a stock picker, Goddard, like
Akre, said he has moved to a style in recent years that blends
stock selection with elements of macroeconomic strategies.  Einhorn’s Lesson  If markets show signs of strain, as evidenced by widening
spreads between junk bonds and U.S. Treasuries, Goddard will
move money into steady earners such as Purchase, New York-based
PepsiCo. Inc, he said in a telephone interview.  David Einhorn , the hedge-fund manager known for shorting
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before it collapsed, said in a
speech last year that as a “bottom-up” investor he
traditionally didn’t see the need to have a view on the stock
market or the economy.  “The lesson I have learned is that it isn’t reasonable to
be agnostic about the big picture,” said Einhorn, president of
Greenlight Capital Inc. Einhorn declined to comment for this
article, said Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the firm.  Fundamental stock pickers select securities by looking at
valuations, following the 1934 book “Security Analysis” by
Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, the fathers of value investing.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chief Executive Officer Warren Buffett
studied under Graham at Columbia University. Peter Lynch, who
returned 29 percent a year as manager of Fidelity’s Magellan
Fund from 1977 to 1990, said it was futile to predict interest
rates or the economy.  Value Investing  Most value investors such as Ainslie, David Herro, or Legg
Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller  say the crisis has created
opportunities for stock pickers that will pay off when
correlation eventually subsides. Ainslie, whose Maverick Fund
has gained about 14 percent annually since inception in March
1995, said he’s looking for companies that are less susceptible
to economic swings.  Paying too much attention to economic forecasts can lead
investors to buy and sell at the wrong time and miss that
opportunity, said  Herro , who manages the $5.8 billion  Oakmark
International Fund  and was named Morningstar’s international
fund manager of the decade in January. His fund returned 9.4
percent a year over the past decade, better than 97 percent of
rivals, according to Morningstar data.  Herro evaluates businesses based on long-term forecasts of
their cash flow, and those forecasts aren’t affected much by
swings in the economy, he said in a telephone interview from
Chicago. While he doesn’t ignore macroeconomic developments, he
considers them “not so important,” said Herro, who hasn’t
changed his method of  valuing  stocks since the 1980s.  ‘Better Prepared’  Akre said while his fund declined less than the S&P 500
Index in 2008, his failure to recognize the seriousness of the
housing collapse and its impact on the economy convinced him he
needed to pay more attention to economic developments. As a
direct result of the financial crisis, Akre said he will hold
more cash than he did previously.  “We want to be better prepared for the world we are in
today,” he said in the interview from Middleburg, Virginia. The
fund had 21 percent of its assets in cash as of July 31, he
wrote in an October filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Akre ranked in the top 1 percent of fund managers in his
peer group until he left Arlington, Virginia-based FBR last
year, according to Morningstar. Akre said he ended the
relationship when asked to accept a cut in fees, and opened the
 Akre Focus Fund.  The $233 million pool rose 11 percent this year
through Oct. 14, better than 74 percent of peers, Bloomberg data
show.  ‘Compounding Machines’  Tucker Hewes , a spokesman for FBR Funds, declined to
comment.  At both funds, Akre looked for stocks he calls
“compounding machines,” companies that can boost their value
by earning high rates of return on capital and reinvesting that
money in the business. The companies must pass a third test.  “They have to have managers with equal parts skill and
integrity,” Akre said in the interview.  When Akre finds a stock he likes, he holds it for a long
time. One of his investments,  Markel Corp ., an insurer based in
Glen Allen, Virginia, has been in his portfolio since 1991.
Markel returned 16 percent a year since the end of 1991 compared
to 7.6 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, Bloomberg
data show.  Akre has owned  Penn National Gaming Inc ., a Wyomissing,
Pennsylvania, gambling company since 1996. While the stock
gained 17 percent a year over that time, it has declined more
than 50 percent since June 2007, Bloomberg data show. Akre sold
shares in the company over the past two years, he said, because
increased competition in the gaming industry made the investment
less attractive.  ‘Hazardous’  Robert Rodriguez , who managed the $1.1 billion  FPA Capital
Fund  until taking a sabbatical at the end of last year, says he
started his career in the 1970s focusing purely on picking
stocks one at a time. Partly because of his experience running a
bond fund, he changed his strategy, allowing him to put more
than 40 percent of his portfolio into cash ahead of the
financial crisis.  “Not paying attention to the macro side could be hazardous
to your health,” Rodriguez said in a telephone interview. FPA
Capital is the best-performing diversified U.S. mutual fund over
the past 25 years, with returns of 15 percent annually,
according to Morningstar.  Some of the greatest risks facing investors stem from
government policies, said Goddard of Capital Advisors. The large
U.S. government budget deficit, $1.29 trillion in the year ended
Sept. 30, could trigger an increase in interest rates or a
plunge in the value of the dollar if global investors lose
confidence in America’s finances, he said.  Deficit Concerns  “I’m not sure you could assign a probability to these
events, but the probability isn’t zero,” he said.  Thomas Russo, who helps manage $3 billion at Lancaster,
Pennsylvania-based Gardner Russo & Gardner, said the macro
trends that interest him as an investor are those that will
unfold over many years, not months. He favors companies with
business in emerging markets because he expects their currencies
to appreciate against the dollar and their economies to grow
faster than the American economy.  “The monthly jobs report is noise,” said Russo. “How
China and India will do over the next 10 years, that’s not
noise.” He said he owns  Nestle SA,  the world’s largest food
company, and not Northfield, Illinois-based rival  Kraft Foods
Inc ., because Nestle has a greater “global reach.”  ‘Adverse Times’  Akre says he is taking the long-term economic outlook into
account when considering which industries look attractive. His
fund owns discount retailers Dollar Tree Inc., Framingham,
Massachusetts-based  TJX Cos. Inc  and Pleasanton, California-
based  Ross Stores Inc .  Shares of Chesapeake, Virginia-based Dollar Tree, Akre’s
largest stock holding, gained 56 percent this year. The company
sells low-cost merchandise from almost 4000 U.S. stores.  Coping with the federal budget deficit will create hurdles
for the economy as politicians raise taxes, Akre said in the
interview. For consumers, who are already suffering under too
much debt and an unemployment rate near 10 percent, that means
less money to spend, he said.  Akre, who has a bachelor’s degree from American University
in Washington D.C., says he’s not an economist and won’t try to
predict the direction of the market or the economy. His goal, he
said, is simple.  “I am trying to figure out how not to give back so much in
adverse times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  