-- Halliburton Net Income Increases as Work Shifts to Onshore
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2010-10-18T20:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/halliburton-profit-rises-as-onshore-work-counters-gulf-of-mexico-slowdown.html
Halliburton Co. , the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider, declined 4.8 percent after
profit fell in all regions outside of North America,
disappointing investors’ expectations for global business.  Halliburton, which reached a two-year high last week,  fell 
$1.73 to $34.09 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Operating income in the third quarter dropped 21
percent in Latin America from a year earlier. The decline was 31
percent in a region that includes Europe, Africa and the former
Soviet Union, and 52 percent in the Middle East and Asia.  “We need to see a more broad-based improvement in earnings
outside of North America to show that the oil-service sector is
rebounding as expected,” said  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at
Edward Jones in St. Louis who has a “buy” rating on
Halliburton shares and owns none.  Third-quarter net income climbed to $544 million, or 60
cents a share, from $262 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier,
Houston-based Halliburton said today in a statement. Excluding
such items as a tax gain related to discontinued operations,
profit was 58 cents a share, 2 cents higher than the average of
33  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The expectations were just getting really ramped up at
the end of last week,” said  Roger Read , an analyst at Natixis
Bleichroeder in Houston who has a “buy” rating on Halliburton
and owns about 500 shares. “It’s a beat, it’s a good number,
but I think there were people that were looking for something
with a six on it. They didn’t get that.”  Onshore Rigs  Revenue surged 30 percent from a year earlier to
$4.67 billion in the third quarter. Operating income in North
America rose to $573 million from $37 million in the year-
earlier quarter. Onshore projects more than made up for a
slowdown in the Gulf of Mexico  The number of active U.S. onshore rigs averaged 1,587 in
the third quarter, a 71 percent increase from a year earlier, as
energy companies looked for alternatives to offshore drilling.
 Halliburton  is one of the largest providers in North America of
pressure pumping, which uses materials such as water and sand to
fracture rocks and help gas or oil to flow. Producers use this
technology to drill in shale formations.  “It’s just a lot of demand for pressure pumping, and
Halliburton’s in the catbird seat,” John Lawrence, a vice
president at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston, said before
the earnings announcement. Lawrence said his firm has a “buy”
rating on Halliburton shares and that he owns none.  Adding Workers  Halliburton Chief Executive Officer  David Lesar  said in the
statement that a shift to oil and liquids-rich basins in North
America will be a catalyst for work through 2011 even as so-
called dry gas activity falls. Lesar said he sees higher margins
internationally from increased activity as the industry heads
into 2011.  “If we’re long-term investors today, we view this as a
very good opportunity to buy the shares of Halliburton with some
technical weakness in the stock,”  Stephen Gengaro , an
analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York with a “buy”
rating on the shares, said in an interview with
 Lisa Murphy  on Bloomberg Television.  The company added about 2,000 workers in the third quarter,
 Cathy Mann , a Halliburton spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.
That comes after Halliburton added 1,700 jobs in the second
quarter of this year and 1,200 in the first quarter.  Gulf Spill  The Gulf spill occurred after an April 20 explosion at the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which  Transocean Ltd.  leased to
London-based BP Plc. Halliburton provided cementing services on
the well BP was drilling. The company has said it performed work
at the site in accordance with BP’s specifications, and that its
contract provides security for claims and expenses related to
this type of situation.  The U.S. instituted a moratorium on deep-water drilling
following the Gulf spill. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  lifted
the ban this month as the government put in place new safeguards
meant to prevent a similar event.  Chief Financial Officer  Mark McCollum  said in September
that the impact of the drilling suspension would be at the low
end of a July estimate of 5 cents to 8 cents per share in the
quarter. The company has said it derived about 6 percent of its
total revenue from the Gulf in this year’s first half.  McCollum also said last month that Halliburton would have a
per-share charge in the quarter of 4 cents to 6 cents related to
an oil and gas project in Bangladesh. Halliburton decided more
investment to enhance recovery wasn’t worth returns the company
saw for the project, McCollum said.  Halliburton also said it purchased 3.5 million shares of
common stock for $114 million in the third quarter, leaving
about $1.7 billion remaining under a share repurchase program.  Schlumberger Ltd. , based in Houston and Paris, is the
world’s largest oilfield-services contractor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 