-- Alstom's India Growth May Outpace Economy on Rail Buildup
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-10-18T03:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/alstom-says-sales-growth-in-india-may-outpace-economy-on-rail-investment.html
Alstom SA , the world’s second-
largest trainmaker, said Indian sales growth may surpass local
economic expansion as the government works on a 14 trillion
rupee ($317 billion) plan to expand and modernize railroads.  The company has to be prepared for India growth “which is
equal to if not higher than GDP,”  Sunand Sharma , 61, Alstom’s
local head, said in an Oct. 15 interview at his office in Noida,
near New Delhi. He declined to give specific sales numbers.  Alstom, which also makes power-plant systems, expects to
eventually get a third of India sales from transportation as the
government expands the railroads 10 percent a year to support
economic growth. The Paris-based company has been shortlisted
with  General Electric Co.,   Bombardier Inc.  and  Siemens AG  as a
possible partner in an Indian trainmaking venture and is
considering building a rail-car plant in the country.  “India is an opportunity but not without hiccups,” said
Jagannadham Thunuguntla, chief strategist at SMC Global
Securities Ltd., which manages $100 million in assets in New
Delhi. “For companies, it may be better to sacrifice profit
margin for scale because whoever comes in now will have first-
mover advantage.”  The planned trainmaking venture will produce about 120
electric locomotives a year, according to the rail ministry.
Bids have to be submitted by Oct. 25, A.K. Saxena, a ministry
spokesman, said by phone Oct. 15 in New Delhi. He declined to
say when a decision will be made.  Railway Expansion  Indian Railways, the state-owned rail operator, has
proposed to add 25,000 kilometers (15,534 miles) of new lines by
2020, compared with the 10,000 kilometers added in the past six
decades, according to the rail ministry. The nation’s economy,
Asia’s third-largest, will probably expand at a 9 percent annual
pace by the year ending March 2012, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in June.  Alstom may build an Indian rail-car factory after last
month winning a 14.7 billion-rupee contract from Chennai Metro
Rail Ltd. to supply 168 carriages, Sharma said. He declined to
say where the factory may be built or when a decision will be
made.  Alstom’s India operations have mainly focused on the power
sector to date.  Alstom Projects India Ltd. , a subsidiary,
generated 97 percent of its 20.4 billion rupees of sales in the
year ended March from its power division and the rest from
transportation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Alstom
has other ventures and businesses in India. Sharma declined to
comment on local sales numbers.  Alstom’s power operations may boost India sales to more
than 1 billion euros a year from several hundred million euros,
Denis Cochet, senior vice president of sales and marketing for
Alstom’s power division, said Oct. 12.  The company is building two factories with Pune, India-
based Bharat Forge Ltd. that will make equipment for so-called
super-critical power plants, which use less energy and generate
higher pressure for greater efficiency than traditional plants.
The factories will start operations in phases from April 2012,
Bharat Forge said in its annual report for the year ended March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  