-- Amgen's Anemia Drug Aranesp Is Safe Before Kidney Dialysis, FDA Panel Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-18T20:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/amgen-s-anemia-drug-aranesp-is-safe-before-kidney-dialysis-fda-panel-says.html
Amgen Inc. ’s anemia treatment
Aranesp is safe for use in kidney patients whose disease doesn’t
require dialysis, a U.S. panel found.  Outside  advisers  to the Food and Drug Administration said
the treatment shouldn’t be withdrawn or limited to a “rescue
therapy” after a doubling of stroke risk was seen in a study of
4,000 patients with mild to moderate kidney disease. The panel
recommended more studies to better explain which patients
benefit from Aranesp and what dosing is ideal.  Aranesp sales have fallen by a third since 2006 over safety
concerns, and doctors have curbed use in kidney patients since
the stroke risks were reported last year. Eliminating pre-
dialysis use may shave $200 million to $400 million from Amgen’s
annual sales, or 5 to 10 cents from per-share earnings, said
 Michael Yee , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco.  “I don’t think we have enough evidence to make any changes
right now,” said panel member Henry Black, a clinical professor
of internal medicine at New York University School of Medicine.  The panel, meeting today in Adelphi, Maryland, voted 15-1
against ending use before dialysis and 9-5 against cutting
dosing to patients with hemoglobin levels below 9 grams per
deciliter of blood. Hemoglobin, an iron-containing element of
red blood cells, is now targeted at 10 to 12 grams. The FDA
usually follows the recommendations of advisory panels.  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, gained
$1.25, or 2.2 percent, to $57.96 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading, the highest since April 29. The
Thousand Oaks, California-based drugmaker has declined 5.5
percent in the past 12 months,  compared with  an 8.9 percent gain
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Anemia, Kidney Disease  An estimated 23 million U.S. adults, or about 11 percent of
the population age 20 and older, have signs of kidney disease,
according to the  National Institutes of Health .  Anemia  is common in kidney disease and can be worsened by
blood loss from dialysis machines used to remove waste from the
body when kidneys stop working. Aranesp and  Johnson & Johnson’s 
Procrit are approved in the U.S. and Europe to boost levels of
hemoglobin in people with anemia caused by kidney disease or
chemotherapy.  Amgen added warnings about potential stroke risks to
Aranesp’s prescribing information in December after publishing
the study, dubbed Treat, of patients not on dialysis. The
company today proposed limiting use in pre-dialysis patients to
those with hemoglobin levels below 10 and at risk for blood
transfusions that may jeopardize their ability to get a kidney
transplant.  Drug Use  “I don’t think we know how best to use this drug in this
population,” said Allan Coukell, director of health at the Pew
Charitable Trusts in Washington and the panel’s consumer
representative. “That’s not to say there isn’t a population who
benefits. I just don’t think we know who they are or how best to
treat them.”  Sales of anemia drugs have fallen since the FDA warned in
2007 that excess amounts may cause blood clots, heart attacks,
strokes or deaths in kidney patients. Later research linked high
doses to tumor growth and death in cancer patients, prompting
limits on dosing and insurers’ reimbursement.  Aranesp brought in $2.65 billion last year, accounting for
18 percent of Amgen’s  revenue . Since falling from a peak of
$4.12 billion in sales in 2006, the drug is now Amgen’s third-
biggest product after Enbrel for arthritis and Neulasta for
preventing infections after chemotherapy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Adelphi, Maryland, at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 