-- AMR, Delta May Push U.S. Airlines to Biggest Profit Since 2007
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-18T20:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/amr-delta-may-help-u-s-airlines-post-biggest-profit-since-2007-on-fares.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  and American
Airlines parent  AMR Corp.  may help U.S. carriers report their
biggest profit in three years this week, buoyed by higher fares
and fuller planes.  That would give the industry two consecutive profitable
quarters for the first time since 2007, before the record-high
jet fuel prices of 2008 and the recession. AMR will have net
income of about $118 million, its first profit  in two years ,
according to analysts’ average  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  The eight biggest airlines will post third-quarter combined
net income ranging from $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion, according
to estimates by analysts  Michael Linenberg  of Deutsche Bank AG
and  Michael Derchin  of CRT Capital Group LLC. Planes are flying
fuller than ever as carriers maintain the cuts in seats they put
in place in 2008, allowing them to charge more for tickets.  “The most important factor is that carriers have not
boosted capacity and, hence, have not had to keep prices low in
order to fill what would otherwise be empty seats,” said  David Swierenga , president of consulting firm AeroEcon in Round Rock,
Texas. “This time carriers have really held the line.”  Collective revenue for the eight airlines will rise 17
percent to $32.5 billion, Linenberg estimated. Their operating
margin may be 11.6 percent, up 8 percentage points from a year
earlier and the best in a decade, he said in an Oct. 12 report.  Business travelers are starting to return, AMR Chief
Executive Officer  Gerard Arpey  said Oct. 6.  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  “I’m encouraged that, increasingly, it doesn’t look like
we’re headed for a double dip in the U.S.,” Arpey said. “That
is encouraging. But I would have to describe the recovery as
fragile, and heavily dependent on economic activity in the U.S.
and around the world.”  Delta is scheduled to lead off the industry in reporting
results on Oct. 20, followed the same day by AMR and  US Airways
Group Inc.   Southwest Airlines Co. ,  JetBlue Airways Corp .,  Alaska
Air Group Inc . and United Continental Holdings Inc.’s United and
Continental will report Oct. 21.  United and Continental closed their $3.47 billion stock-
swap merger on Oct. 1, four days after Southwest’s Sept. 27
announcement that it would buy AirTran Holdings Inc.  United and Continental will continue to be run separately
until they receive U.S. regulatory approval to operate as one
carrier, which may take as long as 18 months. Southwest’s stock-
and-cash purchase of AirTran still must be approved by
regulators and AirTran shareholders.  Fuel, Flu  The carriers as a group in July reported their first
quarterly profit after 10 straight losses stretching back to the
final three months of 2007. During the three-year period, the
companies faced surging fuel prices, the slump in business
travel during the recession and the outbreak of the H1N1 virus.  Airlines began decreasing the amount of available seats in
2008, grounding planes to keep pace with the drop in demand.
Capacity through August was down 0.12 percent from a year
earlier, extending the 6.9 percent reduction in 2009 that was
the biggest industrywide pullback since 1942.  Keeping curbs on capacity creates “pricing power in the
face of slowly improving demand,” said  Jeff Straebler  an RBS
Securities Inc. strategist in Stamford, Connecticut.  “Now, with the recognition that it works, the expectation
is that it will stay,” Straebler said.  Yields , or average fare per mile excluding taxes, rose
every month this year through August after falling through all
of 2009, according to the  Air Transport Association  trade group.
June’s 20 percent increase over a year earlier was 2010’s
biggest gain.  Unit Revenue  Third-quarter revenue for each seat flown a mile, known as
unit revenue, an indicator of fares and demand, probably rose 15
percent, excluding regional airline partners, Derchin estimated.
Load factor, or the number of seats filled, advanced 2 points
through August from a year ago to 83 percent.  “Airlines are not pricing so aggressively to gain market
share anymore,” said  Jim Corridore , a Standard & Poor’s equity
analyst in New York. “They are pricing for profitability. That
is a big shift for them.”  The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  of 11 carriers rose 18
percent this year through today, topping gains of 6.2 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 6.9 percent for the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.  Capacity Discipline  Jet fuel  for delivery in New York Harbor averaged $2.11 in
the quarter, up 17 percent from a year ago.  Prices  have risen
0.14 percent since the quarter’s end. They peaked at a record
$4.36 a gallon on July 3, 2008. Fuel normally is the industry’s
second-biggest expense, following labor.  Airlines should be able to keep posting profits on industry
consolidation, the mix of higher- and lower-priced fares and
capacity discipline, said Derchin, who is based in Stamford,
Connecticut. While revenue from each seat flown a mile probably
will continue to rise, the pace will slow, he said.  For 2011, the industry’s biggest threats are increasing
fuel prices, the risk of another recession and the temptation to
quickly add back seats, said AeroEcon’s Swierenga, a former
chief economist for the Air Transport Association.  “As long as they hold the line on capacity, they will be
OK,” Swierenga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  