-- Andes Stock Market Integration to Spur Peru Fishing IPOs, Bernales Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2010-10-18T20:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/andes-stock-market-integration-to-spur-peru-fishing-ipos-bernales-says.html
Peru, the world’s largest  fishmeal 
producer, will see a “wave” of initial public offerings by
fishing companies as an integration with the Colombian and
Chilean exchanges spurs investor demand, National Fisheries
Society vice-president Ricardo Bernales said.  Fishmeal producers including  Pesquera Diamante SA  and
 Pesquera Exalmar SA  may sell shares on the Lima exchange next
year, Bernales, who is also a director of Diamante, said today
in an interview.  “Work on corporate governance is under way, and we took on
a financial partner as we’re headed for an IPO,” Bernales said.
“Other companies also plan to tap the markets, which is the
smartest move today.”  Colombia, Chile and Peru will integrate their exchanges at
the end of November, Colombia stock exchange President  Juan Pablo Cordoba  said Oct. 5. The integrated market will be Latin
America’s top issuer with a total 563 stocks, and second in
market capitalization with $564 billion, behind Brazil with
$1.28 trillion.  Peru posted $2.2 billion last year in fishing  exports , the
Andean country’s third-biggest income earner. Only two of Peru’s
14 fishmeal producers,  Copeinca ASA  and Austevoll Seafood ASA
unit Austral Group SA, trade on the Lima Exchange, while CFG
Investment SAC has access to Asian markets through its parent
company  China Fishery Group Ltd. , Bernales said.  Diamante, which hired Citibank Peru corporate banker Manuel
Salazar to refinance the $160 million acquisition of three
smaller companies in 2007, produces about 18,000 metric tons a
day of fishmeal at eight plants and operates 42 trawlers,
according to its website.  Investor Demand  Exalmar Chief Executive Officer  Rossana Ortiz  didn’t
immediately return telephone calls seeking comment.  “There’s strong demand among institutional investors for
new stocks, and the market integration will provide access to
new buyers,”  Leoncio Altamirano , a trader at Lima-based Juan
Magot y Asociados SAB, said in a telephone interview. “Fishing
IPOs would be successful as Peru is well-known for its rich
fishing grounds.”  Fishmeal has risen 71 percent in the past two years to
$1,480 per ton as demand for the animal feed surges in China and
Japan, according to the Fisheries Society, an industrial group.  The  Lima General Index  fell 1.8 percent to 18,940.03 at
4:07 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 