-- Hands Says He Was Tricked by Citigroup Banker in EMI Bidding
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-18T22:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/hands-says-he-was-tricked-by-citigroup-banker-wormsley-in-bidding-for-emi.html
Guy Hands , whose Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. paid $6.7 billion for EMI Group Ltd. at the height
of the buyout boom in 2007, began trial of his claim that he was
tricked into overpaying by a  Citigroup Inc.  banker.  Hands is trying to prove that Citigroup’s  David Wormsley 
lied to him when he said that Cerberus Capital Management LP
planned to submit a competing bid for EMI, the 113-year-old
music publishing company whose recording stars have included
 Enrico Caruso , Frank Sinatra, the Beatles and Radiohead.  Wormsley, Terra Firma’s “trusted adviser,” was “playing
two sides of the street at the same time,”  David Boies , the
lead lawyer for Terra Firma, told a jury of nine people in his
opening statement today in federal court in Manhattan.  The suit has been interpreted as a move by Hands to put
pressure on Citi “to bring them to the table to renegotiate the
financing of EMI,” said  Claire Enders , chief executive officer
of Enders Analysis Ltd., an entertainment industry research firm
based in London.  Terra Firma claims $8.3 billion in damages, saying it would
have paid less for EMI had it known that Cerberus wasn’t going
to bid. After the auction, Citicorp covered up its fraud by
perpetuating the fiction of a Cerberus bid long after the
bidding was over, Boies said.  ‘Fictional Bids’  “They knew that they had lied and they made Terra Firma
make this bid on the fictional idea that there were other
bids,” Boies said.  Citigroup, which provided 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion)
in loans to finance the acquisition, says Wormsley didn’t lie to
Hands and didn’t even know that Cerberus had decided not to bid.
Terra Firma based its bid on its own estimate of EMI’s value,
not on any statements by Wormsley, according to Citigroup.  “There was no fraud, there were no lies,” said Citigroup
lawyer  Theodore Wells  in his opening statement. “Guy Hands
wanted to buy EMI. He wanted to win.”  Wells said Terra Firma’s suit was the result of a deal that
lost money for everyone involved, including Citibank.  “As time went on, it didn’t turn out to be a great deal,”
Wells said. “It turned out to be a bad deal. People lost a lot
of money.”  ‘Immensely Overvalued’  Enders said the EMI transaction was “immensely
overvalued” and that the company has “bumped along from one
short-term financial crisis to the next” since the sale. Hands
has tried unsuccessfully to persuade Citigroup to come to an
agreement that would reduce EMI’s debt, she said.  Since Hands took over EMI, Queen,  Paul McCartney , and the
Rolling Stones have all quit the label, while the company
slipped from a profit of 86 million pounds in 2006 to a loss of
1.57 billion pounds in 2009 and 512 million pounds in 2010.  Terra Firma’s key witness will be Hands, 51, who claims he
had three telephone conversations with Wormsley between May 18
and May 21, 2007, as the deadline for bids on EMI approached. He
may take the stand as early as tomorrow.  According to Hands, Wormsley told him that Cerberus, which
had withdrawn from the auction, planned to bid 2.62 pounds a
share. Terra Firma claims its bid of 2.65 pounds a share was
based on its desire to beat the non-existent Cerberus bid.  CEO Witness  Terra Firma Chief Executive Officer  Tim Pryce , the first
witness in the trial, testified today that Hands told him, for
the first time in the second half of 2007, that Cerberus might
not have bid in the auction.  Pryce, who was Terra Firma’s general counsel at the time of
the auction, also testified that it would have been damaging to
the firm’s business to have withdrawn its EMI bid.  “There would have been severe reputational consequences
for Terra Firma,” Pryce told jurors. “It would have been very
much more difficult for us to do these types of deals in
future.”  Citigroup was trading on the New York Stock Exchange for
about $53 in May 2007. The shares rose 22 cents to $4.17 today.  In addition to Hands and Pryce, likely witnesses include
Wormsley,  Simon Borrows , chairman of Greenhill & Co.; Cerberus
Capital managing director  Alexander Wolf ; Chad Leat, chairman of
Citigroup’s alternative asset group;  Paul Simpkin , co-head of
European loans and leveraged finance at Citigroup; and  Michael Klein , former Citigroup co-head of markets.  The suit was filed in New York state court in December,
more than two years after Terra Firma won the bidding for EMI.
It was moved to federal court in Manhattan.  Judge Rakoff  U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff , who will preside over
the trial, has twice denied requests by Citigroup to throw the
case out entirely. In March, he rejected Citigroup’s argument
that the case must be tried in the U.K. Last month, Rakoff
dismissed two of Terra Firma’s legal theories, allowing the case
to go to trial on claims of fraudulent misrepresentation and
fraudulent concealment.  Rakoff told jurors today he expects the trial to conclude
by Nov. 5.  The Terra Firma legal team is led by Boies, who represented
former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore  in his unsuccessful
litigation over the 2000 presidential election and argued
against California’s gay marriage ban. Wells represented former
vice presidential aide Lewis “Scooter” Libby on charges of
obstructing a CIA leak investigation.  The two lawyers faced each other in front of Judge Rakoff
in a 2009 trial in which Boies successfully defended American
International Group Inc.’s former chief executive officer
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg against a suit by AIG, represented by
Wells.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 