-- APA, BHP, Caltex, NAB, Perpetual, Roc, Woodside: Australian Stock Preview
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-18T21:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/apa-bhp-caltex-nab-perpetual-roc-woodside-australian-stock-preview.html
The following is a list of
companies whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This
preview includes news announced after markets closed. All prices
are from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in December rose
0.9 percent to 4,696 as of 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank of New
York Australia ADR Index  advanced 0.2 percent. The  S&P/ASX 200
Index  slipped 0.8 percent to 4,651.90.  Mining shares: Copper prices rose to the highest level in
27 months in New York as the dollar resumed a slide.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining
company, dropped 1.1 percent to A$41.18 in Sydney. Its American
depositary receipts fell 0.2 percent in New York trading.  Alberta’s provincial money manager, Alberta Investment
Management Co., is in talks with pension funds to take an equity
investment in Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. to block a
takeover by BHP, the Globe and Mail reported, citing
unidentified people.  Rio Tinto Group  (RIO AU), the world’s third-biggest miner,
slipped 0.3 percent to A$82.98 in Sydney.  Oil producers: Crude oil for November delivery increased
2.3 percent to settle at $83.08 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
biggest oil and gas producer, lost 0.9 percent to A$43.94.  Bank stocks: U.S. stocks rose to a five-month high, led by
financial shares, after Citigroup Inc.’s earnings topped
estimates.  National Australia Bank Ltd.  (NAB AU), the nation’s biggest
business lender, dropped 0.7 percent to A$25.32.       APA Group  (APA AU): The company whose pipelines carry more
than half of Australia’s natural gas had its stock rated
“neutral” in new coverage by analysts at Credit Suisse Group
AG. The shares lost 0.5 percent to A$3.99.  Boart Longyear Ltd.  (BLY AU): The Australian provider of
drilling services to mining companies had its stock rating
raised to “buy” from “hold” by analysts led by  Andrew Hodge 
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Its shares were unchanged
at A$3.63.  Caltex Australia Ltd.  (CTX AU): The nation’s biggest oil
refiner was downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at UBS AG.
The shares were unchanged at A$12.45.       Challenger Financial Services Group Ltd.  (CGF AU): The
asset manager was downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at UBS
AG. Its shares gained 3.9 percent to A$4.80.  Charter Hall Retail REIT  (CQR AU): The owner of
supermarkets and shopping centers had its rating cut to “hold”
from “buy” by analysts led by  Adrian Dark  at Citigroup Inc.
The stock shed 0.3 percent to A$3.09.  Gunns Ltd.  (GNS AU): The Australian timber-products company
was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS AG. Its shares
surged 6.7 percent to 64 Australian cents.       Perpetual Ltd.  (PPT AU): The company’s stock rating was
raised to “neutral” from “underweight” at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. It was cut to “hold” from “buy” at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. Perpetual’s shares jumped 22 percent to
A$37.80 yesterday after Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. offered to
buy the Australian asset manager.       Roc Oil Co.  (ROC AU): The energy explorer with assets in
Australia, Asia and Africa, plans to spend as much as $140
million in China in the next two years to increase oil
production, Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Clement  said. Roc Oil
dropped 1.2 percent to 42.5 Australian cents.  Telstra Corp. Ltd.  (TLS AU): Australia’s biggest telephone
company hired BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings
Plc to arrange a fixed-income investor call today, in
preparation for a potential bond sale, according to a banker
involved in the transaction. Telstra shares advanced 0.4 percent
to A$2.69.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 