-- Appeals Court Voids Earlier NCAA Lottery Ruling, Seeks Help on Indiana Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-18T22:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/appeals-court-voids-earlier-ncaa-lottery-ruling-seeks-help-on-indiana-law.html
A U.S. appeals court asked Indiana’s
Supreme Court for guidance in determining whether a National
Collegiate Athletic Association’s method of selling tickets to
its top-rank basketball tournament is an illegal lottery.  A three-judge panel of the Chicago-based appeals court
today reversed its own July ruling that said the NCAA must face
a lawsuit by consumers claiming its ticket distribution method
violates Indiana law.  “Affording the Indiana Supreme Court the opportunity to
interpret the application of the Indiana statutes involved here
appears to be the most prudent course of action,” the U.S.
judges said.  The Indianapolis-based association sells tickets for its
basketball and hockey championships by accepting applications
for more tickets than are actually available. In the suit, three
states challenged the NCAA practice of keeping a $6 to $10
“handling” fee for each entry, even from unsuccessful
applicants.  Keeping the money, and awarding some applicants a thing of
greater value than its price -- the ticket -- might violate
Indiana’s law barring any entity other than the state from
running a lottery, the federal court said in July.  Its decision resurrected a lawsuit filed against the NCAA
by residents of New York, Arizona and Oregon, seeking
compensatory and punitive damages, as well as class-action
status on behalf of anyone who paid the fee since May 1998.  ‘Legal and Fair’  “The NCAA’s process to distribute championship tickets to
our fans is legal and fair, and we believe the Indiana Supreme
Court will agree after further consideration,” spokesman  Erik Christianson  said in an e-mailed statement.  Christianson and consumers’ attorney Robert B. Carey each
said the association has discontinued the practice of retaining
the handling fees paid by those fans that aren’t selected to
receive tickets.  Carey said he doubted Indiana’s high court would take up
what he called an “arcane” issue.  “No one out there does this,” he said today in a
telephone interview. “Really the only entity that would be
affected by this is the NCAA.”  The association was making money off losing entries, said
Carey. “That’s gambling.”  A partner in the Phoenix office of Seattle-based Hagens
Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, Carey said he couldn’t offer an
estimate of the value of the case or the size if the proposed
class.  High Court  The federal appeals court panel has asked Indiana’s high
court to whether the NCAA’s former ticket allocation method
would have been considered a lottery under state law, whether
the sales were exempt as a business transaction and if the
consumers’ complicity nullified their ability to recover
damages.  The suit was first thrown out by U.S. District Judge
 William T. Lawrence  in Indianapolis, who concluded that
prospective purchasers were aware of the “essential features”
of the NCAA system and applied willingly.  The case is George v. National Collegiate Athletic
Association, 09-3667, 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  