-- Apple Profit Forecast Falls Short of Analysts' Predictions
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-10-19T00:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/apple-s-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-70-on-demand-for-ipad-tablet-iphones.html
Apple Inc.  forecast profit for the
current quarter that will rise less than analysts  predicted  as
supply constraints hamper sales of the iPad computer. The stock
fell in extended trading.  Profit will be about $4.80 a share in the current period,
which includes the yearend holiday shopping season. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted profit of $5.03.  Apple sold 4.19 million iPads last quarter, fewer than the
4.5 million predicted by  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos. in Minneapolis. Sales may have been impeded by
difficulty getting parts needed to make the device, said  Giri Cherukuri , chief investment officer of Oakbrook Investments.  “People may be a little disappointed with the weaker iPad
sales,” said Cherukuri, whose firm owns Apple shares. “Apple
also had conservative guidance for the next quarter. The market
is trying to digest that.”  Profit and sales in the fourth quarter, which ended in
September, exceeded analysts’ projections.  Net income  rose to
$4.31 billion, or $4.64 a share, compared with $2.53 billion, or
$2.77, a year earlier, Apple said today in a statement. Sales
rose to $20.3 billion. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated profit of $4.10 a share and sales of $18.9 billion.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, slumped as much as
7.9 percent to $292.75 in extended  trading . It had climbed $3.26
to $318, a record, at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares, up 51 percent this year, surpassed $300 for the first
time last week.  Supply Constraints  Revenue this quarter will be about $23 billion, Apple Chief
Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said in the statement.
Analysts had predicted sales of $22.3 billion.  “The pressure I’m getting is on supply,” Chief Operating
Officer  Tim Cook  said on a conference call with investors.
“Virtually everyone we’re doing business with wants more
supply.”  Apple, now the  third-largest company  by market value, is
benefiting from rising demand for its smartphones and other
devices even as rivals lament lackluster household computer
purchases. Intel Corp. last week cited tepid buying among
consumers in the U.S. and Europe.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  joined the
conference call discussing results for the first time in two
years. He said Apple’s approach of designing both the hardware
and software for devices will help it thrive amid competition
from Google Inc. and other rivals.  BlackBerry ‘Mountain’  “We are very committed to the integrated approach, no
matter how many times Google tries to characterize it as
closed,” Jobs said. He said Research In Motion Ltd., maker of
the BlackBerry, has a “high mountain” to climb as customers
embrace the iPhone as well as smarthphones using Google’s
Android operating system.  Jobs said the company plans to hold on to its cash for
“strategic opportunities” rather than using it on a stock
buyback or dividend. Apple has $25.6 billion in cash and short-
term investments. Including longer-term holdings, the company
has about $51 billion.  “We strongly believe that one or more very strategic
opportunities may come along,” Jobs said.  Today’s results include the first full quarter of sales for
the fourth version of the iPhone, released in June, and the
second time Apple has reported the performance of the iPad, now
available in  26 countries . Apple sold 14.1 million iPhones and
3.89 million Macintosh computers.  Android Gains  Munster  projected Apple would sell 11 million iPhones in
the fourth fiscal quarter. Supply shortages likely held back
sales of the iPhone and iPad, Munster said in a note last week.
On Oct. 20, Apple is hosting an event where it’s expected to
unveil new features for Mac computers and its operating system.  Jobs also said the company has sold more than 250,000 Apple
TV devices since the device went on sale late last month.  Smartphone makers using Android took share from Apple
during the second-quarter, researcher ISuppli Corp. said in a
report last week.  The Android software, used by manufacturers including HTC
Corp., Motorola Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., is the most
popular smartphone software in the U.S., according to a study
from  Gartner Inc.   Samsung, HTC, Motorola and Dell Inc. are among the
companies using the Android operating system in tablet computers
to rival the iPad. Hewlett-Packard Co., the largest computer
maker, also is developing a tablet computer.  Apple may get a sales boost by expanding availability of
the iPhone in the U.S. Verizon Wireless may begin selling the
device in January, people familiar with the matter said in June.  The popularity of Apple’s mobile devices also is helping
increase sales of its Macintosh computers. Apple’s U.S. computer
shipments climbed 24 percent in the third-quarter, making it the
No. 3 PC supplier in the county after HP and Dell, researcher
IDC said last week. The iPad has created a “halo effect” that
has boosted Mac sales, IDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 