-- Harrah's IPO Seeks to Raise Up to $575 Million for Vegas, Ohio Projects
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-10-18T19:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/harrah-s-ipo-seeks-to-raise-up-to-575-million-for-vegas-ohio-projects.html
Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the
world’s  biggest casino company , plans an initial public offering
that will include selling stock to raise as much as $575 million
for planned projects in Las Vegas and Ohio.  Harrah’s will use the proceeds to finish its 660-room
Octavius Tower at Caesars Las Vegas, develop the LINQ retail and
entertainment area next to the Flamingo on the Las Vegas Strip,
and invest in the potential joint-venture development of two
Ohio casinos with Rock Gaming LLC, the company said today in a
U.S. regulatory filing.  Some of the money raised may also be used for another
potential casino management and partial ownership opportunity,
the company said without providing details.  Harrah’s, taken private in January 2008, is tapping public
markets as a record slump in Las Vegas eases and casino
securities rally. Las Vegas Strip gambling revenue jumped 21
percent in August, Nevada’s Gaming Control Board said. MGM
Resorts International last week raised $511 million in proceeds
from a share sale.  In June,  John Paulson’s  Paulson & Co. hedge fund agreed to
acquire a 9.9 percent equity stake in Harrah’s by exchanging
bonds he bought at a discount. Paulson’s shares are also being
listed with the IPO. Harrah’s earlier cut debt by offering
creditors new bonds at a discount for their old notes, buying
back other debt for less than face value and extending
maturities on $5.5 billion in loans.  10 Percent Notes  Harrah’s $3.3 billion of secured 10 percent notes due in
December 2018 rose 2 cents to 86.5 cents on the dollar as of
12:57 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The debt has risen from a low this year of 72.5 cents on the
dollar on Feb. 10, Trace data show.  Harrah’s “dusted off” plans to build the LINQ street of
bars, restaurants, shops and entertainment between its Flamingo
and O’Sheas casinos in Las Vegas, its home base, Chief Executive
Officer  Gary Loveman  said in a June interview. The project,
first envisioned in 2006, includes a giant Ferris wheel. Last
year, Harrah’s delayed finishing construction of Octavius Tower,
citing the weak economy and Vegas room demand.  In August, Harrah’s said it may invest in and run two Ohio
casinos being developed by  Dan Gilbert , founder and chairman of
Quicken Loans Inc. Harrah’s would be a minority investor in a
joint venture with Gilbert’s Rock Gaming LLC to build downtown
casinos in Cleveland and Cincinnati.  Leon Black’s   Apollo Management LP  and  David Bonderman ’s TPG
Inc. took Harrah’s private for $30.7 billion, including debt and
transaction costs, in January 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  