-- Marriott Funds Republicans for Immigration Rules He May Not Get
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-10-18T19:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/marriott-directs-cash-to-republicans-for-immigration-rules-he-may-not-get.html
By more than a 5-to-1 margin,
campaign contributions from  J.W. Marriott Jr.  are flowing toward
Republicans this year. For his generosity, the  Marriott
International Inc . chairman may find the party thwarting changes
in immigration law his company wants.  Marriott and other companies including  Intel Corp .,  Hilton
Worldwide  and  Texas Instruments Inc.  are seeking a boost in the
number of legal immigrant workers they are allowed to hire.  Should November’s election give Republicans control of at
least one chamber of Congress, though, some of the party’s
leading lawmakers say their focus will be on border security,
not the immigrant-worker changes the businesses are seeking.  “You have to secure the border before you do anything
else,” said Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican in
line to become House Judiciary Committee chairman if his party
wins the chamber.  The business viewpoint was pressed Sept. 30 by  News Corp. 
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , who urged House Judiciary subcommittee
members to work on a bipartisan overhaul of immigration policy
that includes “an end to the arbitrary immigration and visa
quotas.” Republicans on the panel, including Smith, voiced
skepticism, saying lower-skilled U.S. employees could see their
wages fall if more legal foreign workers are allowed in.  New Relationships  Corporate lobbyists say they will have to forge new
relationships in Congress to advance their immigration agenda.  “We’re going to have our work cut out for us in making our
case” that lifting current caps on legal immigrant workers “is
an important part of maintaining our technology leadership,”
said Paula Collins, vice president of government relations at
Dallas-based Texas Instruments.  The business agenda calls for increases in worker visas for
skilled and unskilled labor, and more employment-based “green
cards” -- proof of permanent residency in the U.S. that can
allow for a lifetime career.  Technology companies such as  eBay Inc . and  Cognizant
Technology Solutions Corp . are among those urging Congress to
lift the cap on H-1b visas for skilled workers. The annual limit
has been at 65,000 since 2004, after expiration of a temporary
increase from 2001-2003 that raised the cap to 195,000. In
fiscal 2010, the cap was reached in nine months.  Companies also want to lift the limit on employment-based
green cards, now set at 140,000.  H-1B Visas  At Cognizant, which has been in the top five of U.S.
employers seeking green cards for workers for a decade, the
company begins seeking permanent status for workers as soon as
they get an H-1B temporary visa, said  Robert Hoffman , vice
president for global public policy. The workers then wait in a
“legal and professional limbo” for five years or more, he
said.  The restaurant and hotel industries have different needs
focused on seasonal, lower-skilled workers.  Jonas Neihardt , a
lobbyist for McLean, Virginia-based Hilton, is pushing for a
simpler system to verify the legal status of workers, and a
boost in H-2b visas for non-farm seasonal employees that is now
capped at 66,000. Neihardt is urging the changes be made before
the U.S. economy improves.  “We’re anticipating when things get better we’ll need more
of those types of workers,” Neihardt said.  Marriott’s Giving  The political giving by J.W. Marriott Jr. this year
includes $53,100 to Republican Party committees and candidates,
compared with $9,600 to Democrats, according to the  Center for
Responsive Politics .  “Like the wide scope of views in both parties, his
contribution decisions are not solely made based on the issue of
immigration, but on a range of issues,”  Thomas Marder ,  a
spokesman for the Bethesda, Maryland-based company, said of his
boss’s donations.  Campaign contributions by political action committees at
Marriott and other companies affected by immigration limits
divided more evenly between the parties, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics. Marriott’s PAC so far this cycle has
given $171,300 to federal candidates, with 50 percent going to
Republicans and 48 percent going to Democrats.  Hilton’s PAC donated $69,260, with 51 percent given to
Democrats and 40 percent to Republicans. Santa Clara,
California-based Intel’s committee gave $279,300 to candidates,
57 percent to Democrats and 43 percent to Republicans. And Texas
Instruments’ committee donated $48,130 to candidates, with
Republicans getting 52 percent and Democrats 48 percent.  Rewriting Law  Senate Democrats in April outlined a rewrite of immigration
law that, along with pushing a crackdown on drugs and illegal
immigration at the U.S.-Mexico border, proposed changes that
included a pathway to permanent legal residency for some of the
estimated 11 million undocumented workers in the U.S. It also
called for a new three-year visa for temporary, low-skilled
workers with an annual limit that adjusts with the economy, and
immediate green cards for foreign students who get advanced
degrees in engineering or math from a U.S. college.  The effort was hamstrung when Senator  Lindsey Graham , a
South Carolina Republican, stopped working with Democrats on a
compromise, urging them to wait until 2011.  Smith, the Republican House member from Texas, said in an
interview that while he would favor holding hearings about
foreign worker visas and other immigration issues, he wants to
draft legislation only on border security next year.  Border Arrests  Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, the chamber’s No. 2 Republican
leader who worked with Democrats in 2007 on a comprehensive
immigration bill that failed, said he won’t support anything
beyond border security until the fight against illegal
immigration improves in parts of his state. Apprehensions in the
Yuma sector dropped 94 percent over four years to 7,000 in 2009,
signaling progress in stemming illegal crossings. Still, Kyl
said, apprehensions “hovered” around 242,000 in the Tucson
sector.  “There has to be more of an effort to actually secure the
border -- not just to spend money, not just to say we have more
resources than ever before,” he said in an interview.  Kyl also said companies must realize that the recession
that began in December 2007 and became the nation’s worst since
the Great Depression changed the immigration debate.  ‘Gone Backwards’  He said labor unions are more opposed to expanding the pool
of foreign labor now than before. “The temporary-worker program
has gone backwards in terms of a consensus,” Kyl said.  Compounding the challenge for businesses, some senators
seen as possible supporters of a comprehensive measure --
including Democrat  Evan Bayh  of Indiana and Republicans
 George Voinovich  of Ohio and  Judd Gregg  of New Hampshire --
decided against seeking re-election this year and are retiring.  What’s more, next year’s Senate may include Tea Party-
backed Republicans who favor intensifying the illegal-
immigration crackdown before grappling with related issues.  A key backer of insurgent candidates in the Republican
primaries has been Senator  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina, a
founder of the Senate’s “Border Security and Enforcement First
Caucus.” He has shown a willingness to use delaying tactics to
kill legislation he doesn’t like.  “If Jim DeMint is king of the next Congress, that’s not
going to bode very well for immigration reform,” said  Tamar Jacoby , president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a business group
pushing for revisions of immigration law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  