-- Art Market Recovering as Frieze Boosted by Hirst, Paris Follows
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/art-market-recovering-as-frieze-boosted-by-hirst-collectors-head-to-paris.html
The crisis-ridden market for
contemporary art continued its recovery as dealers who offered
$375 million of works at the  Frieze Art Fair  reported many sales
at post-boom price levels.  Billionaire collectors attending Europe’s biggest fair
devoted to the work of living artists in London were heading for
Paris yesterday for the Foire Internationale d’Art Contemporain.
FIAC, France’s biggest fair.  Both events are tests of demand after some heavily traded
contemporary artists plummeted by more than 50 percent in 2009.
Works by  Damien Hirst , one of those affected, sold in London.  “Dealers brought their usual roster of top sellers at
affordable prices,”  Mary Hoeveler , a New York-based art
adviser, said of Frieze. “Works were selling well in the first
two days, as they were at the gallery shows I visited,
confirming that demand in the primary market remains steady.”  Frieze itself doesn’t release sale figures. The 173
exhibitors in a temporary structure in Regent’s Park were
offering works by established and emerging artists. Frieze 2010
was “predictable and targeted,” said Hoeveler. The booths of
 White Cube  and Gagosian were dominated by Hirst wall sculptures
from the mid-2000s.  A 2010 Rudolf Stingel abstract of gray cloth was sold by
London-based dealer  Sadie Coles  for $300,000. Another monochrome
canvas by Stingel sold for $1.2 million at  Christie’s
International  in New York in November 2007.  Hirst Fish  Confirmed big-ticket sales were in short supply, though
White Cube said it sold the 3.5-million-pound ($5.6 million)
Hirst 2006 fish-in-formaldehyde work, “The True Artist Helps
the World by Revealing Mystic Truths.”  Canvases by  Georg Baselitz  and  Sigmar Polke  priced at $2
million remained unsold at the booth of New York-dealer  Michael
Werner  on the penultimate afternoon of the five-day event.  “There used to be multiple million pound plus sales at the
fair. Now you’re struggling to find one,”  Robert Read , head of
art and private clients at the insurer  Hiscox Ltd , said. “From
a commercial point of view, it seemed to be a moderate success.
Prices were fair, and there were plenty of deals being done for
interesting works marked at under $100,000.” Hiscox estimated
the total value of Frieze works based on confirmed insurance
cover for 40 to 50 percent of them.  Miami-based collector  Martin Margulies  returned to Frieze
for the first time since the inaugural 2003 edition. He was one
of many buyers acquiring works for less than $100,000, spending
$150,000 on artists such as Thomas Housego and Michael Bauer.  “When I first came, Frieze was really wild,” Margulies
said in an interview. “Now it’s turned into a really nice
event. Prices are fair and it’s always possible to find
something you want. It’s crowded, but that’s good.”  Entrance Fee  An entrance fee of 25 pounds failed to prevent the aisles
of the tent from becoming clogged with visitors. Projected
attendance figures were 60,000, the same as 2009.  Crowd control will be less of a problem for  FIAC ,
previewing on Oct. 20, in the Grand Palais and other venues. It
includes dealers who specialize in classic 20th-century art.  Last year saw the introduction of a new “Modern Project”
section with dealers offering 24 museum-quality works priced as
much as $40 million. The innovation didn’t result in any
publicly confirmed sales during the fair and isn’t repeated in
2010.  Gagosian  -- which opens a new Paris gallery tomorrow -- is
among 50 new exhibitors in the list of 194 participating modern
and contemporary dealers.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 