-- Hasbro Profit Rises on Sales of Preschool Products
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-18T20:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/hasbro-third-quarter-profit-increases-on-sales-of-preschool-products.html
Hasbro Inc. , the world’s second-
largest toymaker, rose the most since June in New York trading
after its third-quarter profit gain surpassed analysts’
estimates, helped by sales of preschool products and games.  Hasbro advanced 3.8 percent after saying  net income  rose to
$155.2 million, or $1.09 a share, in the quarter ended Sept. 26.
Analysts on average projected $1.04, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  The toymaker’s sales  climbed  this year without movie tie-
ins after films based on its Transformers and G.I. Joe brands
boosted revenue a year ago. A third “Transformers” movie will
debut next year and films based on the Battleship, Monopoly and
Clue games are being developed as Hasbro bolsters its revenue
from entertainment content.  “That’s where a lot of the value can be created,” said
 Edward Woo , an analyst for Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los
Angeles who rates the shares outperform. “Things are going well
and their outlook is for things to get even better.”  Hasbro, based in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, advanced $1.73 to
$46.81 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading , the largest gain since June 24. The shares have climbed
46 percent this year.  Hasbro denied on June 24 that it was in discussions
regarding a possible takeover and said the board spurned an
approach from a private-equity firm. Providence Equity Partners
Inc. had been in talks with Hasbro as recently as the previous
week, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  ‘Robust’ Holiday  During the quarter, Hasbro has made up for the absence of
“Transformer” tie-ins with gains in games such as Monopoly and
preschool toys such as the Mr. Potato Head brand, featured in
“Toy Story 3,” the highest grossing film in the U.S. this
year.  Sales climbed 2.7 percent to $1.31 billion, also surpassing
projections. Last year, Hasbro’s third-quarter profit was $150.4
million, or 99 cents a share.  Hasbro expects a “robust” holiday shopping season, with
inventories rising from last year so the toymaker can meet
demand, Chief Executive Officer  Brian Goldner  said on a
conference call.  The Hub, Hasbro’s joint venture children’s television
network with  Discovery Communications Inc. , began broadcasting
on Oct. 10 and has been well received by consumers, said
Goldner, 47. The network airs programming with shows based on
Hasbro toy lines such as G.I. Joe and My Little Pony.  Mattel Inc. , the world’s largest toymaker, reported last
week that third-quarter profit rose 23 percent to $283.3
million, or 77 cents a share. Profit excluding a tax benefit was
72 cents a share. Analysts estimated 75 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  