-- Ashcroft to Get High Court Review of Lawsuit by Man Held as Terror Witness
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-18T14:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/ashcroft-to-get-high-court-review-of-lawsuit-by-man-held-as-terror-witness.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  will consider
reinforcing the legal immunity of top government officials,
agreeing to decide whether a man can sue former Attorney General
 John Ashcroft  after being detained without charge for 16 days.  The justices will review a ruling that allowed a suit filed
by Abdullah al-Kidd, a Muslim U.S. citizen who was arrested in
2003 and held as a material witness in a terrorism probe. Al-
Kidd says the government classified him as a material witness
because it lacked enough evidence to hold him as a suspect.  Obama administration lawyers are representing Ashcroft at
the Supreme Court, arguing that the lower court ruling would
have dire consequences for criminal investigations.  The ruling would “threaten the ability of prosecutors to
discharge their duties without fear of personal liability,
severely limit the usefulness of the material witness statute
and substantially chill officers in the exercise of important
government functions,” acting U.S. Solicitor General  Neal Katyal  argued in the appeal.  Al-Kidd, an African American who converted to Islam,
contends he was swept up in a broad anti-terrorism investigation
aimed at Arab and Muslim men and approved by Ashcroft. He was
arrested at Dulles International Airport outside Washington as
he was preparing to board a flight to Saudi Arabia, where he
says he planned to study at a university.  He alleges that over the next 16 days he was treated as if
he were a terrorist rather than a witness. He says he was strip-
searched, shackled and placed with hardened criminals. Al-Kidd
also says he was interrogated without the presence of a lawyer.  Terrorism Case  Al-Kidd’s lawyers said in court papers that his case
“involves a gross abuse of the government’s narrow power”
under material witness law, which lets the government hold
innocent persons to ensure they will be available to testify.  A judge issued a material witness warrant for al-Kidd in
connection with the case of Sami Omar al-Hussayen, who had been
indicted on charges including visa fraud and later was accused
of supporting terrorism. An agent for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation said in a sworn statement that al-Kidd had
received more than $20,000 from al-Hussayen.  The agent also inaccurately said that al-Kidd was traveling
on a $5,000 one-way ticket to Saudi Arabia, rather than the
$1,700 round-trip ticket he was actually using.  Al-Kidd was never called to testify, and a jury acquitted
al-Hussayen of the most serious charges against him and
deadlocked on the other allegations.  Immunity Sought  Ashcroft served as President  George W. Bush ’s attorney
general from 2001 to 2005. The suit seeks damages directly from
Ashcroft, rather than from the government.  Ashcroft contends that two legal doctrines shield him from
the suit. He says he is entitled to absolute immunity, which
provides a total shield for government officials for their
prosecutorial work. Ashcroft also says he has qualified
immunity, which insulates all government officials from suits
for damages unless they violated a clearly established
constitutional right.  The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said in a 2-1 ruling
that absolute immunity didn’t apply because the government’s
motive for arresting al-Kidd allegedly had nothing to do with
the al-Hussayen prosecution.  The appeals court also concluded that the misuse of the
material witness statute would be a clear constitutional
violation.  Stop and Pause  “Qualified immunity must not allow the attorney general to
carry out his national security functions wholly free from
concern for his personal liability,” the panel said. “He may
on occasion have to pause to consider whether a proposed course
of action can be squared with the Constitution and laws of the
United States.”  Justice  Elena Kagan  isn’t taking part in the case. She has
disqualified herself from more than 20 cases on the court’s
argument calendar because she played a role in the litigation as
President  Barack Obama ’s solicitor general. Obama appointed her
to the Supreme Court this year.  The court likely will hear arguments early next year in the
case and rule by July.  The justices ruled 5-4 in Ashcroft’s favor in 2009 in a
case that bears similarities to that of al-Kidd. The court ruled
against a Pakistani man who said he was arrested, beaten and
held in solitary confinement for five months after the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks. The majority said the allegations in the
complaint against Ashcroft were too conclusory to go forward.  The case is Ashcroft v. Al-Kidd, 10-98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 