-- Asian Hedge Funds Struggle to Raise Cash Even Amid Boom
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-19T02:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/asian-hedge-funds-struggling-for-cash-even-as-region-s-growth-beats-world.html
Asian hedge-fund managers are
missing out on the cash flooding into the world’s fastest-
growing region, leading some to close funds or defer new
offerings.  Singapore-based Amoeba Capital Partners Pte, run by the
former head of Asian investments at Morgan Stanley’s asset-
management unit, is returning money to investors in its stock
hedge fund, citing “tough” industry conditions.  Michael Coleman , co-manager of the $1.3 billion  Merchant Commodity Fund ,
in June shelved plans to raise money for an equity hedge fund.  “The Asian hedge-fund industry, overall, has yet to
definitively prove to the global investor community that it has
matured past the ability to deliver beta,” or investments whose
returns tend to track the market, said  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-
based senior strategist with Newedge Group’s prime brokerage
business. “This is seemingly constraining asset flows into the
region past a certain point.”  Hedge-fund managers in the region are failing to cash in on
the world’s fastest economic growth even as their stock-fund
rivals are. Asia’s hedge funds saw $1.2 billion of outflows in
the first seven months of the year,  Eurekahedge Pte  said in its
September report. In contrast, the region attracted about $19.8
billion in net inflows into equity funds this year, Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global said in an e-mail Oct. 12.  Assets of Asia’s hedge funds have shrunk 8 percent to $117
billion since the financial crisis, according to Singapore-based
Eurekahedge. That’s even as the region grows at the world’s
quickest rate, with Asia’s developing economies set to expand
9.2 percent in 2010, outpacing growth of 2.6 percent in advanced
nations, the International Monetary Fund forecast in July.  ‘Rough it Out’  One problem is the relatively small size and youth of many
Asian hedge funds. Most of the larger institutional investors
require managers to oversee at least $100 million and have three
years of track record, said  Albert Ee , founder of Singapore-
based Pilgrim Partners Asia Pte, which started a macro hedge
fund in May. Others want to see a track record of at least nine
months before committing capital, he said.  “I probably will still need to rough it out for the next
six months or so before I start doing serious marketing,” said
Ee, a former managing director of Millennium Management LLC’s
Asian business. His firm oversees about $28 million, of which
half are assets in the macro hedge fund and the remainder are
managed accounts for institutions.  The proportion of Asian hedge-fund managers overseeing $50
million or less has grown to 66 percent of the industry, from 57
percent two years ago, according to Eurekahedge.  Pension Funds  Pension funds seeking higher returns from alternative
investments will be the main source of capital for Asian hedge
funds, said  Christophe Lee , Hong Kong-based managing director at
FrontPoint Partners LLC, the Morgan Stanley hedge-fund unit. He
was speaking today at the Hedge Funds Asia Summit hosted by
Bloomberg Link in Hong Kong.  The biggest hedge-fund launches next year will be by
startups, or spinoffs,  Han Ming Ho , a partner at Clifford Chance,
one of the first international law firms awarded a Singapore
license, said at the same conference today.  “Capital is still difficult to come by,” said Ho.
“Startups that come from a spinoff, from a proprietary desk for
example, would have a decent amount of seed capital, whether
it’s seeded by the bank or whether they raise very good initial
seed capital based on their track record.”  Underperformers  Asia-focused hedge funds returned 26 percent last year,
less than the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s  34 percent advance, and
lost almost 21 percent in 2008 as the stock benchmark plunged 43
percent, according to Eurekahedge. North American funds gained
23 percent in 2009, matching the jump in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index , after declining 9.2 percent in 2008, less than a
quarter of the losses in the benchmark index, data from the
research firm show.  “The source of capital that has supported the Asian hedge-
fund industry has been money from the U.S. and Europe and they
have been after short-term returns rather than long-term capital
growth,” said  Shuhei Abe , president and chief executive officer
of Sparx Group Co., Asia’s second-biggest hedge-fund firm.
“Money dried up after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy and the global credit crisis that followed.”  Investors in the U.S. and Europe are less willing to seek
Asia-based managers as “travel expense becomes a big part of
the budget” when times are hard, said  Stephane Pizzo , founder
of Singapore-based hedge-fund investing firm Lotus Peak Capital
Pte.  Local Opportunities  “If you’re sitting in Europe or the U.S. and you have the
opportunity to invest with a manager based locally, it is a
pretty compelling proposition,” said Pizzo, former managing
director of Geneva-based Unigestion Holding SA.  Investors also still see “significant opportunities” in
U.S. markets and “have not felt the need to look harder” at
overseas managers, said  Judith Posnikoff , managing director at
Irvine, California-based Pacific Alternative Asset Management
Co., which invests clients’ money in hedge funds.  Shares on the S&P 500 index are valued at an average 12.3
times estimated earnings, versus 14.2 times for the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  North American hedge funds continued to attract the most
capital, gaining $4.7 billion in August, the seventh consecutive
month of net inflows, Eurekahedge said in its report.  Big Versus Small  Smaller managers are also struggling to raise assets as
investors are allocating money to larger funds. The money that
is flowing into the region is going into the “Asian end of the
big global firms” and a small number of boutique firms that
have successfully tapped U.S. investors, said  Peter Douglas ,
principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which advises investors
seeking to allocate money to hedge funds and runs a wealth-
management business.  “Investors are generally focusing on fewer stronger
relationships,” said  Daniel Mudd , chief executive officer of
New York-based Fortress Investment Group LLC, which managed
$41.7 billion as of June 30. “Some advantage has accrued to a
firm like Fortress that is big enough to have the full level of
products and global expertise and client support.”  Fortress is considering launching an Asia-focused macro
fund, which seeks to profit from broad economic trends, as it
opens an office in Singapore.  Increased Scrutiny  Asian hedge funds in the past relied on European investors
including private banks and family offices for assets, both of
which are now allocating fewer funds, said GFIA’s Douglas.  Meanwhile U.S. investors, which are becoming more
substantial allocators to hedge funds globally, are reticent to
put money with Asian managers which they find harder to
scrutinize due to the distances involved, Douglas said.
Investors in funds have increased scrutiny of managers after
Bernard Madoff’s $65 billion fraud was uncovered.  There have been 73 Asian hedge fund closures this year,
according to Eurekahedge, after 107 in 2009.  DragonBack Capital
Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based manager co-founded by a former Lehman
executive, closed its two hedge funds after redemptions,
AsianInvestor reported on Oct. 8. DragonBack is now seeking to
provide risk-management services to fledgling funds, according
to AsianInvestor.  Minerva Macro Fund, set up by  Stanley Ku , Fortress
Investment’s former Hong Kong head, returned investors’ money 10
months after starting with backing from Man Group Plc, a person
with knowledge of the matter said in June.  Amoeba Capital plans to give clients their money by Dec. 31,
Managing Partner  Ashutosh Sinha  said. The Amoeba Capital Asia
Fund, which bets on rising and falling stocks in Asia outside
Japan, returned 67 percent from its inception on July 10, 2006,
through Aug. 31, Sinha said, compared with a 22 percent gain in
the MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan Index over the same period.  ‘Tough’  “The hedge fund industry has been tough in the last few
years,” said Sinha, who worked at Morgan Stanley Investment
Management for 11 years before founding Amoeba Capital in 2006.  The fund has shrunk to $135 million following client
withdrawals during the global financial crisis, from a peak of
$750 million, he said.  Singapore-based Aisling Analytics Pte had earlier this year
sought to raise $300 million for an equity long-short fund
investing in commodities and natural resource companies. Long-
short funds bet on rising and falling stocks.  “It became a distraction when it was clear that raising
money for new funds was much, much harder than pre-2008,” said
Coleman, who manages the firm with partner Doug King. “We’ve
seen very high levels of due diligence over the last 12 months,
but conversion rates appear to be quite low.”  Some still see hope for Asian hedge funds. “There’s huge
interest in Asian hedge funds because the world genuinely
believes the Asian story,” said GFIA’s Douglas. “What you
don’t have is capital flowing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  