-- Treasuries, Stocks Rise on Fed Speculation, Citigroup Earnings
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-10-18T17:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/asian-stocks-slip-dollar-gains-on-fed-stimulus-speculation-oil-declines.html
Treasuries rebounded from the
biggest weekly loss this year and U.S. equities rallied as a
drop in industrial production bolstered speculation that the
Federal Reserve will buy more securities. Financial shares led
stocks higher as Citigroup Inc.’s earnings topped estimates.  The advance in Treasuries sent the 10-year yield down six
basis points to less than 2.5 percent at 1:06 p.m. in New York.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 0.2 percent to
1,179.05, above its highest close since May 3. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index rose 0.3 percent. Crude oil snapped a two-day losing
streak as the dollar erased gains against the euro.  The unexpected 0.2 percent decrease in output at factories,
mines and utilities last month added to signs the Fed will
purchase more Treasuries to bolster the economic recovery after
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled last week more so-called
quantitative easing is likely. International Business Machines
Corp. and Apple Inc. are also due to report earnings today.  “We remain positive on the market based on decent earnings
and the Fed’s expected actions,” said  Stewart Beach , who
oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment strategist at Old
Second National Bank in Aurora, Illinois. “Even Citigroup beat
earnings, which is kind of amazing considering the problems
we’re seeing on the foreclosure front.”  The yield on the 30-year Treasury slipped five basis points
to 3.93 percent. The benchmark 10-year note’s yield retreated
after touching 2.59 percent on Oct. 15, the highest this month.
It increased 17 basis points last week, the most since the
period ended Dec. 25.  Dollar, Stocks  The Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against six
major peers, was little changed at 76.982 after rallying as much
as 0.8 percent earlier. The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3985.
Canada’s dollar slid versus the greenback and traded near a
seven-month low against the euro before a meeting tomorrow at
which economists predict the Bank of Canada will leave interest
rates unchanged.  The S&P 500 extended two straight weeks of gains as
financial companies in the index rallied 1.2 percent for the top
gain among 10 groups. Wells Fargo & Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
climbed at least 2 percent.  Citigroup  rallied 3.5 percent after reporting net income of
$2.17 billion, beating analysts’ earnings estimates following a
$1.99 billion reduction in loan-loss reserves.  Halliburton Co. slumped 4.8 percent as the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider reported profit fell in all
regions outside of North America, disappointing investors’
expectations of a bigger improvement in global business.  Earnings Watch  Twelve members of the 30-stock Dow Jones Industrial Average
are due to post earnings this week. Of the 24 companies in the
 S&P 500  that have announced results since Oct. 7, 18 beat
analyst estimates for per-share income, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial-services companies  led gains in Europe’s Stoxx
600. BlueBay Asset Management Plc, the London based manager of
fixed-income funds, jumped 30 percent after agreeing to be
bought by Royal Bank of Canada. Royal Philips Electronics NV,
the world’s largest lighting company, slid 4.2 percent after
saying it was “cautious” on its sales outlook because the
economic climate is uncertain and consumer sentiment fragile.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.5 percent, with raw-
materials companies leading declines after BHP Billiton Ltd. and
Rio Tinto Group scrapped a joint venture.  ‘Scale Back’  The  MSCI gauge  of 21 developing countries lost 0.9 percent,
heading for the biggest drop since August. Investors should
start to “scale back” their holdings of emerging market stocks
after this year’s rally lifted valuations and the economic
outlook worsened,  Jonathan Garner , the chief Asia and emerging-
market strategist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, wrote in a
report today.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index slipped 0.2
percent on concern regional central banks will seek to counter
currency appreciation to protect export industries.  The 10-year German bund yield climbed one basis point to
2.39 percent. The similar-maturity U.K. gilt yield rose one
basis point to 2.96 percent. Credit-default swaps insuring
European junk-rated bonds increased, with the Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index climbing 3 basis points to 473, according to
Markit Group Ltd. Default swap rise as the perception of
creditworthiness deteriorate.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
rejected Bundesbank President  Axel Weber ’s call to end the bond
purchase program that has helped European governments and banks
try to shore up their finances. Weber, who also sits on the
ECB’s 22-member decision-making council, said the risk of
“exiting too late” from the emergency measures was greater
than pulling out too soon.  Crude oil rose for the first time in three days as the
dollar pared gains against the euro and a strike in France
spread. Crude oil for November delivery increased 2 percent to
$82.89 a barrel in New York. Prices declined as much as 90 cents
earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net . 