-- Aussie Trades Around 2 Cents from Parity as RBA Says Rates Finely Balanced
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-19T06:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/australia-dollar-within-2-u-s-cents-of-parity-before-central-bank-minutes.html
The Australian dollar traded within
2 U.S. cents of parity with the greenback after the nation’s
central bank said its decision to keep interest rates unchanged
this month had been “finely balanced.”  The currency strengthened earlier after Reserve Bank of
Australia policy makers said in minutes of their Oct. 5 meeting
released today that benchmark rates would have to rise “at some
point.” New Zealand’s dollar fell for a fourth day against the
U.S. currency after a report showed the nation’s house prices
fell in the three months ended June 30.  “The minutes reinforce the argument that there could be
another hike coming in November or December given that the RBA
seems very comfortable with where the currency is,” said  Tim Waterer , a foreign-exchange dealer at CMC Markets in Sydney.  Australia’s currency traded at 98.48 U.S. cents as of 5:00
p.m. in Sydney from 98.89 cents in New York yesterday, after
advancing to 99.60 cents following the release of the RBA
minutes. The currency climbed as high as $1.0004 on Oct. 15. The
so-called Aussie dropped to 80.29 yen from 80.37.  New Zealand’s dollar bought 75.35 cents from 75.56 cents,
and traded at 61.43 yen from 61.39 yen.  ‘Hawks and the Doves’  The decision to keep borrowing costs unchanged this month
hinged on expectations the economy would grow at trend in the
near-term, a softening in credit growth and a strengthening
Australian dollar which would “effectively be tightening
financial conditions at the margin,” RBA policy makers said in
the  minutes . The decision was appropriate “pending evaluation
of further information at the next meeting,” they said.  “There’s something for the hawks and the doves in these
minutes,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “There isn’t enough here to
suggest the currency is going to be off to the races. This may
not be enough for the Aussie to push through parity in a
definitive fashion.”  The “next key risk event” domestically will be the
consumer-price data release on Oct. 27, he said.  Swaps traders  raised  to 40 percent the chance the central
bank will end a five-month pause and boost the key rate to 4.75
percent on Nov. 2, a Credit Suisse AG index showed. The
probability of an increase was 36 percent yesterday.  A New Zealand house price index dropped 1 percent from the
first quarter when it rose 0.1 percent, according to Quotable
Value New Zealand Ltd., the government valuation agency.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, rose two basis points to 3.77 percent.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 