-- Australia Trails China, U.S. in Efforts to Cut Carbon Emissions
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-19T04:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/australia-trails-international-effort-to-cut-carbon-emissions-study-finds.html
Australia, the world’s biggest
exporter of coal, is “at the back of the pack” of efforts to
reduce carbon pollution and risks falling short of 2020 targets,
 the Sydney-based Climate Institute  said.  Australia’s failure to impose a higher cost on carbon
emissions has discouraged investment in renewable energy,
according to a report prepared for the institute by London-based
Vivid Economics and published today. Investment in cleaner
energy in Australia was less than $1 billion last year, compared
with $11 billion in the U.K, $18 billion in the U.S. and $35
billion in China, it said.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  promised to restart
a campaign to curb emissions and tackle climate change after
replacing  Kevin Rudd  in June. Gillard set up a committee to
explore ways to introduce a carbon price in a country where coal
accounts for more than 80 percent of electricity production.  “The myth is that Australia risks moving ahead of other
countries in making businesses responsible for the pollution
they cause,” the Climate Institute’s Deputy Chief Executive
Officer  Erwin Jackson  said in a phone interview. “The reality
is that countries in Europe and China are moving to position
themselves to gain the first mover advantages.”  The U.K.’s clean technology industry rivals health care and
construction in size, and China has become “the global super
power” in renewable energy, he said. “These are the benefits
Australia is missing out from by sitting at the back of the
pack,” he said.  Lower Carbon Price  Australia’s current policies, including a goal of sourcing
20 percent of power from renewable energy by 2020, imply a
carbon price of $1.70 a ton for electricity producers, the study
found. That compared with $29.30 in the U.K., $14.20 in China,
$5.10 in the U.S., $3.10 in Japan and $0.70 in South Korea.  Greg Combet , Australia’s climate change minister, said the
study may be the first to quantify the costs of carbon pollution
in Australia compared with its competitors.  “The report indicates that the countries with which
Australia trades, like China and like the U.S., already have
implicit carbon prices within their electricity sectors,”
Combet said in parliament today. “In our economy, a carbon
price will not only provide incentives to reduce pollution, but
will also provide certainty for investment.”  China, the world’s biggest polluter, said in July it may
spend about $750 billion in the next decade developing cleaner
alternatives to burning oil and coal. The country is replacing
inefficient and high-emitting coal-fired power stations and
spurring renewable energy with subsidies, the report said.  China ’Going Gangbusters’  “China is going gangbusters at renewables,”  Gerard Dover ,
the chief financial officer of Australian wind power producer
 Infigen Energy , said at a conference in Sydney today.
Uncertainty surrounding a carbon price in Australia has hampered
investment in the industry, he said.  The country isn’t currently “on track” to meet its 2020
pollution targets, the study said. “Australia is also ill
prepared to compete in the low pollution economy.”  While a lack of a carbon price hampers investment, it also
makes the country vulnerable to potential tariffs imposed on
polluting industries, the report said.  “Sometimes the world is not a friendly place, and putting
in place direct pricing is an insurance policy against trade
measures” by countries targeting high-emissions products,
Jackson said.  Market Approach  The Australian Labor Party proposed lowering emissions by 5
percent from 2000 levels within a decade and said it would
increase that target to as much as 25 percent if a global
agreement is reached. Rudd earlier this year deferred his cap-
and-trade plan until after 2012 amid lawmaker opposition.  A market-based approach such as a cap-and-trade system is
the cheapest and most efficient option for limiting carbon
pollution, according to the report released by the Climate
Institute, which describes itself as non-partisan and
independent. The research organization is funded mainly by a
A$10 million ($9.9 million) donation from the Poola Foundation,
directed by Mark Wootton, its website shows.  Under emissions trading, the government sets a ceiling on
emissions and allocates or sells companies permits to cover the
pollution they release. Businesses that lower their emissions
can sell surplus permits to those that don’t.  The Greens Party, which received a surge in voter support
in the August election, said the country must “move
decisively” to impose a carbon price.  “We are jeopardizing our long-term competitiveness by
falling so far behind China, Europe and even the U.S. and
locking ourselves into dirty, inefficient power,” Greens Party
climate change spokeswoman and deputy leader  Christine Milne 
said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 