-- Bank of America Plans to Revive Foreclosures; Shares Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-19T18:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bank-of-america-plans-to-revive-foreclosures-on-102-000-homes-shares-gain.html
Bank of America Corp.  will “defend
our shareholders” by disputing any unjustified demands that it
repurchase defective mortgages, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said in an interview.  Most claims “don’t have the defects that people allege,”
Moynihan said on Bloomberg Television today, referring to so-
called putbacks, in which guarantors or investors in mortgage-
backed securities ask to return bad loans. “We end up restoring
them, and they go back in the pools.”  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, said as it
reported third-quarter results today that mortgage investors
were pushing the company to repurchase almost  $13 billion  of
loans whose standards were challenged.  Shares  of the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based company declined 9.1 percent last week,
reaching their lowest in more than a year, amid scrutiny of
foreclosures and speculation that investors may force lenders to
buy back faulty loans.  The cost of buying back mortgages that didn’t meet
investors’ standards declined about 30 percent to $872 million
from $1.25 billion in the second quarter. The company expects a
cost averaging $500 million each quarter for “the next couple
of years or so” tied to faulty loans, a Bank of America
executive said on a conference call with analysts. The sum of
outstanding claims submitted by investors jumped 71 percent to
$12.9 billion from $7.5 billion as of last year’s third quarter.  ‘Initial Assessment’  The bank said yesterday it will start resubmitting
foreclosure affidavits in 102,000 cases in which judgment is
pending. Under pressure from lawmakers and state officials,
bankers had been delaying action until they could answer
allegations that filings were marred by so-called robo-signing,
in which employees vouched for the accuracy of court filings
without personally checking loan records. Bank of America’s
suspension had included all 50 states as it reviewed documents.  “Our initial assessment findings show the basis for our
foreclosure decisions is accurate,”  Dan Frahm , a company
spokesman, said yesterday.  Bank of America was criticized by community groups and the
Service Employees International Union for restarting the
process. The company hasn’t spent enough time on its review, the
SEIU said in a joint statement with PICO National Network,
National People’s Action, Northwest Federation of Community
Organizations and Alliance of Californians for Community
Empowerment.  ‘A Matter of Weeks’  Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  said the bank may
have mishandled tens of thousands of cases.  “They tell us that they have fixed the problem in a matter
of weeks,” Cordray said in a statement. “We’re certainly not
going to take their word for it.”  The lender will deal with home seizures and repurchase
demands “into 2012,” Moynihan said. “You have to tie this
into the larger process, which is getting the housing market and
foreclosures through the system,” he said.  Bank of America today reported a $7.3 billion loss after
taking a goodwill charge of $10.4 billion in the wake of new
restrictions enacted this year for card payments and consumer
accounts. Revenue net of interest expense rose 2 percent from a
year earlier to $27 billion, the company said. Litigation costs
and professional fees helped boost non-interest expenses 3
percent. The company slipped 26 cents to $12.08 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 1:55 p.m.  Putbacks, rather than faulty foreclosures, are more likely
to prove costly for banks, said  Meredith Whitney , founder of
Meredith Whitney Advisory Group, in an interview yesterday at a
conference in Naples, Florida.  Putbacks Not a ‘Blip’  “Robo-signing is just a blip,” she said. “That’s nothing
to worry about. The second issue, the putbacks, isn’t a blip.”  Bank of America sold more than $1 trillion in loans from
2004 to 2008 to government-sponsored entities, such as  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac, Moynihan said in today’s interview. About
1.5 percent are later debated. Of every three contested loans,
the bank typically takes one back, the GSEs don’t pursue one,
“and the other one we fight about and solve,” he said.  As a result, “there’s a long pattern you’re seeing go
through” the bank’s earnings, he said. “This is not pleasant,
and we would like to get through it. We’re going to defend our
shareholders.”  $1.7 Billion  Investors and insurers submitted clams in the quarter for
$4.06 billion of loans, according to a slide  presentation  on the
company’s website. Bank of America approved repurchase of $975
million, and $1.37 billion in claims were rescinded. That leaves
about $1.7 billion in outstanding claims from the three-month
period, on top of the $11.2 billion as of the second quarter.  Mortgage investors were aware that lenders increased
business by accepting lower down payments and making funds more
available to homebuyers who had inferior credit scores or
submitted less documentation than usually required, Chief
Financial Officer  Charles Noski  said on the call. In cases where
risks were disclosed, Bank of America shouldn’t be forced to
reimburse investors for loans that lost value, he said.  “If you think about people who come back and say, ‘I
bought a Chevy Vega, but I want it to be a Mercedes with a 12-
cylender,’ we’re not putting up with that,” Moynihan said in
the call.  Pacific Investment Management Co., BlackRock Inc. and the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York are seeking to force Bank of
America to repurchase soured mortgages packaged into $47 billion
of bonds by its Countrywide Financial Corp. unit, people
familiar with the matter said.  Countrywide  The bondholders wrote a letter to Bank of America and Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., the debt’s trustee, citing alleged
failures by Countrywide to service the loans properly, their
lawyer said yesterday in a statement that didn’t name the firms.  Foreclosure cases reviewed so far affect seizures in 23
states that require judicial action before a home is seized,
according to Bank of America. Foreclosure sales will be delayed
in the remaining 27 until a state-by-state review is completed,
Frahm said yesterday.  Fewer than 30,000 foreclosure sales will have been delayed
during the review period, Bank of America said. Costs stemming
from the delays are “grossly distorted,”  Barbara Desoer ,
president of the home lending unit, said in an interview last
week. Bank of America said it has 1,000 people working on its
foreclosure review.  -- Nishad Majmudar,  Hugh Son  and  Saijel Kishan  in New York, and
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco. Editors:  Rick Green ,  Dan Kraut   To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 