-- Bank Credit Swaps Ease After Citigroup Beats Earnings Estimates
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-18T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bank-credit-swaps-ease-after-citigroup-beats-earnings-estimates.html
The cost to protect debt issued by
U.S. banks eased after Citigroup Inc. reported profit that beat
analysts’  estimates .  Credit-default swaps on Citigroup, 12 percent-owned by U.S.
taxpayers, fell 13.2 basis points to 161.3, the biggest drop
since June, according to data provider CMA. The bank said third-
quarter  net income  was $2.17 billion, compared with profit of
$101 million in the similar period a year earlier. On a per
share basis, Citigroup earned 7 cents, compared with a 5-cent
estimate from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Contracts on financial firms increased last week, with the
biggest five-day gain for the average of the five largest U.S.
banks by assets since the first week of May, as the
investigation into the foreclosure crisis expands. Last week
attorneys general from all 50 states opened a review into
whether lenders and  mortgage  companies falsified documents as
they sought to repossess homes.  Some investors believe the rise in costs to protect debt of
financials at the end of last week was an “overreaction,” said
 Mikhail Foux , a credit strategist at New York-based Citigroup.
The cost to protect bank bonds from losses, measured by the
Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks and insurers, climbed
4.6 basis points on Oct. 15 and 6.6 basis points the day before.  Contracts on San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co.
decreased 12.9 basis points to 118.9 today, and those on New
York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp.,
both of which report tomorrow, declined 8.7 basis points to
142.7 and 20.1 basis points to 182.6, respectively, CMA data
show.  Buyout Candidates  Swaps on  Morgan Stanley  fell 9.9 basis points to 164.8 and
those on JPMorgan Chase & Co., which reported Oct. 13, declined
9.1 basis points to 89.4, according to CMA. Both are based in
New York.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
rose to the highest in two weeks before falling 0.7 basis point
to a mid-price of 98.2 as of 5:30 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, traded above 100 today
for the first time since Oct. 5.  “You have a little small positive on the earnings side,
small negative on the economic side” affecting the index, Foux
said, referring to a Federal Reserve report today that showed
that industrial production in the U.S. dropped in September for
the first time in more than a year.  Takeover Candidates  Credit-default swaps on companies seen as leveraged-buyout
candidates increased, with swaps on Lexmark International Inc.
and Safeway Inc. climbing to record highs. Contracts on Lexmark,
which is based in Lexington, Kentucky, added 21.7 basis points
to 181.2 and swaps on Pleasanton, California-based Safeway added
8.2 basis points to 128, CMA data show.  “Everything is speculative,” Foux said. “People again
just decided to run with this LBO story.”  Contracts on Block Financial LLC, which issues all of
parent H&R Block Inc.’s corporate public debt, surged 107.8
basis points to a record 696.5, according to CMA. H&R Block, the
biggest U.S. tax-preparation firm, based in Kansas City, said it
may not be able to provide customers advance refunds next year
because of a dispute with HSBC Holdings Plc, which underwrites
some of the loans. Credit-default swaps on HSBC eased 13.4 basis
points to 145, CMA data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  