-- Bank of Japan's `Big Gun' on Yen Is Negative Interest Rates, Smithers Says
-- B y   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 2010-10-18T03:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bank-of-japan-s-big-gun-on-yen-is-negative-interest-rates-smithers-says.html
The Bank of Japan can weaken the yen
by driving interest rates to below zero on deposits it holds for
financial companies, said  Andrew Smithers , the economist and
president of London-based research firm Smithers & Co.  The strategy would be similar to what Sweden’s central bank
did in July 2009, said Smithers, who worked for 27 years at S.G.
Warburg & Co., where he ran the investment management business.
The Riksbank in July 2009 reduced its rate on bank deposits to
minus 0.25 percent, requiring banks to pay that amount on the
money they stash at the central bank.  “Negative interest rates will do it,” Smithers said in an
interview in Tokyo. “That’s the big gun.”  The yen traded at 81.37 per dollar as of 12:20 p.m. in
Tokyo from 81.45 in New York on Oct. 15 when it touched 80.88,
the strongest level since April 1995 and near its post-World War
II high of 79.75 yen reached the same month. Global risk
aversion this year has driven gains in the yen, which tends to
strengthen during economic turmoil as Japan’s trade surplus
makes it less reliant on foreign capital.  The Bank of Japan sold 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) last
month in its first intervention since 2004 to stem gains in the
currency that have threatened the nation’s export-led economic
recovery. On Oct. 5, the BOJ cut its overnight call rate target
to almost zero, and left unchanged the 0.1 percent interest it
pays on excess deposits kept at the central bank.  The Bank of Japan could get a “pretty powerful” effect if
it combined the quantitative easing of government bond purchases
with negative deposit rates, which would compel banks to put the
fresh liquidity to use, he said.  ‘Competitive Stupidity’  At its Oct. 5 meeting, the Bank of Japan also created a 5
trillion yen fund to buy government bonds and other assets. The
Federal Reserve engaged in a similar policy when it bought $1.7
trillion worth of Treasury and mortgage debt in a program that
ended in March, and it’s considering another quantitative easing
plan ahead of its next meeting in November.  “One of the dangers of the Fed policy is that it produces
competitive stupidity,” Smithers said. “The aim should be to
stimulate consumption paid out of income, and investment paid
with equity, not debt upon debt, upon debt.”  Growth in developing economies such as China and India
means that they will see increases in their real exchange rates,
while advanced nations like Japan and the U.S. will experience
deflationary pressure, Smithers said. Trying to arrest the
decline in prices in the developed world will just lead to a
bond bubble or the rise of protectionism, he said.  “Fears of deflation are probably one of the major policy
errors in the world today,” Smithers said. “In the last 20
years, it was the first 10 which was Japan’s period of 
stagnation in which you had inflation. When it moved into 
deflation, Japan has actually done rather better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rocky Swift  in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  