-- Bank of Thailand May Avoid Raising Rate as Strong Baht Threatens Exports
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2010-10-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bank-of-thailand-may-avoid-raising-rate-as-strong-baht-threatens-exports.html
The Bank of Thailand may refrain
from a third straight increase in rates after the baht rose 
to a 13-year high, as Asian central banks widen efforts to 
stem currency gains that threaten exporters.  Thirteen of 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
predict the Thai central bank will keep its  one-day bond
repurchase rate  at 1.75 percent after raising it in July and
August, while the rest expect a quarter-point increase. The
decision is due at 2:30 p.m. in Bangkok tomorrow.  Japan sold the yen last month in its first intervention
since 2004, policy makers in Malaysia and South Korea have
stopped raising rates and Thailand last week scrapped a tax
exemption for foreign investors in domestic bonds to slow
inflows.  Prasarn Trairatvorakul , presiding over his first
meeting as central bank governor, has said the exchange rate
will be a factor in tomorrow’s decision.  “It seems to be the trend that Asian central banks have
paused in raising interest rates, partly because of the
appreciation of the currencies and the influx of capital into
the region because of the widening interest-rate differential,”
said  Julia Goh , an economist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in
Kuala Lumpur.  The baht has climbed more than 11 percent against the
dollar this year, making it Asia’s biggest gainer after the yen.
The currency reached 29.76 per dollar on Oct. 13, the strongest
level since July 1997, as overseas investors pumped $9.7 billion
into stocks and bonds in Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy
from January to Oct. 15.  Focus on Currency  General Motors Co ., Ford Motor Co. and Siam Cement Pcl are
among companies that cited the currency as a threat to shipments
from Thailand, an exporter of cars, rice and electronics.
Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said last week the baht’s
gains may hurt overseas sales in the coming months, with about
15 industries already suffering from the currency’s movements.  There’s “too much focus on the currency, so the central
bank cannot move this time,” said  Wellian Wiranto , an HSBC
Holdings Plc economist in Singapore. The central bank, which is
“still quite hawkish,” may wait to raise its policy rate at
its last meeting this year on Dec. 1, he said.  Thailand said Oct. 12 it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds, joining
South Korea and Brazil in seeking to curb currency gains as
investors pour a record amount of money into emerging markets.
Korean regulators start an audit of banks handling foreign-
currency derivatives this month, and Brazil doubled a tax it
charges foreigners on investments in fixed-income securities to
4 percent.  Currency War  Global finance ministers and central bankers earlier this
month asked the International Monetary Fund to prepare reports
to show how the policies of one economy affect others, after
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said a “currency war”
was under way.  Thailand needs “a second dose of medicine, which is to
hold or cut the key interest rate to reduce the incentives for
capital flows,” Thai Chamber of Commerce Chairman  Dusit Nontanakorn  said last week.  Governor Prasarn, 58, said Oct. 15 the central bank is
studying more measures after taking steps to cool excessive baht
fluctuations. When it last raised borrowing costs in August, the
 Bank of Thailand  said interest rates were “on an uptrend” as
they remained low in relation to the nation’s economic growth.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  expects the economy to
expand 8 percent this year, the strongest pace since 1995. Gross
domestic product grew 9.1 percent in the second quarter as
exports surged.  Economic Recovery  “A recovering economy and still very low benchmark
interest rate argue for ongoing tightening, but the current
fight against the baht appreciation hints at a pause,” said
 Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Sydney. The decision is “probably a close call.”  The Bank of Korea left its  benchmark rate  unchanged at 2.25
percent for a third straight month last week, saying the
currency is a major issue in interest-rate policy. Malaysia in
September kept its overnight policy rate at 2.75 percent,
choosing to support growth as the global recovery slows.  Thailand may still raise rates this week as keeping them
low won’t stem the baht’s gain, according to Standard Chartered
Plc’s Bangkok-based economist,  Usara Wilaipich .  “The strong currency problem comes from the crisis of
confidence in the U.S. dollar,” Usara said. “There’s nothing
we can do about it. Even if we hold or cut the rate, it can’t
guarantee the capital inflows will stop. But we need to trade
that off with the risk of accelerating inflation.”  Core inflation , which the central bank uses to guide policy,
may reach the upper end of its target range of as much as 3
percent next year as the economy recovers, former central bank
governor  Tarisa Watanagase  said Sept. 28.  Overall inflation  slowed to 3 percent last month from 3.3
percent in August because of lower oil costs and state subsidies.
Core inflation eased to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  