-- Credit Eases `My Pain' as U.S. Bank Lending Buoys Small Business
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-10-18T23:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bank-credit-eases-my-pain-with-small-business-finding-new-money-in-u-s-.html
Khalique Rehman, who runs My Pain
Clinic in McDonough, Georgia, got a $1.8 million loan this month
from Atlanta-based Private Bank of Buckhead to purchase a new
building and construct offices.  “I was surprised because everyone said it would be so
difficult,” said the 46-year-old physician, who plans to double
the space of his eight-employee practice and hire another doctor
and possibly a nurse. “I am really happy.”  The freeze in bank credit is beginning to thaw after two
years, signaling more support for the U.S. recovery.  American banks increased credit in July, August and
September, the first consecutive gains since October 2008,
according to Federal Reserve data released Oct. 15.  Commercial
and industrial loans  rose in July and August after dropping 25
percent, the  data showed . Banks eased lending standards in the
second quarter for the first time since the credit crisis began,
the Fed reported Aug. 16.  The stabilization may help reduce the odds of a relapse
into recession next year to less than 10 percent, said  Neal Soss , chief economist at Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. in New
York. That compares with a median estimate of 20 percent during
the next 12 months among 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News this month.  “Lending is no longer collapsing,” Soss said. “That is a
very good thing compared to where we were. When you are in a
hole, the first thing is to stop digging deeper. That is where
we are: The credit system is not getting weaker.”  Double-Dip Unlikely  Fed officials cited the improvement at their Sept. 21
meeting in finding a second recession unlikely, according to
minutes released Oct. 12.  “Credit problems more broadly appeared to have mostly
peaked,” commercial loans “rose slightly in July” and “there
were some signs that credit conditions had begun to improve for
smaller firms,” the minutes said.  Regional bank stocks are likely to benefit from any
increase in lending, including  Wells Fargo & Co.  of San
Francisco,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  of Pittsburgh and
 Fifth Third Bancorp  of Cincinnati, said  Richard Bove , an analyst
at Rochdale Securities in Lutz, Florida.  Bank stocks have lagged behind the broader market this year
as credit has contracted. The  Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund ,
an exchange-traded fund that includes New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and Wells Fargo, has been hitting 52-week lows
relative to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Higher Yields  The pick-up in lending also may boost yields on U.S.
Treasury 10-year notes to 3 percent by June and 4 percent by the
end of 2011, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Analytics. The  yield  fell to 2.33 percent on Oct. 8 from 4
percent in April as the economy slowed.  “This is a very positive sign for future growth,” the
West Chester, Pennsylvania-based economist said. “Nonfinancial
corporations are no longer deleveraging. Increasingly it is no
longer a question of whether businesses can invest and hire, but
whether they are willing. This is a good reason for optimism.”  An increase in bank lending may help the economy expand 2.9
percent next year, he estimates. Growth stalled to an annualized
1.7 percent pace in the second quarter from 5 percent in the
last three months of 2009.  Rehman said his 4 1/2-year-old  clinic , which specializes in
pain, sports medicine and rehabilitation, will move to its new
location in Stockbridge, Georgia, after the interior is rebuilt.
Processing the loan through closing took about two months.  ‘Definitely Eager’  “Banks are definitely eager,” he said. “Everything went
very smoothly. I am quite satisfied.”  Pat Carroll, 31, received a $300,000 loan from Wells Fargo
in August to expand his Atlanta  apartment-management company 
with additional properties in Georgia, North Carolina,
Tennessee, Texas, Maryland, Virginia and Florida.  “You couldn’t get a loan two years ago,” he said. “Banks
are back in business and lending again. Things are starting to
loosen up.”  Some borrowers still aren’t seeing much change. Brian Rist,
who runs a Fort Myers, Florida-based hurricane-protection
company, said he’s disappointed that a loan he’s negotiating may
require him to put up family assets as collateral, even though
 his business  is profitable and has $13 million in revenue. He
wants to hire another 20 to 25 people to diversify into energy
audits for companies and individuals.  “Banks are trying to fend off as much risk as they can,”
he said. “We have a 16-year track record and have never been
late on any notes. I have no choice” but to guarantee the loan
personally.  Weak Demand  Fed data show that most of the credit growth so far comes
from banks buying securities including mortgage-backed bonds
rather than making loans, as demand, especially among consumers,
is still weak.  Commercial and industrial loans  rose at an annual
rate of 1.6 percent in July and 0.4 percent in August after 20
consecutive months of declines and fell 3.5 percent in
September, as businesses slowly begin to reverse efforts to shed
debt and hoard cash.  Purchases of securities other than Treasury and agency
bonds have risen at an annual rate of more than 10 percent for
three months, according to the Fed. That indicates lenders are
willing to take risks and feel more comfortable about their
capital levels, said  Paul Kasriel , chief economist at Northern
Trust Corp. in Chicago.  “When bank credit reaccelerates, it usually starts with
the securities and then moves with a lag to the loan
portfolio,” said Kasriel, who worked as a research economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. “This appears to be the
first sign that banks are willing to commit risk-based capital.
We are early in the game.”  Looser Standards  Banks also are loosening standards on lending to businesses
of all sizes, according to the Fed’s most recent  survey  of
senior loan officers, released Aug. 16.  “The good news is that the tightening of credit standards
has passed,” New York Fed President  William Dudley  said Oct. 10
in Washington. “As time passes, we’ll see a further improvement
in credit availability, and as that happens, that will actually
support economic activity going forward.”  Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. bank by assets,
said Oct. 14 it plans to hire 1,000 employees in the next year
to focus on companies with sales of $3 million or less.  “For small business, a stabilization in lending is huge
because the contraction has been such a drag,” said UBS
Securities economist  Samuel Coffin . “Small banks are lending
more increasingly,” so there is “increased competition in a
few areas.”  Growing ‘A Little Bit’  Zions Bancorporation ’s loan business is starting to
stabilize, and the Salt Lake City-based bank’s commercial
portfolio may be “even growing a little bit,” Chief Executive
Officer  Harris H. Simmons  said Sept. 13 at a Barclays Capital
investor conference in New York. “We are very much focused on
increasing lending activity.”  Huntington Bancshares Inc. , based in Columbus, Ohio, last
month signed a 15-year agreement to open branches in at least
103 Giant Eagle Inc. supermarkets in Ohio and West Virginia as
part of a focus on small business.  “We’re turning the corner on loan growth,”  Mary Navarro ,
senior executive vice president, said Sept. 16 at an investor
meeting in New York.  Some banks are taking more risks after repairing their
profit performance since last year, when the Fed ordered 10
large U.S. lenders to raise $74.6 billion after stress tests
showed potential losses if the economy worsened. Second-quarter
earnings of $21.6 billion were the largest in almost three
years, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said Aug. 31. Bank
capital relative to assets is the highest since 1935, Bove said.  Housing Bubble  While credit is stabilizing, no one is predicting a return
to the 11 percent average annual increases in loans from 2005 to
2007 that helped fuel the  housing bubble  and a construction
boom. And some types of lending, including commercial real
estate and credit cards, continue to lag.  The Fed is considering buying more Treasuries and efforts
to boost inflation expectations to stimulate the economy and
reduce unemployment, according to the Sept. 21 meeting minutes.
The central bank was prepared to ease monetary policy “before
long,” the minutes said, after finishing $1.7 trillion in
purchases of Treasuries, mortgage-backed securities and housing-
agency bonds in March. The jobless rate has remained at or above
 9.5 percent  since August 2009.  New Capital Requirements  Banks also face risks that might derail their ability to
boost credit. These include new requirements to raise capital
levels under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul and international
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  rules, along with a
possible further decline in U.S.  home prices  and problems with
improper documentation of foreclosures, according to  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at Wells Fargo.  “This marks the end of the credit contraction,” Vitner
said. “ We are likely to see bank lending increases but at a
very modest pace. The recovery will be very slow. We have a long
road back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in St. Louis at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  