-- Barker Says More BOE Stimulus to Aid Growth May Be `Misplaced'
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-19T08:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/barker-says-adding-boe-stimulus-risks-stoking-inflation-more-than-growth.html
The Bank of England risks stoking
inflation with little benefit to economic growth if it expands
its so-called quantitative easing program of stimulus, former
policy maker  Kate Barker  said.  “If rising inflation expectations have followed the use of
QE, there is a risk that relying on monetary policy to ride to
the rescue of faltering growth might be misplaced,” Barker said
yesterday at an event held by Queen Mary College in London. More
stimulus could “have more of an impact on inflation than on
growth if it feeds through into higher inflation expectations.”  Barker called for a revamp of the Bank of England’s
framework to consider the adoption of a broader target for
 inflation  instead of the fixed goal of 2 percent. Bank policy
makers have split three ways on the risks to  consumer prices 
ahead of a public-spending squeeze which finance minister  George Osborne  will set out tomorrow.  “Achievement of the precise inflation target at a
particular moment seems less important than supporting an
overall economic outturn which minimizes the risk of a long
period of low growth,” Barker said. “Some recasting of the
target to ensure that there is sufficient flexibility might be
the sign of a more mature monetary regime.”  Barker spoke at an event to unveil Queen Mary’s economics
and finance school. The audience included  Martin Weale , who
replaced her after she ended nine years on the Monetary Policy
Committee in May. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  will
deliver a speech later today.  Inflation Mandate  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.1 percent in September,
the seventh consecutive month above the government’s 3 percent
limit. Barker said that the MPC’s strict numerical mandate may
have limited its capacity to address the factors leading to the
financial crisis.  “With hindsight it is possible to wonder whether the focus
on a precise target for CPI inflation was one of the factors
that caused the MPC to pay less attention to the build-up of the
various imbalances in the  economy ,” Barker said. She questioned
whether “a broader price stability target rather than the
present numeric target might at some time be adopted to allow a
more strategic approach to policy.”  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Capital in London and
a former Bank of England official, said that the bank faces
“credibility problems.”  BOE Split  “The first is simply to do with the high headline
inflation rate and should you be loosening policy now,” he
said. “The second is that rates are at 0.5 percent and you’re
having to do QE instead of changing rates.”  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has argued since June that the
bank should raise the key  interest rate  from the record low of
0.5 percent to battle inflation. His colleague,  Adam Posen , says
that officials should consider increasing the bond-purchase plan
from the current 200 billion pounds ($317 billion) to support
the economic recovery, and that expanding purchases to assets
other than gilts may be necessary.  Barker said that during her time on the MPC she agreed with
Posen’s argument that the range of assets to be purchased may
need to be expanded. Still, the benefits of restarting stimulus
were uncertain, even amid “indications that U.K. economic
growth may be quite weak in the second half of 2010.”  The bond plan also creates a future challenge for policy
makers because they will need to address the consequences of
asset-price increases fuelled by their purchases, she said.  Asset Prices  “To the extent that QE works through pushing up risky
asset prices, a problem may be developing down the road about
how an orderly downward move in these asset prices will be
managed once it becomes clear that monetary conditions are
returning to a more normal level,” she said.  Former policy maker  Charles Goodhart  said in an interview
in London yesterday that the case for adding stimulus is not
“cut and dried.”  “It will depend quite a lot on what the first estimate of
third quarter GDP is” and “on what the reaction to the
spending review itself is.” Gross domestic product data are due
Oct. 26.  Barker was named yesterday as a non-executive director at
Electra Private Equity Plc, a London-based buyout fund, and will
take up the role on Nov. 1. Zurich-based bank Credit Suisse
Group AG said Sept. 30 she had been appointed as a senior
adviser in its fixed-income research division.  Barker stepped down from the MPC in May after serving three
consecutive three-year terms on the panel. She was formerly an
economist at the Confederation of British Industry, the U.K.’s
biggest business lobby, and published reports for the former
Labour government on the housing market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  