-- Bayer Settles Texas Suits Alleging Its GM Seed Contaminated Rice Fields
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-18T23:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bayer-settles-suits-with-texas-farmers-over-genetically-engineered-rice.html
A  Bayer AG  unit settled a lawsuit
brought by three Texas growers over claims its genetically
engineered seed contaminated U.S. long-grain rice fields,
causing a plunge in exports to Europe.  The settlement was reached Oct. 15 after three days of
trial in federal court in St. Louis and announced to the judge
over the weekend, said attorney  Don Downing , who represents the
Texas rice farmers. The settlement only covers claims by the
growers in trial and doesn’t affect more than 6,000 other
claims, Downing said in an interview today.  “It’s an historic event,” Downing said. “It’s the first
time there has been a settlement in a farmers’ case” against
Bayer involving contaminated rice, he said.  Farmers in five states claim  Bayer  negligently contaminated
the U.S. long-grain rice crop with its genetically modified
LibertyLink seed, leading to export restrictions, bans on two
kinds of high-yield seeds and a plunge in prices.  Bayer , based
in Leverkusen, Germany, denies negligence and disputes the
damages claims, contending that rice sales rebounded after an
initial drop.  The Texas trial was the seventh against Bayer in the
genetically modified rice litigation. Bayer lost the first six,
for a total of about $54 million. The company is challenging the
verdicts in appeals and post-trial motions.  “Bayer CropScience has always been willing to settle such
biotech rice litigation cases on reasonable terms and is pleased
to be able to do so in this instance,” CropScience Chief
Executive Officer Bill Buckner said in an e-mailed statement.
The company said it would continue mediation over the claims by
the remaining plaintiffs.  ‘Small Farmers’  The three Texas growers were seeking $430,000 in damages,
plus unspecified punitive damages, Downing said. They settled
for $290,000, he said.  “These are relatively small farmers with relatively small
acreage,” he said.  The plaintiffs are John Gaulding and John Donaho, partners
in the Gaulding farm in Winnie, Texas; James Gentz Jr. and Carol
Barton Gentz, who also have a farm in Winnie; and Lee and Robbie
Hafernick, owners of an operation in Edna, Texas. Winnie and
Edna are near Houston.  Bayer lost the first three trials in federal court, one for
about $2 million in December, another in February for about $1.5
million, and the third, for about $500,000 in July.  Bayer also lost the first three trials in state court, all
in Arkansas. The first of those trials ended in a jury verdict
of about $1 million, including $500,000 in punitive damages. The
second resulted in a verdict of almost $48 million, with a
punitive award of $42 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The third, for about $950,000 in July, didn’t include
punitive damages, Coffey said last week.  The federal case is In re Genetically Modified Rice
Litigation, 06-md-1811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Missouri (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Whittington  in federal court in St. Louis at   joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 