-- Belgian Political Impasse Persists as Flemish Proposal Rebuffed
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-10-18T23:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/belgian-political-impasse-persists-as-francophones-reject-flemish-proposal.html
Belgium’s political stalemate
persisted after a Flemish nationalist proposal met with concerns
among French-speaking parties that it undermined solidarity,
putting the initiative for reconciliation back into the king’s
hands.  N-VA party leader  Bart De Wever , the top vote-getter in the
June 13 election, reported to  King Albert II  at the end of his
10-day “clarification” mission, the royal palace in Brussels
said yesterday. The monarch will start a new round of
consultations today, Belga news agency reported, citing people
in the palace it didn’t name.  All three francophone parties involved in government talks
said they were prepared to resume negotiations with the N-VA
after rejecting De Wever’s proposition to give Belgian regional
governments control over almost half of personal income taxes.
Both De Wever and  Elio Di Rupo , the leader of the French-
speaking socialists, rejected calling new elections.  “We don’t want to radicalize and we have to carry on,” Di
Rupo, told reporters at a briefing before De Wever, 39, met with
the king. De Wever’s proposal “would have disastrous
consequences for the  federal state , for social security and for
the people of Wallonia and Brussels,” said Di Rupo, 59, who
called for mediation.  The stalemate leaves Belgium with a caretaker government
four months after inconclusive elections. In a note prepared by
his office last week, Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  explored a
possible expansion of powers for his caretaker cabinet that
included drawing up a 2011 budget, De Morgen reported on Oct.
16.  Nine Months  Three years ago, King Albert asked caretaker Prime Minister
 Guy Verhofstadt  to form an interim government after six months
of fruitless coalition talks following the 2007 election. It
took his successor, Leterme, nine months to pull together his
five-party coalition.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds instead of German securities of similar maturity was at 82
basis points last yesterday in Brussels, unchanged from Oct. 15.
The so-called spread, a measure of the risk of investing in
Belgium, compares with 138 basis points for Italy and 39 basis
points for France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  