-- Berkshire, the Textile Mill, Was Buffett's Worst Investment, He Tells CNBC
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-18T13:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/berkshire-the-textile-mill-was-buffett-s-worst-investment-he-tells-cnbc.html
Warren Buffett , who amassed the
world’s third-biggest personal fortune through decades of stock
picks and takeovers, told CNBC his worst investment was the
textile mill that gave its name to  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .  The worst stock he “ever bought was, drum roll here,
Berkshire Hathaway,” Buffett, Berkshire’s 80-year-old chairman
and chief executive officer, said in an interview broadcast
today on the business-news channel. Buffett had “committed a
major amount of money to a terrible business.”  Buffett and his investment partners paid about $14 million
in the 1960s for a controlling interest in Berkshire Hathaway,
then a New Bedford, Massachusetts-based manufacturer of men’s
suit linings, according to biographer  Andrew Kilpatrick . Buffett
spent less than rivals on improvements to equipment and used
Berkshire’s earnings to help fund investments, including the
1967 acquisition of insurer National Indemnity Co.  “The textile operations never paid off,” Kilpatrick said
in his “Of Permanent Value: The Story of Warren Buffett.”
“Berkshire would become one of the few businesses that never
really made it under Buffett.”  Buffett wound down production of textiles and in 1985 sold
the mill’s equipment for $163,122, he said in the letter that
accompanied that year’s Berkshire annual report.  Berkshire 
reported $435.8 million of profit in 1985, more than double its
total in the previous year, on investment gains and earnings
from businesses including insurance, newspapers and candy.
Textiles produced a loss of $1.32 million that year.  ‘Leaking Boat’  “Should you find yourself in a chronically leaking boat,
energy devoted to changing vessels is likely to be more
productive than energy devoted to patching leaks,” Buffett said
in  the letter .  Buffett, Berkshire’s biggest shareholder, ranks behind
 Carlos Slim  and  Microsoft Corp.  co-founder  Bill Gates  on Forbes
magazine’s list of billionaires. At Berkshire, he manages an
equity portfolio valued at $54.7 billion on June 30 and oversees
the CEOs of more than 70 subsidiaries, including car insurer
Geico Corp., power producer MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. and
railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  