-- Berlusconi, Snubbed in Europe, Finds Friends in Minsk, Tripoli
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-10-19T13:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/berlusconi-seals-deals-from-russia-to-libya-while-being-snubbed-in-europe.html
When French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  hosts his Russian and German counterparts for talks on
European security today, Europe’s second-biggest energy partner
with Moscow won’t be there.  Italy’s  Silvio Berlusconi  wasn’t invited.  A guest at  Vladimir Putin ’s private birthday bash this
month, the Italian prime minister has been a pioneer among
European Union leaders in forging ties with energy-rich Russia,
Central Asia and Libya. While his personal diplomacy is paying
dividends for companies such as  Eni SpA , it’s rankled some
allies while failing to win Italy a place at the table with
France and Germany, the traditional EU power brokers.  “Compared with a few years ago, Italy is punching below
its weight at the European Union and in global organizations in
general,” said Raffaello Matarazzo, a scholar at the Istituto 
Affari Internazionali, a Rome-based research institute. “Italy 
had  Romano Prodi  as European Commission president,  Renato Ruggiero  as World Trade Organization head and others like  Mario Monti  in important EU roles. Now, Italy’s got almost no one.”  Berlusconi, 74, often takes credit for key achievements
abroad, which the opposition says he exaggerates. In remarks
last month to the Senate in Rome, he said he had helped end the
financial crisis by persuading former President  George W. Bush 
to bail out Wall Street. He also said he’d used his friendship
with Putin to stop the 2008 Russia-Georgia war, preventing
Georgian President  Mikheil Saakashvili  from being “hanged from
the highest tree.”  Italy’s Foreign Ministry didn’t reply to questions about
why Berlusconi wasn’t included in the meeting.  Losing Candidates  Last year, Italy failed to secure its candidates for two
major EU jobs. Five years after Prodi left as EU commissioner to
re-enter Italian politics,  Mario Mauro  was defeated in his bid
to become president of the European Parliament, while former
Premier  Massimo D’Alema  didn’t get the post of foreign policy
chief. This year is unlikely to prove better, with Italy winning
just  one of 29  senior jobs in the EU diplomatic corps, the
European External Action Service, after applying for 13.  “If you don’t get your people into the key jobs, then
you’re less likely to take part in the key decisions in the
future,” said Christopher Hill, a professor of international
relations at Cambridge University. “It’s a compound effect.”  Energy on Agenda  Sarkozy called the summit today in the resort of Deauville
to discuss “partnership in all areas and security” with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
according to a Sept. 27 statement. While energy was on the
agenda and Italy has key gas and oil ties with Russia,
Berlusconi wasn’t asked to attend as other European leaders also
would have had to be invited, said a French official who
couldn’t be identified due to policy rules.  Medvedev told reporters in Deauville today that he will
attend a NATO summit in Lisbon next month. Berlusconi, meeting
with the Russian president last month, said he had laid the
groundwork for bringing NATO and Russia closer through a deal
reached in 2002 at a summit near Rome. “I wrote the agreement
myself,” he said in Yaroslavl, Russia, on Sept. 10.  France and Germany wanted to use today’s talks to show
their alliance “continues, and continues at the EU level,”
said Francois Lafond, director of the  German Marshall Fund  of
the United States in Paris. Berlusconi’s exclusion from the
talks may also be due to his own diplomatic conduct, he said.  Against the Current  “He has good relations with Russian leaders, but he takes
such initiatives on his own,” Lafond said. “Maybe Berlusconi
is paying for his attitude and way of managing the country.”   NATO  member Italy has long run against the western current
in reaching out to Russia, a policy that has generated lucrative
contracts as well as criticism from allies, whether conducted by
Berlusconi or his predecessor, Prodi. Italy’s gas and oil trade
with Russia is second only to Germany’s in Europe, EU data show.  Berlusconi spent two days with Putin at an undisclosed
location near St. Petersburg, discussing energy and trade and
celebrating the Russian premier’s birthday, his spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said in a conference call on Oct. 7, Italian news agency
Ansa reported.  Italy has “succumbed to a race-to-Moscow mentality that
has undermined American and European interests,” said  Stephen Sestanovich , who served as special adviser on the former Soviet
republics to former U.S. Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright .  Eni, Gazprom  Eni has been a key policy driver. Italy’s biggest energy
company was a Cold War pioneer, signing its first contract in
the Soviet Union in 1958. It built on those ties after 1991 to
forge a broad partnership with  OAO Gazprom  including the South
Stream pipeline, a rival of the Nabucco project backed by the
U.S. and the EU to lessen reliance on Russia. Eni has also
expanded into Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, whose leader visited
Rome last year in a rare foray to Europe.  Under Berlusconi Italy also forged a historic treaty with
Libya in 2008 that paved the way for 25 billion euros ($35
billion) in Eni projects in the North African nation over the
next decade and Libyan stakes that total 7.6 percent of the
shares in  UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest bank.  “What are the metrics for success for his personal
diplomacy?” said  Heather Conley , director of the Europe Program
at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International
Studies. “Is there evidence of increasing commercial ties? If
so, then he has been very successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  