-- BHP's Kloppers Faces Pressure to Win Potash After Rio Plan Fails
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-10-19T06:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bhp-s-kloppers-faces-pressure-to-seal-potash-deal-after-rio-ore-plan-fails.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  faces greater pressure to win a hostile
$40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. after
scrapping his second deal with  Rio Tinto Group  in two years.  “Given you’ve had two transactions that they haven’t
consummated, both relating to Rio, I think there is some
additional pressure to actually get this deal done,”  Paul Cliff ,
a London-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by phone.
“Towards the end, BHP are more likely to raise the offer to get
the deal agreed by Potash management.”  Kloppers needs Canadian approval for the bid for  Potash
Corp. , which has rejected the offer and started talks with third
parties.  BHP  and Rio yesterday abandoned a plan to save $10
billion in costs by combining Australian iron ore operations,
following opposition from regulators from Asia to Europe.  “We expect the collapse of this deal along with the
uncertainty of the Potash bid to lead to likely further
underperformance of  BHP  against the other major mining
companies,”  Heath Jansen , a London-based analyst at Citigroup
Inc., said in a report yesterday. “The official cancellation is
a negative for BHP.”  BHP  fell  2 cents to A$41.16 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney time
close on the Australian stock exchange. The stock has declined
4.6 percent in Sydney  this year , compared with the 14 percent
gain for the 100-member  Bloomberg World Mining Index . Rio
dropped 0.5 percent. Potash Corp., the world’s biggest producer
of the crop nutrient, declined 1.2 percent to $143.21 yesterday
in New York.  Takeover Plan  It’s the second time Kloppers, 48, has failed to consummate
a deal with Rio after scrapping a hostile $66 billion bid for
the London-based company in 2008, citing economic uncertainty
and Rio’s high  debt . He spent $450 million on the Rio takeover,
according to the company. He also outlaid $75 million on the
joint venture, the Australian Financial Review reported without
saying where it got the information.  “I hope my shareholders consider that my job is on the
line if we do an acquisition purely for the sake of doing an
acquisition,” Kloppers said on an Aug. 25 call with reporters,
referring to the Potash Corp. offer. “I will be as disciplined
on this bid as I’ve been on every other endeavor that we’ve been
on.”  BHP’s most recent completed purchase was Athabasca Potash
Inc. for about C$341 million ($335 million) in January this year.
The Melbourne-based company also bought  United Minerals Corp. NL 
for A$204 million ($202 million) in October 2009.  Financial Flexibility  “BHP Billiton has nothing to show in terms of sizeable M&A
despite once-in-a-lifetime value on offer during the crisis of
the last two years,” Liberum Capital Ltd. analysts said in a
note to clients yesterday. Abandoning the iron-ore plan, in
which BHP had agreed to transfer $5.8 billion to Rio in a so-
called equalization payment, may give the Australian company
“greater financial flexibility,” Liberum said.  BHP should spend money on its own mines, on buybacks or
dividends rather than acquisitions, according to 64 percent of
respondents to a Bloomberg News survey of investors last month.  “You could say that having failed at the full Rio Tinto
bid and now with the iron-ore JV, the CEO Marius Kloppers has
failed to make his mark on the company,”  Tony Robson , an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said by phone.
“However, arguably it’s more important that he preserves
shareholder wealth by being a sensible manager.”  Plan B  The two companies agreed on the iron ore plan in June 2009,
when Rio, battling high levels of debt, scrapped an investment
from Aluminum Corp. of China in favor of raising $21 billion
from a share sale and the joint venture. The deals allowed Rio
to slash borrowings without selling bonds and stakes in its
largest mines, defusing a backlash from shareholders and
politicians.  A so-called Plan B, based on a separate agreement with the
state of Western Australia to allow the companies to share
infrastructure and blend ore is unlikely to proceed, UBS AG
analysts led by  Glyn Lawcock  said today in a report.  “In light of the joint venture being terminated and the
feedback from the regulators, we now understand that any attempt
by BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto to combine their businesses, even
if it were to be on commercial terms, would draw scrutiny from
the regulatory bodies,” he said.  Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, last week
said it’s studying alternatives to BHP’s offer amid rising
prices for agricultural commodities. Sinochem Group, China’s
largest fertilizer trader and cited by analysts as a likely
counter bidder, may struggle to get state financial backing for
a takeover, two people with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 7.  BHP may raise its bid to about $150 a share to get
management approval from Potash Corp., Nomura’s Cliff said.  “They could bid a lot more from a liquidity viewpoint, but
where it will get pulled up is their investor base questioning
the value of it, more so than anything else,”  Andrew Keen , an
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 