-- Pfizer Acquires Rights to Biocon Insulin Products for $200 Million Upfront
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-10-18T20:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/biocon-sells-rights-to-insulin-to-pfizer-for-upfront-200-million-payment.html
Pfizer Inc., the world’s biggest
drugmaker, agreed to pay $200 million in upfront payments for
rights to four insulin products to expand its diabetes offerings
in emerging markets.  Biocon can get additional milestone payments of as much as
$150 million and will receive payments linked to product sales
by New York-based Pfizer, the companies said in a statement
today. Biocon, based in Bangalore, India, will be responsible
for developing and manufacturing the diabetes treatments and for
securing new regulatory approvals.  About 80 percent of people with diabetes live in low and
middle-income countries, according to the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva. Pfizer has been expanding its business
in emerging markets such as India and focusing on the
therapeutic areas of diabetes, vaccines, cancer, pain,
inflammation and Alzheimer’s disease.  “It’s a big surprise that Pfizer is paying so much up
front,” said  Bino Pathiparampil , an analyst at India Infoline
Ltd. in Mumbai, in a telephone interview. Insulin revenue from
emerging markets will begin immediately, while new approvals and
sales from the deal will take at least 3 to 4 years to
accumulate, he said.  Pfizer rose 5 cents to $17.80 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined 2.1 percent
this year. Biocon rose 3.1 rupees, or 0.8 percent, to 403.1
rupees in Mumbai trading before the announcement.  Biocon Products  The Biocon products include recombinant human insulin and
generic versions of Sanofi-Aventis SA’s insulin Lantus, Novo
Nordisk AS’s NovoLog and Eli Lilly & Co.’s HumaLog. Biocon’s
recombinant human insulin formulations are approved in 27
countries in developing markets and is being sold in 23.
Glargine, the competitor to Lantus, has been introduced in its
first market, India, the companies said.  Biocon plans to spend $300 million in the next three years
to expand capacity, Chief Financial Officer  Murali Krishnan  said
in Bangalore today.  About 171 million people were living with diabetes
worldwide in 2000, according to the World Health Organization.
That figure will more than double by 2030, the agency  estimates 
on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 