-- Blanchflower Says U.K. `Desperately in Danger' of Renewed Slump
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-18T08:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/blanchflower-says-u-k-economy-in-desperate-danger-of-renewed-recession.html
A Bank of England stimulus expansion
appears to be finance minister  George Osborne ’s “only” backup
plan as government spending cuts risk a renewed recession,
former policy maker  David Blanchflower  said.  “We are desperately in danger of a double dip and the last
thing you do in a recession is make things worse,” Blanchflower
said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television. “The BOE
unfortunately looks like the only ‘plan B’ the government has,
but quantitative easing just doesn’t act fast enough.”  Policy makers have split three ways on the risks to the
economy and whether to raise stimulus, maintain it or start
withdrawal. The Centre for Economics and Business Research said
yesterday that the Bank of England will expand its bond-purchase
plan by 100 billion pounds ($159 billion) as Britons brace for
the deepest budget squeeze since World War II.  “This looks like it’s going to turn the economy right down
and I think it’s going to be a terrible, terrible mistake,”
Blanchflower said, referring to the budget squeeze. “My fear is
that” the first quarter of next year “is really going to look
terrible.”  The CEBR’s forecast for  economic growth  in the first three
months of 2011 is 0.1 percent, which implies there is almost a
50 percent chance the economy will contract during the quarter,
according to the report yesterday.  ‘Soft Patch’  Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club, which uses the same
forecasting model as the U.K. Treasury, also predicted today
that the economy faces “a soft patch” before it “gradually”
picks up momentum. Gross domestic product will rise 1.4 percent
this year, and 2.2 percent in 2011, the group said.  The central bank will keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent until at least “late” 2012 to aid
the economic recovery, the CEBR said yesterday.  The Bank of England maintained its stimulus plan at 200
billion pounds this month and will next meet on Nov. 4.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will announce details
of his spending cuts on Oct. 20.  “Clearly you have to deal with the deficit, but there is
no economics that says you have to deal with it in a week or a
year,” said Blanchflower, who is a columnist for Bloomberg
News. “You have to be mindful of the data and if the data turns
down, which they have, you have to adapt.”  Blanchflower’s three-year term at the Bank of England ended
in May 2009. He is an economics professor at Dartmouth College
in Hanover, New Hampshire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  