-- Bovespa Stock-Index Drops on Outlook for Rising Interest Rates; Real Slips
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-18T21:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bovespa-stock-index-futures-decline-on-bets-interest-rates-will-increase.html
The  Bovespa  stock index fell for the
first time in six days on concern prospects for higher borrowing
costs make the longest stretch of weekly gains in 17 months
excessive relative to the outlook for earnings.  Retailer  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar  fell as traders increased bets for higher borrowing costs
after a central bank survey showed economists expect quickening
inflation this year. BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of Brazil’s
biggest securities exchange, slid after Valor Economico
newspaper said the government may announce measures this week to
reduce the amount of leverage allowed in futures-market trading.  “The prospects for Brazil are good, but I think we could
see a pullback in the short-term triggered by data from the
U.S.,” said  Felipe Casotti , who helps manage the equivalent of
$582 million in assets at Maxima Asset Management in Rio de
Janeiro. “There’s also a lot of earnings coming out this
week.”  The Bovespa slipped 0.1 percent to 71,735.53 at the close
at 4 p.m. New York time. The gauge climbed for a fifth day on
Oct. 15, completing the longest stretch of weekly gains since
May 2009, as utilities rallied on speculation  Jose Serra  may win
the presidential election, boosting the outlook for state
companies. The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap index  fell 0.7 percent to
1,417.34. The real slipped 0.5 percent to 1.6740 per dollar.  Interest-Rate Futures  Traders in the interest-rate futures market raised bets for
higher borrowing costs, pushing the yield for contracts due
January 2012 up six basis points to 11.28 percent. Brazilian
inflation will quicken to 5.20 percent in 2010, compared with a
week-earlier forecast of 5.15 percent, according to the median
forecast in an Oct. 15 central bank survey of about 100
economists published today.  Pao de Acucar fell 1.1 percent to 62.13 reais.  The  Bovespa  pared a loss of as much as 0.7 percent after
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, surged 2.8
percent to 49.10 reais as metals prices climbed. Chief Executive
Officer  Roger Agnelli  said Vale is not planning any more
acquisitions because it has enough assets to double its
capacity.  Investors should “scale back” their holdings of
developing-nation stocks after this year’s rally lifted
valuations and the economic outlook worsened,  Jonathan Garner ,
the chief Asia and emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley
in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today.  ‘Risk Rising’  “Valuations have adjusted back up to long-run average
levels,” Garner wrote. “Some economic market data indicators
suggest that the risk of double dip may be rising.”  The MSCI emerging-markets index trades for 11.1 times
analysts’ earnings forecasts for the next 12 months, compared
with the 11.7 average since January 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has advanced 12 percent this
year, more than doubling the 4.2 percent increase in the MSCI
World Index of developed-nation equities.  BM&FBovespa fell 4.2 percent to 14.51 reais. Brazil’s
government may announce measures this week to reduce leverage
positions by companies, banks and investors in derivatives
contracts, Valor Economico reported, without saying where it
obtained the information.  The government may order BM&FBovespa SA to double or triple
the margin requirements on futures contracts, the Sao Paulo-
based newspaper said. In the past two weeks, Brazilian
government officials have discussed ways to discourage
transactions that they consider speculative and that are
contributing to the real’s appreciation against the dollar,
Valor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  