-- Brazil's Higher Taxes Unlikely to Weaken Real, Bank of America Note Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-18T13:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/brazil-s-higher-taxes-unlikely-to-weaken-real-bank-of-america-note-says.html
Brazil’s real, the world’s second-
best performing currency since the end of 2008, is unlikely to
weaken as higher taxes on foreigners’ asset purchases fail to
stem a tide of inflows, Bank of America Corp. said.  The government’s move to double to 4 percent a levy known
as the IOF on fixed-income and equity-fund investments, in
addition to daily dollar purchases by the central bank, aren’t
enough to make Brazilian assets unattractive, strategists led by
 David Beker  wrote in a note to clients today. Additional
government measures will only add volatility, they wrote.  “At the end of the day, there is nothing the Brazilian
government can do to fight against the record low yield levels
in developed economies and against the USD depreciation,”
according to the note. “The government has engaged in an
impossible war.”  The real has strengthened 39 percent against the U.S.
dollar since the last day of 2008, a rally surpassed only by the
Australian dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Since Brazil increased some parts of the IOF tax on Oct. 4, the
currency has gained 1.7 percent, the best performance in Latin
America and the fourth-best among 25 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  While the Federal Reserve has signaled it may implement
further monetary easing even with U.S. interest rates near zero,
Brazil’s benchmark  Selic  will rise to 11.75 percent next year
from 10.75 percent now, according to the median forecast of
about 100 economists in a central bank survey published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  