-- Brazil Raises Foreign Inflow Tax a Second Time to Cool Real
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-10-18T22:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/brazil-to-boost-foreigners-fixed-income-investment-tax-to-6-to-cool-real.html
Brazil raised taxes on foreign
investments in fixed-income securities for the second time in
a month, and Finance Minister Guido Mantega said countries
trying to defend exports must end the “currency war.”  The so-called IOF tax on foreign inflows will climb to 6
percent from 4 percent, Mantega told reporters today in Sao
Paulo. The government of Latin America’s biggest economy will
also close a loophole that allowed investors to avoid the tax on
some margin deposits for transactions in futures markets.  The moves aim to curb foreigners’ appetite for short-term
investments and curb the dollar inflows that have contributed to
the real’s 7.1 percent gain in the past three months, the biggest
among major Latin American currencies. Investors are putting
money into developing countries such as Brazil amid near-zero
interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro region, which
have fueled demand for higher-yielding assets.  “This measure is just a fragile barrier to the flood of
money,”  Andre Perfeito , an economist at Gradual Investimentos,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It will have a
short-term effect only. We have an interest rate at a very high
level, and we have forecasts for very strong growth.”  The real weakened 0.5 percent today to 1.6750 per U.S.
dollar, before Mantega’s announcement. The currency has gained
1.4 percent since Oct. 4, when Mantega doubled the IOF tax on
foreign investment in fixed-income securities to 4 percent.  Trade Advantage  The measures will go into effect once they’re published in
the country’s official gazette, as soon as tomorrow.  Countries from China to Japan are seeking to restrain their
currencies to gain a trade advantage, roiling financial markets
and prompting Mantega to last month warn of a worldwide
“currency war.” European Central Bank President Jean-Claude
Trichet said yesterday that volatility in foreign-exchange
markets is “counterproductive.”  “This currency war needs to be deactivated,” Mantega said
today.  Mantega said other measures to stem the real’s
appreciation could be taken, and existing programs may be
expanded if needed. The higher taxes will only affect new flows
of money into the country, not deposits already in Brazil.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted to boost the
world’s biggest economy. That fueled speculation the Fed will
embark on a second round of easing next month, even as officials
including Brazil’s central bank President  Henrique Meirelles 
complain that low U.S. rates are flooding emerging markets with
cash.  Brazil’s central bank increased the benchmark interest rate
to 10.75 percent from a record low 8.75 percent this year to
contain inflation. Brazil’s real interest rate, which takes
inflation into account, is the highest amid the Group of 20
nations.  “At the end of the day, there is nothing the Brazilian
government can do to fight against the record low yield levels
in developed economies,” Bank of America Corp. said today in a
note to investors. “The government has engaged in an impossible
war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  