-- Brazil Presidential Candidates Battle on Fate of State Companies in Debate
-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2010-10-18T03:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/brazil-presidential-candidates-battle-on-fate-of-state-companies-in-debate.html
Brazilian presidential frontrunner
 Dilma Rousseff  and her opponent  Jose Serra  clashed over
privatization while making no mention of abortion in their
second head-to-head debate before an Oct. 31 runoff election.  The candidates reiterated charges over sales of state assets,
with Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s handpicked
successor, saying Serra is against initiatives to strengthen
government-controlled companies such as oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA .  The ruling Workers Party candidate said the state of Sao
Paulo, where Serra was governor before starting his campaign, is
appealing to antitrust regulators to block the sale of Gas
Brasiliano Distribuidora SA, a unit of Italy’s  Eni SpA , to Rio
de Janeiro-based Petrobras for $235 million. Serra denied that
his state government had any authority over the transaction.  Rousseff’s campaign “lies about my positions on
Petrobras,” Serra, 68, said. “It’s curious that when my
advance in polls was reported,  Petrobras shares  rose.”  The debate came as polls show the race tightening. The 62-
year-old Rousseff leads Serra 47 percent to 41 percent, a
Datafolha poll published Oct. 15 said, compared with 48-41 on
Oct. 9. The survey, commissioned by Folha de S. Paulo newspaper
and Rede Globo television channel, interviewed 3,281 people and
has a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  First Round Results  Rousseff won 47 percent of the first-round vote on Oct. 3,
compared with 33 percent for Serra and 19 percent for the Green
Party’s  Marina Silva , a pro-life, evangelical Christian.  Neither Serra nor Rousseff mentioned abortion last night
after clashing over the issue in their first head-to-head
contest Oct. 10. Serra criticized Rousseff’s comments in a
videotaped interview from July, circulated on the Internet, that
abortion must be treated as a “public health issue” rather
than a religious one.  That remark may have cost her votes and pushed the election
into a runoff. The issue dominated campaigning in the two weeks
since the first round, as both candidates appealed to the voters
who cast ballots for Marina Silva.  Abortion is legal in Brazil only if a pregnancy results
from a rape or if it puts the mother’s life at risk.  Silva said yesterday she won’t support either of the runoff
candidates as her  Green Party  decided to remain independent.
Members of the party are allowed as individuals to support
Rousseff or Serra, Silva said during a speech in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helder Marinho  in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  