-- Britain Faces Very Serious Threat From Terrorism, Attack Likely, May Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-18T09:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/britain-faces-very-serious-threat-from-terrorism-attack-likely-may-says.html
Home Secretary  Theresa May  said the
U.K. faces a “very serious” threat from international
terrorism, with an attack “highly likely,” as the government
issues a report on its security priorities.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  will identify the biggest
dangers the U.K. faces today in the first part of the Strategic
Defense and Security Review. The second section, published
tomorrow, will set out how the nation will defend itself from
attack, while also outlining cuts to defense spending of between
7 percent and 8 percent.  “We are absolutely clear that we do have a very serious
threat from international terrorism -- that is why the threat
level here in the U.K. is at severe,” May told ITV’s
“Daybreak” program today. “That means that an attack is
highly likely, so everybody does need to be vigilant.”  The security and intelligence services and counter-
terrorism police will escape major cuts in the Oct. 20
announcement on reductions to most government budgets, The Daily
Telegraph newspaper reported today, without saying where it got
the information.  The head of the U.K. security agency in charge of
intercepting and safeguarding communications said Oct. 13 that
more than 20,000 malicious e-mails are sent to government
networks each month, 1,000 of which are deliberately targeted.  Iain Lobban, the director of  Government Communications
Headquarters , said Britain needs to invest in Internet security,
arguing the economy and national infrastructure are at risk from
cyber warfare.  “The exercise in looking at the national security strategy
is not about cuts, it’s about looking at threats and seeing how
we address those,” May told Sky News television. “It is
against the backdrop of the budget deficit; we do need to deal
with the deficit and that does mean departments will have to
take their share of cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 