-- German Exports to Grow Fastest in a Decade as 1 Trillion-Euro Level Nears
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-10-19T09:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/bundesbank-says-economic-growth-may-be-higher-than-3-it-forecast-earlier.html
German exports will rise at the
fastest pace in a decade this year and exceed the 1 trillion-
euro ($1.4 trillion) level for the first time in
2011, fueled by demand for cars and machinery from outside
Europe, the BGA federation said.  Exports will grow about 16 percent, boosting the value of
goods and services sold abroad in 2010 to 937 billion euros, the
Berlin-based group said today, revising an August forecast of
about 10 percent. Exports will climb about 7 percent next year,
the federation said.  “German exports are booming,” BGA President Anton Boerner
said in a prepared speech. “Foreign orders are signed and
sealed for the rest of the year and we’re optimistic looking
ahead,” though the federation is “concerned” about the risk
of a recession in the U.S.  The BGA expects shipments abroad, which pulled the German
economy out of a recession this year, to grow 25 percent to
countries outside Europe this year. Exports to the European
Union’s 27 members, many of which are struggling to manage
bloated deficits, will grow 13.5 percent, the BGA said.  Germany’s economy, Europe’s largest, is leading the
region’s recovery from the recession. Growth accelerated to 2.2
percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in two decades,
while economies such as Greece and Ireland contracted. The
Bundesbank said yesterday that Germany’s economy may expand more
than 3 percent this year.  The BGA said it expects imports to climb about 17 percent
this year to 789 billion euros, creating a net trade surplus of
148 billion euros.  The possibility that the U.S. economy will enter a
recession poses a risk to exports in the medium term, Boerner
said. The weaker U.S. currency “is already beginning to make
exports to the dollar area more difficult,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  