-- Buy AIG Before Bailout Unwind to Gain From Issuance of Warrants, UBS Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-18T20:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/buy-aig-before-bailout-unwind-to-gain-from-issuance-of-warrants-ubs-says.html
Investors should accumulate  American
International Group Inc.  stock before the bailed-out insurer
distributes 75 million warrants in the company, said UBS AG
analyst  Andrew Kligerman .  The 10-year warrants have a value of about $16 each,
Kligerman said today in a research note. He raised his 12-month
 price target  on the company to $45 a share from $40 and called
the insurer a “short-term buy.” AIG gained 79 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $42.26 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The warrants are “an incentive to remain long-term
shareholders” in AIG, Kligerman wrote. “Although these
warrants would currently be out-of-the-money, each could be
valued at approximately $16 given their long-dated nature.”  AIG climbed 41 percent this year as Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche  announced divestitures and a plan for the
insurer to regain independence and repay its $182.3 billion U.S.
rescue. Warrants with a $45 strike price will be issued when the
New York-based insurer converts a $49.1 billion U.S. preferred
stake into common stock for sale to the public. Investors will
get about 1 warrant for every two shares owned.  AIG has a “sum-of-the-parts” value of about $38 to $39
per share, excluding the warrants, Kligerman wrote. The
 government will own  about 92 percent of AIG after the stock
conversion, which will happen by March 31, AIG said last month.
The plan hinges on AIG selling stock and bonds to private
investors as the government withdraws support.  ‘Less Punitive’  “Overhang from the U.S. government’s pro-forma 92 percent
common stake may prove less punitive than feared, and AIG shares
will ultimately benefit from a larger float,” Kligerman said.  The 2008 bailout of AIG has been revised four times,
swelling to $182.3 billion, as the insurer posted losses fueled
by housing-linked assets.  Under Benmosche, 66, who last year became the insurer’s
fourth head since 2008, AIG is focusing on  property-casualty 
coverage and U.S. life insurance and retirement products. The
company, which shrank its derivatives unit, benefited from a
rebound in corporate debt holdings and investments in private-
equity and hedge funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  