-- Buy Bank Options Before Earnings Reports, Decision by Fed, MF Global Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-18T11:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/buy-bank-options-before-earnings-reports-decision-by-fed-mf-global-says.html
Investors should buy  U.S. bank
options  for protection against bigger price swings over the next
month spurred by elections, a Federal Reserve meeting and
earnings reports, MF Global Holdings Ltd. said.  An options strategy known as a straddle is worth buying on
the Financial Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded fund, which
tracks companies including Bank of America Corp. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., according to  Dan Bystrom , head of derivatives
trading at MF Global in New York. The trade involves buying a
November $15 call and November $15 put to profit from increasing
volatility whether the shares rise or fall.  “When people get complacent, the price of insurance keeps
dropping because there’s no demand for it,” Bystrom said in an
interview. “It’s dropped to a point, especially in the shorter
maturities, that it makes a lot of sense to insure your
portfolio given what’s coming over the next four weeks.”  The fund reached its 2010 high in April, having gained 18
percent from Dec. 31, then tumbled 20 percent through August
amid concerns about the strength of the U.S. economic recovery
and sovereign-debt problems in Europe. The XLF, as the security
is known, is down 0.4 percent this year, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has gained 5.5 percent.  Volatility Catalysts  Volatility may be increased before next month’s options
expire on Nov. 19 as 75 of the ETF’s  81 constituents  report
earnings, midterm elections are held and Fed policy makers hold
a meeting in two weeks. Implied  volatility , the key gauge of
option prices, for at-the-money contracts expiring in 30 days is
27.47 and fell by almost half from this year’s peak in May to a
six-month low of 24.39 last week.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 15 that there’s a
case for “further action”  by the central bank in the form of
additional monetary stimulus because inflation is too low and
unemployment is too high. While he said the central bank could
expand asset purchases, he didn’t offer new details on how the
Fed would undertake those strategies or give assurances the
central bank will act at its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  The economy remains a central issue in the Nov. 2 midterm
elections, in which Republicans are poised to pick up seats in
the Senate and possibly win control of the U.S. House of
Representatives. While the economy is no longer in a recession,
the  Bureau of Labor Statistics reported  last month that
 unemployment  remained relatively high at 9.6 percent. The Labor
Department reported that 95,000 jobs were cut in September.  Insuring Portfolios  “Even if you’re not bearish, the cost of insuring your
portfolio is pretty cheap,” Bystrom said. “It doesn’t have to
be an outright bear play but even for the bulls the downside
protection cost is coming cheaper than it has in a while.”  The fund  fell 2.4 percent to $14.35 last week for the
biggest loss in two months amid growing legal scrutiny of
foreclosure practices. Home seizures reached a record of 102,134
properties in September and the National Association of
Attorneys General said it will conduct an inquiry into whether
banks used false documentation to justify foreclosures.  The November $15 straddle trade Bystrom recommends profits
as bank-stock price swings increase and makes money if the XLF
is below about $13.91 or above about $16.09 at expiration,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It loses the most if
the stock finishes at $15.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, lost 9.1 percent
for last week’s  biggest drop  in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average. Goldman Sachs, the world’s most-profitable securities
firm, slumped 1.3 percent to $150.69. Both release results
tomorrow, while rivals Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo & Co.
report on Oct. 20.  Rising Profits  Third-quarter earnings at U.S. banks and brokers in the S&P
500 are expected to increase 123 percent from a year earlier,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Non-
financial companies are expected to boost profit by 21 percent.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  “Anyone interested in buying downside protection should
look at the XLF, because if there’s any market volatility,
there’ll certainly be volatility in the financials.” Bystrom
said. If you’re going to buy volatility anywhere, that’s the
place that makes the most sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 