-- Canadian Dollar Declines the Most in a Month Before Central Bank Meeting
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-18T20:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/canadian-dollar-declines-the-most-in-a-month-before-central-bank-meeting.html
Canada’s dollar fell the most in a
month versus the greenback and traded near a seven-month low
against the euro before a meeting tomorrow at which economists
predict the Bank of Canada will leave interest rates unchanged.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known, weakened
for a third straight day against the greenback after reaching
parity last week for the first time since April. The U.S. dollar
has declined against all of its 16 most-traded peers during the
past month. Canada’s currency pared declines after stocks and
crude oil, the nation’s largest export, rose.  “The U.S. dollar is bouncing from oversold levels” versus
the Canadian dollar,  David Watt , senior currency strategist in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit, wrote in an
e-mail. He said the Canadian currency’s reaction might have been
“a bit slow” to the expectation of a pause in interest-rate
increases by the Bank of Canada.  The loonie dropped as much as 1.2 percent, the most since
Sept. 7, to C$1.0228 per U.S. dollar, and was down 0.6 percent
to C$1.0169 at 4:46 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0104 on Oct. 15.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.34 U.S. cents.  All 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey predict Bank of
Canada policy makers will leave the benchmark overnight interest
rate at 1 percent. Governor  Mark Carney  became the first Group
of Seven central banker to raise borrowing costs since July 2008
when he lifted the overnight rate by a quarter-percentage point
to 0.5 percent in June. He has increased it twice since then.  ‘No Move’  “The market is expecting no move tomorrow,”  Firas Askari ,
head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital unit, wrote via e-mail. “The real surprise would be a
move or a more hawkish statement.”  There’s been a “U.S. dollar bounce” and the Canadian
dollar has “weakened against the crosses,” he wrote, referring
to trades in currencies other than the greenback.  The loonie dropped 0.4 percent to C$1.4183 versus the euro,
near the C$1.4226 reached on Oct. 8, the weakest since March.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.7 percent.
Crude for November delivery added as much as 2.5 percent to
$83.28 a barrel in New York.  Canada’s benchmark two-year bond yields fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.41 percent, as the price
of the 1.5 percent security maturing in December 2012 rose 4
cents to C$100.18.  Foreign investors bought a net C$11.1 billion ($10.9
billion) of Canadian securities in August, led by corporate
bonds, Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said today.  Overseas Demand  Overseas investors purchased C$10.8 billion of bonds in
August, including C$5.3 billion of corporate debt and C$3.2
billion from government-owned companies. Non-residents also
bought C$995 million of stocks, and divested of C$705 million of
money-market paper.  Economists predicted a C$6 billion net purchase of Canadian
securities, according to the median of four estimates by
Bloomberg News.  The greenback is down 4 percent against the Canadian dollar
during the past three months, and is the worst-performing major
currency during that period, on speculation the Fed will
announce more measures to stimulate the economy next month,
further debasing the currency. The greenback is down 14 percent
versus the Australian dollar in the past 3 months.  “I’m not bullish on the U.S. dollar right now, but the
selloff has been so sharp and persistent that a bounce is very
likely,” RBC’s Watt said. “I remain focused on parity, but
wouldn’t be surprised to see the Canadian dollar fluttering
around C$1.03 or C$1.0350 versus the U.S. dollar near term.”  A “key resistance threshold” of C$1.0350 will influence
whether the next move is up or down, Watt said. Resistance
refers to the upper boundary of a trading range, in this case
for the U.S. dollar, where sell orders may be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  