-- Capitalism Killed Crazy Horse, Saved Chicago After Fire: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-10-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/capitalism-killed-crazy-horse-saved-chicago-stoked-fiery-backlash-books.html
With his woolly mutton chops and iron
will, Cornelius Vanderbilt embodied the paradox of a mighty
tycoon flourishing inside a forgiving democracy.  “What do I care about the law?” Vanderbilt is often
quoted as roaring. “Hain’t I got the power?”  Though the Commodore never uttered those exact words, the
misquotation reflects a genuine conflict, one that  H.W. Brands 
explores with vigor in his superb new history, “American
Colossus: The Triumph of Capitalism, 1865-1900.”  This is a big, brash narrative running from the Confederate
surrender at Appomattox to the trust busting of  Theodore Roosevelt . It’s an adventure story that pits Gilded Age magnates
against miners, steelworkers and railway men; explorers such as
John Wesley Powell against the wilderness; and gold prospectors
against Crazy Horse, the Oglala Sioux leader who crushed Custer
at  Little Bighorn  yet whose own people were undone by commercial
buffalo hunters armed with Sharps “Big Fifty” rifles.  “Once the hunters mastered their art, the killing
proceeded with industrial efficiency,” Brands writes.  Americans have long been torn between democracy’s pledge of
equality and capitalism’s promise of wealth. It’s a dichotomy
stretching back to 1776, the year of what Brands calls two great
manifestos --  Thomas Jefferson’s  Declaration of Independence and
Adam Smith’s “The Wealth of Nations.”  “Tension between capitalism and democracy has
characterized American life for two centuries, with one and then
the other claiming temporary ascendance,” he writes.  Capitalist Revolution  In the late 19th century, capitalists clearly had the upper
hand, as the fattening fortunes of three men in particular show.
This was the age of  John Pierpont Morgan ,  John D. Rockefeller 
and  Andrew Carnegie , and Brands describes their striving rises
in banking, oil refining and steel.  Yet Brands also shows that their exploits, far from being
isolated, were just extreme manifestations of a capitalist
revolution that burst like a flood across the land after the
Civil War ended in 1865. Capitalism dragged the South out of its
feudal past, he writes. It shoved the frontier West and turned
the cities of the East and North “into engines of wealth and
poverty, opulence and squalor,” he writes.  Immense progress was made in those years, from the great
cables of the Brooklyn Bridge spanning the East River to
Chinamen blasting the transcontinental railroad through the
Sierra Nevada. America’s population swelled to 76 million in
1900 from 40 million in 1870, with a third of the growth coming
from immigration, Brands writes. Infant mortality fell; life
expectancy rose; average per capita income almost doubled.  ‘Bonanza Farms’  Yet anyone standing in the path of the steamroller was
crushed, be they workers toiling at Carnegie’s Homestead steel
plant or poor immigrants crowding into dank tenements.  The range of this book is astonishing. These were the years
when wheat growers set up the “bonanza farms” along the Red
River in North Dakota -- vast tracts of thousands of acres that
became what Brands calls “outdoor factories, as mechanized in
their own way as the refineries of John Rockefeller and the
steelworks of Andrew Carnegie.”  Cattle became a big business in these years, too. Texans
returning from the war realized that the longhorns roaming the
range were “almost free for the taking” at a time when beef
prices were soaring in the East.  The South also was swept along by the capitalist upheaval,
as the emancipation of four million slaves forced planters to
find new ways to mobilize labor, Brands writes. Wage labor
wasn’t up to the task of rebuilding the plantation economy,
partly because the former masters lacked cash. A more durable
solution emerged in sharecropping, an unequal partnership
between landowners and laborers that turned many former slaves
into “virtual serfs,” Brands writes.  ‘Hurricane of Smoke’  I read swaths of this book twice, just to savor Brands’s
storytelling and mastery of detail. The narrative flows like a
mighty river, buoying the reader over the twists and cataracts
of those tumultuous decades with anecdotes and biographical
sketches. The writing is simple and vivid throughout, as when
Brands describes the  Great Chicago Fire  of October 1871 -- “a
hurricane of smoke, sparks and cinders,” as one survivor said.  The same capitalism that built Chicago rebuilt it. One
real-estate agent, W.D. Kerfoot, rushed to put up a shack in the
street alongside the hot remains of his former office and hung
out a sign: “Everything gone but wife, children and energy.”  Eventually, of course, a democratic counterrevolution
restored the balance in America, first in the form of Theodore
Roosevelt and then under  Woodrow Wilson . Both presidents would
reassert democratic oversight over corporate capitalism. It’s a
lesson worth remembering as U.S. elections approach in our own
troubled times.  “American Colossus” is from  Doubleday  (614 pages, $35).
To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 