-- Capital One Shares Rise as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-19T20:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/capital-one-jumps-as-quarterly-profit-doubles-beating-analysts-estimates.html
Capital One Financial Corp. , the
most profitable U.S. credit-card issuer last year, was today’s
second-best performer in Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after
reporting earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Capital One  advanced  4.1 percent to $38.76 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Net income more than
doubled to $803 million, or $1.76 a share, from $394 million, or
87 cents, in the year-earlier period, the McLean, Virginia-based
lender said in a statement after markets closed yesterday. The
average estimate of 22  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.20.  “We feel bullishness about our growth opportunities,”
Chief Executive Officer  Richard D. Fairbank , 60, told analysts
and investors on a conference call today.  A decline in U.S. credit-card delinquencies this year has
helped Fairbank boost profit even as consumers reduced debt
balances and new U.S. rules weighed on margins. Third-quarter
results were bolstered by the release of $624 million from an
account to cover future loan losses as write-offs on U.S. credit
cards dropped.  “Continued improvement in credit loss and delinquency
performance in the portfolio was the primary driver of the
third-quarter allowance release,” the company said in the
statement.  Loan Originations  Capital One and its subsidiaries originated about $111
billion in  home loans  from 2005 through 2008, including $11
billion sold to government-sponsored entities and $18 billion to
securitizations backed by bond insurers.  “We don’t have complete visibility into where the
remaining $82 billion of loans landed, but we know from
proprietary databases that about half landed in unwrapped public
securitizations,” Chief Financial Officer  Gary Perlin  said in
the conference call. “We have seen virtually no repurchase
activity from this $82 billion.”  The reserve to cover the cost of buying back faulty
mortgages was $836 million at the end of the third quarter,
compared with $853 million in the previous three-month period.  Capital One said subsidiary Greenpoint Mortgage, which
originated most of the company’s home loans, has received a
subpoena from the Federal Housing Finance Agency as the
regulator seeks to determine whether issuers can be held liable
for losses on the debt.  “The subpoena seeks information on fewer than 2,000
Greenpoint Mortgage loans that are part of some private label
securitizations in which Freddie Mac is an investor,” Fairbank
said on the conference call. “We’re in the process of
collecting responsive documents.”  Capital One’s profitability ranked No. 1 among U.S. credit-
card issuers last year when excluding one-time items, according
to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  