-- Carney Set to Join Global Interest-Rate Pause, Swaps Show: Canada Credit
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-10-18T19:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/carney-set-to-join-global-interest-rate-pause-swaps-show-canada-credit.html
Investors are betting Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  is set to keep borrowing costs unchanged
and pause for as long as nine months on concerns about the
effects of an economic slowdown in the U.S., Canada’s biggest
trading partner.  The probability for a quarter percentage-point  increase  at
tomorrow’s interest rate meeting stood at 9 percent late last
week, down from about 40 percent a month ago, according to Bank
of Nova Scotia data derived from overnight index  swap s.  By pausing, Carney would join central bankers in Brazil,
Malaysia and Australia in keeping borrowing costs unchanged in
part to gauge the strength of the global recovery, even though
Canada is benefiting from rising global demand for commodities.
Canada government bonds have returned 1.25 percent since Sept.
15 as investors pared bets of higher rates, compared with a 0.02
percent gain for U.S. notes, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  “Even though internally there is a good case for why the
Bank of Canada should be hiking interest rates, the external
factors” will prompt Carney to pause, said  Camilla Sutton ,
chief currency strategist at Scotia Capital. “There are a lot
of reasons why the Bank of Canada is likely to be on hold.”  Those include Carney’s reluctance to break too far away
from monetary policy in the U.S. and a weakening U.S. currency
that will act as a brake on Canadian growth, according to
Sutton. Carney said in a speech on Sept. 24 there are “limits”
to how far monetary policy in the two countries can diverge.  Above Parity  Canadian government bonds are on pace to return 9.9 percent
this year, which would make it the second best year since 2001,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The Canadian dollar last week traded above parity with the
U.S. dollar for the first time since April. The U.S. dollar has
fallen this month against all of the 16 most-traded currencies
on concern about more Federal Reserve easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that more stimulus may be warranted
because inflation is too slow and unemployment is too high.  “The stronger the Canadian dollar gets the farther out
that interest rates can get pushed,” Sutton said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, spreads between Canadian
corporate and government debt narrowed 3 basis points last week
to 142. Yields rose to 3.61 percent on Oct. 14 from 3.57 percent
on Oct.8. The securities have returned 7.54 percent this year,
compared with 11.3 percent in the U.S. and 9.05 percent
globally.  The  spread  between Canadian and U.S. government three-month
notes narrowed to 77 basis points on Oct. 15 to their lowest in
a month, as yields on Canadian notes dropped on expectations of
a pause. That spread is down from an almost two-year high of 96
basis points on Oct. 11.  Narrowing Spreads  The difference between 10-year and three-month yields in
Canada widened for the first week since August, rising to 189
basis points late last week from 161 basis points on Oct. 11.  The  difference  between two-year and 10-year yields in
Canada narrowed last week to as low as 133.8, the smallest gap
since 2008. Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist  Sheryl King 
predicted in an Oct. 14 note to investors that the spread
between Canadian 10-year and two-year notes will narrow to 120
basis points by December as evidence mounts of a strong Canadian
recovery.  Foreign investors bought a net C$11.1 billion ($10.9
billion) of Canadian securities in August, led by corporate
bonds, Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said today.  Foreign Purchases  Overseas investors purchased C$10.8 billion of bonds in
August, including C$5.3 billion of corporate debt and C$3.2
billion from government-owned companies. Non-residents also
bought C$995 million of stocks, and divested of C$705 million of
money-market paper.  Economists predicted a C$6 billion net purchase of Canadian
securities, according to the median of four estimates by
Bloomberg News.  Chances of interest rates rising to 1.25 percent by the
December rate announcement are 22 percent, 45 percent by January
and 65 percent in March, according to Scotia Capital’s data. The
probability of a rate increase by July is 100 percent.  Sutton expects Carney will wait until the third quarter of
next year before raising interest rates again.  While Carney is alone among Group of Seven central bankers
to raise interest rates this year and has raised the bank’s key
lending rate three times since June, he has signaled “caution”
in the face of a more gradual recovery in Canada.  Caution  “The unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants
caution,” Carney, 45, said in speech Sept. 30 in Windsor,
Ontario. “Any further reduction in monetary stimulus would need
to be carefully considered” given risks of a renewed U.S.
slowdown and cooling consumer spending in Canada.  In addition to tomorrow’s rate announcement, the Bank of
Canada will update its growth outlook on Oct. 20. Carney already
has said he will cut the outlook for the second half of this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 