-- Chile's Economy to Expand at Least 6% This Year, President Pinera Says
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-10-18T14:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/chile-s-economy-to-expand-at-least-6-this-year-president-pinera-says.html
Chile’s economy will expand at least
6 percent this year and the government will seek to boost
investment after it became “stronger” by rescuing 33 trapped
miners last week, President  Sebastian Pinera  said.  Pinera has set a goal of creating 1 million jobs during his
four-year term including 300,000 positions this year, he said at
a conference today in London organized by ProChile, the nation’s
export promotion agency. Chile also aims to double electricity-
generating capacity in the next decade and may spend as much as
$35 billion to do so, he told reporters.  Chile wants to “recover” its place as one of the fastest
growing countries in the world, Pinera said. The economy will
grow 5.4 percent in 2010, according to the median forecast of 40
economists in an Oct. 12 survey by the central bank. The bank
itself said last month it expects growth of 5 percent to 5.5
percent in 2010. That may accelerate to 5.5 percent to 6.5
percent in 2011, the bank said.  “It is absolutely essential to grow at a very fast rate,”
Pinera said. He added that Chile is seeking to increase
investment from 21 percent of gross domestic product to as much
as 30 percent.  Pinera will meet British Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
 Queen Elizabeth II  today. He said the South American country is
“more respected and more valued worldwide” after its Oct. 13
operation to rescue 33 miners who were trapped half a mile under
the earth for more than two months.  Peso Appreciation  Pinera said he’s “worried” about the appreciation of the
Chilean peso, which has strengthened 5.4 percent in 2010, the
second-highest increase of seven Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Colombian peso has risen 13 percent.  “We are very much concerned because there are some sectors
-- particularly the agricultural sector -- that are really
suffering,” he said. “We are taking measures in order to have
balanced growth. Not only mining, we need also to put all the
other sectors to work.”  Pinera said his government won’t consider copying Brazil’s
measures to stem the real’s gain. Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva doubled a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income
investments to stem a currency rally that pushed the real up
38.9 percent since the end of 2008.  Chile is considering “other measures to strengthen the
openness of our capital account to allow for Chilean investment
to go abroad,” he said. “That will put some pressure on demand
for foreign exchange and that will improve our exchange rate.”  7 Percent Growth  The economy expanded  1.5 percent in the first quarter  from
the previous year and 6.5 percent in the three months through
June, according to the central bank. Chile likely will exceed 7
percent growth in the third quarter, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  told lawmakers Oct. 5.  Pinera, a Harvard-trained economist, said in a Sept. 24
interview on “The Charlie Rose Show” that the economy would
expand 5.5 percent this year.  Chile’s government estimated the economy would grow 5.1
percent this year and 6.1 percent in 2011 in projections it made
to the draft of the 2011 budget proposal, Larrain said in an
Oct. 5 address to Congress. The estimates were based on data
available through September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at   bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  