-- Chile's Cencosud Buys Brazil Retailer Bretas in Biggest Deal in Five Years
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-18T20:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/chile-s-cencosud-buys-brazil-retailer-bretas-in-biggest-deal-in-five-years.html
Cencosud SA  rose the most among
stocks in Chile’s main index after agreeing to buy Brazil’s
Supermercados Bretas in Chairman  Horst Paulmann ’s biggest
acquisition since 2005.  Chile’s largest retailer by sales advanced 4.3 percent to a
record 3,379.3 pesos, while the Ipsa index gained 0.3 percent.
About $43 million in Cencoud stock changed hands, 2.4 times the
average daily volume in the last three months.  Cencosud will pay 1.35 billion reais ($814 million) for the
privately-held owner of 62 supermarkets, three distribution
centers and 10 service stations, it said in a  regulatory filing  
after markets closed Oct. 15. Bretas will double Cencosud’s
presence in Brazil, where monthly  retail sales  jumped 10.4
percent in August from a year earlier and have been rising since
December 2003 fueled by record low unemployment and credit
expansion.  “The push into Brazil is very positive because of the low
supermarket penetration in that country,”  Christopher Disalvatore , an analyst at Banco Penta, said by telephone today
from Santiago. “The deal was reasonably valued compared with
regional peers.”  Bretas consolidates Cencosud’s position as Brazil’s fourth-
largest supermarket operator, Banco Santander SA analysts  Carmen Concha  and  Joaquin Ley  said in an e-mailed note. It represents
enterprise value to sales of 0.54 times compared with a ratio of
0.61 for Cencosud’s acquisition of Brazil’s GBarbosa Holding SA
and 0.65 for its purchase of Peru’s Grupo de Supermercados Wong,
according to Celfin Capital SA calculations.  ‘High Price’  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Cencosud is buying Bretas “at a
high price” of about 18 times enterprise value to 2010
estimated earnings before items, a 68 percent premium to Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s largest
retailer, analyst  Andrea Teixeira  wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients. JPMorgan rates the stock “neutral.”  Paulmann, Cencosud’s German-born controlling shareholder,
resumed a regional expansion late last year as Chile’s economy
recovered from its steepest slump in a decade. In the year
before the global credit crisis slowed consumer spending in
Latin America, he spent about $1 billion buying up retailers in
Brazil and Peru and expanding the Easy home-improvement chain to
Colombia.  Bretas is Cencosud’s largest acquisition since its 2005
purchase of shares in  Empresas Almacenes Paris SA , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Increasing Acquisitions  The number of mergers and acquisitions announced this year
in Latin America stands at 829, up from 674 deals in the same
period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Of those,
the average disclosed deal size is up 74 percent.  Bretas may see sales rise to 2.5 billion reais this year
from 2.1 billion reais in 2009, according to Cencosud’s
statement. The company’s current owners, the Bretas and Duarte
de Assis families, will open eight new supermarkets this year
and five service stations by end-2013, under terms of the
arrangement. Cencosud’s supermarkets, home-improvement stores
and department stores employ about 100,000 people, 10 times
Bretas’s workforce.  “With this strategic acquisition Cencosud enters the
states of Minas Gerais and Goias, consolidating its position in
Brazilian supermarkets,” it wrote, without saying how it will
finance the deal or naming investment banks.  Financing  Cencosud can use cash reserves and raise debt without
deteriorating its financial ratios,  Raul Barros , an analyst at
the Chilean brokerage unit of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA, said by telephone from Santiago. He rates the stock “market
outperform.”  Cencosud  surged 96 percent this year, outpacing
the Ipsa index’s 33 percent gain.  Chilean companies sold $456 million of bonds in September,
more than six times the monthly pace set in the first eight
months of the year, according to data from the Santiago
exchange. Average corporate bond yields fell to 3.61 percent on
Sept. 1, the lowest since at least the beginning of 2001,
according to LVA Indices data. They rose to 3.97 percent on Oct.
15.  Brazil’s supermarket sales rose 1.2 percent in September
from a year earlier, the Brazilian Association of Supermarkets
said on Sept. 29.   Grupo Pao de Acucar  said on Oct. 13 that its third-quarter
net sales rose 17 percent to 7.1 billion reais, as the country’s
gross domestic product grows at the fastest pace in at least two
decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 