-- China's Large-Cap Stocks to Drive Rally on Lower Valuations, Bosera Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T02:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/china-s-large-cap-stocks-to-drive-rally-on-lower-valuations-bosera-says.html
China’s large-cap stocks will lead a
rally in the country’s equities as investors switch from smaller
companies that trade at higher valuations, according to Bosera
Asset Management Co.  “The divergence in performance between large- and small-
cap stocks will increase,” said  Deng Xiaofeng , a fund manager
at Bosera Asset, China’s third-largest money manager with $31
billion in assets according to Institutional Investor. “Every
dip is a good opportunity to buy low-valuation large-cap
stocks.”  The Shanghai Composite Index has  rebounded  25 percent from
this year’s low on July 5, after plunging 27 percent in the
first half, as investors speculated the nation’s economic growth
will remain resilient to government curbs on lending and
property speculation. The gauge was little changed at 2,955.76
at 9:54 a.m. local time.  PetroChina Co. , the biggest stock on the Shanghai Composite
by weighting, rallied 11 percent as of yesterday since China’s
markets resumed trading on Oct. 8 following a weeklong holiday,
while  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the second
largest, gained 15 percent.  The  CSI Smallcap 500 Index , which tracks smaller companies
on the Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses, declined 0.5 percent since
the holiday break. Stocks trade at about 47 times reported
earnings on the small-cap index, more than double the 19.7 times
for the Shanghai Composite.  Bosera’s Deng wasn’t more specific about his
recommendations and didn’t name individual stocks or industries.  China Laggard  Emerging-market equity funds have taken in more than $23
billion since the start of September, according to EPFR Global
data, amid indications that the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
Bank of Japan will add to stimulus measures to defend the
economic recovery.  China stocks will extend their rally as investors increase
purchases in a market that lagged behind gains in Asia,
according to Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s Mark Mobius said
Oct. 13. The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index has climbed
11 percent this year, compared with a 9.8 percent loss for the
Shanghai Composite. The MSCI China Index, comprising mostly Hong
Kong traded Chinese stocks, has advanced 7.4 percent in 2010.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  