-- China Low-Carbon Incentives Are Almost Triple Those in U.S., Study Finds
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-18T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/china-low-carbon-incentives-are-almost-triple-those-in-u-s-study-finds.html
China’s incentives to encourage low-
carbon generation such as solar and wind power are almost triple
those in the U.S., according to the Climate Institute.  Measures to spur renewable energy, as well as taxes on
dirtier forms of generation such as burning coal placed China
above the U.S., Japan, Australia and South Korea in a six-
country study and below only the U.K., according to the report,
prepared for the Sydney-based  institute  by London-based analysts
at Vivid Economics.  China, the biggest emitter, said last year it aims to cut
carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product by
40 percent to 45 percent from 2005 through 2020, when its target
is to get 15 percent of its energy from renewable sources. The
U.S and other countries are losing out to China in developing
clean energy, Erwin Jackson, deputy chief executive officer of
the Australian institute, said in a telephone interview.  “China is leading and taking responsibility,” Jackson
said. “If you look at it, they’re doing it because it’s in
their economic interests.”  China overtook the U.S. on Sept. 8 to top a quarterly index
of the most attractive countries for renewable-energy projects
compiled by the global accounting firm Ernst & Young. State-
owned China Development Bank loaned at least $42.8 billion this
year to solar manufacturers including LDK Solar Co., JA Solar
Holdings Co., Trina  Solar Ltd., Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.
and Suntech Power Holdings Co.  The Asian nation had three wind turbine makers in the top
10 worldwide last year in terms of sales by megawatts: Xinjiang
Goldwind Science & Technology Co., Dongfang Electric Corp. and
Sinovel Wind Co. according to Danish researcher  BTM Consult ApS .  ‘Imperfect’  Today’s study said that measures to promote clean energy or
tax fossil fuels, when adjusted for purchasing power in the
respective countries, amount to an implicit price of carbon of
$29.31 in the U.K., $14.22 in China, $5.05 in the U.S., $3.11 in
Japan, $1.38 in Australia and $0.72 in South Korea. The cross-
country comparisons are “imperfect” because of differing
circumstances, it said.  A separate study by HSBC Holdings Plc in March found that
South Korea leads the world in terms of the proportion of
economic stimulus funding dedicated to measures to increase
energy efficiency and slash carbon emissions, with 78 percent.  The figure for China was about a third, in the U.S. it was
12 percent, and in the U.K. it was 15 percent. Of $82 billion of
green stimulus funds actually spent last year, China accounted
for $61 billion, HSBC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;  Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 