-- China's `Laggard' Stocks Are Upgraded by JPMorgan, Citigroup on Stimulus
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-19T02:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/chinese-stocks-raised-to-neutral-from-underweight-at-jpmorgan-on-rally.html
Chinese stocks  were raised to
“neutral” from “underweight” by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. as the market remains a laggard even after
posting Asia’s best gains this month.  The Shanghai Composite Index’s 12 percent surge in October
has trimmed its losses for the year to 9.5 percent. The  MSCI
China Index , tracking mainly Hong Kong-traded Chinese shares,
has jumped 6.5 percent this month, taking its gains this year to
8.3 percent. In contrast, the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  and
 MSCI Asia excluding Japan Index  have climbed more than 12
percent so far in 2010.  Emerging-market equity funds have taken in more than $23
billion since the start of September, according to EPFR Global
data, amid indications that the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
Bank of Japan will add to stimulus measures to defend an
economic recovery. Speculation that China may delay further
measures aimed at damping the nation’s property market has also
helped to attract funds.  “China is a laggard market with building momentum,”
JPMorgan strategists led by  Adrian Mowat  wrote in a report dated
Oct. 18. “These are powerful characteristics in today’s ‘bubble
on, bubble off’ markets.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc last week said it had
turned more bullish on stocks in China and the rest of Asia as
central banks around the world reverse tightening policies.  Both JPMorgan and Citigroup stopped short of raising China
to “overweight,” with JPMorgan’s Mowat saying that Chinese
policies to boost household income will come at the expense of
profits. Citigroup strategists led by  Markus Rosgen  said they
plan to upgrade the market once global leading economic
indicators  “turn up.”  Growth Outlook  The world economy will expand 4.8 percent this year before
growth slows to 4.2 percent next year, the International
Monetary Fund said in a report released earlier this month.
China will post the fastest growth among major emerging markets,
expanding 10.5 percent in 2010 and 9.6 percent next year,
according to the Washington-based fund.  The outlook for liquidity and growth suggests that
investors will drive valuations in Asia higher, helping stocks
to extend a two-year recovery, Citigroup also said. The
brokerage forecasts that the  MSCI Asia excluding Japan  will
climb to 695 by the end of 2011, after the gauge last week
reached its 2010 target of about 530, the strategists wrote in
an Oct. 18 report. The index rose 0.2 percent to 547.96 at 10:04
a.m. in Singapore.  “Year three is historically one during which multiples
expand,” the brokerage said. “The earnings have come through;
investors are convinced of the recovery and are willing to
extend their investment horizon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  