-- China’s Zhang Says Obama Seeking ‘Votes’ With Clean Energy Case
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-18T07:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/china-s-zhang-says-obama-seeking-votes-with-clean-energy-subsidy-probe.html
China’s top energy official said the
U.S. was playing electoral politics with an announcement that it
will investigate a union complaint that the Chinese government
gives unfair subsidies to its alternative energy industry.  “Does America want to get fair trade or a genuine dialogue,
or get transparent information?” National Energy Administration
Director  Zhang Guobao  asked at a Beijing press conference last
night. “I think not -- it seems America’s main reason is to get
votes.”  The U.S. acted on a complaint from the United Steelworkers
union that China’s aid to its clean-energy producers violates
global trade rules. Accepting the petition may lead the U.S. to
file a protest at the World Trade Organization. The complaint,
called a Section 301 filing, is the first filed and accepted by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration after his predecessor,
 George W. Bush , turned down trade complaints against China.  Obama and the Democratic-controlled Congress are under
increasing pressure ahead of the Nov. 2 congressional elections
to take measures to reduce China’s trade surplus. The trade gap
widened to a  record  $28 billion in August, bolstering claims
that a weak Chinese currency is hurting American jobs. Last week
Montana Democrat Max Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, said a bill targeting China’s yuan may pass the
Senate later this year and be sent to Obama for his signature.  Counter Charges  Zhang, who is also vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, China’s main economic
planning body, said the Obama administration was subsidizing
domestic companies as part of the U.S. economic stimulus program.  “Why are the U.S. subsidies legal, and the Chinese ones
wrong?” Zhang told reporters, according to a Chinese  transcript 
of the press conference. The U.S. “cannot win this trade
fight.”  The Chinese government said in July that the country may
spend about 5 trillion yuan ($738 billion) in the next decade
developing cleaner sources of energy to reduce emissions from
burning oil and coal. Obama is aiming to create 800,000 new jobs
in alternative energy by 2012 through subsidized loans, grants
and tax incentives.  Lawmakers have decried proposals to involve foreign
companies in U.S. clean energy projects. Shenyang-based  A-Power
Energy Generation Systems Ltd . announced plans earlier this year
to build a wind turbine factory in Nevada after Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, led an effort to block $450
million in stimulus funds for a Texas wind farm that planned to
use turbines made in the company’s Chinese facilities.  Curbing Pollution  China, the world’s biggest energy user and largest emitter
of greenhouse gases, wants to curb its pollution amid increasing
environmental degradation by boosting solar and wind power and
increasing penalties on heavy polluters.  China Development Bank, a state-owned lender, this year
agreed to more than $42 billion of loans to Chinese solar-panel
and wind-turbine makers.  Yingli Green Energy Holding  Co.,
China’s second largest maker of solar panels by market
capitalization, in July secured a $5.3 billion loan from the
bank. The loan from China Development Bank has “no discount”
and is “competitive,”  Miao Qing , Yingli’s Investor Relations
director, said today in a telephone interview.  The Baoding, Hebei-based company, which aims to get 15
percent of its sales from the U.S. market in the second half,
was awarded $4.5 million in tax credits for a 100-megawatt solar
module production plant by the U.S. Treasury Department in
January, said Miao.  China’s Commerce Ministry said Oct. 16 that the U.S.
complaint was “groundless” and “irresponsible.”  -- Michael Forsythe ,  Feifei Shen . Editors:  John Brinsley ,  Ben Richardson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7527 or
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing +8610-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 