-- China May Give Xi Military Post to Endorse Leadership Succession
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-18T05:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/china-may-appoint-xi-to-military-position-to-endorse-leadership-succession.html
China’s Vice President  Xi Jinping 
may be appointed today to help oversee the 2-million-strong
armed forces, strengthening his position to be the next leader
of the world’s most-populous nation.  Xi, 57, is set to become a vice chairman of the ruling
Communist Party’s Central Military Commission, analysts
including  Victor Shih  said. The title,  bestowed  upon President
 Hu Jintao  in 1999 when he was vice president, would enable Xi to
solidify ties with the People’s Liberation Army ahead of a 2012
party congress that will choose the new leadership. Hu chairs
the military commission and is party general secretary.  “It would be very unseemly not to admit Xi into the CMC at
this point,” said Shih, a professor who teaches Chinese
politics and finance at Northwestern University in Evanston,
Illinois. “If he is smart, he will keep his head down and defer
to Hu.”  China’s leaders gathered behind closed doors at a Beijing
hotel on Oct. 15 for a four-day meeting that will also shape a
new five-year economic plan for the world’s second-biggest
economy. The 200-plus permanent members of the party’s central
committee may also have discussed ways to address a gaping
wealth gap that the official Xinhua News Agency called a
“severe social reality” in its preview of the annual plenum.  Xinhua said the party was likely to endorse Hu’s call for
an “inclusive growth” model to address inequality. The agency
cited the World Bank’s finding that the Gini coefficient -- a
measure of inequality -- reached 0.47 in 2009, exceeding the 0.4
mark that is a predictor of social unrest.  Audi A6 Sedans  The party plenum is closed to foreign media. Security
guards at the Jingxi Hotel wouldn’t allow journalists to take
pictures of the building on Oct. 15, saying it was a military
district. Rows of Audi A6 sedans were seen parked inside the 
hotel grounds.  Many of China’s biggest state-run companies and top bankers
are represented in the central committee or its roster of
alternate members, including China Construction Bank Chairman
 Guo Shuqing  and  PetroChina Co.  Chairman  Jiang Jiemin , according
to a 2007 membership list.  As a vice chairman of the military commission, Xi would
have more say over the world’s second-biggest defense budget
after the U.S., according to figures compiled by the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute. Xi held a staff job in
the People’s Liberation Army in the early 1980s that included
service at the commission, according to his official  biography .  Politician Father  Xi, the son of a former vice premier, was previously party
chief in eastern China’s Zhejiang province and in neighboring
Shanghai. He was also in charge of organizing the 2008 Summer
Olympic Games in Beijing and last year’s celebrations marking 60
years of Communist Party rule. Xi served as Shanghai’s party
secretary for a year after the previous incumbent,  Chen Liangyu ,
was fired and later imprisoned for 18 years for corruption.  Xi holds a doctorate in law and a chemical engineering
degree from Beijing’s  Tsinghua University , Hu’s alma mater,
according to his biography. He is married to a popular singer.  Chinese scholars refer to Xi as a “princeling” because
he’s the son of a prominent official. His father, Xi Zhongxun,
who died in 2002, was responsible for making southern China’s
Guangdong province a centerpiece for economic opening in 1979.
His recommendations were ratified at the time by paramount
leader Deng Xiaoping, according to his  official biography .  Shenzhen’s Development  In 1980, China made the Guangdong fishing village of
Shenzhen, which abuts Hong Kong, a special economic zone. It is
now a Chicago-sized metropolis with a per capita income of more
than $10,000 a year.  The elder Xi was a vice premier from 1959-62 before falling
out of favor with Chairman Mao Zedong, who had established the
People’s Republic of China in 1949. Like many elite youths, Xi
Jinping was sent to the countryside during China’s 1966-1976
Cultural Revolution.  “I ate a lot more bitterness than most people” during the
Cultural Revolution, Xi said in a 1996 interview cited in China
Parenting Magazine. In the interview, Xi said he was imprisoned
four times and called names such as “son of a bitch” and
“reactionary student.”  The direction of China’s political development may also
have featured at the Beijing meeting. In the run-up to the
plenum, Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for a relaxation of state
control of social and political affairs.  ‘Black Hands’  A group of retired officials drawn from the military, state
media and academia, last week accused “invisible black hands”
of suppressing a speech last month in which Wen called for
greater political openness to match economic gains. The open
letter by party elders including Li Rui, Mao’s former secretary,
was published on the Internet Oct. 11.  Should Xi not be named to the military commission, it may
be a sign of further tensions among China’s rulers. Xi, as a
“princeling,” is not in the same political faction as General
Secretary Hu, said  Willy Wo-Lap Lam , an adjunct professor of
history at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.  “If he doesn’t get it that means that there is something
wrong with the factional balance,” Lam said. “It means that Hu
Jintao is powerful enough to not follow the rules.”  -- Michael Forsythe , Yidi Zhao. Editors: Bill Austin, Ben
Richardson  To contact Bloomberg staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing +8610-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  