-- China to Cut Rare Earth Export Quotas as Much as 30% Next Year, Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T01:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/china-plans-to-cut-rare-earth-export-quotas-by-much-as-30-daily-reports.html
China may cut export quotas for rare
earth minerals by as much as 30 percent next year to prevent
overexploitation, the  China Daily  reported, citing an
unidentified official from the  Ministry of Commerce .  Reserves of medium and heavy rare earth minerals might be
completely exhausted in 15 to 20 years at the current rate of
production, the official said, according to the newspaper.
Medium and heavy rare earth, also known as ion-absorbed-type
rare earth, is more valuable than the lighter variety as it’s
used in advanced areas such as missiles, the newspaper said.  China, controller of more than 90 percent of production of
the  materials  used in cell phones and radar, cut its export
quotas by 72 percent for the second half and reduced output,
spurring a trade dispute with the U.S. The country may not be
able to meet growing global demand as the government continues
to curb output, Sydney-based  Lynas Corp.  said in March.  Domestic rare earths deposits dropped to 27 million metric
tons by the end of 2009, or just 30 percent of the world’s total
known reserves, from 43 million tons, or 43 percent of the world
total, in 1996, Chao Ning, section chief of foreign trade at the
ministry said at a Beijing conference on Oct. 16.  China’s verified reserves of ion-absorbed-type rare earth
stood at 8 million tons in 2008 and reserves of light rare earth
totaled 50 million tons to 60 million tons, the newspaper said,
citing the Ministry of Land and Resources data.  Japan, the world’s biggest importer of rare earths, will
urge China to boost shipments of the minerals after a government
survey showed that 31 Japanese buyers reported problems with
exports, Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  said in Tokyo Oct. 5.  China ‘Hoarding’  The U.S. has asked business groups and labor unions to
provide evidence that China is hoarding these elements for a
case that might be filed at the World Trade Organization.  Production and export quota cuts are to protect the
environment and in line with WTO rules,  Yao Jian , spokesman for
China’s Ministry of Commerce, said last week. China “cannot
rule out the possibility that China may need to rely on
imports” sometime in the future for, the ministry’s Chao said
Oct. 16.  Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metallic
elements, including lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and europium.
The U.S. was self-sufficient in the materials until the
mid-1980s, when lower labor and regulatory costs helped China’s
climb to dominance, the U.S. Geological Survey said in a report.  Prices of rare earths in China rose by “fractionally more
than 20 percent since 1979 to hit an average of $8,500 a ton in
2009,” the China Daily report said.  Prices started to pick up in the middle of 2009 following
the government’s decision to reform the industry by cracking
down on illegal mining practices and by reducing exports, the
report said.  Some of the major rare earth oxides, such as neodymium, had
rallied to 24,600 yuan ($3,703) a ton by the end of September, a
rise of 80 percent from January, the newspaper said.  -- Feiwen Rong  and Greg Turk. Editors: Richard Dobson, Jarrett
Banks.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  