-- Xi Closer to Succeeding Hu With China Military Commission Post
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/china-vice-president-xi-named-to-military-post-paving-way-to-succeed-hu.html
China named Vice President  Xi Jinping  to the highest military body, solidifying his status as
the country’s leader-in-waiting ahead of a Communist Party
reshuffle scheduled for 2012.  The 57-year-old Xi was named to the commission, which
controls the country’s more than 2-million strong armed forces,
at an annual meeting of some 360 top officials of the party’s
central committee in Beijing. The gathering also focused on the
next five-year development plan for the world’s second-biggest
economy, according to a statement posted yesterday on the
party’s website.  The military title,  bestowed  upon President  Hu Jintao  in
1999 when he was vice president, would enable Xi to burnish
ties with the People’s Liberation Army before the 2012 party
congress that will choose the new leadership, said  Willy Wo-Lap Lam , an adjunct professor of history at the Chinese University
of Hong Kong. Hu chairs the military commission and is party
general secretary.  “According to party tradition, Xi Jinping as the heir
apparent, as the next general secretary, should be able to get
on to the military commission at least two years before the
change of power,” Lam said. “He will have enough time to learn
the ropes of the commission.”  The central committee members and alternates met behind
closed doors at a Beijing hotel from Oct. 15. The central
committee said China would continue boosting domestic demand to
continue China’s economic growth and to “actively participate”
in global economic governance, according to a  communiqué  posted
on the party’s website.  Riots, Strikes  China’s economy expanded 10.3 percent in the three months
ending in June from a year earlier. Consumption as a percentage
of the economy is less than 40 percent, according to Societe
Generale AG, compared to about 70 percent in the U.S.  According to the communiqué, the party pledged to “pay
more attention to protecting and improving people’s livelihood
and promoting social fairness and justice” and to boost rural
incomes.  The statement reflects the concern of Hu and Premier  Wen Jiabao  that rising income gaps in China threaten to spark more
riots, strikes and other social unrest that might threaten the
party’s 61-year rule.  A study released in August by Zurich-based Credit Suisse AG
reported that the top 10 percent of China’s households earn
139,000 yuan ($20,930) a year, more than triple the official
figures. In contrast, the bottom 10 percent earns 5,350 yuan,
the study written by Wang Xiaolu of the Beijing-based China
Reform Foundation said. China’s statistics bureau called the
methodology flawed.  Elite Membership  The party plenum was closed to foreign media. Security
guards at the Jingxi Hotel wouldn’t allow journalists to take
pictures of the building on Oct. 15, saying it was a military
district. Rows of Audi A6 sedans were seen parked inside the
hotel grounds.  Many of China’s biggest state-run companies and top bankers
are represented in the central committee or its roster of
alternate members, including China Construction Bank Chairman
Guo Shuqing and  PetroChina Co.  Chairman  Jiang Jiemin , according
to a 2007 membership list.  As a vice chairman of the military commission, Xi will have
more say over a defense budget that, according to the
 Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , is the world’s
second biggest. Xi held a staff job in the People’s Liberation
Army in the early 1980s that included service at the commission,
according to his official  biography .  Olympics Organizer  Xi, the son of a former vice premier, was previously party
chief in eastern China’s Zhejiang province and in neighboring
Shanghai. He was also in charge of organizing the 2008 Summer
Olympic Games in Beijing and last year’s celebrations marking 60
years of Communist Party rule. Xi served as Shanghai’s party
secretary for a year after the previous incumbent, Chen Liangyu,
was fired and later imprisoned for 18 years for corruption.  Xi holds a doctorate in law and a chemical engineering
degree from Beijing’s  Tsinghua University , Hu’s alma mater,
according to his biography. He is married to a popular singer.  Many foreign leaders meet with Xi during his trips abroad
or in Beijing. U.S. Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus ,
a Montana Democrat, discussed the value of the yuan with Xi in
Beijing last week.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. Chief Executive Officer
 Mohamed al-Mady  praised Xi as “a great leader” after meeting
him on April 9 at a meeting on the tropical Chinese island of
Hainan.  “He came through the ranks and he is very impressive in
talking to us about China’s future” al-Mady said. Al-Mady’s
Riyadh-based company is the world’s biggest petrochemical maker.  ‘Princeling’  Chinese scholars refer to Xi as a “princeling” because
he’s the son of a prominent official. His father, Xi Zhongxun,
who died in 2002, was responsible for making southern China’s
Guangdong province a centerpiece for economic opening in 1979.
His recommendations were ratified at the time by paramount
leader  Deng Xiaoping , according to his  official biography .  In 1980, China made the Guangdong fishing village of
Shenzhen, which abuts Hong Kong, a special economic zone. It is
now a Chicago-sized metropolis with a per-capita income of more
than $10,000 a year.  -- Michael Forsythe ,  Yidi Zhao . Editors:  John Brinsley ,  Mark Williams   To contact Bloomberg staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing +8610-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  