-- Citigroup Shares Rise as Pandit Sees Return of Capital by 2012
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-10-18T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/citigroup-profit-beats-estimates-on-third-quarter-drop-in-loss-provisions.html
Citigroup Inc. , 12 percent-owned by
U.S. taxpayers, rose in New York trading after earnings beat
analysts’ estimates and Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
said the bank may return capital to shareholders in 2012.  Citigroup climbed 22 cents, or 5.6 percent, to $4.17 in  New
York Stock Exchange composite trading  at 4:15 p.m. The shares,
which have gained 26 percent this year, advanced today after the
New York-based company said third-quarter  net income  was $2.17
billion, or 7 cents a share. Ten analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
 estimated  per-share earnings of 5 cents.  A reduction in reserves brings Pandit, 53, one quarter
closer to achieving his first annual profit after  losses  in 2008
and 2009 that totaled $29.3 billion. A return of capital would
be Citigroup’s first reward for shareholders since the bank, the
nation’s third-biggest, cut its  dividend  in 2008 and then
eliminated it in February 2009.  “They’re going in the right direction,” said  David Hendler , an analyst with CreditSights Inc. “It’s a good goal
and they’re working towards that goal.”  Losses from bad loans declined to $7.66 billion from $11
billion as Citigroup benefited from fewer consumers falling
behind on loan payments. The bank reduced loan-loss reserves by
$1.99 billion.  Earnings rose from a profit of $101 million in the same
period a year earlier.  ‘Solid Results’  The share price gain was the biggest in the 24-company  KBW
Bank Index .  A return on capital would depend on the requirements of the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision when they are completed,
Pandit told analysts on a conference call.  “We anticipate that we should be in a position to return
capital to our shareholders in 2012, subject to our regulators
providing additional guidance to the industry,” Pandit said.  Citigroup’s revenue fell 10 percent to $20.7 billion, while
expenses declined 2.6 percent to $11.5 billion. The bank’s
compensation and benefits expense was $6.12 billion in the third
quarter, down from $6.14 billion a year earlier.  Fixed-income  trading revenue  fell by 13 percent from a year
earlier to $3.5 billion. Stock-trading revenue more than doubled
to $1.04 billion, the company said. Investment-banking revenue
tumbled 20 percent to $930 million, while private-banking
revenue dropped 5 percent to $497 million.  Consumer Credit  “We benefited again this quarter from improvement in
consumer credit trends in both North America and
internationally,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said in
a conference call with reporters.  Citigroup didn’t record “significant” provisions for
litigation stemming from inquiries into whether banks made
misstatements in court while foreclosing on homes -- such as by
having “robo-signers” vouch for the accuracy of filings
without checking underlying records, Gerspach said on the media
call.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  last week said it set aside $1.3
billion of additional litigation reserves during the quarter,
including expenses for “mortgage-related matters.”  No ‘Robo-Signers’  Citigroup, which continued seizures while  Bank of America
Corp.  and other rivals delayed evictions or foreclosure sales,
found no evidence of robo-signing during an “intensified”
internal review, Gerspach said.  “We’re fairly confident that we have not relied on robo-
signers,” he said.  Citigroup, the fourth-biggest U.S. mortgage underwriter and
servicer, recorded a $322 million cost in the quarter to bolster
reserves for potential putbacks of soured mortgages. The bank’s
repurchase reserve stood at $952 million as of Sept. 30, up from
$295 million a year earlier.  This year through Sept. 30, the bank has had to buy back
2,500 loans, about 92 percent of them from the government-
sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Citigroup said in
a presentation on its website. About 200 of the loans
repurchases came from private investors, the bank said.  “We are monitoring the claims activity, but we just
haven’t seen a lot of the claims activity to date coming out of
those private issuances,” Gerspach said on the call with
reporters.  JPMorgan took a $1 billion third-quarter cost to increase
its mortgage-purchase reserves to about $3 billion.  Investment Banking  Citigroup’s trading and investment-banking unit posted net
income of $1.38 billion, compared with $829 million in the same
period last year. The bank slipped to fourth place among
underwriters of U.S. bonds during the quarter, down from No. 1 a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank
underwrote $7.85 billion of global equity offerings to make it
the fifth-largest in the industry, rising from seventh last
year, the data show.  Citi Holdings, the division created to hold businesses
tagged for disposal, reported loan losses of $4.64 billion, down
from $7.37 billion a year earlier. Pandit reduced assets in Citi
Holdings to $421 billion from $556 billion a year earlier.
Pandit said in September that he expects total assets in Citi
Holdings to fall below 20 percent of the bank’s balance sheet by
the end of 2010. Citi Holdings accounted for $1.54 billion of
the overall reserve release.  Book Value  The company took a $435 million loss on the sale of  Student
Loan Corp. , a Citi Holdings business, during the quarter.
Gerspach also told investors that the bank lost “a couple of
hundred million” dollars on the sale of a real-estate loan
portfolio to JPMorgan during the quarter.  David Hilder , an analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group
LLLP, told investors in a September note that Citi Holdings
assets may be sold below their book value. Gerspach agreed on
the conference call.  “The risk, of course, is that market conditions really dry
up, we get that double-dip, and they’re unable to sell those
assets or they have to do so at distressed prices,” said
 William Fitzpatrick , a financial analyst with Optique Capital
Management, which has $750 million under management. “That for
me remains the wild card for Citigroup.”  The U.S. Treasury Department reduced its stake in Citigroup
to 12 percent during the quarter, booking a $1 billion profit
for U.S. taxpayers who provided a $45 billion bailout to the
bank in 2008. The Treasury, headed by  Timothy F. Geithner , sold
$2.2 billion of Citigroup trust-preferred securities this month.  “I always keep hearing about a bailout,” said  Alex Lieblong  of Key Colony Management LLC, which holds 5.3 million
Citigroup shares. “It was a pretty good bailout for the
government.”  Citigroup’s employees totaled 258,000 at end of the third
quarter, down 1,000 from the end of June and down 7,000 from the
end of December 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 