-- CME Group Begins Clearing Over-the-Counter Rate Swaps With Banks, Funds
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-10-18T20:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/cme-group-begins-clearing-over-the-counter-rate-swaps-with-banks-funds.html
CME Group Inc. , the world’s largest
futures exchange, began clearing interest-rate swaps traded
between dealers and money managers as U.S. regulators seek to
lower risk in the $615 trillion private derivatives market.  Participants in the plan include Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae,
Pacific Investment Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc.  and Citadel
LLC, Chicago-based CME Group said in a statement today. Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae have more than $1 trillion of bilateral rate
swaps between them.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in July, mandates that most interest-rate, credit-default
and other swaps be processed by clearinghouses and traded on
exchanges or similar systems, taking business from the Wall
Street banks that pioneered the transactions. All trades in the
 OTC market  will be reported to regulators. Dealers and their
biggest clients will face higher capital requirements to use the
market.  “By working closely with both the buy- and sell-side, we
were able to gain significant input into the needs of the
overall marketplace,”  Laurent Paulhac , CME Group’s managing
director of OTC products and services, said in the statement.  CME Group  rose  $13.36, or 5 percent, to $280.87 in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading. The shares have fallen 16.4
percent this year.  The exchange said margin offsets with its interest-rate
futures was “an anticipated goal.” Margin payments, the amount
of cash an investor must put up against trades, on cleared
interest-rate swaps and futures can cancel each other out if the
positions oppose each other, for example.  Swapstream Failure  CME Group will compete with a unit of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. 
and with  LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  of London for clearing trades
in the $349 trillion interest-rate swap market. Rate swaps make
up the biggest class of over-the-counter derivatives.  CME Group’s new plan follows the failure of its Swapstream
system for interest-rate swaps that the exchange halted in
September 2008.  LCH.Clearnet is the world’s largest interest-rate swap
clearinghouse. Its SwapClear service has been guaranteeing the
trades between banks since 1999 and began offering bank
customers, such as money managers, the clearing service in
December.  Andrew McGuire , a vice president in the
clearinghouse’s U.S. office, said in July that LCH.Clearnet sees
the U.S. market “as the battleground for the next two years.”  The  International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC , majority-
owned by  Nasdaq,  has been open to clear rate swaps since
December 2008 and had $393 million of open-interest, or active
trades, in it clearinghouse as of Oct. 13, said  Alan Sobba , an
IDCG spokesman.  Bank Partners  Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in over-the-counter derivatives markets
because they lessen the effect of a default by sharing the risk
among the members and use daily margining procedures to keep
accounts current. They also allow regulators to see market
positions and prices.  CME Group is working with bank partners Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Morgan Stanley, Nomura Holdings Inc. and UBS AG on its rate
swap clearing plan, it said today.  Freddie Mac had $646 billion in outstanding rate swaps as
of June 30, while Fannie Mae had $552 billion outstanding,
according to their most recent quarterly filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 