-- Moody's Says Overseas Deals May Increase Cnooc Debt, Raise Operation Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-18T05:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/cnooc-s-overseas-acquisitions-may-increase-its-credit-risk-moody-s-says.html
Cnooc Ltd. ’s debt may rise if
China’s biggest offshore oil explorer increases overseas
acquisitions following its stake purchase in  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. ’s Eagle Ford project, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “More such acquisitions will not only turn Cnooc from a
net-cash status to a net-debt position, they will also raise
Cnooc’s operational risks,” Moody’s analysts  Renee Lam  and
Peter Speer wrote in a Weekly Credit Outlook published today.  The $1.08 billion investment in the Texas shale oil and gas
project would give Cnooc its first onshore energy asset in the
U.S. and the company will pay an additional $1.08 billion in
drilling costs. Cnooc will have no difficulty in financing the
Eagle Ford deal, announced on Oct. 11, given its $4.7 billion
cash balance as of mid-2010, according to the report.  “We do not expect the Chesapeake investment to be the last
of Cnooc’s buying overseas given its quest for operational
experience via tie-ups with foreign firms, encouragement from
the Chinese government, and the company’s strong balance
sheet,” the analysts said.  Moody’s said on Oct. 11 that Cnooc’s A1 ratings aren’t
immediately affected by the Eagle Ford stake purchase. The
ratings company on Oct. 8 put Cnooc and its state-controlled
parent on review for a possible upgrade after saying it’s
reviewing China’s debt rating.  The country’s third-largest oil company has spent at least
$3.8 billion on overseas acquisitions in the past year as
China’s energy demand surges. Cnooc’s debt has risen 51 percent
to 28.3 billion yuan ($4.3 billion) as of June from December,
partly because of its $3.1 billion stake purchase in Bridas Corp.
this year, according to Moody’s.  The  shares  fell 1.8 percent to HK$16.10 in Hong Kong
trading as of the midday break, compared with the 1 percent
decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  -- Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Amit Prakash .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  