-- Copper Falls as Rebounding Dollar Erodes Investment Demand for Commodities
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-18T12:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/copper-falls-for-first-time-in-a-week-as-dollar-strengthens-nickel-drops.html
Copper fell in New York and London
as the dollar strengthened, reducing demand for commodities as
an alternative investment.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, rose as much as 0.8 percent. A stronger
U.S. currency also makes dollar-priced metals more expensive in
terms of other monies. A report today may show that production
growth in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest copper consumer
after China, was unchanged in September.  “The dollar moves seem to dwarf the other factors at the
moment,” said  Eugen Weinberg , an analyst at Commerzbank AG.  Copper for delivery in December dropped 3.4 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $3.805 a pound at 8:02 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Copper for delivery in three months slid 0.5 percent to
$8,360 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. All of the six
main metals traded on the LME fell except aluminum.  Comex copper advanced for a fifth straight week last week,
touching a 27-month high as the dollar index posted a fifth
weekly retreat. The U.S. currency slumped on speculation that
the Federal Reserve may engage in more asset purchases in an
effort to stoke the country’s economy.  “The recent price increase was rather a ‘dollar weakness’
than a ‘metals’ strength,’” Weinberg said.  Comex copper’s 14-day relative strength index, a gauge of
whether a commodity is overbought or oversold, was at 66.5 after
last week rising above 71. Some analysts and traders who study
technical charts view readings above 70 as a sign that prices
may be poised to fall.  ‘Overbought Territory’  “The complex, with the exception of aluminum and nickel,
ended the week in overbought territory, as indicated by their
daily relative strength indices,”  Hussein Allidina , head of
commodities research at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a
report today. “We remain positive toward the sector, although”
prices may fall for now, the bank said.  Output at factories, mines and utilities in the U.S.
increased 0.2 percent for a second month, according to the
median forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Gains have cooled from the 0.5 percent average monthly advances
in the first half of the year. The Federal Reserve report is due
at 9:15 a.m. in Washington  Figures due tomorrow may show that U.S. builders broke
ground on 580,000 homes at an annual rate in September, down 3
percent from the previous month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Construction accounts for a quarter of
copper demand, according to the Copper Development Association.  Shanghai Inventories  Copper also fell as Chinese consumers shied away from
purchases after prices climbed and amid rising domestic
stockpiles. Inventories tallied by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained for a second week to a six-week high of 103,510 tons last
week, according to data provided by the bourse. That’s the
highest level since the week ended Sept. 3.  LME copper  stockpiles  declined for a second day, slipping
0.2 percent to 370,450 tons, daily exchange figures showed.
Orders to draw copper from LME stocks, or canceled warrants,
fell 1.6 percent to 22,700 tons.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  decreased 
their net-long position in New York copper futures in the week
ended Oct. 12, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will
rise, fell by 331 contracts from a week earlier.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME fell 1 percent to
$26,450 a ton. Prices reached a record $27,338.50 on Oct. 14.
The metal has jumped 56 percent this year, leading advances on
the exchange, after production was disrupted in Indonesia and
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Nickel dropped 1.3 percent to $23,725 a ton and lead
declined 1 percent to $2,400 a ton. Aluminum gained 0.2 percent
to $2,381.25 a ton and zinc dropped 1 percent to $2,400 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 