-- Nestle Leads European Companies Cutting Loan Cost to 3-Year Low
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-10-18T10:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/credit-suisse-uses-nestle-connection-to-win-biggest-fees-in-consumer-deals.html
European high-grade companies are
getting the lowest loan costs since 2007 as banks vie for
clients that may offer lucrative fees for share sales, merger
advice and derivatives.  Banks have pared interest costs to companies rated BBB- or
above by Standard & Poor’s to an average 92 basis points more
than benchmark lending rates this year, compared with 142 basis
points in 2009 and 52 basis points in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Nestle SA last week got the cheapest rate
in three years on a 4 billion-euro ($5.6 billion) loan.  New regulations are driving banks to boost relationships
with high-grade borrowers, which carry less onerous capital
charges than speculative-grade lending. Underwriters made $267
billion of loans to high-grade companies in Europe this year
compared with $81.5 billion to borrowers rated below investment-
grade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s slightly scary to see loan pricing fall so much
faster than people thought at the start of the year,” said
 Richard Hill , head of EMEA loan syndication at WestLB AG in
London. “While nobody particularly likes it, clearly many banks
are justifying it by using the relationship argument.”  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, is syndicating a
five-year revolving credit with a drawn margin of about 10 basis
points, according to Bloomberg data. That’s the lowest for
European companies since a $2.25 billion deal for chemicals
maker BASF SE in April 2007, the data show.  Basel Rules  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
got $45 billion of loans in August to fund its bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. The biggest portion of the financing,
a $25 billion one-year loan, pays an initial margin of 70 basis
points. BHP’s loan underwriters are advising BHP on the bid.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on Sept. 12 made
it more expensive for banks to lend to riskier borrowers by
raising the cost of the capital they’re required to set aside
against the loans. The new rules follow regulations known as
Basel II, which are being adopted now and require lenders to
allocate more capital against higher-risk loans.  Nestle, based in Vevey, Switzerland, is rated Aa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, the second-highest ranking and a
comparable AA+ by Fitch Ratings. It’s rated one step lower at AA
by S&P. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Average Bids Rise  “It is surprising to see banks tightening their
corporate lending spreads at a time when their funding costs are
still elevated and their capital needs are rising because of the
new Basel accord,” said  Georg Grodzki , head of credit research
at Legal & General Investment Management in London, who helps
oversee 300 billion pounds ($481 billion).  In the secondary market, the average bid for leveraged
loans rose to 96.70 cents for the week ending Oct. 14, according
to Standard & Poor’s LCD’s European flow-name composite index,
the highest since May 6. Loans to Spanish cable television
company Cableuropa SA increased to 101 cents on the euro from
91.5 in the week ending Oct. 15, according to Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. Cableuropa issued 700 million euros of eight-year
bonds Oct. 15 yielding 8.875 percent, according to Bloomberg
data, allowing it to prepay junior-ranking debt.  “It’s great from a borrower’s point of view to be able to
get cheap and cheerful money again,” Hill said. “For lenders,
only those who get other genuine fee businesses like M&A
advisory or equity offerings can surely make sense of lending
their balance sheet out at the current pricing levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  