-- Swiss Stocks Increase as Synthes, Credit Suisse Advance, Actelion Retreats
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-18T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/credit-suisse-kuehne-nagel-roche-and-daetwyler-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks increased, as gains by
Credit Suisse Group AG and Synthes Inc. offset declines by
 Actelion Ltd.  and Xstrata Plc.  Switzerland’s second-largest bank climbed 2.4 percent as
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research kept it as its top pick among
European investment banks. Synthes advanced 1.1 percent as
Credit Suisse retained an “outperform” rating on the stock.
Actelion, the biggest Swiss biotechnology company, dropped 3.8
percent, ending a four-day winning streak.  The  Swiss Market Index  added 0.4 percent to 6,470.26 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge increased 1.3 percent last
week as minutes from last month’s Federal Reserve meeting showed
that U.S. officials were prepared to ease monetary policy
further. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  also rose 0.4
percent today.  “After the recent strong rally, it is tempting to see the
Fed’s upcoming quantitative-easing announcement as a potential
bump in the road for stocks,”  Ian Scott , a London-based
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a report to
clients. “We cannot rule out a correction. However, with third-
quarter earnings likely to surprise on the upside, valuations
low and sentiment only modestly above ‘normal’, we continue to
see upside potential.”  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., a report showed that production unexpectedly
dropped in September for the first time since the recession
ended in June 2009, showing the industry that led the economy
out of the recession has cooled.  Output at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.2 percent,
the first decline since the recession ended in June 2009,
figures from the Federal Reserve showed today.  Factory
production  also decreased 0.2 percent, as orders for consumer
durable goods, including appliances and furniture, declined.  Credit Suisse  increased 2.4 percent to 42.99 Swiss francs.
BofA Merrill Lynch reiterated its preference for Switzerland’s
second-biggest bank compared with other European investment
banks. The brokerage said in a note that “long term, Credit
Suisse can continue taking market share in wealth management and
investment banking, while delivering a mid-twenties return on
tangible book value and a 5 percent dividend yield.”  UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank, increased 1.4 percent
to 17.28 francs. Citigroup Inc., the bank 12 percent-owned by
U.S. taxpayers, said profit surged, beating analysts’ estimates
as the company cut its loan-loss reserves by $1.99 billion.
Citigroup’s results provide “a good indicator that third-
quarter results have the potential to beat current consensus
estimates,” Hammer Partners said in an e-mailed comment about
European investment banks.  Synthes  rose 1.1 percent to 117.30 francs. Credit Suisse
reiterated its “outperform” rating ahead of quarterly results,
which are due on Oct. 21.  Nobel Biocare Gains  Nobel Biocare Holding AG  climbed 4.5 percent to 17.84 euros
after a Helvea AG analyst said that the Swiss dental implant
maker “looks like a definite takeover target” at the current
share price and raised his rating on the stock.  The Glattbrugg-based company is a “leading player in an
attractive market with no major shareholders.” Low interest
rates could spur interest from larger companies such as Johnson &
Johnson, 3M Co. and Synthes,  Daniel Jelovcan , the Helvea
analyst, said today in a research note. He upgraded the stock to
“buy” from “accumulate.”  Daetwyler, Roche  Daetwyler Holding AG  advanced 3.5 percent to 72.45 francs.
The maker of packaging for drugmakers expects to report net
income of 90 million francs ($94.1 million) and sales of 1.3
billion francs to 1.35 billion francs for 2010, Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Haelg  told Finanz und Wirtschaft.  Roche Holding AG  increased 1 percent to 143.30 francs. The
drugmaker submitted applications in the U.S. and Europe to sell
its Actemra/Roactemra medicine as a treatment for juvenile
idiopathic arthritis, the company said today.  Actelion dropped 3.8 percent to 52.75 francs. The shares
gained 14 percent in the four days ended Oct. 15. Exane BNP
Paribas reiterated its “neutral” rating on the stock ahead of
third-quarter results, which are due on Oct. 21.  Xstrata  sank 2.2 percent to 19.80 francs, following
European basic-resources shares lower. Separately, HSBC Holdings
Plc cut its recommendation on the stock to “underweight” from
“neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  