-- Crystal Cathedral, Home to `Hour of Power,' Seeks Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/crystal-cathedral-ministries-in-california-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Crystal Cathedral Ministries, the
Southern California megachurch founded by television evangelist
 Robert Schuller , filed for bankruptcy court protection from its
creditors, which are owed as much as $100 million.  The  church , known for its television show “The Hour of
Power,” listed assets and debts of $50 million to $100 million
each in Chapter 11 documents filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Santa Ana, California. The church, based in Garden
Grove, claims a congregation of 10,000 members.  “Budgets could not be cut fast enough to keep up with the
unprecedented rapid decline in revenue due to the recession,”
Senior Pastor Sheila Schuller Coleman said in a statement.  U.S. churches are struggling financially because high
unemployment has cut weekly offerings, said  Wayne Bradshaw ,
president and chief operating officer of Broadway Federal Bank.
The Los Angeles-based lender does about 25 percent of its
lending business with churches.  Broadway , which has about $510 million in assets, has made
about $100 million in loans to churches, Bradshaw said. The
church-related loans have a higher rate of late payments than
Broadway’s other loans, Bradshaw said.  “We’re seeing more late payments,” Bradshaw said in a
phone interview. “There certainly has been increasing
delinquencies.”  Crystal Cathedral spokesman John Charles said in an
interview the church’s revenue has fallen about 40 percent this
year. From 2008 to 2009 revenue fell from about $30 million to
about $22 million, he said.  ‘Glory of Easter’  To counter the declines, the church sold a 170-acre
retreat, cut staff and canceled its “Glory of Easter” program.
One of the vendors that provided the animals for that service is
among the church’s creditors, along with some television
stations and a supplier of high-definition television equipment,
Charles said.  The church decided to file bankruptcy after some of its
creditors sued for payment, according to the statement. The
board of directors on Aug. 27 authorized a bankruptcy filing by
Chief Financial Officer Fred W. Southard, according to court
papers.  Robert Schuller cited the title of his 1984 book --“Tough
Times Never Last, But Tough People DO!” -- as he forecast in
the statement that the church will overcome its financial
difficulties. Church operations, including the television show,
will continue while Crystal Cathedral tries to reorganize and
reduce its debts, the church said.  Schuller retired from daily oversight of the church earlier
this year. He was succeeded by his daughter, Schuller Coleman.  The Crystal Cathedral is a glass-enclosed building designed
to double as a television studio to broadcast the Sunday worship
services. The 145-foot wide chancel area can hold 1,000 singers,
and the church organ contains 16,000 pipes.  The entranceway contains two 90-foot-tall doors and the
alter is dominated by a 17-foot-tall wooden cross decorated with
gold leaf.  The case is 10-24771, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central
District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 