-- Currencies Should Reflect Economic Fundamentals, Eurogroup's Juncker Says
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-10-18T20:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/currencies-should-reflect-economic-fundamentals-eurogroup-s-juncker-says.html
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said
foreign-exchange volatility “has negative effects on a global
scale,” adding that Europe should “respond appropriately” to
currency movements.  “It is important that foreign-exchange rates reflect
economic fundamentals,” Juncker told reporters today after a
ministerial meeting in Luxembourg. Officials will “carefully
watch” currency developments, he said.  Countries from China to Japan are seeking to restrain their
currencies to gain a trade advantage, roiling financial markets
and prompting Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to last
month warn of a worldwide “currency war.” European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that
volatility in foreign-exchange markets is “counterproductive.”  “Currency rates should not be used as a means of
competition, because it will lead to unfair competition,” Dutch
Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told reporters in Luxembourg.
“So we are against it.”  The appreciation of the euro against other currencies makes
it harder for producers from the region, such as Germany’s
automobile industry, to export their products. The European
currency has jumped more than 17 percent against the dollar
after reaching a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7.  The euro, which traded at $1.3978 at 10:16 p.m. Luxembourg
time, is 20 percent overvalued, a Bloomberg index of the
relative buying power of world currencies shows.  ‘Negative Consequences’  “We doubt that the finance ministers’ concerns today about
the latest rise in the euro across the board will have lasting
negative consequences for the currency,” Valentin Marinov, a
London-based currency strategist at Citigroup, said in a note to
investors. “European officials continue to see the problems of
the euro area’s fiscally weak members as a far greater threat to
its stability and growth outlook than the strong euro of late.”  European and U.S. officials argue that a stronger Chinese
currency would aid the global recovery by stoking demand within
the nation and reducing international economic imbalances.
China’s gross domestic product expanded 10.3 percent in the
second quarter as the economy replaced Japan’s as the second-
biggest in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Luxembourg at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 