-- Degree of Inflation Is Now Fed's Concern, Pond Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-18T19:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/degree-of-inflation-is-now-fed-s-concern-barclays-s-pond-says-tom-keene.html
The Federal Reserve has shifted its
focus from the prospect of deflation to whether there’s enough
inflation, according to  Michael Pond , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Barclays Plc.  “We are stuck in a low inflationary environment,” Pond,
whose firm is one of 18 primary dealers that trade with the
central bank, said in a roundtable  interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “The mantra
from the Fed has shifted from concern about deflation to now
they are concerned with continued low inflation.”  Policy makers believe that “by boosting inflation, they
will boost the employment situation,”  Anthony Crescenzi , a
strategist at Pacific Investment Management Co., said at the
roundtable. Nominal spending will increase as asset prices go
up, which “should cause some inflation and boost spending to
help employment,” he said. Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  The cost of living rose less than forecast in September,
indicating companies are keeping a lid on price increases to
stoke demand. The consumer price index rose 0.1 percent after
0.3 percent gains in the prior two months, figures from the
Labor Department showed on Oct 15. Economists projected a 0.2
percent gain, according to a Bloomberg News survey. In the 12
months ended in September, prices rose 1.1 percent, matching the
year-over-year gain the previous month.  Policy makers “are uncomfortable not only when it looks
like we are going to be in a disinflationary environment, but
just when inflation is below their target” of 2 percent, Pond
said.  ‘Risk Management’  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  echoed today a
statement by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week that
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted because inflation
is too slow and unemployment is too high.  More so-called quantitative easing “is a form of risk
management,” Lockhart said in a speech in Savannah, Georgia.
“Given the circumstances of sluggish growth and measured
inflation that is too low, I give greater weight to the risk of
further disinflation leading to deflation.”  The  yield difference  between U.S. 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, narrowed to 2.08 percentage
points today, from 2.13 on Oct. 15. Its 2010 low was 1.47
percentage points in August.  “We went through a nearly 30-year period where lower
inflation was always better from the Fed’s perspective,” Pond
said. “That’s just not the case any more. We are at the point
where the Fed would prefer higher inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  