-- Disney Buys Paramount's Rights to Marvel Movies Including Next `Iron Man'
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-19T01:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/disney-buys-paramount-s-rights-to-marvel-movies-including-next-iron-man-.html
Walt Disney Co.  agreed to pay  Viacom
Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures at least $115 million for distribution
rights to “Iron Man 3” and the “Avengers,” gaining full
control of movies owned by its Marvel Entertainment unit.  Paramount, hired to distribute Marvel films before the
movie and comic book company was bought by Disney for about $4
billion in January, will release “Thor” and “Captain
America” next year, the companies said today in a statement.  The $115 million will serve as a minimum guarantee to
Paramount, the companies said. Disney, based in Burbank,
California, has made Marvel and Pixar Animation the focus of its
movie-making and agreed in July to sell its Miramax film
division to private-equity investors Colony Capital LLC.  Paramount “probably made good at least on what they would
have earned on the Marvel releases,” said  Matt Harrigan , a
Denver-based analyst with Wunderlich Securities. “I’d be
surprised if Paramount got just $115 million. That’s just a
floor.”  The deal may be viewed as a sign of Paramount management’s
confidence it can generate profit from an internally produced
slate, JPMorgan analyst  Imran Khan  said in a note to investors.  Movie franchises produced by Paramount include “Star
Trek” and the “Transformers,” “Mission: Impossible” and
“G.I. Joe” films.  Paul Roeder , a Disney spokesman, declined to comment beyond
the statement.  Steven Rubenstein , Paramount’s outside spokesman,
declined to comment.  Disney fell 13 cents to $34.75 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 7.8 percent
this year. New York-based Viacom fell 23 cents to $37.64. The
class B shares are up 27 percent this year.  “Thor” is set for release on May 6, 2011. “Captain
America” is planned for July 22, 2011, according to the
Internet Movie Database. “The Avengers” will be released in
2012 and “Iron Man 3” in 2013, Disney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  