-- Dollar May Be a Poised for Rally, Options Traders' Shift in Bets Suggest
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-18T15:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/dollar-may-be-a-poised-for-rally-options-traders-shift-in-bets-suggest.html
Options traders increased bets at
the fastest pace in two months that the euro will weaken against
the dollar, signaling the greenback’s slump may be overdone as
investors back away from higher-yielding assets.  Traders reduced options holdings to profit from a weaker
euro every week since August, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is “prepared to provide
additional monetary accommodation,” increasing speculation it
may reintroduce large-scale debt purchases when it meets in
November. The euro has rallied 9.2 percent since Aug. 30 and the
dollar has dropped against all 16 of the most-traded currencies
during that time.  Investors have sold U.S. dollars to buy other currencies in
anticipation of further quantitative easing, where the Fed buys
U.S. debt to support the economy. The stimulus measure increases
the amount of dollars in the market, reducing the currency’s
strength. Investors then buy assets in other countries,
strengthening currencies including the euro, the South Korean
won and the Brazilian real.  “ It’s part of a wider move for dollar demand,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New
York. “The market is getting concerned that it may have
overextended itself and that the dollar will become in demand.”  Delta Force  The euro’s one-month 25-delta risk-reversal rate against
the dollar -- the premium of put options over calls -- dropped
as much as 0.32 percentage point to  0.52 percent as of
9 a.m. in New York. That’s the biggest intraday drop since
August 12. A delta is the change in the value of an option for
each dollar change in the market price of the underlying asset.  The dollar’s one-month non-deliverable forward contract
versus the won gained 0.35 percent today, implying the greenback
will strengthen by that much during a month, from the spot rate
of 1,119.03 won per dollar.  The one-month NDF for the dollar versus the Brazilian real
has risen 1 percent since Oct. 13.  Brazilian central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said
the government is considering more tax changes that may have
“effects on the exchange rate” and will announce them when
they are ready.  “The American economy depends on stimuli, but there is a
limit,” Meirelles told reporters in Sao Paulo today. “It
creates grave distortions and collateral effects that are felt
more in countries in which the economy is doing well, such as
Brazil.”  The real has appreciated 4.8 percent against the dollar
this year. Brazil earlier this month doubled to 4 percent a tax
it charges foreigners on investment in fixed-income securities
in a bid to stem the real’s strength. Last month, the central
bank stepped up dollar purchases.  The real dropped 0.2 percent to 1.6691 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  