-- Dubai International Capital Seeks to Restructure Its Business by Year-End
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-10-18T09:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/dubai-international-capital-seeks-to-restructure-its-business-by-year-end.html
Dubai International Capital LLC, an
investment company owned by Dubai’s ruler, plans to restructure
its business by the end of the year, Chief Investment Officer
 David Smoot  said.  “Our goal is to be out of the restructuring business by
the end of the year and back into the growth phase,” Smoot told
reporters in Abu Dhabi today.  Dubai’s state-owned companies are struggling to repay loans
as the worst financial crisis since the 1930s froze credit
markets and prevented them from raising new debt. Dubai World,
one of the emirate’s three state-owned holding companies,
announced last month that it had reached a deal with 99 percent
of its creditors to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of loans.  DIC, owned by Dubai Holding LLC, a group with interests
spanning property, hospitality and investments, presented a plan
to creditors to sell assets over five years to repay $2.6
billion of debt, two people with knowledge of the plan said
Sept. 15. Six banks led by HSBC Holdings Plc and Emirates NBD
PJSC are negotiating with DIC on behalf of 26 lenders on its
debt restructuring plan, one of the people said.  DIC’s holdings include stakes in budget hotel chain
Travelodge Hotels Ltd., U.K.-based medical imaging company
Alliance Medical Ltd. and Mauser AG, a German industrial
packaging company.  Alliance Medical  Alliance Medical’s board agreed to consider a sale to help
repay debt following a demand by senior lenders, a person with
knowledge of the matter said Aug. 25. Lenders are also working
on an alternative debt-restructuring proposal to the one
suggested by Dubai International and junior mezzanine lenders on
July 15, the person said.  The company is taking a flexible approach in talks over
Alliance Medical’s debt, Smoot said. “We are still fighting
that battle,” he said. “Our preference is to maximize our
return of capital, typically with control.”  The U.K.-based medical-imaging company may attract bids
from BC Partners Ltd., CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Euromedic
International, two people with knowledge of the matter said on
Oct 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  