-- EasyJet's McCall Must Slow Fleet Expansion, Founder Stelios Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-19T17:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/easyjet-ceo-mccall-must-slow-fleet-expansion-as-growth-peaks-stelios-says.html
EasyJet Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Carolyn McCall , at the helm since July, must rein in expansion
and accept that growth in the discount-airline industry has
peaked, the carrier’s founder and biggest shareholder said.  McCall, 48, should freeze EasyJet’s aircraft fleet at about
200 rather than the planned 315, according to  Stelios Haji- Ioannou , who prefers to be known by his first name.  Ryanair
Holdings Plc  paid a first-ever dividend this month after walking
away from an order for 200  Boeing Co.  jetliners last December.  “This is an industry that has matured,” Stelios said in a
telephone interview. “Too many aircraft are employed on routes
that only have passengers for six months of the year. Do I
believe there’s scope to find destinations for 50 percent more
planes? Probably not.”  Stelios, 43, who founded Luton, England-based EasyJet in
1995 and stood down as chairman in 2002, controls a 36 percent
 stake . He first clashed over the pace of expansion almost two
years ago with  Andy Harrison , McCall’s predecessor, when the
economy was headed for the deepest slump in a generation.  McCall, who joined from Guardian Media Group Plc and had no
previous experience in the aviation industry, will make her
first strategy presentation on Nov. 16. Last week, she resolved
a branding dispute with Stelios, saying there would be a “new
chapter” in relations with his EasyGroup IP Licensing Ltd.  Planes on Order  While EasyJet is still growing faster than network carriers
such as   British Airways Plc , analysts  estimate  that revenue
expansion will slow to 10 percent in the current fiscal year,
from 31 percent in the 12 months through September 2008, as the
company finds it tougher to find profitable new routes.  EasyJet had 196 Airbus SAS A320-series single-aisle planes
in the fleet as of Sept. 30, with the total slated to rise to
208 within two years, out of 227 jetliners on firm order. It
also has 88 options and purchase rights, valid to 2015.  The carrier pledged last year to restrict seating increases
to 7.5 percent annually versus an average of 15 percent between
2005 and 2008. That’s still too high and EasyJet needs to become
a year-round operator, ending the “unsustainable” practice of
serving routes that are  profitable  only in the summer and then
grounding planes over winter, Stelios says.  “It’s no longer that same break-neck growth,” Stelios
said in the interview. “We’re talking about realistic growth
rates of GDP-plus-something.”  Beating Forecast  EasyJet still has scope to expand capacity 5 percent to 10
percent a year, said  Wyn Ellis , an analyst at Numis Securities
in London with a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  EasyJet  fell  1.1 percent to 449.1 pence in London, paring
gains this year to 27 percent and giving a  market value  of 1.95
billion pounds ($3.1 billion). The stock jumped 12 percent jump
on Oct. 6, when McCall said pretax  profit  for the year ended
Sept. 30 beat the carrier’s forecast.  Ryanair dropped 1.2 percent to 4.05 euros in Dublin. The
shares have advanced 34 percent this year, valuing the company
at 6 billion euros ($8.3 billion).  EasyJet has never paid a  dividend , preferring to invest
earnings in a network that began with flights from Luton to the
Scottish cities of Edinburgh and Glasgow and now extends to 120
destinations across Europe and north Africa.  “McCall needs to weigh the interests of all  shareholders 
in making her decisions and be prepared to stand up to Stelios
if necessary,” said Ellis. “The U.K. market may be relatively
mature but there are opportunities in overseas markets.”  Boardroom Unrest  EasyJet has been plagued by delays this summer that Stelios
says were caused by the implementation of a cost-reduction plan
conceived by Harrison that cut too deep into the workforce,
leaving the company short-handed during its busiest months.  McCall will also want more boardroom stability following a
spate of resignations. Chairman  Colin Chandler  and Finance
Director  Jeff Carr  resigned in 2009, Stelios and his nominee  Bob Rothenberg  stepped down in May and  Cor Vrieswijk , the operations
chief, quit two weeks ago after just 3 1/2 years at the company.  Stelios has been at loggerheads with EasyJet’s top managers
since November 2008, when he refused to sign off on accounts and
rebuked the board for buying planes and adding routes amid a
slump in demand for travel. He quit EasyJet’s board in May.  The challenge facing McCall has been made tougher by
changes at Ryanair, where CEO  Michael O’Leary  is planning a move
to larger airports nearer city centers, scrapping a strategy
based solely on less-costly, out-of-town airports.  ‘Take Their Traffic’  “As we grow we are increasingly running into EasyJet, and
wherever we have run into them they have cut back or pulled
out,” O’Leary said in an interview. “Our fares are so much
cheaper that we don’t have to worry about them. If they’re
there, we take their traffic.”  Jonathan Wober , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in
London, said he expects more instances of direct competition,
and that Ryanair has a cost and price advantage, though EasyJet
has a similar edge over carriers such as British Airways.  Ryanair walked away from the order for Boeing 737s last
year after failing to agree terms, and used the cash saved to
fund a 500 million-euro shareholder payment. The Irish company’s
fleet will still swell to 299 aircraft by 2013.  “O’Leary has paid a dividend, so why should we be the only
ones not to?” said Stelios. “I’d be happy if there was a new
dividend policy that was say ‘X percent of our earnings would be
distributed.’ It’s not as if it’s going to change my lifestyle;
it’s the discipline I like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  