-- Ecuador Bill Would Prepare Bourses for IPOs, Quito Exchange President Says
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-10-18T16:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/ecuador-bill-would-prepare-bourses-for-ipos-quito-exchange-president-says.html
Ecuador’s government is preparing
legislation that would turn the country’s two securities
exchanges into for-profit companies, a move that could lead to
initial public offerings of the bourses, said  Monica Villagomez ,
executive president of the Quito exchange.  The bill that administration officials showed Villagomez
would make local markets “much more attractive to foreign
investors,” she said in an Oct. 15 interview in Quito. The
Bolsa de Valores de Quito may sell shares within a year of
passage of the legislation, she said.  President  Rafael Correa  may propose a new markets law as
early as next year to boost trading on local exchanges and
increase worker participation in the stocks of Ecuadorean
companies, Villagomez said. The new law would also create
incentives to integrate the nation’s Quito and Guayaquil
exchanges, reducing trading inefficiencies in the Andean
country’s markets, she said.  “Becoming for-profit companies will allow interested third
parties, institutions or foreign investors to participate in the
bourse’s capital,” Villagomez said from the exchange’s newly
remodeled offices in Quito. “Our ambition is to integrate with
exchanges” in Chile, Colombia and Peru, “because if we don’t
at least integrate with regional markets, we could disappear.”  Chile, Colombia and Peru will integrate their exchanges
next month, Colombia stock exchange President  Juan Pablo Cordoba 
said Oct 5. The integrated market will be Latin America’s top
issuer with a total 563 stocks, and second in market
capitalization with $564 billion, behind Brazil, he said.  “A small, fragmented bourse in a small country doesn’t
have a bright future,” Villagomez said of Ecuador’s two
securities exchanges. “It’s the difference between having a
little pie or a big cake.”  Francisco Vizcaino, head of the nation’s securities
regulator, couldn’t comment on the new law, an assistant who
can’t be identified due to government policy said by telephone
today. Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  wasn’t available to
comment, an official at the ministry’s press office who can’t be
identified due to government policy said by telephone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  