-- EDF Replaces Constellation Board Member Daniel Camus With Lawyer Minzberg
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-18T16:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/edf-replaces-constellation-energy-board-member-camus-with-lawyer-minzberg.html
Electricite de France SA  named
lawyer  Samuel Minzberg  to the board of  Constellation Energy
Group Inc. , replacing  Daniel Camus , who helped deepen a
partnership with the U.S. utility that has now soured.  The appointment of Minzberg, a partner at Montreal law firm
Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP, will be put before the
board Oct. 22, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission
filing today. Camus was replaced as chief financial officer of
Europe’s largest generator in February by  Thomas Piquemal .  Constellation this month said it would sell its half-share
of UniStar Nuclear Energy to EDF for $1 plus $117 million while
refusing to forgo an option to sell the Paris-based company 12
of its old power plants for $2 billion. EDF offered to pay
“fair market value” for the stake provided Constellation
agreed not to exercise the option.  Minzberg specializes in corporate, commercial and tax law,
with an emphasis on mergers and acquisitions and corporate
reorganizations, according to the firm’s website. The lawyer was
one of the Vivendi Universal SA directors whom former Chief
Executive  Jean-Marie Messier  blamed for his ouster in 2002.  Constellation and EDF created the UniStar Nuclear Energy
venture in 2007 to build as many as four French-designed nuclear
reactors in New York and at the Calvert Cliffs site in Maryland.
At the time, EDF’s former CEO, Pierre Gadonneix, was seeking to
develop and operate 10 reactors around the world by 2020.  Henri Proglio , EDF’s chief executive officer who took over
last year, has been scaling back his predecessor’s international
expansion plans to cut debt. In July, Proglio agreed to sell
EDF’s U.K. power networks for 5.8 billion pounds ($9.3 billion)
to a group led by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd.  Constellation this month decided to withdraw an application
for a $7.5 billion U.S. federal loan guarantee to support
building a reactor in Maryland because it was too expensive.  EDF has one seat on Constellation’s board and owns 8.4
percent of the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkenned3@bloomberg.net  