-- Hedge-Fund Manager Diggle Starts Family Office, Shuns Banks
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-18T01:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/hedge-fund-manager-diggle-starts-family-office-shunning-private-banks.html
Stephen Diggle, co-founder of hedge-
fund firm Artradis Fund Management Pte, has set up a company to
pool his personal wealth with that of family offices in  Asia  and
invest in assets worldwide.  Vulpes Investments will enable Diggle to diversify his
personal assets by co-investing with other family offices “as
far as possible independently of commercial financial service
providers,” he said in an e-mail.  Banks including Merrill Lynch & Co., Citigroup Inc., UBS AG
and Morgan Stanley have been sued by Asian clients as the global
financial crisis slashed client assets in the wealth management
industry worldwide by 17 percent to $14.5 trillion in 2008,
according to estimates by London-based Scorpio Partnership Ltd.  “The breakdown of trust that has happened in the financial
world post-2008 has created opportunities for wealthy families
to work together in a collaborative way,” Diggle, who is based
in  Singapore , said on Oct. 15.  The number of individuals with at least $1 million of
investable assets in Asia-Pacific rose 26 percent to 3 million
in 2009, matching  Europe  and almost overhauling  North America ’s
3.1 million, according to a report published in June by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch.  Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which currently manages money
exclusively for Diggle, is overseeing the family-office venture,
he said. GFIA advises investors seeking to allocate money to
hedge funds and announced it started a wealth management
business in January.  Diggle’s family office targets investments in operating
businesses, agricultural assets, commercial and hospitality real
estate, as well as private equity, he said. It also has a
philanthropic component, Diggle said.  Vulpes has co-invested with other families and private
groups, said  Peter Douglas , the principal of GFIA, declining to
disclose the value of Diggle’s assets. It seeks to “offer its
operating resources to a small number of families with similar
values” and is in “advanced talks” with another family,
Douglas said.  Diggle said he will continue to run the Artradis Barracuda
Fund, AB2 Fund and Russian Opportunities Fund. The Singapore-
based hedge-fund firm manages about $850 million, compared with
about $4.5 billion in January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  