-- Hedge Funds Succumbing to Mutual Funds’ Mediocrity: David Pauly
-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 2010-10-18T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/hedge-funds-succumbing-to-mutual-funds-mediocrity-david-pauly.html
Hedge funds have had it.  Those free-wheeling investment vehicles with assets of $1.6
trillion nosedived during the credit crash and recession -- and
won’t regain their glory.  Hedge funds won’t disappear. There always will be traders
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  who will start new ones in search
of even-higher pay and retired and fired Wall Street executives
who will join them.  Still, hedge funds are destined to become like mutual
funds: They will have trouble beating the markets.  Hedge funds made their mark chalking up out-sized annual
profits like 30 percent or more for their investors. The better
the returns, the more funds were started. There are now more
than 6,900 such funds, according to  Hedge Fund Research Inc.  in
Chicago.  With so many of them digging in the markets, the
opportunity for a unique investment payoff becomes less and
less.  Is there any piece of knowledge these days that isn’t
instantly broadcast? If one fund’s computer program pops up with
a new idea, other funds quickly get into the same game, reducing
the advantage.  This is the history of mutual funds repeated. There are
more than 7,600 mutual funds in the U.S., according to
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group,
and many investors have given up hope that they can consistently
beat the crowd. They have switched to index funds, which track a
set list of investments.  Hedge Fund Fees  Of the households that invested in mutual funds in 2009, 27
percent owned at least one index fund, according to  ICI .  Hedge funds will also have a cost problem if market returns
in the coming years tend to be modest, as many pundits predict.  When times are tough, people look for low-expense
investments. Hedge funds are anything but. Besides their
ordinary expenses, they take 20 percent of any profit.  Investors may have ignored that when a fund gained 50
percent in a year buying gold or trading credit-default swaps.
But after months of losses and poor returns, they are balking.
The average hedge fund  returned  4.59 percent this year through
September, according to Hedge Fund Research.  Several hedge fund managers have begun closing shop, most
notably  Stanley Druckenmiller , 57, who says he’s tired of the
stress and frustrated because his recent returns haven’t matched
those of the past.  Free to Roam  Hedge funds may have an advantage over mutual funds because
they can invest almost any way they choose. They can sell short,
betting that stocks will drop. They can buy distressed debt and
real estate. They can bet on movements in currencies and
commodities. The problem is they run with the herd.  Hedge funds and other big speculators, for instance,
increased their bets on crude oil in the week ended Oct. 5 to
the most since last spring, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Why? Because they think the Federal Reserve will try to
stimulate the U.S. economy even more. Is there any investor in
the world who hasn’t read or heard that? Crude has rallied since
mid-September. The funds hardly seemed to be getting in at the
bottom.  The attraction of hedge funds will die hard. Many investors
-- pension funds, for example -- may think hedge funds will beat
the markets even if their returns are much lower than those of
the past.  They may be encouraged by a recent statistic on mutual
funds. So-called managed stock funds actually beat the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  in the 10 years ended Oct. 12, returning an
annual average of 2.3 percent, compared with a 0.59 percent gain
for the index, according to Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based
research firm.  The years ahead may be tough for all investors. You can bet
that the shrewdest of them are thinking of anything other than
hedge funds.  ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Normandy Beach, New Jersey, at 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  