-- Leighton Seeks Protection for Its Shareholders in Hochtief Takeover Move
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-10-18T06:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/leighton-asks-regulator-for-shareholder-protection-amid-bid-by-hochtief.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest construction company, applied to the country’s regulator
to protect minority shareholders’ interests in the event of a
successful takeover of its parent,  Hochtief AG .  The German construction company is fighting a proposal from
Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA, which is seeking to
gradually absorb Hochtief by buying stock in the open market.  Hochtief said Oct. 6 it filed a request with the Australian
regulator seeking to force ACS to make an offer for the shares
outstanding in Leighton should the Spanish company gain control
of the German operation, making any takeover more expensive.  “Leighton considers that any Actividades des Construccion
y Servicios’ bid required by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission downstream be a fully priced cash bid,”
the Sydney-based company said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange.  “If such a bid is not forthcoming, Leighton considers that
the only acceptable alternative for shareholders is a guarantee
of the company’s independence, including its brands, market
position and operations.”  ACS already owns close to 30 percent of Hochtief and wants
to raise its stake to slightly more than 50 percent.  Leighton  fell 0.3 percent to A$37.32 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of Sydney trading on the Australian stock exchange today.  Hochtief, which has a market capitalization of 4.44 billion
euros ($6.19 billion), owns 54.5 percent of Leighton. The
Australian builder is valued at A$11.3 billion ($11.2 billion).  Hochtief has mandated Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG to assist it with its defense strategy, together with
Credit Suisse Group AG, which was already an adviser prior to
the approach. The builder is also being advised by law firm
Hengeler Mueller, and the supervisory board hired law firm
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer as an adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  