-- Meirelles Says Brazil Considering Measures to Temper Currency Appreciation
-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-18T15:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/meirelles-says-brazil-considering-steps-amid-distortions-created-by-fed.html
Brazilian central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  said the government is considering whether to
take additional measures to prevent the real from rallying.  “We now are in a phase of the process, not only of
assessing what has been done, but also analyzing what could be
done,” Meirelles told reporters today in Sao Paulo, when asked
if the government could take additional measures, such as the
adoption of higher taxes for capital inflows. “The best stance
at this point is to wait, and any decision regarding this will
be announced in due time if it is to be carried out.”  Brazil’s real has appreciated 4.9 percent against the
dollar this year, after Latin America’s biggest economy  expanded 
at the fastest pace in more than two decades in the first half.
Developing countries are intervening in currency markets to
protect their economies against inflows of dollars in what
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has called a “currency
war.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans
said Oct. 16 that the U.S. is in a “liquidity trap” and needs
“much more” monetary accommodation. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled last week that more easing is likely.  U.S.  monetary policy  is creating “grave distortions” and
is causing “collateral effects” on faster-growing economies
such as Brazil, Meirelles said.  “The American economy depends on stimuli, but there is a
limit,” Meirelles said. “It creates grave distortions and
collateral effects that are felt more in countries in which the
economy is doing well, such as Brazil.”  Higher Tax  Brazil earlier this month doubled to 4 percent a tax it
charges foreigners on investment in fixed-income securities in a
bid to stem the real’s strengthening. Last month, the central
bank stepped up dollar purchases.  In trading today, the real gained 0.1 percent to 1.6630 per
dollar at 11:57 a.m. New York time.  Central bank policy makers will likely keep the benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a second straight meeting this week
at 10.75 percent after raising the  Selic  by two percentage
points this year to prevent “overheating,” according to a
central bank survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Oliveira  in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net 
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  