-- Eletrobras, Cesp Tumble More Than 4 Percent on Brazil Election Outlook
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2010-10-18T20:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/eletrobras-falls-the-most-in-five-months-on-brazilian-election-outlook.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA 
and  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo , utilities controlled by the
Brazilian government, both fell more than 4 percent in Sao Paulo
on speculation a ruling-party victory in the presidential
election will limit the earnings potential of state companies.  Marina Silva , the third-place finisher in an initial round
of voting, said yesterday she won’t endorse either of the top
two vote-getters before an Oct. 31 runoff. That benefits  Dilma Rousseff , President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s choice, as Silva
was expected to back opposition candidate  Jose Serra , according
to  David Fleischer , a political analyst at the University of
Brasilia.  Investors speculate former Sao Paulo Governor Serra would
interfere less in state companies, while Rousseff’s government
may reward political loyalty over managerial merit, according to
SLW Corretora and Maxima Asset Management.  “Serra is recognized as a better administrator,” said
 Felipe Casotti , who helps manage the equivalent of $582 million
at Maxima in Rio de Janeiro. “The market will continue reacting
to election polls.”  Rousseff, Lula’s former cabinet chief, saw her lead narrow
to 6 percentage points from 7 points a week earlier, according
to a Datafolha poll published Oct. 15. While the gap is down
from 14 points in the first-round vote on Oct. 3, investors
expected the difference to narrow more, said  Rosangela Ribeiro ,
an analyst at Sao Paulo-based SLW.  ‘Corporate Governance’  “The market thinks Serra would bring improvements in
corporate governance,” Ribeiro said. “The volatility should
continue until the election.”  Centrais Eletricas or  Eletrobras , Latin America’s largest
utility, dropped 6.3 percent, the most since Feb. 4, to 24.40
reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York
time. Eletrobras surged 14 percent last week as polls showed
Serra closing in on Rousseff. The power company known as Cesp
tumbled 4.2 percent to 28.99 reais today, the biggest drop since
May 20.  Rousseff won 47 percent of votes in the first-round
election, compared to 33 percent for Serra and 19 percent for
Silva.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Felipe Frisch  in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  