-- Televisa Ends $1.44 Billion Agreement to Buy Stake in NII's Nextel Mexico
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-18T17:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/televisa-scraps-deal-to-buy-stake-in-nii-s-nextel-mexico-for-1-44-billion.html
Grupo Televisa SA , the largest
Spanish-language broadcaster, ended an agreement to buy a stake
in wireless carrier NII Holdings Inc.’s Mexico unit, giving up
on a plan to enter the mobile-phone business with a partner.  NII and Televisa mutually decided to end the agreement from
February, according to a statement filed to Mexico’s stock
exchange. The companies disagreed over regulations and risks
related to the investment, NII said in a regulatory filing.  Televisa had agreed to buy 30 percent of the Mexican
division, called Nextel Mexico, for $1.44 billion. Without the
deal, Televisa, whose cable companies offer packages of TV,
phone and Internet, must compete for customers without a mobile-
phone  product . NII, Mexico’s smallest wireless carrier, will
lose a source of funding for expansion.  “Televisa had a change of heart with regard to their
strategic direction,” said  Christopher King , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, who  recommends  buying NII
shares. "You do have to count this is a disappointment for NII."  NII fell 58 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $37.45 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 1:47 p.m. New York time. Televisa  gained 
75 centavos to 55.42 pesos in Mexico City trading.  The companies had won airwaves in a mobile-phone auction
whose legality has been challenged by rival Grupo Iusacell SA.  Network Costs  NII will continue its deployment of a third-generation
mobile-phone network in Mexico, according to a separate
statement from the Reston, Virginia-based company. NII said it
will start selling service on the new network, which offers
faster download speeds for mobile Internet access, in the next
12 to 18 months.  NII should be able to fund the construction of its network,
which will cost about $800 million, King said. NII closed the
second quarter with about $2.3 billion in cash and equivalents.
The company also plans to buy airwaves in Brazil and start
building a 3G network there, which would cost about $900
million, King said.  The company may seek funding from network-equipment makers
or by selling its mobile-network towers and then leasing them,
 Tim Perrott , the company’s vice president of investor relations,
said in an interview.  Televisa is still discussing an agreement with NII to
market services together, the companies said. Televisa controls
three cable carriers that could use a mobile-phone plan to
combine with Internet, TV and home-phone services to compete
with billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s companies. A Televisa spokesman
didn’t return a phone message.  Slim’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB is Mexico’s largest landline
phone and Internet provider, and America Movil SAB is the
biggest wireless provider.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  