-- Elvis Museum Draws on $372 Million Mississippi Build Americas: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-18T04:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/elvis-museum-draws-on-372-million-mississippi-build-americas-muni-credit.html
The  Elvis Presley Museum  in the rock
’n’ roll legend’s birthplace of Tupelo,  Mississippi , is tapping
into $651 million in taxable state debt for a makeover.  Mississippi leads taxable issuers this week with offerings
including $372 million in Build Americas, $234 million in
traditional taxables and $45 million in recovery-zone debt to
finance capital improvements. The state hasn’t borrowed since
October 2009, creating a relative dearth of Mississippi notes,
that may boost market demand, said  Mike Pietronico , chief
executive officer of Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York.  “There’s some scarcity to it,” said Pietronico, who
oversees $315 million in municipal debt. “Given the size and
the fact that it doesn’t come to market frequently, I could make
a case that it’ll be well-received.”  The issue will price Oct. 20 and 21, and early indications
suggest “very good response” from the market, according to
Treasurer  Tate Reeves ’s office.  In the 2009 sale Mississippi’s 25-year Build Americas were
priced to yield 5.67 percent, or 138 basis points above U.S.
Treasuries maturing in May 2039. The bonds traded Oct. 12 at an
average yield of 5 percent, 114 basis points above the federal
debt.  Outstanding Debt  This week’s borrowing will increase the state’s outstanding
general-obligation debt 19 percent to $4.11 billion, according
to preliminary offering documents. Mississippi has third-highest
ratings from Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s,
two levels below top-rated  Maryland .  “Though Mississippi may not be as strong as Maryland, it’s
still a state without a lot of debt outstanding,” Pietronico
said.  States and local governments are poised to sell about $7
billion in the next five days, the  lowest total  for a regular
trading week since the period ended Sept. 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About $3.3 billion will be offered as
taxables, a  three-week low , Bloomberg data show.  Build America Bonds, the fastest-growing part of the $2.8
trillion U.S. municipal debt market, were first sold in April
2009 as part of the economic-stimulus package and include a 35
percent federal subsidy on interest-rate costs. Legislation
introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  would
extend the program, which expires Dec. 31, by one year with the
subsidy reduced to 32 percent. Previous extension attempts
stalled in Congress. About $146 billion have been issued to
date.  Less Common  Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds, also part of last
year’s stimulus, provide the issuer with a 45 percent subsidy.
About $3 billion have been sold.  Though recovery bonds are less common than Build Americas,
Mississippi should see the same demand for both products,
Pietronico said.  “Ultimately, the market judges deal on the issuer’s
ability to repay,” he said. “Because it’s a state G.O., it’ll
get the benefit of the doubt.”  While the state’s pension funding ratio has fallen to 67
percent from 73 percent in 2007, this year Mississippi raised
employees’ contributions to 9 percent from 7.25 percent. The
state has the potential to increase foreign investment,
according to an Oct. 14 report from Moody’s.  Nissan Motor Co. 
and  Toyota Motor Corp.  are projected to supply the state with
more than 6,000 jobs, Moody’s said.  Stable Outlook  “The outlook for Mississippi is stable, based on
expectations the state’s conservative fiscal practices will
enable it to effectively manage budgetary stress associated with
economic challenges,” wrote  Edward Hampton  and  Edith Behr  of
Moody’s.  The  Elvis Presley  museum, which includes the house where
he was born in 1935 as well as a chapel added in 1979, will
receive about $3 million for renovations as part of a statewide
tourism project.  Elvis Presley Birthplace, Museum and Chapel attracts 50,000
to 100,000 visitors a year, according to Judy Schumpert, a tour
guide since 1996. The money will be used to build a theater at
the 15-acre (6.07-hectare) facility, which the museum will use
to screen  movies  and host other activities.  “They saw the importance of tourism for the city and the
state,” Schumpert said.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY, which
serves 600,000 people in Washington, plans to sell $300 million
of Build America Bonds as soon as this week. The obligations are
backed by revenue from consumer water bills and will be used to
preserve and upgrade the district’s water and wastewater
systems. Underwriters led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market
the issue, which is rated Aa3 by Moody’s and AA- by both S&P and
Fitch Ratings, all fourth-highest. (Updated Oct. 18)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which owns the
World Trade Center site in addition to operating Newark Liberty
International, John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia
airports, will sell $850 million in taxable bonds as early as
this week. The issue will fund construction at the trade center
site. Citigroup Inc. will market the issue, which is rated Aa2
by Moody’s, third-highest, and AA- by S&P and Fitch, both
fourth-highest. (Updated Oct. 18)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 