-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Most in Seven Weeks on Share Sales, Outlook
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-18T12:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/emerging-market-equities-fall-most-in-seven-weeks-on-share-sales-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in seven weeks as investors speculated central bank stimulus
won’t sustain global growth and Morgan Stanley advised reducing
holdings. Asian currencies weakened from a 30-month high.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 1 percent to
1,109.86 at 8:50 a.m. in New York, poised for the biggest drop
since Aug. 25. The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index  lost 0.3
percent, the most since Aug. 11. Developing-nation bonds sank,
sending the extra yield over U.S. Treasuries four basis points
higher to 2.52 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  Markets have “priced in” the prospect of increased asset
purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve,  Peter Boockvar , equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said on Oct. 15.
Investors should “scale back” their holdings of developing-
nation stocks after this year’s rally lifted valuations and the
economic outlook worsened,  Jonathan Garner , the chief Asia and
emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, wrote
in a report today.  “Valuations have adjusted back up to long-run average
levels,” Garner wrote. “Some economic market data indicators
suggest that the risk of double dip may be rising.”  The MSCI emerging-markets index trades for 11.5 times
analysts’ earnings  forecasts  for the next 12 months, compared
with the 11.7 average since January 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has advanced 12 percent this
year, topping the 4.5 percent increase in the MSCI World Index
of developed-nation equities.  ‘Liquidity Trap’  Emerging-market equity funds attracted more than $60
billion of net inflows this year as central banks in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan stepped up efforts to cut borrowing costs,
spurring demand for higher-yielding assets, according to
research firm EPFR Global. Developing-nation bond funds
attracted $41 billion during the period, EPFR data show.  Fed Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said Oct. 16
that the U.S. is in a “liquidity trap” and needs “much more”
monetary accommodation. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled
last week that more so-called quantitative easing is likely.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped for the first time
in eight days, losing 0.5 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index
declined 1.4 percent, while Taiwan’s Taiex Index sank 1.8
percent for the biggest decline among equity indexes in major
emerging markets.  HTC Corp. , the world’s largest maker of phones using
Microsoft Corp. and  Google Inc.  operating systems, tumbled 6.9
percent, the biggest slump since Jan. 27. Apple Daily reported
the company may face a delay in shipments of the Windows Phone
7. Chief Financial Officer  Cheng Hui-ming  and  Maggie Cheng , a
public relations representative, didn’t answer calls to their
mobile phones today.  Trimming Allocation  Morgan Stanley’s Garner lowered his recommended
“overweight” position in emerging-market stocks to 4 percent
from 6 percent and added to holdings of cash. Investors should
reduce their holdings “gradually, rather than precipitately,”
in part because of the outlook for easing U.S. monetary policy,
he wrote.  The Micex Index of shares in Russia, the world’s largest
energy exporter, climbed 0.6 percent. Crude futures rose for the
first time in three days, advancing 0.3 percent in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  