-- EMI Credit-Default Swap Traders Cut Bets as Hands, Citigroup Square Off
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-10-18T14:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/emi-credit-default-swap-traders-cut-bets-as-hands-citigroup-square-off.html
Traders have reduced wagers on EMI
Group Ltd.’s future in the credit-default swap market as owner
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. and Citigroup Inc. square off
over the cost of the music label’s 2007 acquisition.  The amount of outstanding debt insurance on EMI dropped to
a net $369.5 million as of Oct. 8, down from $489.9 million at
the start of the year, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., which monitors the contracts used to bet on a
company’s ability to repay borrowings. Traders had bought and
sold 2,334 credit swaps, compared with 1,593 in January.  “It’s probably hedging, but I could understand someone
speculating on the outcome of the court case,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of credit strategy at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. Betting on a settlement is “punt analysis, but if I was
up on the year and had money to play with, then I might be
tempted.”  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma is accusing Citigroup in a trial
starting today in New York of tricking it into overpaying for
EMI, the music publishing company whose stars have included the
Beatles and Miles Davis. The buyout firm claims it paid too much
because Citigroup said private-equity firm Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a competing bid.  Citigroup said in a statement that Terra Firma’s
allegations are untrue. “We look forward to our day in court
and are confident that we will prevail,” the bank said in a
statement.  Risk Drops  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Default swaps may trade on companies that don’t have public
debt, such as EMI, as investors bet a refinancing will create
new bonds or loans linked to the derivatives, according to
 Rupesh Tailor , co-founder of Breogan Global Financials Fund in
Madrid.  The premium for insuring EMI debt dropped from a record
last week, according to data provider CMA. Swaps protecting 10
million euros ($14 million) of debt for five years cost 1.04
million euros upfront and 500,000 euros annually. That compares
with 550,000 euros a year and nothing in advance in April, and a
record 1.07 million euros upfront Oct. 5.  The swaps now imply a 77.6 percent likelihood EMI will
default within five years, assuming a 70 percent recovery on the
debt in the event, CMA prices show.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  