-- Memories of '95 Treasuries Rally Spur Bonds as Americans Fret Over Deficit
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-10-18T17:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/memories-of-95-treasuries-rally-spur-bonds-as-americans-fret-over-deficit.html
Bond investors are looking back to
the last time a Democratic president lost control of Congress
and concluding, like then, that gridlock in Washington is good
news for  Treasuries .  Just as  Bill Clinton  was forced to abandon spending
initiatives after Republicans took over the House and Senate in
the 1994 elections, President  Barack Obama ’s agenda may be
constrained as voter concerns over the budget deficit grows. The
latest Bloomberg News polls show likely voters favor
Republicans.  With spending held in check, 10-year Treasury yields fell
to 5.57 percent by the end of 1995 from 8.03 percent after the
November 1994 election while stocks rallied and the Federal
Reserve cut interest rates as the economy slowed. The Fed is now
debating how to bolster growth after reducing benchmark rates to
almost zero failed to lower the unemployment rate.  “There are parallels,” said  Thomas di Galoma , head of
U.S. rates trading at Guggenheim Capital Markets LLC, a New-York
based brokerage for institutional investors. “The Republicans
will draw a line in the sand about what money can be spent.
That’s very supportive of the bond market.”  Yields on Treasuries due in five years or less are already
at record lows, providing less scope for a rally like in 1995
when they gained 18.5 percent as measured by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Even so, yields are unlikely to rise
to levels that restrict the economy as lawmakers tangle over
spending. Treasuries have returned 8.45 percent this year.  ‘Gridlock is Good’  “Gridlock is good,” said  Mitchell Stapley , the Grand
Rapids, Michigan-based chief fixed-income officer for Fifth
Third Asset Management, which oversees $22 billion.  The median estimate of 59 economists, strategists and
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News is for the 10-year yield to
rise to 3.25 percent by the end of 2011, from 2.56 percent on
Oct. 15. A month ago, the median estimate was 3.5 percent.  The yield on the benchmark 2.625 percent note due in August
2020 rose 17 basis points last week. Two-year note yields
dropped as low as 0.327 percent on Oct. 12 before finishing the
week at 0.359 percent, while five-year yields, which closed at
1.19 percent on Oct. 15, touched 1.07 percent on Oct. 8.  Ten-year yields fell 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 2.50 percent at 1:44 p.m. in New York. Five-year notes
yielded 1.12 percent, while the two-year rate was 0.35 percent.  Democrats have controlled the House of Representatives and
Senate since Obama was elected, as during the first two years of
the Clinton administration. The Senate has 59 Democrats, while
the House is divided 255 to 178, with two seats vacant.  $1 Trillion Deficit  The U.S. government posted its second straight federal
 budget deficit  in excess of $1 trillion from costs associated
with the bailout of the financial system. The $862 billion in
fiscal stimulus spending passed by Congress in 2009 has helped
push the total amount of  marketable  Treasury debt outstanding to
$8.5 trillion from less than $6 trillion at the start of 2009.  The results of a Bloomberg National Poll released last week
shows more than half of likely voters agreed the federal budget
deficit is “dangerously out of control and threatens our
economic future.” The poll interviewed 721 likely voters and
has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage points.  The most motivated voters -- those who say they will
definitely vote and are extremely interested in the election --
lean Republican over Democrat, 51 percent to 37 percent.  ‘Final Straw’  Senator  Orrin Hatch , who is line to chair the Senate
Finance Committee if Republicans win control in the Nov. 2
elections, said he sees fewer prospects for bipartisanship in
the next Congress. Democrats have created strains by expanding
government the last two years, particularly taking power from
states under a health-care program he helped establish for
lower-income children, he said.  “I’ve got to say, that was almost the final straw to me,”
the Utah senator said in an interview on “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ” on Bloomberg Television. “I’m certainly not
going to let them keep spending and taxing us and building more
government.”  From a  deficit  of $203.1 billion in 1994, Clinton worked
with a Republican Congress to produce a $70.2 billion surplus by
1998, the first since 1969 when Republican  Richard Nixon  was
President and Democrats controlled both houses. The surplus
reached $236.9 billion in 2000.  Obama may veto efforts to block spending and make it more
difficult for elected officials to reach agreements on extending
the tax cuts enacted under the  George W. Bush  administration,
continuing unemployment benefits and spending on infrastructure,
said  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York. The firm is one of 18 primary dealers
of U.S. securities that trade with the Fed and are obligated to
bid at Treasury debt auctions.  ‘Need Action’  “The problem is right now you actually need action to be
taken,” said Misra, who predicts that 10-year note yields may
fall as low as 2 percent. “It’s a negative for the economy, but
it will keep a bid in Treasuries.”  Fiscal stimulus can work with monetary policy to boost an
economy.  Christina Romer , the former chairman of Obama’s Council
of Economic Advisers, said the President pushed the largest
possible stimulus bill, the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act, through Congress, though ideally it should have been
larger.  “Given how we were just falling off the edge of a cliff,
that act absolutely was crucially important to stopping the fall
and helping us to turn the corner,” Romer said in an interview
last week with Bloomberg Television. “Given where we were, we
needed to do more.”  Growth Estimates  Chances for additional fiscal stimulus aren’t good because
people now “treat it like a dirty word,” Romer said. “We need
some more of it. And it’s something that would help put people
back to work.”  Economists have slashed their GDP growth estimates for
2010, to 2.7 percent from 3.3 percent in May, based on the
median of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. For 2011, it’s
2.45 percent. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Oct. 15
speech that additional monetary stimulus may be warranted
because inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said in remarks to a Federal
Reserve Bank of Boston conference.  Gridlock in Congress also may be unable to reduce the
deficit, potentially damping demand for Treasuries at a time
when some parts of the market are signaling the securities are
too expensive.  A Fed  measure  of risk in Treasuries that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation shows the
securities are the most overvalued since the financial crisis in
December 2008, just before 10-year note yields almost doubled in
the following six months.  Yield Spread  Last week yields on 30-year bonds rose 23 basis points to
3.98 percent, or a record 1.42 percentage points more than 10-
year rates in a sign that bond investors expect moves by the Fed
to spark growth and inflation will work.  “The market is buying into the Fed mantra that it will
work to get us out of this low inflationary environment,” said
 Michael Pond , an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Barclays Plc, another primary dealer.  While spending cuts are usually good for bonds, they may
hurt companies that count on federal contracts. A Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. index of corporations getting 20 percent or more of
revenue from government lagged behind the Standard & Poor’s 500
index last quarter after beating it since September 2009.  Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. , which gets
almost all its revenue from defense projects, has fallen 5
percent since July as the  S&P 500  rallied 15 percent.  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. , based in Dallas, depends on the U.S. for half
its revenue and is trailing the market by 7 percentage points.  ‘Game of Chicken’  The September employment report, which showed state
governments cutting positions for teachers and other workers,
leading to a 95,000 drop in payrolls, is a sign that lack of
federal spending to help municipal governments is hurting the
recovery, said  David Brownlee , head of fixed income at Sentinel
Asset Management in Montpelier, Vermont.  “If they’re going to play that game of chicken, it could
be to the point where they throw cold water on the economy,”
said Brownlee, whose firm manages $22 billion. “We’ve got more
problems than answers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  