-- Enel Will Meet Its 2014 Debt Reduction Target, Chief Executive Conti Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-10-18T12:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/enel-will-meet-its-2014-debt-reduction-target-chief-executive-conti-says.html
Enel SpA Chief Executive Officer
 Fulvio Conti  said the company will meet its target of cutting
debt to 39 billion euros ($54 billion) by 2014.  “Enel will deliver what it promised to rating agencies,”
Conti told reporters during a press conference in Milan,
detailing the sale of shares in renewable energy unit Enel Green
Power. He confirmed the  initial public offering  and other asset
disposals will lower debt to 45 billion euros this year paving
the way for the 2014 target.  Enel will raise as much as 3.4 billion euros from the Green
Power sale by offering 32.5 percent to individual and
institutional investors. Enel is also disposing of gas-
distribution assets in Spain and a stake in a Bulgarian coal-
fired plant. Conti said there are no plans to sell further
stakes of Enel Green Power.  Italy’s biggest utility started selling shares of Enel
Green Power today in Milan at 1.8 euros to 2.1 euros each. The
offer will close on Oct. 29 and shares will start trading Nov. 4
on the Milan and Madrid stock exchanges.  “The interest for Green Power from core investors
remains,” Conti said without elaborating.  Enel is attempting to lure investors with dividends that
are above-average for the sector. The company will pay 30
percent of net income to investors, equal to a yield of about 2
percent based on the offer price.  The yield for retail investors can rise to “at least five
or six percent” if they keep the stock for twelve months or
more and gain access to bonus shares, Conti said.  Remaining net income will go toward growth with plans to
invest 5.2 billion euros in the next four years to increase
capacity from 5,700 megawatts to 9,200 megawatts, he said.  Enel  rose  1.1 percent to 3.99 euros as of 1:58 p.m. today
in Milan trading outperforming Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
which was gaining 0.6 percent.  Bank of America Corp., Intesa Sanpaolo’s Banca IMI SpA,
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca SpA, Morgan Stanley, UniCredit
SpA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are managing the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 