-- Tennenbaum Capital Is Said to Close on Vivacom Barring Shareholder Upset
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-10-18T17:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/tennenbaum-said-to-close-in-on-vivacom-as-shareholders-struggle-to-hold-on.html
Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC, a
hedge fund founded by  Michael Tennenbaum , is leading a group of
creditors set to take over  Richard Li ’s Vivacom AD unless
shareholders prevail in a last-ditch effort to keep control,
according to four people familiar with the matter.  Vivacom is majority-owned by PineBridge Investments LLC,
Hong Kong businessman Li’s investment-management firm.
PineBridge may lose its stake by Oct. 29 under terms of a debt
restructuring agreed by lenders after Bulgarian phone company
Vivacom breached terms on 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of
loans. PineBridge is asking lenders to consider an alternative
restructuring and has invited them to meet before the deadline
at the end of this month to give an update on  Vivacom ’s
business, said the people. A meeting could take place as early
as this week.  Hedge funds are among institutional investors pushing into
Europe’s 500 billion-euro leveraged loan market, accounting for
a third of investors in new deals, the most since a record 62
percent in 2007, according to Standard & Poor’s LCD. Founded by
Michael Tennenbaum, once the vice chairman of Bear Stearns Cos.,
Tennenbaum oversees seven funds with about $5 billion in assets
in Santa Monica, California.  “Hedge funds often take an aggressive approach to
restructuring,” said  Stephen Mostyn-Williams , founder of smwlaw
in London, which advises investors on leveraged debt. “They
often seek a significant equity interest.”  Equity-Debt Swap  Tennenbaum Capital’s group of lower-ranked junior lenders,
which include Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, plans to swap
about 425 million euros of debt for Vivacom’s  equity , said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
are private. The proposal includes a cash injection of about 125
million euros to pay off part of the company’s senior-ranking
debt and for working capital, two of the people said.  A spokesman for Tennenbaum Capital in Santa Monica, who
declined to be identified citing company policy, wouldn’t
comment. London-based RBS spokeswoman Aoife Reynolds also
declined to comment.  Ryan O’Keeffe , an external spokesman for New York-based
PineBridge, said the firm is “committed to a consensual and
transparent restructuring of the group’s financial liabilities”
that will “preserve and maximize value for all stakeholders.”
He declined to give further details about PineBridge’s plan.  Oger Support  The proposal from the mezzanine lenders is backed by senior
creditors as well as Dubai’s Oger Telecom Ltd., which agreed to
become a strategic partner if lenders take control, the people
said.  Joe Haj Ali, a Dubai-based official of Oger Telecom,
confirmed in an e-mail that the company had signed an agreement
with the lenders, without giving further details.  Borrowers that break debt covenants are at the mercy of
creditors, who can demand repayment and put the company into
default. Vivacom’s lenders earlier agreed to waive the covenants
until the end of October.  Vivacom, which has loans maturing between 2015 and 2018,
breached the limits on its debt relative to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the second
quarter of thie year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and UniCredit SpA, along with RBS,
arranged the 1.6 billion euros of loans to finance Vivacom’s
2007 buyout, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London on 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London on 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  