-- Equinox Targeting Acquisition to Add to African Mine
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-10-18T06:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/equinox-minerals-targeting-acquisition-to-add-to-african-copper-project.html
  Equinox Minerals Ltd ., owner of  Africa ’s biggest copper mine, said it’s looking to make an
acquisition to add to its Lumwana project in Zambia and forecast
continued long-term price gains on supply constraints.  “We have an active program underway, looking for
opportunities,”  Craig Williams , chief executive officer of the
Perth-based company, said in an interview. “We’ll certainly be
sticking with copper.”  The $841 million Lumwana mine, Zambia’s largest foreign
investment project, began production in 2008 and Equinox this
month increased its forecast 2010 output by 3.7 percent to
140,000 metric tons of concentrate. Copper in New York last week
had its fifth weekly gain as the dollar’s slump enhanced the
allure of raw materials and inventories of the metal slumped.  “I would like to have another advanced asset that could be
in production within two years,” Williams said in an interview
on Oct. 15. “That could be anywhere on the globe, but we would
like to reduce our risk profile so we’d be looking at an equal
or lower risk area than Zambia.”
      Equinox fell 1.5 percent to A$5.91 at the 4.10 p.m. close
of trade on the Australian stock exchange in Sydney, giving it a
market value of A$4.18 billion ($4.12 billion). The stock also
trades on the Toronto stock exchange.  Copper futures in  New York  fell 0.3 percent to $3.8265 a
pound at 9:11 a.m. Melbourne time. They have risen 30 percent
this half. Prices of the metal, used in construction and
household appliances, will continue to rise in the long term,
Williams said.  “The problem for the copper market is new supply,”
Williams said. “The supply side response to a strong copper
market is slow. A lot of the big deposits that are waiting to be
developed are in countries that have political issues. I see in
the next five or 10 years a continuing supply-side issue. For
that reason, there will be continued price rises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  