-- Terrorism, Cyberspace Attacks Are Among Major Risks to U.K., Cameron Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-18T14:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/terrorism-cyberspace-attacks-are-among-major-risks-to-u-k-cameron-says.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
identified international terrorism and attacks in cyberspace
among the greatest risks to U.K. citizens in a report setting
out a national security strategy.  “We face a real and pressing threat from international
terrorism, particularly that inspired by al-Qaeda and its
affiliates,” the government said in the report published in
London today. “At home, there remains a serious and persistent
threat from residual terrorist groups linked to Northern
Ireland.”  Other major threats include an international military
crisis drawing in the U.K. and its allies and a significant
accident or natural hazard, such as a influenza pandemic,
according to the report released by the Cabinet Office.  Cameron released the report a day before he is due to
announce reductions in Britain’s defense budget to help narrow a
 record budget deficit . Military spending will be reduced by 7
percent to 8 percent, a person involved in the discussions said
yesterday.  Second-tier threats to Britain include an attack by another
state or proxy using chemical, biological, radiological or
nuclear weapons; the risk of civil war overseas; a rise in
organized crime; and the disruption of satellites. Organized
crime costs Britain between 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) and
40 billion pounds a year, the government said.  ‘Crucial Stage’  “We are at a crucial stage in international efforts to
prevent nuclear proliferation in the Middle East,” the
government said. “If Iran acquires nuclear-weapons technology,
there is a strong possibility other states in the region would
follow.”  Third-tier threats singled out in the report included a
conventional military attack on U.K.; border infiltration by
illegal immigrants; or disruption to oil or gas supplies.  Others include the release of radioactive material from a
civil nuclear site; a conventional attack by a state on another
NATO or European Union member, to which the U.K. would have to
respond; an attack on a British overseas territory; and short-to
medium-term disruption to international supplies of resources
such as food or minerals.  “We face no major state threat at present and no
existential threat to our security, freedom or prosperity,” the
government said. “But we cannot be complacent; the world will
change. Our national security strategy needs to position us for
the future as well as the present.”  ‘Changing Threats’  Cameron said in the foreword to the report that “the task
of protecting our security is never complete and in an age of
uncertainty we must remain vigilant, regularly taking stock of
the changing threats we face.”  French Interior Minister Brice Hortefeux said yesterday
that Saudi Arabia’s intelligence services issued a warning
several days ago of a possible terror attack “on the European
continent, notably in France,” by an al-Qaeda offshoot.  In a reference to the Olympics in London next year, the
government said the games will be a “attractive target” for
cyber criminals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 