-- MetLife CEO Urges Insurance Executives to Lobby on New Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-18T19:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/metlife-ceo-urges-insurance-executives-to-lobby-on-new-u-s-finance-rules.html
MetLife Inc. ’s  Robert Henrikson ,
chief executive officer of the biggest U.S. life insurer, urged
executives of rival carriers to lobby regulators and lawmakers
as the financial-industry overhaul is implemented.  “It’s imperative to maintain presence with policy
makers,” Henrikson, chairman of the  American Council of Life
Insurers , said today at the group’s annual meeting in Baltimore.
“The game is only in the fourth quarter. The fourth quarter is
when the game is won and lost. We’ve been very successful but we
cannot afford to drop our focus.”  The Dodd-Frank law, passed in July to prevent a repeat of
the 2008 crisis, is the biggest overhaul of Wall Street since
the Great Depression. The new rules, which empower regulators to
guard against systemic risk and dismantle failing firms, will
tighten regulation of New York-based MetLife, the company said
in its second-quarter report.  “People in Washington, policymakers, need our help,”
Henrikson said. “They need us as a resource to understand the
implications and the unintended consequences and the collateral
damage that can be done by language that is not appropriate for
our industry.”  Financial firms are seeking to assist regulators as they
write the rules to implement the measure, which was sponsored by
Connecticut Senator  Christopher Dodd  and Massachusetts
Representative  Barney Frank , both Democrats.  Edward Yingling ,
president of the American Bankers Association, said in July his
group was ready to provide information and work with regulators.  Oversight  MetLife may be subject to a level of oversight not applied
to smaller competitors as the U.S. boosts scrutiny of companies
whose failure could threaten the financial system. MetLife,
which owns a federally regulated bank, was the only insurer
whose assets were reviewed by the federal government in its 2009
stress tests of the biggest U.S. lenders.  “MetLife Inc. will be subject to enhanced prudential
standards imposed on systemically significant financial
companies,” the insurer said in its 10-Q quarterly filing
published in August. “If MetLife, Inc. were to become insolvent
or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be
compelled to undergo liquidation” with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. as receiver, the company said.  MetLife and Prudential, the second-biggest U.S. life
insurer, are expanding outside the U.S. after sidestepping the
worst of the crisis. MetLife agreed to pay $15.5 billion for an
 American International Group Inc.  unit to add businesses from
Japan and Russia to  Poland to Chile .  MetLife and Prudential, based in Newark, New Jersey, are
raising capital to grow as bailed-out rivals retreat. AIG, once
the world’s biggest carrier, is selling businesses to repay a
U.S. rescue valued at $182.3 billion.  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc.  is winding down operations in Japan, while
 Lincoln National Corp.  sold a unit in the U.K.  MetLife  returned to profit  in the fourth quarter after
derivative hedges contributed to losses in the first nine months
of 2009. It had about $5.5 billion of operating revenue from
outside the U.S. in 2009, for about 11 percent of its total.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 