-- Euribor at ECB Benchmark Rate of 1% Signals Banks Are Returning to Health
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-10-18T11:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/euribor-at-ecb-benchmark-rate-of-1-signals-banks-are-returning-to-health.html
Euro-region interbank borrowing
costs rose to the same level as the European Central Bank’s main
 interest rate  for the first time in 15 months, signaling greater
willingness by financial institutions to lend to one another.  The euro interbank offered rate, or  Euribor , for three-
month loans increased almost one basis point to 1 percent, the
 highest level  since July 10, 2009, data from the European
Banking Federation showed today. The rate has risen from a low
of 0.634 percent on March 31 as bank stress tests published on
July 23 showed just 7 of 91 institutions in the region needed to
raise more capital to withstand a new sovereign-debt crisis.  The increase in Euribor suggests more lenders are weaning
themselves off ECB liquidity programs that were started to fight
the global recession and then extended as the Greek debt crisis
fueled concern some nations in the region could default. ECB
President Jean-Claude Trichet has rejected a call by Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  to end bond purchases.  “There are certainly signs of normalization,” said
 Christoph Rieger , head of interest-rate strategy at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. “Any bank that has access to market funding
right now still wouldn’t go to the ECB at 1 percent. If you have
access to unsecured Euribor cash at 0.74 percent, there’s no
point.”  Weber, a member of the ECB’s Governing Council, said Oct.
12 that policy makers should stop the bond-purchase program, and
signaled it’s time to show how other measures will be withdrawn.
Trichet, interviewed by Italy’s La Stampa in an article
published yesterday, said Weber’s call was “not the position of
the Governing Council, with an overwhelming majority.”  Funding Programs  Trichet had said on Oct. 7 that signs that institutions are
becoming less reliant on the central bank may be seen as
“evidence of normalization” amid a “moderate” recovery in
the second half of the year. He spoke after policy makers left
their main interest rate at a record low 1 percent.  The ECB lent banks as much cash as they needed at its
benchmark rate for as long as 12 months. While policy makers
have phased out this program, along with six-month loans, they
still lend unlimited amounts at their weekly, monthly and three-
month market operations. The central bank began buying
government bonds as Europe’s deepening debt crisis started to
threaten the survival of the 16-nation currency.  “Liquidity conditions in the euro system have improved,
and we can still have higher rates,” said  Matteo Regesta , an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “It
doesn’t make sense to say in normal times Euribor should trade
below the ECB’s refinancing rate.”  Reduced ECB Reliance  Spanish, Greek and Portuguese banks reduced their reliance
on ECB funding in September as concern over the sovereign debt
crisis eased. Spanish lenders’ borrowings fell 11 percent from
August to 97.7 billion euros, the Bank of Spain said Oct. 14 on
its  website . Greek banks took less from the ECB for a second
month, using a total of 94.3 billion euros for refinancing
operations, the Bank of Greece said. Portugal’s central bank
said on Oct. 11 that its banks’ ECB financing fell 19 percent.  The rise in Euribor compares with a decline in the three-
month dollar London interbank offered rate, or  Libor , as
speculation mounts that the Federal Reserve may resume monetary
easing policies, including another round of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing, to bolster the recovery.  Three-month dollar Libor was at 0.289 percent on Oct. 15,
according to data from the British Bankers’ Association. Libor
has fallen from this year’s  high  of 0.539 percent on June 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  