-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Metals, Gold Drop as Dollar Rally Cuts Demand
-- B y   E d i t o r :   R i c h a r d   D o b s o n .
-- 2010-10-18T05:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/europe-commodity-day-ahead-metals-gold-drop-as-dollar-rally-cuts-demand.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS:  
Metal Prices: ($/ton)  
EXCLUSIVE:  Crop Surge Drives U.S. Export Boom as Obama Channels Kansas Corn  Record U.S. agricultural exports are providing an
unexpected boost to President Barack Obama’s target of doubling
overseas sales by 2015 and driving earnings for Agco Corp., CF
Industries Holdings Inc. and Cargill Inc.  Equinox Targeting Acquisition to Add to African Copper Mine  Equinox Minerals Ltd., owner of Africa’s biggest copper
mine, said it’s looking to make an acquisition to add to its
Lumwana project in Zambia and forecast continued long-term price
gains on supply constraints.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines as Dollar Strengthens, China Inventories Expand  Copper led a decline in industrial metals as the dollar
rebounded and high prices deterred purchases by Chinese
consumers amid rising domestic stockpiles. Zinc, lead and nickel
also fell.  MINING:  BHP, Rio Abandon Iron Ore Venture as Regulators Seek Changes  BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group abandoned a plan to
create the world’s largest iron-ore exporter after regulators
from Europe to Asia were concerned it would limit competition.  Japan Steel Industry Welcomes BHP-Rio Tinto Venture Cancellation  The Japan Iron and Steel Federation said it welcomes the
decision by BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group to scrap a
planned iron-ore venture. The venture would have hampered fair
competition in the industry, the association said in a press
release.  Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Cuts All Product Prices for November  Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co., Japan’s largest electric-
furnace mill, cut prices for November contracts from the
previous month because of a stronger yen. H-beams, used in
construction, were cut to 67,000 yen ($824) a metric ton from
72,000 yen in October.  Rescuers Fight Gases to Reach Trapped Miners in China  Rescuers in central China are battling flammable gases to
reach seven coal miners trapped in a shaft for three days in the
region’s deadliest mining disaster since June.  Citic Pacific Ends Sino Iron Power Station Contract  Citic Pacific Ltd., an arm of China’s biggest state-owned
investment company, said it ended an agreement with the
contractor building the power station at its $5.2 billion Sino
Iron project in Western Australia.  Queensland Rain May Cause Coal Delays, Commodore Says  Heavy rain in Queensland may cause “sporadic delays” to
coal exports in the coming months, which will result in
congestion at ports on Australia’s east coast, Commodore
Research & Consultancy said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Declines for Second Day as Dollar’s Increase Curbs Demand  Gold declined for a second day, after reaching a record
last week, as a strengthening dollar eased demand for the metal
as an alternative investment.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Declines a Fourth Day as Speculators Pare Bets on Gains  Corn futures dropped for a fourth day on speculation that
investors are locking in gains after prices rallied to a two-
year high.  Philippines May Lose 600,000 Metric Tons of Rice From Typhoon  The Philippines, the world’s largest rice importer, may
lose 600,000 metric tons of its crop when Typhoon Megi hits some
of the nation’s biggest rice-producing provinces, an agriculture
official said.  Palm Oil Falls the Most in Two Week as Commodities, Stocks Drop  Palm oil fell the most in two weeks as a stronger dollar
led to a sell-off in commodities and stocks. December-delivery
futures lost as much as 2.1 percent to 2,870 ringgit ($928) a
metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the biggest
intraday drop since Oct. 4, and ended the morning session at
2,886 ringgit.  China May Lift Soybean Stockpiling Purchase Price, Center Says  China’s grain reserve may set the price it pays to
stockpile soybeans in the producing regions at 3,800 yuan ($571)
a metric ton, 60 yuan higher than it paid for last year’s
harvest, the China National Grain & Oils Information Center said
in an e-mailed report. The government may set the procurement
period from Nov. 1 to April 30, it said.  Corn, Soybeans May Extend Rallies on Increased Global Demand  Corn and soybeans may rise for a third straight week on
increased global demand for shrinking supplies from the U.S.,
the world’s biggest producer and exporter. Twenty-three of 35
traders and analysts surveyed from Chicago to Tokyo on Oct. 15
said corn will climb, and 23 of 36 respondents said soybeans
will advance.  SOFT COMMODITIES:  Rubber Drops From 27-Month High on Lower Oil, Stockpile Gain  Rubber declined for the first time in five days, retreating
from a 27-month high as a drop in oil reduced its appeal and
stockpiles in China, the largest consumer, gained to the highest
level since April.  China to Sell Off Stockpiled Sugar to Curb Prices, CNTV Reports  China plans to sell stockpiled sugar to ease price gains,
CNTV said on its website, citing an unidentified official at the
Ministry of Commerce. Each sale will be of no less than 100,000
metric tons, it said in the report posted on Oct. 16 without
elaborating.  India May Delay Freeing Sugar Exports to February, Times Reports  India may delay a decision on freeing sugar exports to
February when it expects to have a second estimate of the crop,
the Economic Times reported, without saying where it obtained
the information.  U.S. Sugar Production May Be Cut by Ruling on Beets, WSJ Says  U.S. sugar output will be cut by about 20 percent next year
if farmers can’t plant genetically modified beets as ruled by a
judge in August, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing data
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture as part of a court case.  ECONOMIES:  Production in the U.S. Probably Rose for 14th Time in 15 Months  Production in the U.S. probably grew in September for the
14th time in the 15 months since the recession ended, showing
how manufacturing has been a mainstay of the recovery,
economists said before a report today.  Yen Strengthens as Japan Sinks Shows Surplus No Boon  Japan’s success in building an economy that supplies the
world with everything from cars to electronics is now
undermining its own efforts to keep the yen from rising at a
time when few countries want a strong currency.  OTHER MARKETS:  Crude Oil Declines for a Third Day on Weaker Demand Outlook  Oil declined for a third day in New York amid speculation
that builders in the U.S. started fewer homes in September and
as the dollar gained against the euro, curbing the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment.  Aussie Parity Set for ‘Failure’ on Export Drag: Chart of Day  The Australian dollar’s surge to parity with its U.S.
counterpart may be short-lived, as the currency’s slide over the
past year against Japan’s yen signals concern exporters will
face lower margins.  Key Says Strong N.Z. Dollar Difficult for Exporters  New Zealand’s rising currency is creating difficulties for
many of the nation’s exporters, particularly those that aren’t
benefiting from a rise in commodity prices, Prime Minister John
Key said.  Asia Currencies Retreat From 30-Month High on Intervention Risk  Asian currencies weakened for the first time in four days,
led by South Korea’s won, on concern regional central banks will
seek to counter appreciation that may hurt exports. 