-- Ex-FIFA Official Zen-Ruffinen Says Deals Likely as World Cup Bids Probed
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-18T14:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/ex-fifa-official-says-deals-are-likely-as-world-cup-bids-probed-for-bribes.html
Countries bidding to host the World
Cup in 2018 or 2022 will cut deals to win rights to sport’s
most-watched event even though that breaks the rules, a former
general secretary of soccer’s governing body said.  For the first time, FIFA will on Dec. 2 announce hosts for
two consecutive World Cups at the same time. The ruling body
yesterday said it was investigating a report that two members of
its executive committee offered to exchange their votes for
favors from potential hosts.  Former FIFA secretary general  Michel Zen-Ruffinen  says the
award of the two events at the same time will increase the
negotiating and trading between officials and bidders. Zen-
Ruffinen, who was dismissed by FIFA in 2002 after opposing the
re-election of President  Sepp Blatter , said there would be
dealmaking in the coming weeks.  “There is no doubt that’s the case,” Zen-Ruffinen said in
an interview earlier this month.  Blatter said he had opened an “in depth” investigation
into the Sunday Times allegations in a letter to the 24-member
FIFA executive committee that decides where the World Cup is
played.  Nicolas Maingot , FIFA’s head of communications, declined
to comment.  Reporters from the London newspaper, posing as lobbyists
for the U.S. bid, said officials from the West African Football
Union and the Oceania Football Confederation indicated they
would sell their votes. Under guidelines governing the election
of World Cup hosts such deals are prohibited.  Tai Nicholas, chief executive officer of the Oceania
Football Confederation, declined to comment. The Confederation
of African Football wasn’t able to immediately comment. The U.S.
bid committee said yesterday it had no involvement with any
aspect of the Sunday Times story.  Anonymous Voting  The balloting for the 2018 and 2022 sites will take place
behind closed doors in a conference room in Zurich. The
executive members vote anonymously.  “There’s a big pressure to be more transparent but it’s
not really in the interest of some of the people involved, who
actually for a lot of reasons try to please everybody,” Zen-
Ruffinen said.  FIFA said it wouldn’t provide further comments on the World
Cup voting process.  Michel D’Hooghe , one of the 24 men who will decide the
World Cup venues, said he’s backing his own country’s bid but
would vote for the next best candidate should Belgium and the
Netherlands’ joint offer be eliminated. He couldn’t say how
other FIFA officials would make up their minds.  Best Marketing  “I will seriously examine every candidate and try to find
the best solution for the future of the football world,”
D’Hooghe said in an interview Oct. 7. “I can only look in my
own heart and I cannot look into the heart of my 23
colleagues.”  Mohamed Bin Hammam , the head of soccer in Asia, on the same
day said the bids with the best marketing, not necessarily the
best candidates, would be triumphant.  The U.S. said Oct. 15 it was withdrawing from the bidding
for the 2018 event to concentrate on its proposal for 2022. That
left England, Russia and joint bids from Spain and Portugal as
well as Belgium and the Netherlands still in contention for
2018. Japan, South Korea, Australia and Qatar are remaining
bidders for 2022.  The bidding is the most competitive since Germany beat
South Africa, which hosted this year’s event, to stage the World
Cup in 2006. Zen-Ruffinen said there are likely to be last-
minute negotiations as there were when Germany was selected in
2001.  “Before each vote, there is a so-called ‘Night of the Long
Knives,’ during which there are a lot of promises and
discussions in the corridors,” he said. “The impact of such a
decision is so big that there’s a lot of pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  