-- Ex-JPMorgan Banker's Divorce May Change U.K. Law on Pre-Nuptials
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-19T10:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/ex-jpmorgan-banker-s-divorce-may-change-u-k-law-on-pre-nups-lawyers-say.html
Bankers, socialites and heirs to
family fortunes may win more power to protect assets in divorces
if the U.K. Supreme Court tomorrow moves a step closer to
recognizing U.S.-style pre-nuptial agreements, lawyers say.  The judgment, in a case between an ex- JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
investment banker and his millionaire heiress ex-wife, will
determine if the Court of Appeal erred by ruling that “pre-
nups” should be given “decisive weight” in English divorces.
Without such contracts, judges decide who gets what.  “The U.K. is lagging behind the rest of the world,” said
Meredith Thompson, a lawyer at Mills & Reeve LLP in London, who
isn’t involved in the case. “Economically, it’s good for people
to be able to do what they want with their own money, rather
than leave it in the lap of a judge.”  Pre-nups in England and Wales have gained during a decade-
long trend of judges awarding large settlements to departing
spouses, the lawyers say. The contracts help to avoid such
payouts in divorce cases, and U.K. judges are giving them
greater weight.  “There’s been a tremendous trend toward giving more
respect to pre-nuptials,” said Julian Lipson, a lawyer at
Withers LLP in London. “Six or seven years ago, the average
British client would have thought a pre-nup was an American
peculiarity. That is no longer the case.”  ‘Missed’ Opportunity  Tomorrow’s case involves Nicolas Granatino, a French-born
former banker who is seeking a bigger divorce payout from German
heiress Katrin Radmacher. He claims their pre-nup shouldn’t be
enforced because Radmacher withheld the full extent of her
wealth and he didn’t have proper legal advice when he signed it.  If the court rules in favor of Granatino, it “will have
missed an opportunity to put us in line with mainland Europe,”
said Anne Kay, a lawyer at Boodle Hatfield in London.  Christopher Butler, a lawyer at Speechly Bircham LLP in
London, said “major growth” in the use of pre-nups won’t
necessarily be halted by an adverse Supreme Court ruling.  “They’ve sparked public interest,” Butler said. “People
have woken up to the fact that they’re useful to have in England
and Wales -- they’re not just useless bits of paper.”  English judges used to calculate a departing spouse’s payout
by starting at zero and adding money based on various levels of
need, the lawyers say. In 2000, a precedent-setting case changed
the formula to a 50-50 default division of assets and modifying
the payout based on individual circumstances.  ‘Divorce Capital’  That made England and Wales the “divorce capital of
Europe, if not the world” Butler said.  Granatino and Radmacher wed in England in 1998 and raised
two daughters in London’s Chelsea neighborhood. Radmacher, whose
wealth stemmed from the family’s paper manufacturing business,
asked Granatino to sign a pre-nup holding that neither party
would benefit financially in a divorce.  Granatino left his banking career in 2003 to work at
 Hertford College, Oxford , where he earned about 30,000 pounds
($48,000) a year, according to a review of the case by Speechly
Bircham. When the pair separated in 2006, Granatino’s savings
had been depleted and Radmacher was supporting the family. She
filed for divorce the next year.  According to an earlier judgment in the case, Radmacher had
liquid assets of more than 50 million pounds and “significant
minority interests” in two German companies.  ‘Eye-Watering Payouts’  Ayesha Vardag, the London lawyer who represented Radmacher
during the appeal and the Supreme Court hearing, said England’s
“eye-watering payouts” are “out of step” with most of the
world. She said the Supreme Court has the chance to determine
how much control courts should have over couples seeking to
order their finances.  “I hope the Supreme Court rises to the challenge,” said
Vardag, who no longer represents Radmacher.  Simon Bruce, Radmacher’s current lawyer from Farrer & Co.,
declined to comment on the case before the judgment is issued.  Granatino’s lawyer,  Fiona Shackleton  of Payne Hicks Beach
in London, didn’t return a message seeking comment. She also
represented former Beatle  Paul McCartney  in his divorce from
 Heather Mills .  The first U.K. judge who ruled on their divorce case didn’t
defer to the pre-nup and awarded Granatino about 6 million
pounds. The Court of Appeal overturned that settlement, giving
greater weight to the contract.  ‘Judicial Legislation’  Granatino claims the appeals court exceeded its authority
by deferring to the pre-nup, and that the decision amounted to
“judicial legislation.” The judges held that pre-nups are
enforceable when entered into freely by both parties.  There’s a chance that the debate might not be resolved by
the Supreme Court ruling, said Lipson. The court could prevent
the judgment from applying to other pre-nups by relying on facts
specific to the Radmacher case.  “There will be plenty of ways to distinguish his
circumstances from those of other couples and prevent this from
being a blanket ruling,” Lipson said.  The Supreme Court may also decide to leave it to the
government to determine the fate of pre-nups.  “It will require legislative change, and the government
won’t have much stomach for this at the moment,” Thompson said.  Caitlin Jenkins, a lawyer at Mills & Reeve, said the ruling
comes during a period of falling wealth, a “bleak” economy and
unease at the disparity between U.K. and European laws.  “The Supreme Court has been presented with the ‘perfect
storm’ for the introduction of pre-nuptial agreements,” Jenkins
said. “It will be a long time before the courts have another
opportunity to clarify the muddle that is the current law.”  The case is Radmacher v Granatino, Case ID: UKSC 2009/0031.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 