-- Facebook to Keep Applications From Sharing Private Information
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-19T02:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/facebook-to-keep-applications-from-sharing-private-information.html
Facebook Inc. , facing criticism
about how it handles private data, said it’s taking steps to
keep user-identification information from being passed on to
advertisers and other outside companies.  Games and similar applications that are popular on Facebook
are providing key information to networks that handle online-ad
placement and companies that track Web surfing, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday. The software passed along “Facebook
ID” numbers, or UIDs, which can be used to obtain user names, in
a way that violated company policy, Facebook  said .  The practice adds to pressure on Facebook to do a better
job handling private information as it looks for ways to make
money from the more than 500 million people who use its pages to
play games, post photos and communicate with each other. Many
app makers probably violated their own privacy policies as well
as those of Facebook unintentionally, said Erica Newland, an
analyst at the  Center for Democracy & Technology .  “Ignorance is no excuse for playing fast and loose with
users’ personal information and for violating promises that you
make,” said Newland, whose nonprofit Internet policy group is
based in Washington.  “In most cases, developers did not intend to pass this
information, but did so because of the technical details of how
browsers work,” Mike Vernal, an engineer at Facebook, wrote in
the company’s blog for software programmers.  While outside companies couldn’t use the UIDs to access
data without a user’s consent, Vernal said, “we are committed to
ensuring that even the inadvertent passing of UIDs is prevented
and all applications are in compliance with our policy.”  ‘Cause for Concern’  Reports on the data breaches prompted Representatives
 Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Joe Barton , a
Republican from Texas, to write a letter to Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , asking for details on who
likely has been affected and how the company aims to change its
policies.  “Given the number of current users, the rate at which that
number grows worldwide, and the age range of Facebook users,
combined with the amount and the nature of information these
users place in Facebook’s trust, this series of breaches of
consumer privacy is a cause for concern,” the lawmakers wrote.  Regulators and consumer advocates have previously urged the
company to prevent unauthorized leaks to marketers that can use
personal data to target ads at specific audiences.  “We’re happy to work with Reps. Markey and Barton to answer
any questions they may have,”  Andrew Noyes , a Facebook
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. He took issue with the
idea that passing along user information is a “breach.”  Zynga, Lolapps  Zynga Game Network Inc. and Lolapps Inc., makers of widely
used Facebook apps, were among companies whose software
transmitted IDs, the Wall Street Journal reported. They may not
have intentionally shared the data, according to Facebook.  Lolapps said that its software violated Facebook policies.
“We have worked closely with the Facebook team to ensure that
our applications and games are in compliance with their policies
and look forward to continuing to partner with them to bring the
safest possible experience to our users,” the company said in a
statement.  Dani Dudeck , a spokeswoman for Zynga, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Rapleaf , a San Francisco-based startup that helps
businesses learn about what potential customers are doing
online, was among companies that transmitted Facebook user IDs,
according to the Wall Street Journal. Rapleaf said in a  blog
posting  that the transmissions were not the result of “any
purposefully engineered process” of its own making and that it
has stopped passing on information to advertising providers.  “When we discovered that Facebook IDs were being passed to
ad networks by applications that we work with, we immediately
researched the cause and implemented a solution to cease the
transmissions,” the company said. “As of last week, no
Facebook IDs are being transmitted to ad networks in conjunction
with the use of any Rapleaf service.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 