-- Facebook Charity Application Wins Investors, Grows With Safeway
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/facebook-charity-application-wins-investors-builds-awareness-via-safeway.html
Causes , a for-profit company that
lets Facebook Inc.’s users give money to charities, raised $9
million in new funding and began selling gift cards in
supermarkets as it aims to bring more philanthropy to the Web.  Co-founded three years ago by former Facebook President
 Sean Parker , the Berkeley, California-based company has raised a
total of more than $16 million in financing. Investors in the
latest round include venture capital firms New Enterprise
Associates and Founders Fund Management LLC, Silicon Valley
startup backer  Ron Conway  and Salesforce.com Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Benioff .  “I view these guys as the modern social revolutionaries,”
Benioff said. “If they were born in the ‘60s, they would be
protesting the war. Instead, they’re trying to change the world
through the Internet.”  Causes’ Facebook application connects 119 million people to
a range of charities, making it easy to donate small amounts.
Americans spent $303.8 billion on philanthropy last year,
according to research group  GivingUSA Foundation . Causes aims to
channel a bigger portion of the money through social networks,
where users can rally around online communities. The company
makes money by asking for a voluntary “tip” of 10 percent or
more.  Causes’ new $25 and $50 gift cards, which will be available
in  Safeway Inc.  and Vons supermarkets in California, let people
donate online to their choice of thousands of charities.  ‘Make a Difference’  Leilani Muenter , a professional race-car driver in North
Carolina, used Causes to call attention to a charity she
supports. She taped the killing of 15 dolphins in Taiji, Japan,
and uploaded it last week to the Causes page for Save Japan
Dolphins. The video got more than 10,000 views in three days,
and inspired some people to contact Japanese embassies in their
hometowns, according to comments posted on the site.  Online social tools are convincing people that “they can
make a difference,” said Dave Philips, executive director of the
 Earth Island Institute , a Berkeley group that oversees Save
Japan Dolphins and other charities. Most of the nonprofit’s
960,000 members are registered with Causes, and it has raised
about $150,000 from the site in the past year.  Aflac Inc.’s Cancer Center  has raised $1.17 million on
Causes, more than any other organization. The Nature Conservancy
is second with $399,716, followed by the Humane Society of the
United States with $372,005.  Online charity accounts for about 5 percent of all
donations in the U.S., the  Blackbaud Index of Online Giving 
estimated. That number is bound to rise as individuals and large
organizations see how social networks can eliminate some of the
burdens of fundraising, said Causes co-founder Joe Green, 27, a
Harvard University graduate who shared a dorm room with Facebook
CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  from 2003 to 2004.  ‘Social Capital’  Money spent on large direct-mail marketing and
telemarketing is often wasted, since only a small portion of
people reached respond, Green said.  Those methods also aren’t effective at getting people to
recommend causes to their friends, a kind of “social capital”
that is increasingly being created on Facebook and other sites,
co-founder Parker said in an interview. “The big untapped area
was leveraging social capital between people to get things done
in the world,” said Parker, 31, who is a managing partner at
 Founders Fund .  One of Causes’ most successful services is its  birthday
application , which lets Facebook users ask their network friends
to donate to a charity they choose. More than 100,000 people
have used this feature, and birthday donations have totaled $7.6
million, according to Causes, which doesn’t disclose its sales.  Expansion Plans  The gift cards are helping build awareness of the Causes
brand outside of Facebook, according to Parker. The company
worked with Blackhawk Network LLC to get the cards in Safeway
and Vons stores. “This could be a successful gift card, and a
successful gift card usually does a half-billion dollars” in
total payment volume, Parker said.  Causes also has partnerships with corporations, which pay
between $50,000 and $300,000 on average for fundraising
campaigns.  The company will put most of the new funding toward
 expanding its team . The company, occupying a small, second-floor
office a few blocks from the University of California, Berkeley
campus, has 16 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas  MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  