-- Fayyad Says Building State Institutions Will Make Palestine `Inevitable'
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-18T15:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/fayyad-says-building-state-institutions-will-make-palestine-inevitable-.html
Palestinian Authority Prime Minister
Salam Fayyad said Palestinians must press ahead with building
the foundations of government such as police and a central bank
to make the creation of an independent state “inevitable.”  “Palestine is not going to emerge in a vacuum but on the
strength of the institutions of government,”  he said  in an
interview yesterday in Ramallah. “People on both sides are
beginning to see statehood translated and transformed from the
realm of concept to the realm of reality. This is enormously
powerful.”  Fayyad, 58, said that all institutions needed to run a
state will be in place by the middle of next year. Already,
better-trained police are on the streets and sewage systems have
been improved, according to a  Palestinian Authority  progress
report published two months ago.  Peace talks that aim to establish an independent Palestine
stalled after Israel refused to renew a partial 10-month
construction freeze in West Bank settlements that ended on Sept.
26. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he
won’t return to negotiations launched on Sept. 2 until Israel
pledges to stop all construction. Fayyad’s plan has been to
build the framework of a state irrespective of progress in
talks.  Abbas said in an interview yesterday with Israel’s Channel
1 television station that he is willing to renounce all future
claims on Israel after a Palestinian state is established,
though he stopped short of responding to Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s insistence that he recognize Israel as a
Jewish state.  “Historic Demands’  “We are ready to put an end to historic demands” once a
Palestinian state is established on land outside Israel’s 1967
borders,” Abbas said.  Yigal Palmor , spokesman for the Israeli
Foreign Ministry, said there was nothing new in the comments and
urged Abbas to return to direct talks.  Fayyad said his program is establishing a new reality that
is likely to push forward “the prospects of the political
process.”  Samir Abdullah , director of the  Palestinian Economic
Research Institute  in Ramallah, said Fayyad’s program “makes it
harder for Israel to justify its continuing occupation.”  “There is an emerging international consensus in favor of
Palestinian statehood and Fayyad is doing his homework so that
nobody can say we’re not ready,” Abdullah said in a phone
interview.  The Arab League this month gave the U.S. a month to
convince Israel to end the West Bank construction before
discussing alternatives to direct talks.  ‘First Choice’  “Our first choice is to go to negotiations.” Abbas said
on  Channel 1 . “If that doesn’t happen there are a lot of
options. We will ask the Americans and the UN Security Council
to recognize a Palestinian state. We will ask for international
custodianship. We must reach a solution. All options are open.”  Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at Al-Azhar
University, said recognition by the United Nations would mean
the Palestinians could ask institutions such as the
International Court of Justice to call on Israel to end its
occupation.  Fayyad unveiled a two-year program last year to prepare
Palestinians for statehood through gradual political and
economic development. The plan focused on stabilizing areas
under the Palestinian Authority’s control.  Israeli President  Shimon Peres  has compared Fayyad’s
nation-building to that of Israel’s first premier, David Ben-
Gurion, who helped build the institutions that then became the
infrastructure of the Jewish state.  Key Institutions  “Israel as a state was not established in 1948,” Fayyad
said. “Statehood was proclaimed in 1948. The key institutions
of state and the services were there long before.”  The  World Bank  in September said the Palestinian Authority
is “well-positioned” to establish a state, though it remains
dependent on donor aid and its economic growth is unsustainable.  Fayyad said the Palestinian economy can’t live up to its
“vast potential” as long as it remains “shackled” by Israeli
restrictions such as military checkpoints.  Netanyahu has lifted roadblocks in the West Bank in what he
said was an effort to promote Palestinian economic growth.
Israel has said the checkpoints are necessary to stop
Palestinian militants from reaching Israeli towns and cities to
carry out attacks.  The West Bank and Gaza Strip economies are heading for 8
percent growth this year, up from 7.2 percent in the West Bank
for 2009 and 5.4 percent in Gaza, Oussama Kanaan, the head of
the  International Monetary Fund’s  mission to the area, said on
Sept. 14. While some of the growth is due to improved investor
confidence and the partial easing of restrictions by Israel, the
main driver remains foreign donations, the World Bank said in
its report.  Days in Washington  The Palestinian prime minister said he often consults with
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , a colleague from his
days in Washington at the International Monetary Fund, where he
worked from 1987 to 2001. Fayyad earned his doctorate in
economics from the University of Texas at Austin.  “We think similarly about the importance of capacity
building, about integrity of government structures, and it
should not come as a surprise, also in so far as how to get a
small, open economy to function,” said Fayyad, adding that he
plans to meet with Fischer today.  Palestinians must keep working at building the state, Fayyad
said.  “This is like birth, it is something inevitable,” he
said. “The baby, the infant, the pregnancy comes to term. It
has to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Ramallah through the Jerusalem newsroom at
   gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Ramallah through the Tel Aviv newsroom at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  