-- Fisher Says Fed Stimulus May Undercut Demand for Riskier Assets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-18T14:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/fed-stimulus-may-undercut-demand-for-riskier-assets-investor-fisher-says.html
Billionaire investor  Kenneth Fisher 
said monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve is unnecessary
and could cause the dollar to weaken and reduce demand for
riskier assets such as U.S. stocks.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks returns against six major
currencies, has dropped as much as 5.1 percent since Aug. 10,
when the Fed said it would keep its holdings of bonds level by
resuming the purchase of U.S. debt to support a recovery. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has rallied 4.9 percent since then.  “There’s no reason for the United States to be doing
quantitative easing,” said Fisher, who oversees more than $38
billion at Woodside, California-based Fisher Investments Inc.
“It increases risk  aversion  for U.S. stocks. It’s got a slight
tendency to want to motivate you to underweight U.S. stocks.”  Policy makers should show more confidence that the recovery
that began last year will eventually create jobs, and avoid
sending signals that may derail it, Fisher said. The world
economy will expand 4.8 percent this year, the International
Monetary Fund said Oct. 6, up from its forecast of 4.6 percent
three months ago. U.S. gross domestic product will rise 2.7
percent in 2010, after last year’s contraction of 2.6 percent,
according to the economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent in September,
near its 26-year high of 10.1 percent last year, according to
the Labor Department in Washington. The U.S. lost more jobs than
forecast last month as local governments fired teachers and
other workers in response to declining tax revenue.  Leading Indicator  “They are concerned because in the United States
 employment  is lagging,” Fisher said. “The stock market has
always been and continues to be one of the better leading
economic indicators. What it was saying in March 2009 was
economic turnaround ahead. What it was saying to the balance of
2009 was the economy has turned around. What it’s been saying
through most of 2010 has been an expanding economy, but slower
growth than normal.”  The  S&P 500  gained as much as 80 percent since falling to a
12-year low in March 2009 as the government spent trillions of
dollars to stimulate the economy. The index fell as much as 16
percent from a 19-month high in April on investors’ concern that
U.S. unemployment and widening budget deficits in Europe could
derail global growth. The gauge has risen 15 percent since July
2 as companies reported better-than-estimated earnings.  Fisher, who favors shares of technology and industrial
makers, raw-materials producers and companies that rely on
consumer discretionary spending, said that neither Europe nor
the fears of a double-dip recession would be able to drive the
stock market lower.  “To knock the market down, you’d have to have a new big,
bad thing, he said. “We’re in a bull market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 