-- Health Care Constitutionality Ruling to Come by Year-End, U.S. Judge Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-18T19:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/federal-judge-weighs-whether-obama-s-health-care-reform-is-constitutional.html
A federal judge in Virginia said
he’ll rule by yearend whether President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul is constitutional, adding that his decision will
be a “brief stop” in the case on its way to the Supreme Court.  U.S. District Judge  Henry E. Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia,
heard arguments today over whether the law’s requirement for
individuals to buy health insurance is overreaching by Congress.
Justice Department lawyers have argued that failure to have
health insurance is an active decision with broad economic
effects that can be regulated by the government.  Already, a U.S. judge in Michigan has found the law falls
within the framework of the Constitution, while a federal judge
in Florida last week, in allowing a case in Pensacola to
proceed, said it’s not even a “close call” that Congress may
have overstepped its bounds.  “This court is just one brief stop on the way to the
Supreme Court,” Hudson said at the close of 2 1/2 hours of
arguments today.  Hudson acknowledged that any decision will be quickly
appealed to the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond.
With courts in Michigan and Florida appealing, the conflicting
decisions could improve the chances the high court would review
the case.  “I don’t know how it will all come out,” said  Carl Tobias , a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law.
“There’s likely to be some differences -- the Supreme Court
will have to decide if there are differences that need to be
reviewed.”  Right to Sue  Hudson in August had given approval for Virginia’s suit to
move ahead, rejecting the federal government’s arguments that
the state had no right to sue. Virginia said the requirement to
buy insurance exceeds Congress’s powers regulate interstate
commerce.  In that decision, he said there is authority supporting
each side’s arguments and noted the U.S. Supreme Court hasn’t
squarely addressed the issue.  Virginia and Florida each filed lawsuits within minutes of
Obama signing the bill on March 23. The following day, Governor
 Bob McDonnell  signed legislation making it illegal to force the
state’s residents to buy health insurance. Florida’s suit
represents 19 other states.  The law is “unprecedented, unlimited and unsupportable in
any serious regime of delegated, enumerated powers,”  Duncan Getchell , an attorney for Virginia, told Hudson.  Congressional Authority  Virginia claims in its lawsuit that the federal mandate to
buy health insurance goes beyond Congress’s authority. The U.S.
said the provision is allowed under its power to regulate
commerce because of the $43 billion in unpaid medical bills
absorbed by the market each year.  Hudson pressed U.S. Attorney Ian Gershengorn over whether
the federal government should be allowed to force people to
enter a market or whether choosing not to buy health insurance
is actively participating in commerce and can be governed by the
Constitution.  “It’s absolutely not passivity,” Gershengorn said. “They
are in the market, they are using those health-care services.”  The parties disagreed whether the law is based on a tax or
another penalty, with the U.S. lawyers arguing it was a tax,
which allows federal oversight. Gershengorn said it was a tax,
and not a punishment, while Hudson questioned why lawmakers
publicly denied there was a tax involved.  ‘Without Prior Precedent’  “They denied it was a tax,” Hudson said. “Was the
president trying to deceive the people?”  U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola last week
allowed that case to proceed, finding the government’s expansion
of powers is “simply without prior precedent.” He also allowed
Florida to proceed on its claim that Medicaid would be expanded
dramatically and the states cannot realistically opt out. He
threw out Florida’s claim that the law interferes with the
state’s sovereignty as an employer and the mandate for
individuals to get coverage violates the right to due process of
law.  Further arguments on the merits of the lawsuit have been
scheduled by Vinson for Dec. 16.  Vinson’s decision countered a U.S. judge in Michigan who on
Oct. 7 upheld the constitutionality of the health-care overhaul,
rejecting an argument by a self-described Christian law center
in what was the first court victory for the new law. The ruling
denied the Thomas More Law Center’s request for an injunction
and said the group failed to prove the statute is
unconstitutional under the Commerce Clause.  Uninsured Costs  Lawyers for the U.S. said Congress has a right to regulate
people who hurt the economy when they become sick or injured and
seek health care without insurance. Because the federal
government covers some costs of the uninsured, it has authority
to require them to get health coverage even if they don’t want
it, the lawyers said.  Virginia said the law’s purpose is to ensure that people
buy health-care coverage and not to raise revenue. That means it
shouldn’t be classified as a tax, and that puts it outside the
realm of Congress’s recognized power to tax and spend, the
state’s lawyers argue.  The U.S. said the law is within Congress’s authority to tax
and to regulate interstate commerce. The possibility of people
being unable to pay medical bills is sufficient to draw a link
to their insurance coverage and those powers, the federal
government said.  Even knowing the case will ultimately be decided by higher
courts, Hudson is likely to take his time with a decision. With
the first decision on the merits in a precedent setting case,
Hudson knows his ruling will be closely watched.  “It may give a judge pause, a judge may be cautious,”
said Tobias. “He has to be diligent. That’s what makes it
lonely when you’re a district judge.”  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 10-cv-
00188, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Richmond, Virginia, at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 