-- India Central Bank Said to Intervene If Rupee Rises Past 43 Against Dollar
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2010-10-18T10:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/finance-ministry-said-to-prefer-indian-rupee-between-43-45-against-dollar.html
India’s central bank may intervene
to weaken the rupee and protect exporters if the currency
appreciates past 43 against the U.S. dollar, a finance ministry
official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The government is comfortable with the rupee trading
between 43 and 45 to the U.S. currency, the official said late
on Oct. 15, asking not to be identified because the issue is
sensitive. The local currency fell 0.4 percent today to 44.29
per dollar as of 3:42 p.m. in Mumbai today.  The rupee has climbed 3.5 percent to be Asia’s second-best
performer in Asia outside Japan in the past month as foreign
fund flows into the nation’s surging stock market reached a
record $23 billion this year. India would join countries from
Japan to Brazil that have sold their currencies to keep exports
competitive as the global recovery loses momentum.  “Global demand is already weak and many are starting to
intervene,” said  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist with
Nomura Holdings Inc. “We won’t be surprised if the RBI did
start intervening before 43 as well.”  Policy makers aren’t in favor of curbing capital flows from
overseas, and plan to protect exporters mainly by intervening in
currency markets, the official said. The last time the Reserve
Bank attempted to influence the exchange rate was in November
2009, when it sold a net $36 million, according to  data  on the
central bank’s website.  Killing Exports  Infosys Technologies Ltd., India’s second-biggest software
maker, last week called for capping the currency’s strength,
saying rupee volatility will “kill” exports.  Sharad Kumar Saraf , vice president of the Federation of Indian Export
Organisations called for a mechanism to exclude “hot money”
blamed for rapid appreciation and prevent the “distortion” of
the exchange rate.  The Reserve Bank of India may sell the rupee to curb gains
in the currency, Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  signaled last week,
while Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said “lumpy and volatile”
inflows will attract intervention.  Merchandise sales overseas  grew an average 30 percent a
month this year compared with 43 percent for imports, according
to data provided by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The
monthly  trade deficit  in August reached $13 billion, approaching
a record gap of $15.8 billion touched two years earlier when the
global financial crisis triggered a global recession.  Current Account  The nation’s  current-account deficit  widened to a record
$13.7 billion in the quarter to June 30, compared with a surplus
of $17.5 billion in the capital account.  “If you have a large trade deficit, you have to control
the quality of the inflows; you have to make sure the rupee is
at the right level to support your trade deficit,” V.
Balakrishnan, chief financial officer, Infosys, said on Oct. 15.
“I’m not the RBI governor, but if I was, I would do it now.”  Economists have slashed their U.S. GDP growth estimates for
2010, to 2.7 percent from 3.3 percent in May, based on the
median of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. For 2011, it’s
2.45 percent. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Oct. 15
speech that additional monetary stimulus may be warranted
because inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  Japan said on Sept. 30 that its central bank intervened by
selling yen for the first time since 2004 to preserve an export-
led recovery, two days after Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned of a global “currency war.”  “Clearly, the scope for intervention is much more now” in
India, Nomura’s Varma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
 Anto Antony  in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  