-- First Quantum Seeks to Cooperate With Xstrata in Peru After Haquira Deal
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-18T20:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/first-quantum-says-it-has-agreed-to-buy-antares-minerals-for-452-million.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. , the
Canadian mining company that today agreed to buy the Haquira
copper project in Peru, will seek to cooperate with  Xstrata Plc 
and other developers of nearby mineral resources.  “We’ll inevitably talk to any operator in the region to
create synergy in the infrastructure,”  Clive Newall , president
of Vancouver-based First Quantum, told a conference call.
“We’ve got to own the project before we can start
discussions.”  First Quantum, seeking to diversify after a battle over
mining rights in the Democratic Republic of Congo, agreed to pay
C$460 million ($450 million) for Antares Minerals Inc., which
owns the Haquira site next to Xstrata’s Las Bambas copper and
gold development. The companies may be able to share power
sources, road access and a pipeline in the region, said John
Gregory, an engineering consultant for First Quantum.  The mine operator expects an initial investment of $2.06
billion including working capital and a 20 percent margin for
unexpected events, Newall said. Haquira has 3.7 million metric
tons of contained copper equivalent and inferred resources of
2.4 million tons of contained copper equivalent, he said.  Copper Concentrate  The mine can produce an annual 230,000 tons of copper
concentrate in the first 10 years at a so-called cash cost of
$0.89 a pound, Newall said.  Xstrata, which also operates the Antapaccay and Tintaya
projects in the region, declined to comment on First Quantum’s
statements.  “The acquisition of Antares is another step in First
Quantum’s stated strategy of geographical diversification,”
Chief Executive Officer  Philip Pascall  said in a statement.
“Haquira is a world-class copper project and has the potential
to significantly increase First Quantum’s copper production.”  First Quantum will offer the equivalent of C$6.35 for each
Antares share, a 46 percent premium to the volume-weighted
average trading price on the Toronto Stock Exchange for the 20
trading days ended Oct. 15, the statement shows.  The acquirer will offer  shareholders  0.07619 of its own
shares for each Antares stock they hold or an aggregate maximum
cash payment of C$250 million. The board of directors at Antares
unanimously approved the transaction and will recommend
shareholders vote in favor, according to First Quantum, which
expects to complete the deal in December.  Cash Portion  Antares gained C$2.09, or 47 percent, to C$6.58 at 3:59
p.m. in Toronto trading, while First Quantum dropped 0.5 percent
to C$82.66.  First Quantum said it will fund the cash portion of the
acquisition with internal resources.  Antares agreed to pay C$13.5 million if the transaction
fails to complete to First Quantum, which also gained the right
to try to match any competing offers, according to the
statement.  First Quantum has lost control of its biggest projects in
Congo in the past year and has a case before a Paris arbitration
court to try to resolve a dispute over the $750 million Kolwezi
copper venture. The Congolese government shuttered the project
last year and in August sold the rights to the development to
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  