-- Five Beaten Down Stocks Now Look Like Bargains: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-10-18T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/five-beaten-down-stocks-now-look-like-bargains-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
With the U.S. stock market rising in
six of the past seven weeks, investors are starting to feel that
2010 isn’t so bad after all.  Some securities, however, have missed the party. Among the
stocks in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , about three dozen
have declined 20 percent or more so far this year. The S&P 500
is up 5 percent.  Some of these laggards now look like bargains. Here are
five that I want to bring to your attention:  --  H&R Block Inc. , the nation’s largest tax preparer, is
down 45 percent so far this year.  --  Nvidia Corp. , a maker of 3-D graphics processors, has
seen its shares drop 40 percent.  --  AK Steel Holding Corp. , the third-largest U.S.
steelmaker, is down 34 percent.  --  Boston Scientific Corp. , the world’s No. 2 heart-device
maker, has fallen 32 percent.  --  Micron Technology Inc. , the largest U.S. maker of
computer-memory chips, is down 28 percent.  Let’s take a closer look at these five companies, trying to
distinguish temporary bad news from weaknesses that are more
lasting.  H&R Block, based in Kansas City, Missouri, must rue the day
it strayed from tax preparation and got into originating
mortgages, a move that led to losses of about $1 billion on
subprime loans.  Possible Litigation  Though it left that business in early 2008, Block, like
other mortgage providers, still faces possible litigation over
its past loans.  To make matters worse, fewer people are walking into the
company’s offices to have their taxes done. An increasing number
of folks do them at home using online programs such as TurboTax,
made by Intuit Inc.  Block’s Chief Executive Officer  Russell P. Smyth  resigned
last summer after less than two years on the job. Meanwhile,
 Thomas M. Bloch , a member of the company’s board and a member of
the family that built the company, announced he was stepping
down due to disagreements with Chairman  Richard Breeden  and
“the intense pressure from short-term oriented shareholders,”
according to a letter to the board filed with regulators.  What, then, do I like about H&R Block? I am attracted to
its cheap price, at eight times earnings. I like its  dividend 
yield of almost 5 percent. I think it’s interesting that three
insiders have purchased Block shares recently. And I believe the
company may become a takeover candidate.  Attainable Target Price  Two of H&R Block’s rivals have already indicated their
willingness to be bought out. Block has said it prefers to
remain independent -- but we’ll see.  You might think Nvidia would be popular, given the growing
use of 3-D effects in games and movies. Yet most analysts don’t
like this Santa Clara, California-based company. In fact, their
“target price” is now $11.16, 13 cents below the stock’s
actual price.  Nvidia disappointed investors with its second fiscal
quarter results.  Revenue  fell to $811 million, from a bit more
than $1 billion in the first quarter. It lost 25 cents a share
compared with a 23-cent profit in the first quarter.  Nvidia’s price-earnings ratio of 17 may not seem especially
cheap, but consider this: shares traded for a median P-E of 36
for the past 10 years. This leaves room for pleasant surprises.  Cyclical Play  AK Steel , located in West Chester, Ohio, is a classic
cyclical stock, losing money when the economy is weak and making
profits when things are good. This year the economic news has
been mixed. On balance, though, it seems to me that an economic
recovery is likely to continue in the U.S. and Europe.  The stock sells for 0.3 times sales, a ratio that is pretty
close to its 10-year average. The chances for a capital gain
here depend on the company’s success at increasing revenue.
That’s not a bad bet, in my view.  Sales  have increased four
quarters in a row, and annualized revenue is at about $6
billion, not too far from the $7 billion pace in 2007 and 2008.  Boston Scientific , located in Natick, Massachusetts, makes
heart stents, pacemakers, and a variety of other medical
devices. Only five analysts like it, out of 31 who cover it.  Although it famously overpaid for Guidant Corp. in 2006,
and has lost money four years in a row, Boston Scientific has
some strengths. It offers a rich variety of products, manages to
stay competitive in a tough industry and sells for modest
valuations. The shares trade at less than book value (admittedly
inflated by goodwill from the Guidant acquisition) and 1.2 times
sales.  Micron’s Comeback  Rounding out my list of lovely laggards is  Micron
Technology , which is a comeback story. The Boise, Idaho-based
company earned $1.85 a share in fiscal 2010 which ended in
August, reversing three years of losses.  Memory chips are the company’s specialty. There was a
worldwide glut of them from 2007 to 2009, but the oversupply has
eased, and companies are being restrained in building new
factories to produce them.  Over the past 10 years, Micron sold for a median P/E of 34.
Today it trades at only five times earnings.  Disclosure note: One of my clients owns shares in Boston
Scientific. Otherwise I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this column, for clients or personally.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  