-- Former NFL All Pro Junior Seau in Hospital After Abuse Arrest, Car Crash
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-10-19T05:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/former-nfl-all-pro-junior-seau-in-hospital-after-abuse-arrest-car-crash.html
Six-time All Pro linebacker
 Junior Seau  was hospitalized with minor injuries after his
car went off a cliff yesterday in Carlsbad, California,
hours after his arrest for domestic abuse.  Police said they responded to a 911 call after Seau’s
white Cadillac sport utility vehicle veered off the road
and onto the beach, department spokeswoman Fiona Everett
said in a telephone interview. Police and fire units found
Seau conscious behind the wheel.  Seau was taken to Scripps La Jolla Hospital. There was
no evidence of alcohol or drugs in the car or on Seau, and
an investigation into the accident continues, Everett said.
The Associated Press said Seau told investigators he drove
off the cliff because he fell asleep.  Carlsbad police Lt. Kelly Cain told AP that Seau’s
account is supported by a lack of skid marks on the road
leading up to the seaside cliff. Seau’s vehicle was found
about 100 feet below the road.  Seau, 41, had been arrested about eight hours earlier
in Oceanside, the town adjacent to Carlsbad on the
California coast about 37 miles (60 kilometers) north of
San Diego. Oceanside police went to Seau’s apartment
following a call from his 25-year-old live-in girlfriend
alleging that Seau assaulted her during a verbal argument,
Lieutenant Leonard Mata said in a news release. Seau was
arrested just after midnight, posted bail and was released,
Mata said.  Seau played for the San Diego Chargers, Miami Dolphins
and New England Patriots during his 20-year National
Football League career. He was a 12-time Pro Bowl selection
and the 1992 NFL defensive player of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  