-- Fortescue Metals Plans $2.04 Billion Sale of High-Yield U.S. Dollar Bonds
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-18T09:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/fortescue-says-it-s-meeting-bond-investors-may-sell-2-billion-of-notes.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-biggest producer of iron ore, is meeting with
bond investors as it seeks to sell $2.04 billion of U.S. dollar-
denominated bonds to repay debt.  The senior unsecured notes will be rated BB+, the highest
junk debt grade, and will mature in October 2015, Fitch Ratings
said in an e-mailed statement today. Fortescue, based in Perth,
announced the debt investor meetings in a separate statement to
the Australian stock exchange.  Fortescue, which started shipments from its Pilbara
operations in May 2008, boosted profit 14 percent in the year to
June 30 after increasing shipments to 40.1 million metric tons,
44 percent higher than the previous year. The company may need
to raise as much as $10 billion in debt by 2017 to fund
“aggressive” expansion plans, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analysts said last month.  Economic growth in Australia may accelerate from its
current rate of about 3.25 percent to closer to 4 percent over
the next “couple of years,” central bank Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said Oct. 8. China’s demand for resources is fuelling
expansion in the nation, which is the world’s biggest exporter
of iron ore.  Fortescue hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and RBS to manage the
sale, according to a banker involved in the transaction. The
company will meet with investors in Europe and Asia starting
Oct. 19, and in the U.S. starting Oct. 22, said the banker, who
declined to be identified before the sale is completed.  The miner will use proceeds from its planned bonds to
refinance existing debt, according to Fitch. Fortescue announced
a new bank loan facility of the same amount Oct. 10.  Fortescue spokesman  Cameron Morse , speaking by phone from
Perth, declined to comment further on the company’s
announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 