-- France Pension Protests Crimp Fuel Supply, Disrupt Transport
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-19T16:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/france-unions-strike-for-fourth-time-to-press-sarkozy-retreat-on-pensions.html
French refineries remained shut,
trains were on half service, schools closed and gas stations ran
dry as unions held their fourth strike in two months against
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to raise the retirement age.  Sarkozy has refused to retreat from a proposal to increase 
the retirement age for a full pension to 67 from 65. His plan 
would bring France closer to Germany and the U.S., which are 
moving toward setting 67 as the full-retirement age, according 
to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.   The French Senate is set to vote on the pension
measure this week, giving final parliamentary approval to a plan
to eliminate the retirement-system deficit by 2018.  “This reform had been postponed for too long and the
deadline couldn’t be push further anymore,” Sarkozy said at a
press conference in Deauville, France. “I hope that everyone
stays calm so that things don’t go beyond certain limits. We
cannot live without gasoline. I will see to it with the security
forces that public order is guaranteed.”  Some protests turned violent, with youths today fighting
police in the Paris suburb of Nanterre. In Lyon, some
demonstrators broke shop windows and pillaged stores, L’Express
magazine said  on its website . Television reports showed snaking
lines of drivers waiting to fill up on gas as about a quarter of
the country’s 12,000 service stations carried signs saying
they’d run out of fuel.  Government ministers said France has enough fuel to last
several weeks and that they’ll continue to use police to break
up barricades at oil depots.  ‘Precautionary Buying’  French oil companies plan to share supplies and transport
in order to combat shortages,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , head of
refiners’ group Union Francaise des Industries Petroliers, said
today, after a meeting with Prime Minister  Francois Fillon .  “We have the products in the depots but we can’t get them
to where they’re needed,” Schilansky said. “We will work on a
coordination of all operators.”  France’s 12 refineries have been on strike for a week, and
no crude is arriving at the ports of Marseille, Le Havre and
Nantes. The government has blamed motorists rushing to fill up
for shortages at service stations.  “There is no shortage in the country, but there are
problems with excessive precautionary buying and with getting
the fuel to some places,” Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau  said in an interview with LCI television yesterday.  Exxon Mobil Corp. declared “force majeure,” in France,
saying it will be unable to meet some of its oil supply
obligations and that it has begun shutting down its Gravenchon
refinery, the larger of its two oil-processors in the country.  ‘Can’t Deliver’  “A complete shutdown of the refinery is now under way,”
 Catherine Brun , an Exxon spokeswoman in Paris, said by phone
today. “We cannot deliver products out of tanks.”  Total SA , the country’s biggest oil company, said a quarter
of the 4,000 service stations it operates in France face
shortages of one or more fuel products because of the strike.  Workers at the Frontignan depot in southern France returned
to work today, allowing 133 tankers to load up with fuel for
deliveries to service stations in the Herault region, where
about a quarter of fuel outlets have run dry, according to
 Florian Jenny , spokesman for the prefecture in Montpellier.  Police yesterday dismantled a barricade set up by strikers
that had blocked access to the depot, he said. The CGT unions
said it is allowing some refineries to supply hospitals.  Bond Spreads  Since the unions’ first protest strike on Sept. 7,
 investors have  demanded higher relative yields to own French
bonds. Yields on 10-year French bonds are 39 basis points more
than similar-maturity German securities, up from 30 basis
points, or 0.3 percentage point, on Sept. 6. The disruptions are
unlikely to have an economic impact, according to  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP Paribas SA.  The lower  National Assembly  has already passed the pension
legislation, which raises the minimum retirement age to 62 from
60, and the age for a full pension to 67 from 65.  It’s now in the Senate, which still has 400 amendments to
consider, Senator  Jean-Claude Gaudin  said on LCI television
today. The final vote is planned for the evening of Oct. 21,
though the debate could last through the weekend, he said.  The government says it’s still open to some small changes
in the bill, and has already made concessions that will allow
people in difficult jobs as well as working mothers with three
children to retire earlier. It says it won’t budge on the
retirement ages.  Planes, Trains  France’s eight major unions will meet on Oct. 21 to decide
how to continue their action.  France’s civil-aviation authority has told airlines to
cancel half their flights today from Paris’s Orly Airport and 30
percent at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle, the country’s largest. Air
France SA said long-haul flights won’t be affected.  About half of all high-speed trains and Paris commuter
trains are running today, the national railroad said in a
statement. The Paris metro is running almost normally.  This morning, truckers slowed down the main highway coming
into Paris from the south. Yesterday, they temporarily blocked
the main north-south A6 highway between Lyon and Paris, as well
as near Lille in the north of the country.  The Labor Ministry said in a statement that 7.4 percent of
government workers, excluding education, were on strike, down
from 18.6 percent on Oct. 12.  Student Participation  A total of 277 protests and marches were planned throughout
the country today. Police said about 825,000 people took part in
the Oct. 12 protests, which was less than in previous national
strike days against the pension measures. Unions put
participation at between 2.5 million and 3 million.  “We must stay peaceful, we must not fall into the trap of
provocation,” said  Francois Chereque , secretary general of the
CFDT union, at the start of the Paris demonstration today.  High school students are increasingly joining the protests.
The education ministry says 379 of the country’s roughly 3,000
high schools are holding protests today, while students union
FDIL says it’s about 850.  Within the school system, 14 percent of teachers were on
strike today, down from 22 percent on the last strike day on
Oct. 12, the education ministry said.  “Any blockade is the consequence of the refusal of the
government to open a dialogue,” Socialist Party spokesman
 Benoit Hamon  said in an interview with RTL radio. “The
government thinks it will be the winner from a radicalization.”  Sarkozy Proposal  Sarkozy’s government says the retirement reforms are needed
to balance the pension system’s budget by 2018. The overhaul is
part of its struggle to reduce the overall deficit. This year,
the gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and
Sarkozy plans to cut it to 6 percent next year.  Under Sarkozy’s proposal, by 2018 a person would need to
work 41 1/2 years to retire with a full pension at 62, and
otherwise would have to wait until 67. Germany has decided to
raise its retirement age to 67 from 65, though Germans can
retire on a reduced pension at 63 if they’ve worked 35 years,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The retirement age in Italy is 65, though working
40 years guarantees a full pension at any age.  In the U.S., what the OECD calls the “normal” retirement
age is increasing to 67 from 66, though early retirement with
reduced benefits is available from the age of 62.  In France, the average retiree gets a net 65 percent of his
average qualifying wage in government pension payouts, compared
with 61.5 percent in Germany, 47 percent in the U.S. and 44
percent in Britain,  according to the OECD .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Patel  at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  