-- French Service Stations Empty as Refineries Shut Down on Strike Action
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-18T11:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/french-service-stations-empty-as-refineries-shut-down-on-strike-action.html
More than 10 percent of French
service stations were estimated to be out of fuel after walkouts
and blockades at ports, refineries and storage depots halted
imports and distribution.  Total SA, Europe’s biggest refiner, said about 400 service
stations out of its 4,000 in France were empty of some or all
types of fuel while about a quarter of a similarly sized network
of outlets at supermarkets were also dry.  “We are mostly running out of diesel,” Alexandre de
Benoist, head of the Independent Fuel Importers Union, or UIP,
said by telephone. “There are stocks but we can’t get at them
in some cases because of blockages at fuel depots.”  The group estimates that 15 percent of the  fuel 
distribution to France’s 12,000 stations has been cut off.  Local government today ordered about 30 workers back on the
job to transport fuel from the Grandpuits refinery near Paris,
the CGT union, which is leading the strike, said. The plant’s
management said workers who refused the demand risked five years
in prison, according to a union statement.  “France has enough refined products in sufficient
quantities so that everyone will be guaranteed supply for many
more weeks,” French Industry Minister  Christian Estrosi  said
today on RTL radio. “When there is a blockade we will take the
necessary measures.”  The union said “in light of the government’s declarations,
we are not excluding police intervention” at Grandpuits.  Prices Jump  Refineries have been shut, fuel storage sites blocked and
crude import terminals closed as employees protest a government
plan to raise the retirement age. The action has created long
lines at service stations across the country as consumers rush
to fill up their cars.  The strike caused gasoline prices in northwest Europe to
climb 13 percent, according to Bloomberg data. Fuel for
immediate loading closed at $771 a metric ton on Oct. 15, up
from $683 a ton on Sept. 27, when the Marseille strike started.  Total has halted refineries at Donges, Feyzin, Grandpuits,
and La Mede while a plant in Normandy is in the process of
closing, spokesman  Michael Crochet-Vourey  said by telephone.
Some fuel depots operated by Total are blocked by strikers
including one at Le Mans, he said.  Imports Blocked  Oil imports at Le Havre, Marseille, and near Nantes have
been blocked by the labor action. The three points are the only
means by which crude normally enters France, the Union Francaise
des Industries Petrolieres, the refiner’s group, has said.  Police have ordered protesters to lift barricades at fuel
depots while jet fuel supplies to Paris Roissy-Charles de Gaulle
airport, France’s biggest, resumed after management reopened a
pipeline. The link delivers supply from a terminal at Le Havre.  The strike at Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil terminals
entered its 22nd day, leaving 65 vessels stranded as of today.
These included 47 crude and refined fuel tankers and 10 gas
transporters, according to a statement from the port.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkenned3@bloomberg.net  