-- Geithner Says Nations Can't Devalue Their Way to Prosperity
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-18T23:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/geithner-says-countries-cannot-devalue-way-to-prosperity-defends-dollar.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said countries can’t devalue their currencies to
achieve economic growth, and the U.S. envisions the dollar will
remain the global reserve currency.  “The United States of America and no country around the
world can devalue its way to prosperity, to competitiveness,”
Geithner said today in a panel discussion in Palo Alto,
California. “It is not a viable, feasible strategy and we will
not engage in it.” He also said the U.S. will “work very hard
to make sure that we preserve confidence in a strong dollar.”  China’s exchange-rate policy is unfair to trading partners,
Geithner said. The yuan is “significantly undervalued, more so
than is true of any major significant emerging-market
currency,” he said in the discussion held by  the Commonwealth
Club , a nonpartisan public affairs forum.  The dollar rose after Geithner’s remarks. The U.S. currency
traded at $1.3945 per euro at 5:19 p.m. in New York, compared
with $1.3977 on Oct. 15, when it reached $1.4159, the weakest
level since Jan. 26.  Geithner will travel to South Korea this week to meet with
Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers to discuss
currencies, government stimulus efforts and other economic
policies. The group’s political leaders, including heads of
state, will hold a summit  Nov. 11-12 in Seoul .  “We recognize that the U.S. plays a particularly
important, special role in the international financial system
because the dollar serves as the principal reserve asset of the
global financial system,” Geithner said. The dollar will “not
in our lifetime” cease to be the global reserve currency, he
said.  Unfair to Partners  Geithner said the value of the yuan is “unfair to all of
China’s trading partners, Americans and others, because it just
creates a playing field that’s unbalanced” and gives Chinese
companies a “huge” short-term advantage, he said.  The yuan has strengthened 2.7 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the last four months. China’s central bank said June
19 it would allow greater flexibility in the yuan rate with
reference to a currency basket, ending a two-year dollar peg.  Yuan forwards strengthened today on speculation China’s
central bank will allow its currency to rise to help reduce the
economy’s dependence on exports.  China should keep a gradual and controlled pace in re-
valuing its currency, Li Daokui, an adviser to China’s central
bank, said at a forum in Beijing over the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  