-- EU Leaves Euro Deficit Penalties in Political Hands
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-19T14:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/germany-s-push-for-quasi-automatic-debt-deficit-sanctions-hits-resistance.html
European governments left decisions
to sanction euro-area budget violators in political hands,
stopping short of the more automatic crackdown on runaway
deficits demanded by the European Central Bank.  Germany, which had pushed for “quasi-automatic” sanctions
and threatened to expel chronic high-deficit countries from the
 euro region , shifted its stance yesterday to embrace French
calls to require at least two votes by euro-area governments
before penalties are imposed.  “European politicians have forgone a historic opportunity
to reform the fiscal framework in one fell swoop,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “The German-
French compromise could eventually still deliver a decent
framework in the future, but for the time being we only got a
piecemeal reform, vulnerable to further watering down.”  As the euro rises and bond yields in Greece and Spain slip
from highs reached after the debt shock earlier this year,
pressure to fix the management of the $12 trillion economy has
eased, weakening the drive by Germany and ECB President  Jean- Claude Trichet  for tougher enforcement of fiscal rules.  “I’m a little bit surprised that we did not have the full
100 percent backing for fiscal discipline from Germany,”
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  told reporters on the
second day of the European Union meetings in Luxembourg. “We
could have reached a little bit further but we have made so much
progress.”  Austerity Steps  No country has been fined in the euro’s almost 12-year
history for overstepping the EU’s deficit limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product.  Greece , the trigger of this year’s debt
crisis, went the whole period with a deficit over the threshold.  Germany said the new system will put high-deficit nations
on a tighter leash by setting a six-month deadline for them to
take austerity steps or face financial penalties as high as 0.2
percent of GDP.  Sanctions will come “earlier, sharper and faster,” German
Deputy Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter  told reporters today in
Berlin.  The appraisal echoed the German line after the original
rules were negotiated in 1996.  Theo Waigel , then German finance
minister and the main architect of the stability pact, hailed it
at the time as a “quasi-automatic process” which “shifts the
burden of proof” to deficit-plagued countries.  That system broke down in 2003, when Germany and France
used their muscle as the euro area’s two largest economies to
head off penalties for three consecutive breaches of the limit.  Government Leaders  Yesterday’s accord goes to EU government leaders on Oct.
28-29, then back to finance ministers for debate on the precise
legal language. The final legislation also requires the approval
of the  European Parliament  so the new rulebook can take effect
by mid-2011.  Key details remained up for negotiation after the 11-hour
meeting, including pre-emptive penalties on countries before
deficits go over the limit, the size of annual reductions
demanded of nations above the debt limit of 60 percent of GDP
and how to punish countries with “excessive” macroeconomic
imbalances such as outsized current-account gaps.  The unpublished final accord, obtained by Bloomberg News,
spoke only of “sanctions” for “repeated non-compliance” with
EU demands to redress imbalances, without specifying fines.  “This is an improvement compared with what we have today,
but we don’t live in an ideal world,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister  Luc Frieden  said.  In an echo of the debate before the euro’s launch in 1999,
the ECB -- without a vote on the reshaping of the rules -- made
the case for the crackdown on countries with lax budgets.  ‘Greater Automaticity’  “More ambitious reforms are needed,” Trichet said on Oct.
16 in Marrakech. He lobbied for “greater automaticity,
accelerated timelines and reduced room for discretion in
procedures.”  As with the rules that failed to prevent Greece from
veering toward default, the new system would require a majority
of euro-area governments to first declare a country’s deficit
“excessive” and, six months later, to rule that it failed to
start fixing the problem.  Only after the second vote would the German-touted “quasi-
automatic” feature of the system kick in, enabling the  European
Commission  to impose sanctions unless a majority says no.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  welcomed the
rejection of a “more mechanical” process, saying “the member
states are the main actors.”  Budget Discipline  Stuck with the biggest bill for the 860 billion euros ($1.2
trillion) in loans and pledges to stabilize the euro this year,
Germany has since reverted to its pre-euro insistence on
uncompromising budget discipline as the pillar of an inflation-
proof currency.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  -- absent from the
Luxembourg meetings for health reasons -- even floated the
prospect of expelling repeat offenders from the currency union,
a demand since dropped.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  billed the sanctions as
“automatic” even though they are subject to a political vote,
in a joint statement with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  after
a separate get-together in Deauville, France.  Sarkozy backed Merkel’s call for a rewrite of EU treaties
by 2013 to create a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism and to
include the denial of EU voting rights in the sanctions package.
Britain immediately objected to another treaty overhaul, which
would require unanimous assent of all 27 EU governments.  “Disagreements and tensions over the proposed reform of
economic governance will inevitably confirm concerns that,
whatever new rules are agreed, they will be as unenforceable as
the old ones,” said  Marco Annunziata , chief economist at
UniCredit Group in London.  The euro has rallied after reaching a four-year low of
$1.1877 on June 7 and traded at $1.3819 at 4:15 p.m. Luxembourg
time. The euro is 19 percent overvalued, a Bloomberg index of
the relative buying power of world currencies shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Luxembourg at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  