-- Germany Buying More Stolen Data as Tax Agreement With Switzerland Nears
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-18T15:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/germany-buying-more-stolen-data-as-tax-agreement-with-switzerland-nears.html
German authorities confirmed the
purchase of another CD with stolen Swiss bank information as
authorities aim to finalize an agreement with Switzerland that
may curb tax evasion and bring a windfall in tax revenue.  Officials in the western city of Muenster paid 1.5 million
euros ($2.1 million) for a CD with data on 200 accounts at
Zurich-based  Julius Baer Group Ltd ., Gerit Bischoff, a
spokeswoman for the prosecutor, said today. Such purchases have
been a source of tension between the two countries, prompting
discussions to address the issue through a tax treaty.  Talks between German and Swiss officials on taxing so-
called legacy assets held by German investors in Switzerland are
going “well and constructively,” said Michael Offer, a Finance
Ministry spokesman in Berlin. A resolution may come in the next
few months, while the revision of an existing double-taxation
deal will probably be wrapped up in October.  An agreement may lead to a one-time gain in German tax
revenue of as much as 30 billion euros next year,  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  reported, citing unidentified government
officials. Offer dismissed that sum as “lacking any
foundation,” saying any amount raised is a matter of
speculation.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and his Swiss
counterpart, Hans-Rudolf Merz, said on March 26 they were
considering a withholding tax on assets in Switzerland.
Negotiators plan to levy a 35 percent tax on existing and future
assets, as well as a tax on profit from assets over the past 10
years, according to the Frankfurter Allgemeine.  Question of Legality  The purchase of stolen data by prosecutors has stirred a
debate in Germany on its legality. Switzerland has repeatedly
said it won’t offer legal assistance in such cases.  The western state of North Rhine-Westphalia, where Muenster
is located, sparked the debate in February when it bought a CD.
Since then, other states have followed suit and thousands of
people across Germany have filed voluntary tax declarations on
their Swiss bank holdings in an effort to avoid punishment.  Bischoff said the person who sold the data to Muenster
prosecutors, whom she didn’t identify, requested that the 1.5
million euros go to a relief organization for earthquake victims
in Haiti. The organization, overwhelmed by the amount of money,
initially sent it back, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  