-- Portuguese Bonds Lead Peripheral Notes Higher on Deficit-Reduction Plans
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-10-18T15:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/german-bunds-rise-as-falling-stock-markets-spur-demand-for-safer-assets.html
Portuguese government bonds led the
securities of so-called peripheral European nations higher amid
optimism the country’s budget will win approval from lawmakers,
easing concern about the struggle to cut deficits in the region.  The gains pushed the extra yield, or  spread , investors
demand to hold Portuguese 10-year securities instead of similar
German bunds to the least in eight weeks. Finance Minister
 Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  presented spending plans to
parliament late on Oct. 15. The planned budget cuts are a
“bold” step, European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said. Greek bonds also, while bund yields stayed near
a three-week high.  “There’s the opinion that the government will finally
reach an accord on the budget,” said  Glenn Marci , a fixed-
income strategist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “Everybody in the
country is clear that if they fail to do so, or fail to comply
with the market expectations of a solid budget, then they will
be in heavy trouble. Then spreads would widen.”  The yield on the Portuguese 10-year  bond  decreased 21 basis
points to 5.61 percent as of 4:27 p.m. in London. The spread
with similar-maturity bunds narrowed 23 basis points to 3.14
percentage points, the least since Aug. 24. Greece’s 10-year
yield fell six basis points to 8.92 percent, leaving the yield
premium over bunds at the lowest since June 15. The yield on
similar Irish bonds fell 11 basis points to 6.09 percent.  Portuguese Cuts  Portugal’s plan includes cuts to the public wage bill and
increases to some taxes to trim the budget shortfall. Greece’s
near-default led to a surge in borrowing costs for other
indebted countries earlier this year.  “It’s a bold and significant step to stabilize public
finances,” Rehn told reporters before a meeting of EU finance
ministers in Luxembourg today.  Portuguese, Greek and Irish bond yields posted their
biggest drop versus German bunds since May last week amid
growing confidence that the nations will succeed in cutting
their deficits and data that showed lenders in the region are
less dependent on European Central Bank funding.  Portuguese government bonds have returned 3.39 percent this
month so far, cutting their loss in 2010 to 4.34 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds made
1.07 percent during October, compared with a 0.4 percent loss by
German bonds.  Bunds rose earlier as stock markets declined amid
speculation a report tomorrow will show business confidence
stayed near a 21-month low, fueling concern that Europe’s
economic recovery isn’t yet secure.  The  ZEW Center for European Economic Research  in Mannheim
will say tomorrow its  index  of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict developments six months
ahead, dropped to minus 7 in October, the least since January
2009, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The yield on the bund was little changed at 2.38 percent.
It reached 2.383 percent on Oct. 15, the highest since Sept. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  