-- German Investor Confidence May Fall to 21-Month Low in October
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-10-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/german-investor-confidence-may-decline-to-21-month-low-as-economy-cools.html
German  investor  confidence may fall
to its lowest level in 21 months in October as weaker global
growth curbs exports.  The  ZEW Center for European Economic Research  will say
today its  index  of investor and analyst expectations dropped for
a sixth month, to minus 7 from minus 4.3 in September, the
median of 39 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows. That
would be the weakest reading since January 2009. ZEW releases
the report, which aims to predict developments six months ahead,
at 11 a.m. in Mannheim.  Europe’s largest economy may cool after expanding at the
fastest pace in two decades in the second quarter as waning
global demand and a stronger euro damp foreign sales. At the
same time, falling unemployment is boosting household confidence
and spending, prompting the Bundesbank to predict yesterday that
growth may exceed 3 percent this year. The benchmark  DAX share
index  has gained 10 percent since Aug. 30.  “It would require a lot of fantasy to imagine that things
would be even better in six months,” said  Andreas Moeller , an
economist at WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf, who forecasts a drop in
the ZEW to minus 10. “We are seeing a slowdown in the pace of
expansion, not a double-dip recession.”  ZEW’s measure of  current conditions  will probably rise to
64 from 59.9, the survey of economists shows. That would be the
highest since November 2007 and the fourth month in which the
number of optimists exceeds pessimists. Before that, the gauge
had shown negative readings for 23 months.  Slowing Exports  Exports, the main driver of German growth, declined for a
second month in August. A 17 percent jump in the euro against
the dollar since June 7 is threatening to hurt sales outside the
currency bloc just as the global recovery weakens.  The International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6 it expects
the world economy to expand 4.2 percent next year instead of a
previously projected 4.3 percent. In 2010, the economy may grow
4.8 percent, the Washington-based fund said.  With governments across the euro region cutting spending
and raising taxes to push down budget deficits, German companies
may be forced to rely on faster-growing markets in Asia to boost
sales.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG’s  Mercedes-Benz,
the two biggest makers of luxury vehicles, this month projected
higher fourth-quarter sales on surging demand in China.  The Bundesbank said yesterday that domestic demand is also
“increasingly aiding the economy.”  More Jobs  Hugo Boss AG , the German luxury clothier, on Oct. 14 raised
its sales and earnings forecast for this year after reporting a
19 percent increase in third-quarter revenue.  Consumers may step up spending as companies add workers,
Germany’s leading economic institutes said Oct. 14. The
country’s  unemployment rate  will drop to 7 percent in 2011 from
7.7 percent this year, the institutes said.  “You will never see a consumer boom in Germany and it will
never compensate for a serious drop in exports,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “But order
books are still full to the brim, which should ensure some
growth even if new orders stopped completely. Just get used to
slower growth rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  