-- Giants, Eagles Fans Crowd Bars As Cablevision-Fox Dispute Blacks Out Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-18T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/giants-eagles-fans-crowd-bars-as-cablevision-fox-dispute-blacks-out-games.html
As kickoff time loomed, Tiff’s Grill
and Bar fielded more and more phone calls from New York Giants
fans eager to find somewhere to watch yesterday’s game.  News Corp.  cut its Fox broadcast signal to  Cablevision
Systems Corp.  two days ago in a fight over program fees. As a
result, 3 million customers in the New York and Philadelphia
areas were unable to see National Football League games
involving the Giants and Philadelphia Eagles, as well as the
first two games of Major League Baseball’s National League
Championship Series between the Philadelphia Phillies and San
Francisco Giants.  At  Tiff’s , a Pinebrook, New Jersey, bar that’s co-owned by
former NFL player  Tony Siragusa , manager Joe Bradley said he
added another television in the dining room to accommodate the
crowd that showed up to watch the Giants’ 28-20 home win over
the Lions.  “We have 20-something TVs in place and we had the Giants
game on outside, in two side rooms, and then had to put it in
the dining room for the overflow,” Bradley said in a telephone
interview. “We had tons of phone calls to see if we did have it
before we opened our doors at noon.”  Patrons at Tiff’s were able to see the game because the
restaurant has the Sunday Ticket package from  DirecTV , the
largest U.S. satellite-television provider.  Giants fans weren’t so fortunate at the bar at  Ramsey Golf
& Country Club  in Ramsey, New Jersey, about 16 miles (25.7
kilometers) from New Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford.
Televisions there were tuned to a bull-riding event on Walt
Disney Co.’s  ESPN  so NFL updates could be followed on a news
feed scrolling on the bottom of the screen.  Smaller Crowd  When the Giants and Lions kicked off yesterday at 1 p.m.
New York time, the Sunday lunch crowd was far smaller than usual
at Majors Steak House on Long Island, said bartender Nick
Gianakos. The East Meadow restaurant only has Cablevision, which
carries WNYW Channel 5 and WWOR 9 in New York, both News Corp
channels.  “This sure isn’t helpful for business,” Gianakos said in
a telephone interview.  The blackout also affects WTXF 29 in Philadelphia, where
the Eagles beat the Atlanta Falcons 31-17 yesterday at Lincoln
Financial Field and the Phillies defeated the San Francisco
Giants 6-1 at Citizens Bank Park in Game 2 of the NLCS.  News Corp. and Cablevision made “no material progress” in
negotiations yesterday and agreed to talk again today, Fox said
in a statement. News Corp. has urged Cablevision customers to
switch to another pay-TV provider.  Cablevision, which is based in Bethpage, New York, said
News Corp. wants more than $150 million annually in so-called
retransmission fees for the Fox stations and some cable channels.
It pays the Fox $70 million a year. Fox said it wants “fair
compensation.”  ‘Shameful’  Cablevision Executive Vice President  Charles Schueler  said
in a statement that News Corp.’s blackout of the NFL and
baseball’s playoffs is “shameful” and that arbitration is the
“fastest and fairest” way to return Fox programming.  Fox, in a statement, rejected that approach and said direct
negotiation is the only way to resolve the impasse.  While the stalemate has left Cablevision customers
frustrated, others are benefiting. Houlihan’s restaurant in Lake
Grove, New York, saw the number of customers increase by about
35 percent yesterday when it aired the Giants game on DirecTV,
host John Deptula said.  “The bar where the TVs are is much busier than usual,”
Deptula said by phone. “We’re loving this dispute.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  