-- Glaxo Forms Alliance to Work on Gene Therapy for Rare Diseases
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-10-18T17:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/glaxo-forms-alliance-to-work-on-gene-therapy-for-rare-diseases.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, bolstered efforts to discover treatments for
rare diseases with a partnership focused on a genetic disorder
that affects about 350 children worldwide.  Glaxo formed an alliance with two Italian groups,
Fondazione Telethon and  Fondazione San Raffaele , gaining an
exclusive license to develop and sell an experimental gene
therapy for a disease called ADA severe combined immune
deficiency, the London-based company said today. The illness is
a form of "bubble boy disease," so called because of a patient
who died in 1984 after living in a sterile environment for 13
years, according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Drugmakers are expanding into rare diseases, seeking new
ways to generate revenue as their drugs face generic
competition.  Sanofi-Aventis SA  of France this month began an
$18.5 billion hostile takeover offer for  Genzyme Corp. , the
world’s largest maker of medicines for genetic diseases. Glaxo’s
rare-disease unit plans to target a list of about 200 illnesses,
including  Huntington’s disease , which causes brain cells to
waste away.  “We want to create a diverse portfolio of compounds
looking at a broad spectrum of rare diseases,”  Marc Dunoyer ,
global head of the Glaxo unit, said during a conference call
with reporters today. “The strong GSK pipeline will give us
enormous scope and access to novel compounds with mechanisms we
understand that could be utilized to treat rare diseases.”  ‘Orphan’ Status  Therapies for rare conditions can win an “orphan” status
from regulators, which allows companies to charge more and gives
medicines a seven-year monopoly in the U.S. Orphan drugs treat
diseases that usually affect fewer than 200,000 people in the
U.S. or fewer than five of 10,000 people in Europe.  Glaxo and the two Italian foundations also will develop six
further applications, using gene therapy carried out on stem
cells taken from patients’ bone marrow, with the potential to
treat a range of rare disorders, the company said.  Glaxo’s rare-disease unit will focus on “four therapeutic
clusters” -- metabolism and inherited disorders, the central
nervous system and muscle disorders, immune-inflammation,
hematology and rare malignancies, Dunoyer told reporters today.  30 Specialists  The unit comprises 30 specialists who won’t be directly
involved in the discovery of novel compounds, he said. They will
rely on Glaxo’s own 38 discovery units as well as on outside
researchers and then lead development of the compound, he said.  The U.K. drugmaker will seek to “expand its technological
base” through alliances, Dunoyer said. Glaxo’s commitment to
rare diseases is “long term,” he said, declining to comment on
how much the U.K. drugmaker will be spending on the division.  “The R&D pipeline for GSK Rare Diseases will be filled
from within the unit, but also from across the entire GSK
organization,” Dunoyer said. “Every scientist, whatever
therapy they are working on, has been tasked with considering
how a molecule or platform technology being developed could be
applied to treat one of the thousands of rare diseases.”  Initial and mid-phase studies of ADA severe combined immune
deficiency, which Glaxo will be developing together with
Fondazione Telethon and Fondazione San Raffaele, have shown the
potential of this treatment to restore long-term immune function
and protect against severe infections in children suffering from
the disease, Glaxo said today.  Italian Foundations  Fondazione Telethon is one of the biggest biomedical
charities in Italy. The San Raffaele Scientific Institute, based
in Milan, belongs to the San Raffaele del Tabor Foundation and
carries out biomedical research and clinical activities in the
field of molecular medicine.  The U.K. drugmaker began expanding into rare diseases a
year ago. In March, Glaxo increased its stake in Japan’s  JCR
Pharmaceuticals Co . to 25 percent, gaining rights to a treatment
for a rare lysosomal storage disease. It also signed a
development deal with  Isis  Pharmaceuticals Inc. for six
experimental drug projects that aim to treat rare disorders,
infectious diseases and some conditions causing blindness.  In October last year, it agreed to pay as much as 460
million euros ($642 million) to develop drugs from closely held
Dutch biotechnology company Prosensa aiming to treat Duchenne
muscular dystrophy, a neuromuscular disease with no known cure
that affects one in 3,500 newborn boys.  Glaxo will continue seeking rare disease collaborations of
“many forms and shapes,” Dunoyer said. He declined to say
whether the company may seek acquisitions to expand in the
field.  “We know there is a lot of exciting rare disease work
being undertaken at the moment, and we will be looking to
augment our in-house capabilities by collaborating with
organizations and institutions working in complementary areas to
GSK,” Dunoyer said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  