-- Glencore International, Wings Enterprises to Restart Rare Earth, Iron Mine
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-18T13:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/glencore-international-wings-enterprises-to-restart-rare-earth-iron-mine.html
Glencore International AG, the
world’s biggest commodities trader, and Wings Enterprises Inc.
of Missouri agreed to jointly develop and restart the Pea Ridge
iron ore and rare earth mine in Washington County.  The project, still subject to completion of commercial and
technical studies, aims to produce specialty and chemical-grade
iron oxides, pig iron and rare earths, Missouri-based Wings said
today in an e-mailed statement. Glencore will have exclusive
marketing rights for all sales, the statement said.  The U.S. was self-sufficient in rare earths until the mid-
1980s, when lower labor and regulatory costs helped China rise
to dominance in the industry, according to a U.S. Geological
Survey report. China, which now controls more than 90 percent of
the production of the materials, used in electronics such as
cell phones, reduced output and cut export quotas by 72 percent
in the second half, spurring a trade dispute with the U.S.  Studies on restarting Pea Ridge will begin in 60 days and
may take as long as eight months to complete, according to the
statement. Output of rare earths and iron ore from a lake where
mine waste was previously dumped may start within 14 months and
underground mine production is expected in 2012, it said.  The Pea Ridge mine was originally developed by Bethlehem
Steel Corp. in the late 1950s and it operated until 2001. The
mine is the only permitted heavy rare earth mine in the U.S. and
will be the only domestic producer of the products, Wings said.  China Hoarding?  Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metallic
elements, including lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and europium.
Japan, the world’s biggest importer of rare earths, will urge
China to boost shipments of the minerals after a government
survey showed that 31 Japanese buyers reported problems with
exports, Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  said in Tokyo on Oct. 5.  The U.S. has asked business groups and labor unions to
provide evidence that  China  is hoarding these elements for a
case that might be filed at the World Trade Organization.  Molycorp Inc. this year plans to reopen a rare-earth mine
in Mountain Pass, California that shut down most operations in
2002, the company said in a June prospectus.  Glencore, owned by its employees, trades oil, metals and
agricultural commodities and controls mines and smelters on five
continents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  