-- Global Logistic Jumps 11% in First Day After $2.7 Billion IPO in Singapore
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-18T09:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/global-logistic-advances-on-debut-after-singapore-s-biggest-ipo-since-1993.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. 
jumped 11 percent on its first trading day after raising S$3.45
billion ($2.7 billion) in Singapore’s biggest initial public
offering since 1993.  Global Logistic, the overseas logistics unit of  Government
of Singapore Investment Corp. , advanced to S$2.17 at the close
of trading from the sale price of S$1.96 a share, after earlier
reaching S$2.19. The stock was sold at the top end of the range
marketed to investors.  Asia has taken the lead in IPOs globally this year with
seven of the 10 largest sales worldwide, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. India today starts the 151.5 billion
rupee ($3.4 billion) sale of stock in Coal India Ltd., the
nation’s biggest-ever IPO. Also this week, Mapletree Industrial
Trust, owned by a unit of  Temasek Holdings Pte , is set to raise
S$853 million in its Singapore IPO.  “They’re the first among the IPOs that are coming out at
this time and they’re one of the biggest, giving them first dibs
on getting the liquidity in the market,” said  Janice Ding , a
Singapore-based analyst at CIMB Research Pte. She expects the
share price to be at around S$2.15 in six months, barring any
major announcements.  Funds for Expansion  Global Logistic  plans  to use S$1.7 billion of the proceeds
to expand in China and Japan, and about S$600 million to repay
existing shareholder loans, according to its IPO prospectus.
There is an overallotment option to expand the sale by 234.7
million shares.  The company, whose customers include  Wal-Mart China ,
Deutsche Post AG’s DHL and FedEx Corp., is led by Deputy
Chairman and Executive Director  Jeffrey Schwartz . Schwartz, 51,
is the former chief executive officer of ProLogis, the world’s
biggest warehouse owner.  “In China, we see just incredible growth opportunities,”
Schwartz said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.
“We’re a fraction of the size we can be long-term or even
medium-term.”  GIC , manager of more than $100 billion of Singapore’s
foreign-exchange reserves, bought the assets from ProLogis for
$1.3 billion in December 2008.  “Any further share price upside depends on what they
decide to do with their land bank in China, whether they decide
to develop or sell the land,” Ding said. “Also, the price
might get a boost if they decide to put some of their investment
properties in a trust.”  25 Cities  Global Logistic  owns, manages and leases 296 properties
within 122 integrated parks, according to its prospectus. It
manages and leases a gross floor area of about 6.2 million
square meters (66.7 million square feet) in its network spread
across 25 major cities in China and Japan, according to a sale
document.  “GLP’s key differentiator is the skill they have in China,
where they’re quite large,” said  Kristy Fong , an investment
manager at  Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd ., which oversaw
$75 billion as of Aug. 31. Fong said Aberdeen hasn’t bought any
GLP shares as it wants to understand the company better, though
she said the stock is priced “reasonably.”  GIC, through its subsidiaries, will own 56.8 percent of the
company after the share offering and 51.5 percent if the over-
allotment option is exercised, according to the sale  prospectus .  Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  led a group of
investment banks arranging the IPO, which also included  UBS AG ,
China International Capital Corp. and DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. ’s initial offering in the
city-state in 1993 raised more than S$4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  