-- Global Demand for U.S. Assets Rose in August, Led by Bonds, Treasury Says
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-10-18T15:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-rose-in-august-led-by-bonds-treasury-says.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds
and other financial assets rose in August as investors bought
Treasuries in anticipation of monetary easing by the Federal
Reserve to stimulate the economy.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$128.7 billion in August compared with net buying of $61.2
billion in July, according to data released today by the U.S.
Treasury Department. Including short-term securities such as
stock swaps, foreigners purchased a net $38.9 billion compared
with net buying of $63.3 billion the previous month.  Flight from the financial market turmoil in Europe earlier
in the year as well as the U.S. recovery from the worst
recession since the Great Depression increased the flow of
foreign investments into the U.S. The Fed may announce a second
round of monetary easing at a policy maker meeting next month to
further stimulate the economy.  “The economic data in August was dismal and ‘double dip’
mania was at a frenzy level,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc., in New York. “Lots
of cash will follow the Fed if there is another quantitative
easing, as appears to be the case.”  Minutes of the Fed’s policy meeting on Sept. 21 showed the
central bankers were prepared to ease monetary policy “before
long” and focused on purchases of Treasury securities and
boosting inflation expectations as ways to add stimulus.  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities captures
international purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks,
corporate debt and securities issued by U.S. agencies such as
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which buy home mortgages.  China Biggest Holder  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries, after its holdings rose by $21.7 billion to $868.4
billion in August from $846.7 billion in July, according to the
Treasury’s statistics.  The Treasury’s statistics on other countries showed Japan,
the second-largest holder, increased its holdings by $15.6
billion to $836.6 billion in August from $821 billion in July.  Hong Kong, counted separately from China, increased its
holdings by $2.6 billion to $137.8 billion in August from $135.2
billion in July.  Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$117 billion in August compared with purchases of $30 billion in
July.  Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt from companies such as
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac registered net buying of $4.6 billion
in August after buying of $17.3 billion in July.  Net foreign purchases of equities were $4.8 billion in
August after net purchases of $12.5 billion in July.  Investors purchased a net $10 billion in U.S. corporate
debt in August buying $13.9 billion in July.  In addition to concerns about the recovery,  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in New York said: “Higher-yielding long maturity corporate and
Treasury paper is also in demand as the Fed is likely to keep
short term rates down at zero for a very long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  