-- Goodhart Says BOE Stimulus to Hinge on Public-Spending Review, GDP Report
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-18T14:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/goodhart-says-boe-stimulus-to-hinge-on-public-spending-review-gdp-report.html
The Bank of England’s decision on
whether to expand its stimulus plan will hinge “quite a lot”
on this week’s public-spending review and gross domestic product
data due on Oct. 26, former policy maker  Charles Goodhart  said.  The case for adding stimulus is not “cut and dried,” he
said in an interview in London today. “It will depend quite a
lot on what the first estimate of third quarter GDP is” and
“on what the reaction to the spending review itself is.”  Finance minister  George Osborne  will give details of
Britain’s deepest spending cuts since World War II on Oct. 20.
The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee has split three
ways on whether to expand stimulus, with policy maker  Adam Posen 
arguing that more  bond purchases  are necessary and  Andrew Sentance  seeking an interest-rate increase to fight inflation.  “Nothing is cut and dried at the moment,” Goodhart said.
“It could happen, there’s no question about it, but it would
depend on how the economy seems to be developing.”  The Bank of England’s next monthly decision will be on Nov.
4, and governor  Mervyn King  will present the bank’s new
quarterly economic forecasts on Nov. 10.  The U.K. economy’s pace of growth slowed by more than half
in the third quarter, according to an estimate by the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research released on Oct. 8.
GDP rose 0.5 percent compared with a 1.2 percent gain in the
three months through June, the report showed.  Goodhart spoke while attending a conference organized by
the Financial Markets Group of the London School of Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  