-- Russia Risks Mass Unrest Under Current Regime, Gorbachev Says
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-10-18T08:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/gorbachev-says-russia-risks-mass-unrest-unless-regime-bolsters-democracy.html
Russia’s leadership should start
listening to the people or risk mass protests and disorder, said
 Mikhail Gorbachev , the last leader of the Soviet Union.  “The most dangerous thing is if the tension building up in
society suddenly bursts onto the street with such a force that
we’ll all be in trouble,” Gorbachev, 79, said in an interview
with Moscow-based  Snob magazine . “Without modernization of
democratic institutions there can’t be any progress.”  Gorbachev failed to prevent the Soviet Union’s collapse in
1991 after he tried to restructure the communist command economy
and liberalize the political climate. While Russians often blame
the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize winner for the loss of the country’s
superpower status, many Europeans lionize him for letting go of
Soviet satellite states without bloodshed.  Gorbachev said his greatest accomplishment as general
secretary of the Communist Party in the late 1980s was putting
Russia on “the road to freedom.” Russia hasn’t even gone
halfway down that road, he told the magazine, owned by
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov .  “The current authorities haven’t become leaders for me
yet,” said Gorbachev, who usually avoids criticizing President
 Dmitry Medvedev , 45, and his predecessor, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin , 58. Gorbachev said the so-called tandem rule of
the two politicians is “legitimate and legal,” though
something “unexpected” may happen in the 2012 presidential
election, when both men are eligible to run.  “Our government fears its own citizens,” Gorbachev said,
warning the patience of Russians with “a swamp of stagnation,
indifference and corruption” may eventually snap. “When people
finally realize that their opinion is ignored and that nothing
depends on them, they’ll go out on the street,” he said.  Andropov ‘Protected Me’  Vladimir Polyakov , a spokesman for the Gorbachev
Foundation, confirmed the accuracy of the printed remarks.  Gorbachev said the leader he feels closest to is  Yury Andropov , one of his predecessors as Communist Party general
secretary who died in 1984.  “He in part protected me, but did it in such a way that I
didn’t know anything about it,” Gorbachev said. “We had several
very serious conversations that changed my life.”  Rock musician  Yury Shevchuk , 53, is “great” for his civic
involvement, according to Gorbachev. Putin said he didn’t know
the Russian rock legend when he met cultural figures in May at a
 gathering  where Shevchuk challenged the prime minister over the
state of democracy in Russia.  “The government on its own can’t deal with the problems we
have,” Gorbachev said. The self-proclaimed social democrat said
he’s interested in forming a non-partisan movement to help push
forward the democratic process in Russia. There isn’t a
political forum for discussions and arguments, he said.  Germany, Poland, Bulgaria  While Gorbachev defended his record as the last Soviet
leader, he acknowledged that his efforts to reform the Communist
Party and overhaul the Soviet Union came too late. Had he
succeeded, the Soviet Union could have become a “free
democratic country,” he said.  “I’m criticized for giving everything away,” Gorbachev
said, referring to domestic critics. “And what did I give away?
Germany to the Germans, Poland to the Poles and Bulgaria to the
Bulgarians. And who did they belong to?”  Asked what would make him happiest now, Gorbachev said it
would be meeting his late wife, Raisa, “on the other side.”
She died in 1999 at age 67.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  