-- Great Lakes States Urge Judge in Chicago to Block Invasion by Asian Carp
-- B y   A n d r e w   M   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-18T23:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/great-lakes-states-urge-judge-in-chicago-to-block-invasion-by-asian-carp.html
Invasive species of Asian carp pose
an immediate threat to the $7 billion sport fishing and tourism
industry in states on the U.S. Great Lakes, an attorney for the
state of Michigan told a federal judge.  The lawyer, Robert Reichel, today told U.S. District Judge
Robert Dow in Chicago that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and
Illinois authorities must act immediately to prevent the damage.  “The place we are at is a critical place,” he said,
describing progress the fish have made from the Mississippi
River basin toward the lakes. “The time we are at is a critical
time.”  Dow today heard more than three hours of oral argument.
Reichel, who summarized arguments he made during an evidentiary
hearing before Dow last month, was also speaking for Minnesota,
Ohio, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania.  On the other side were attorneys for the U.S. government,
area water authorities and businesses that oppose blocking
access to the lake on the ground it would harm the region’s
economy.  Michigan and its co-plaintiffs are pressing Dow to order
the closure of locks and sluice gates connecting Lake Michigan
to the Mississippi through a 78-mile network of natural and
manmade channels known as the Chicago Area Waterway System.  Business owners relying upon those inland waterways say
severing the link between Lake Michigan and the Mississippi is
unwarranted and would be damaging to their interests.  Asian carp escaped into the Mississippi after being brought
to the U.S. to cleanse fish ponds and sewage lagoons and in
ballast water discharged by ocean-going ships. The fish grow as
large as 100 pounds (45 kilograms) and feed on plankton that
native species need to survive, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  The states that sued say measures taken by the federal
government and Illinois, including creation of electrical
barriers in the waterways, won’t meet the threat posed by the
fish.  Army Corps attorney Maureen Rudolph argued today against
separation of basins. She challenged as inconclusive the
testimony during the hearing that ambient environmental carp DNA
had been found on the lake side of the junction of the Chicago
Sanitary and Ship Canal and the Des Plaines River leading to the
Mississippi.  “No way eDNA results are going to tell you how fish got
there,” she told Dow.  The case is State of Michigan v. U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, 10-cv-4457, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  