-- Greece May Need to Do More to Meet Deficit Target for 2011, EU's Rehn Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-19T10:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/greece-may-need-to-do-more-to-meet-deficit-target-for-2011-eu-s-rehn-says.html
The Greek government may have to
step up its budget-cutting efforts to meet its 2011 deficit
target after the European Union raises its estimate of the
Mediterranean country’s budget shortfall, EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office, has found “certain
entities which have to be re-classified as public entities,
which will have a certain impact upward on the debt and
deficit” for the years 2006-2009, Rehn said yesterday in
Luxembourg. Eurostat will publish revisions to Greece’s debt and
deficit figures by Oct. 22, the EU said earlier this month
without specifying the size of the adjustments.  “The fiscal targets for 2011 will be maintained, which may
require some additional measures of fiscal consolidation in
order to stick to the fiscal targets,” Rehn told reporters late
yesterday after a meeting of finance ministers from the 16-
nation euro region.  Greece’s widening deficit and questions about the accuracy
of its economic data have undermined the credibility and
enforcement of the EU’s budget rules. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  revealed last year after winning elections
that the country’s shortfall was twice that previously reported.  ‘Severe Irregularities’  The EU estimated the gap at 13.6 percent of gross domestic
product, the highest after Ireland. In January, the European
Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, cited “severe
irregularities” in the country’s data.  Eurostat will revise Greece’s budget gap for last year to
15.5 percent of GDP, Athens-based newspaper Naftemporiki
reported yesterday, without saying where it obtained the
information. The new figure takes account of losses at state-
controlled companies, the value of currency swaps linked to
government bonds in 2001 and lower-than-reported surpluses at
certain state-run insurance funds, the newspaper said.  “Eurostat has a very significant presence in Athens these
days and weeks and will complete the work to clean the
statistics concerning the year 2009 by Oct. 22 or the latest by
mid-November,” Rehn said. Eurostat is exercising for the first
time new audit powers it was granted after the EU learned Greece
had used secret financial transactions to conceal debt.  The revision may mean the Greek budget deficit this year
will be 8.2 percent of GDP instead of the 7.8 percent outlined
in the draft budget, To Vima newspaper reported, without saying
how it got the information. Greece’s government has targeted
spending cuts and revenue increases to bring the budget gap to 7
percent of GDP in 2011 from 7.8 percent this year.  Papandreou agreed in May to austerity measures worth about
14 percent of GDP over four years in exchange for 110 billion
euros ($152 billion) of emergency loans from the EU and the
International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  