-- Guns N’ Roses Revived With Axl Rose’s Shrieks, Tantrums: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2010-10-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/guns-n-roses-revived-with-axl-rose-s-alley-cat-shrieks-tantrums-review.html
Axl Rose  is fashionably late -- again
-- and doesn’t apologize. As he wheels his bandwagon around the
world, the Guns N’ Roses front man will never cut a sympathetic
figure: he’s a peculiarly unpleasant force.  Rose, 48, is a pudgy, shrieking, manipulative toddler,
petulantly throwing his microphone stand around the stage. His
voice often edges toward that of a strangled alley cat.  He’s a man with attitude, arrogance and truculence. This
year, the tantrum-prone star kept fans waiting at the  Reading 
and  Leeds  rock festivals.  The show at London’s  O2  lasts 2½ hours. The final chords of
“Paradise City” crash in at 12:15 a.m. -- after the last train
to central London, leaving fans stranded, facing long waits or
huge cab fares.  Rose became an industry joke and fashion pariah during the
14 years (and a reputed $13 million) it took to record 2008’s
“Chinese Democracy” album.  The good news is that, as lord and master of the show, he
is mesmerizing. He adds ego to “Welcome to the Jungle,” punch
to “Shackler’s Revenge” and confidence to “Sweet Child o’
Mine.” Dressed in various hats, bandanas and flamboyant
jackets, he silences (and deafens) his many critics.  The new group unleashes a battery of fireballs. Its rampage
includes a snatch of  Elton John  -- “Goodbye Yellow Brick Road”
to a plaintive piano solo.  There’s rather more of “Chinese Democracy” and a lot of
“Appetite for Destruction” from 1987. That debut stripped the
primp of the L.A. hair-metal scene and delivered a sound that
was as sweetly nasty as possible. It was a global hit, sold more
than 28 million copies and unleashed a monster.  Slash, Richards  By comparison to the new guitarists,  Keith Richards  of the
Rolling Stones could model for Health and Fitness magazine, the
abstinence issue. DJ Ashba’s hat and cigarette ape those of
original Guns star Slash; Ron “Bumblefoot” Thal wields a 
double-necked guitar; the tattooed Richard Fortus does 
savagery to the James Bond Theme that Blofeld could only
dream of, before an assault on  Paul McCartney’s  “Live and 
Let Die.”  For the O2 concert, original member Duff McKagan joins Rose
onstage for the first time in 17 years, playing bass on
“Knocking on Heaven’s Door.” The song punches home. Rose
Tattoo’s “Nice Boys” and AC/DC’s “Whole Lotta Rosie” are
powered by Frank Ferrer’s gut-kicking drumming.  When the rage subsides, Rose’s singing has a vulnerability
that lends ballads like “November Rain” a surprising pathos.
All jokes aside, he’s still a force to be reckoned with.  Rating: ***½.  The Guns n’ Roses tour continues with dates in Zaragoza on
Oct. 23 and Barcelona on Oct. 24.  Information:  http://www.gnr.com .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 