-- IBM Posts Third Straight Drop in Service Contracts; Shares Fall
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-18T22:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/ibm-posts-third-straight-quarterly-drop-in-service-contracts-shares-fall.html
International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s largest computer-services provider, declined
as much as 4 percent in extended trading after posting its third
straight quarterly drop in new contracts.  Services signings fell 7 percent to $11 billion in the
third quarter, Armonk, New York-based IBM said today in a
statement. The company also reported earnings and sales for the
period that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  While companies increased spending on IBM’s software and
hardware, such as storage computers, they are holding back on
signing large outsourcing projects in the aftermath of the
recession. Investors focus on the service business because it
accounts for almost 60 percent of IBM’s annual  sales  and more
than 40 percent of its profit.  “Investors are likely to key in on IT-services signings
being a bit below expectations,” said  Andy Miedler , an analyst
at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis, who recommends buying the
shares. “It’s a key measure of deal activity.”  IBM fell as much as $5.78 to $137.05 in extended trading
after  closing  at $142.83 on the New York Stock Exchange. This
month, the shares topped their record high set in 1999, and have
extended gains since.  The company signed a $1.8 billion outsourcing deal with ABN
Amro Goup NV on Oct. 8. If that had occurred in the third
quarter, services signings would have been $12.7 billion, IBM
said.  Difficult to Predict  “It’s very difficult to predict precisely when these deals
will close, and eight days is not going to make any difference
in the yield to this contract,” Chief Financial Officer  Mark Loughridge  said on a conference call today. The company has a
“strong deal list” for outsourcing signings this quarter, he
said.  IBM boosted its full-year profit forecast to at least
$11.40 a share, the third time it’s raised 2010 earnings
guidance this year. Analysts on average estimated $11.30.  Net income  for the quarter rose 12 percent to $3.59
billion, or $2.82 a share, from $3.21 billion, or $2.40, a year
earlier. Analysts  predicted  $2.75, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales climbed 3 percent to $24.3 billion, topping analysts’
average projection of $24.1 billion. It’s the third consecutive
period during which all business units -- hardware, software and
both services segments -- posted sales gains.  Operating Earnings  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is aiming to almost
double operating earnings to $20 a share in the next five years.
Software will make up about half of profit by then, the company
said in May.  IBM has invested in analytics software and services that
help predict trends, as well as cloud computing, which helps
customers save money by letting them store and access data via
the Internet, rather than from their own servers. Palmisano also
has been investing in his Smarter Planet initiative, based on
the concept that infrastructure, such as buildings or roads, can
be equipped with digital sensors, which in turn will make them
more efficient.  The three technologies, along with sales from emerging
markets, will add $20 billion in revenue by 2015, the company
said in May.  Palmisano said he plans to spend about $20 billion on
 acquisitions  in the same period. He announced seven deals last
quarter, including the $1.7 billion purchase of Netezza Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 