-- Middlesbrough Manager Gordon Strachan Leaves the Club `by Mutual Consent'
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-18T17:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/middlesbrough-manager-gordon-strachan-leaves-the-club-by-mutual-consent-.html
Middlesbrough said manager  Gordon Strachan  left the club “by mutual consent” today after the
team slipped to 20th place in English soccer’s second division.  Strachan, 53, took over the post in October last year,
replacing  Gareth Southgate , who’d been unable to prevent
relegation from the Premier League earlier in 2009.  At the start of this season, Boro was the bookmakers’
favorite to win promotion back to the top division but has won
only three of 11 games in the Championship. It has 11 points out
of a possible 33 and lost three of the last four games,
including a 2-1 home defeat to Leeds at the weekend.  “Gordon is a man of great integrity,” Chairman  Steve Gibson  told the  club website . “He has torn up his contract and
walked away without compensation because he felt it was in the
best interests of this football club. There are very few
managers who have ever done that but that is the mark of the
man.”  Strachan had taken full responsibility for disappointing
results and agreed that “the change had to be made,” Gibson
said.  The Scot had won six trophies in four years at Celtic and
joined Middlesbrough on a four-year contract. The club was in
fourth spot in the 24-team Championship when he joined, two
points off the automatic promotion places, and finished 11th.  The former Aberdeen, Manchester United, Leeds and Scotland
midfielder started his managerial career at Coventry before
leading Southampton to the F.A. Cup final against Arsenal in
2003. He won three consecutive Scottish league titles with
Celtic in 2006 through 2008 before stepping down in May 2009.  Assistant manager  Steve Agnew  will take temporary charge of
the Middlesbrough team, which plays at Nottingham Forest
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  