-- Millennium Bomb Terrorist Meskini Was Involved in Drugs, Fraud, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-18T01:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/millennium-bomb-terrorist-meskini-advised-hookers-after-prison-u-s-says.html
Abdelghani Meskini , convicted after
informing on a foiled al-Qaeda plot to bomb Los Angeles
International Airport during millennium celebrations, got into
drugs and prostitution after prison, U.S. prosecutors said.  Meskini, 42, an Algerian who pleaded guilty in 2001 to
charges stemming from the foiled attack, was sentenced to six
years in prison after he testified against a co-conspirator,
Mokhtar Haourari and another co-conspirator.  Prosecutors said at a two-day hearing beginning Oct. 13
that Meskini, who helped finance the terror plot through bank
fraud, slipped back into a life of crime. He became a willing
participant in drug dealing, prostitution and bank fraud after
he was released from prison in 2005 and took a job as a manager
for a suburban Atlanta apartment complex. His criminal conduct
violates terms of his prison release, prosecutors said.  Meskini helped commit bank and credit card fraud, obtained
an automatic weapon and proofread a prostitute’s advertisements,
prosecutors and witnesses said. When he lost his job in 2009,
prosecutors claim Meskini was “ready to snap” and began
visiting Jihadi websites, where he expressed anti-American
sentiments and attempted to obtain an AK-47 assault rifle.  “These complexes were small, but they were basically a
hotbed of criminal activity,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Christopher LaVigne told U.S. District Judge John Keenan Oct.
13. “There were prostitutes, and there were drugs. The
prostitutes operated openly, the drugs were sold openly. He
directly assisted those tenants with their criminal activity.”  Longer Sentence  Keenan , based in New York, presided over the millennium
bombing case. He held the hearing to determine if Meskini
violated his supervised release from prison. Keenan could order
Meskini to serve additional prison time as early as Oct. 19,
when relevant testimony is scheduled to resume.  Meskini is one of a handful of Islamic terrorists to have
pleaded guilty, cooperate and win release from prison. His case
highlights the difficulty some U.S. cooperating witnesses face,
such as  Salvatore “Bull” Gravano .  He testified against organized crime boss  John Gotti  in
1992. After being sentenced to five years in prison for
admitting 19 murders, Gravano moved to Arizona where he was
later convicted of state drug charges.  The so-called millennium plot was thwarted when  Ahmed Ressam , another Algerian, was arrested on Dec. 14, 1999, while
transporting explosives across the U.S.-Canadian border near
Seattle. Meskini, who was living in Brooklyn, New York, was
charged after his telephone number was found in Ressam’s pocket.  Meskini testified as a government witness against two co-
conspirators in the plot in 2001 federal trials. After being
sentenced to 6 years in prison by Keenan in January, 2004, he
was released from prison in 2005 after receiving credit for time
served and good behavior. He could have faced more than 100
years in prison, the U.S. said.  Re-Arrested  U.S. immigration authorities arrested Meskini in November.
The FBI re-arrested him in Georgia in March, charging him with
nine release violations. Prosecutors said that by 2006 Meskini
had returned to a life of crime. He has paid only $31,000 of the
$60,000 he owes in restitution, they said.  Mark DeMarco, Meskini’s lawyer, said in an Oct. 16
interview that his client never owned a handgun or attempted to
obtain an AK-47. He noted that the U.S. hasn’t charged his
client with any terrorism-related crimes.  DeMarco said the two witnesses the government called,
Roughton, an admitted crack user, and Ricky Stephenson,
currently imprisoned on bank fraud charges, aren’t credible.  “His employment was approved by the United States
government, and the government was aware of the tenants of the
complexes that he managed,” DeMarco told Keenan at the Oct. 13
hearing.  “Did he associate with his tenants?” DeMarco said. “He
did. It was a responsibility of his employment to collect rent,
to fix apartments and to do what one would expect a building
manager to do,” he said.  ‘Pimp’  Crystal Roughton, who said she is a prostitute and daily
crack cocaine user, testified that she befriended Meskini, whom
she knew as “Ghani” and “Johnny,” when she moved to the
complex he managed.  Roughton said he helped her obtain a laptop computer for
her escort business, gave her money when she couldn’t pay the
rent or needed to buy drugs. She said Meskini even proofread the
online escort-service ads she posted, because she described
herself as “a terrible speller.”  “I recall him telling me how to background check my
clients, screen them,” Roughton said. “I would recall him
going over my ads with me and helping me. His goal was to help
me be able to be by myself, to stand alone so I didn’t need a
pimp.”  Meskini also befriended other prostitutes who lived in the
complexes he managed and received sexual favors from her and the
women in return, she said.  ‘An Eyesore’  Ricky Stephenson, currently imprisoned on bank fraud
charges, said Meskini was closely involved with the criminals
and prostitutes who lived at the complex. He said the apartments
were located in Atlanta’s Buckhead neighborhood, adjacent to a
building where movie director-writer  Tyler Perry , who has
created the “Medea” movies, occupied a penthouse that
Stephenson said was worth $4 million.  “But this was prostitution, pimps, hustlers, drug
dealers,” Stephenson testified. “It was just an eyesore, like
the ‘hood in Buckhead,” he said. “Think of just the worst place
in the projects, and then you sit it on Rodeo Drive.”  Meskini, who told him he’d been in prison on forgery
charges, “interacted with everybody and everybody pulled to
Johhny,” he said. Meskini once lent him about $1,600, he said.  “Johnny was intact,” Stephenson said. “He was in tune with
what was going on. He didn’t, you know, as far as my knowledge,
didn’t sell drugs, but he did other things as far as hustling
and stuff to make a little money.”  Canada  In 2007, Stephenson said, Meskini asked him to get fake IDs
for “some people in Canada.” Stephenson said he rejected
Meskini’s request.  During the year and a half he lived in the apartment
complex, Stephenson said he gave Meskini fake checks, fake
Social Security cards and that Meskini permitted Stephenson to
use mail boxes at the complexes he managed as a drop for his
various fraud schemes Stephenson operated.  Federal agents searched Meskini’s computer and invoked the
Foreign Surveillance Intelligence Surveillance Act to locate e-
mails sent from Meskini’s e-mail account to Jihadi websites, FBI
Agent James Pinette, of the Joint Terrorism Task Force in
Atlanta, testified.  The FBI found in Meskini’s e-mails a manual on how to
operate a rocket-propelled grenade, an image of the Statue of
Liberty with its torch-bearing arm being blown off, a picture of
 Osama bin Laden  and photos of bloodied corpses accompanied by a
message, “I wanted to share these pics with you to keep you
going and never give up,” according to a message the BBI says
was found in his e-mail account.  Jihad Book  Agents also found on the computer a book about “The
Obligation to Conduct Jihad,” LaVigne said. Meskini also
downloaded stories about the Nov. 5, shooting of 13 people at
Ft. Hood U.S. military installation, which was allegedly carried
out by U.S. Army major  Nidal Hasan , LaVigne said in documents he
gave to the judge.  Meskini also conducted Google Map searches for U.S. Army
installations at Ft. Stewart and Ft. McPherson, both located in
Georgia, LaVigne said.  Both Roughton and Stephenson said they saw Meskini with a
black, automatic handgun which he kept in his pickup truck in
2007. After Meskini lost his job in September, 2009, when the
complex was shut down by police, Roughton testified Meskini
seemed despondent about being unable to find a new job. He asked
her to help him obtain an AK-47.  “His temperament was more angerly,” Roughton said. “He
said he felt like he was dying” and told her he wanted to
return to Morocco to see his parents. She said she didn’t know
about Meskini’s terrorism background. She said he told her he
had been in prison “for numbers.”  Meskini said he wanted the AK-47, “because he needed -- he
was AWOL from the military and he might need it to get home,”
Roughton testified.  Never Questioned  “I never questioned Ghani,” she said. “Anything he said,
I never questioned anything,” she said. Roughton said she
promised him she’d “get on it.” Meskini later asked for her
personal e-mail address and directed her to accept a message on
his behalf from an unknown individual who posted an image of an
AK-47.  Roughton said she made inquiries with people she called
“discreet gentlemen” to obtain the weapon on his behalf. He
later told her he’d already obtained one. Meskini was questioned
later by FBI agents, who arrested him this year after U.S.
Immigration officials took him into custody.  In October, Meskini sent her an e-mail stating, “Thanks a
lot after all the help. After all I have done for you, this is
how you repay the favor.” He was arrested by immigration
officials in November.  LaVigne asked her how she felt. Roughton sighed and
said:“To tell you the truth, I was heartbroken.”  The case is U.S. v. Abdelghani Meskini, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 