-- Lincoln Is `Very Bullish' on Commercial Real Estate
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-18T20:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/lincoln-national-very-bullish-on-commercial-real-estate-crawford-says.html
Lincoln National Corp. , the insurer
that repaid a $950 million U.S. bailout, said it’s seeking to
make more commercial real estate loans after the company’s
portfolio weathered the economic slump.  “We’re very bullish on the asset class,” Chief Financial
Officer  Frederick Crawford  said today at an industry conference
in Baltimore. The Radnor, Pennsylvania-based insurer’s
confidence is based on a “longer-term” basis, Crawford said.  Life insurers extend loans to property owners as part of
their investment strategy.  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, and No. 2 Prudential Financial Inc. said this year
there may be opportunities to invest in commercial real estate.
Lincoln had about $6.9 billion in commercial mortgages as of
June 30, and borrowers were current on 99 percent of their
loans, the company said in a filing in August.  “We’ve seen little in the way of deterioration in our
underlying portfolio,” Crawford said in an interview after his
discussion on a panel with other investment managers. “We have
an appetite to lend more. But finding assets that fit with our
underwriting standards is very difficult” as lenders compete
for business, Crawford said.  Relative yields on senior top-rated securities backed by
commercial mortgages fell 2.25 percentage points in the past
year to 2.29 percentage points more than Treasuries as the
economy stabilized, according to a Barclays Plc  index .
Commercial  property prices  are down about 40 percent from their
2007 peak, according to Moody’s Investors Service, as U.S.
 unemployment  of more than 9 percent reduced demand for office
space and pressured sales in shopping complexes.  ‘Performed Extraordinarily Well’  More than 60 percent of Lincoln’s commercial mortgages as
of June 30 were originated in 2005 or earlier. More than two-
thirds of the portfolio had a loan-to-value ratio of less than
65 percent.  “That asset class has performed extraordinarily well,”
 Ronald Joelson , chief investment officer of Genworth Financial
Inc. and a panelist today with Crawford, said today of
commercial mortgages. “We don’t want to get complacent. That
would be a big mistake to go changing allocations. But I do
think that asset class did what it was supposed to do.”  Lincoln National climbed 90 cents, or 3.6 percent, to
$25.99 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth gained 13 cents to
$13.25. The panel was sponsored by the American Council of Life
Insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  