-- India Continues Talks on Boeing Military-Plane Order Ahead of Obama Visit
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-10-18T07:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/india-in-talks-to-buy-5-8-billion-military-aircraft-before-obama-s-visit.html
 India is in negotiations to buy as
many as 10  Boeing Co.  military transport aircraft ahead of U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s visit next month.  “Talks are going on,”  Sitanshu Kar , a spokesman at
India’s Ministry of Defence, said by phone today from New Delhi.
The U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency has notified
Congress that it may permit the sale of 10 C-17 Globemaster III
aircraft to India, the U.S. embassy in India said April 26. The
sale may be valued at as much as $5.8 billion, it said.  Boeing, the second-largest U.S. defense contractor, expects
to bid for $31 billion worth of military contracts in India in
the next 10 years as it competes with  Lockheed Martin Corp.  and
other suppliers for orders following a tripling of the nation’s
defense budget. Ties between the U.S. and India have grown since
2005 when former President  George W. Bush  and Indian Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  signed a civilian nuclear technology
agreement.  India’s “defense procurement budget is quite huge.” said
 Laxman Kumar Behera , a research fellow at the Institute for
Defence Studies & Analyses in New Delhi. “The U.S. arms
industry has become quite interested in the Indian defense
market.”  The government plans to spend 1.47 trillion rupees ($33
billion) on defense in the fiscal year starting April 1, Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in February. Military spending
has been growing 10 percent every year, Behera said.  Boeing Negotiations  “The negotiations are going well between the two
governments,”  Vivek Lall , vice president for Chicago-based
Boeing’s defense business in India, said about the C-17 order.
The C-17 deal will be the largest defense order for Boeing from
India, he said.  Boeing plans to compete to supply fighter jets, maritime
patrol aircraft, helicopters and military transport planes that
may be worth as much as $31 billion,  Dinesh Keskar , president of
the company’s India unit, said in February.  The aircraft maker is turning to international exports to
boost sales as U.S. defense spending slows. It’s competing with
Lockheed Martin, Dassault Aviation SA, Moscow-based United
Aircraft Corp., and European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co. to
supply India with 126 fighter jets, the world’s biggest defense
contract in 15 years. India is buying the fighters as it has
been phasing out Russian-built MiG jets, some of which date back
to the 1970s.  Boeing and larger rival Lockheed Martin made their first
defense sales to India in the past 2 1/2 years as the country
boosts its military and civil-nuclear relationships with the U.S.
Last year, Boeing won an order from India to supply eight P-8I
long-range maritime reconnaissance aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 