-- Production in U.S. Unexpectedly Falls for First Time in a Year
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-18T15:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/industrial-production-in-u-s-unexpectedly-falls-for-first-time-in-a-year.html
Production in the U.S. unexpectedly
dropped in September for the first time in more than a year,
evidence of the slowdown in growth that is concerning some
Federal Reserve policy makers.  Output at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.2 percent,
the first decline since the recession ended in June 2009,
according to figures from the Fed today. Another report showed
builders were less pessimistic than projected this month.  Slackening production means it will take longer for the
economy to make a dent in the excess capacity that is containing
prices and prompting Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to consider
additional monetary stimulus. Improving demand from  overseas  and
gains in business investment indicate orders at manufacturers
like  Alcoa Inc.  will not weaken much more.  “It’s just not the kind of pace we need to create jobs and
make inroads into reducing unused capacity and reduce
unemployment,” said  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ
Economics LLC in New York. “It is encouraging to see a little
more optimism on the housing side, which might mean the sector
is starting to stabilize.”  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose in October to the
highest level in four months, a sign residential construction is
steadying near record lows, a report from the National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo also showed today.  The group’s   confidence index  increased to 16, exceeding
the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from 13
in September. Readings less than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor than good.  Shares Rise  Stocks rose, buoyed by earnings at Citigroup Inc. that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as reserves for loan losses fell,
and Treasuries securities also climbed. The Standard & Poor’s
 500 Index  increased 0.2 percent to 1,178.69 at 11:52 a.m. in New
York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note, which moves
inversely to prices, fell to 2.50 percent from 2.56 percent late
on Oct. 15.  Another report today showed global demand for U.S. stocks,
bonds and other financial assets rose in August as investors
bought Treasuries in anticipation of Fed monetary easing. Net
buying of long-term instruments totaled $128.7 billion in August
compared with net buying of $61.2 billion in July, according to
data from the Treasury Department.  Economists forecast production would increase 0.2 percent,
according to the median of 63 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from a decrease of 0.3 percent to a
gain of 0.4 percent. The drop followed an unrevised 0.2 percent
gain in August.  Production Breakdown  Factory production  also decreased 0.2 percent, the first
drop since June, reflecting a 0.9 percent fall in consumer
durables, like appliances and furniture. Output of motor
vehicles and technology equipment, including computers and
semiconductors, rose. The latter signals business investment in
new equipment was still growing.  Capacity utilization , which measures the amount of a plant
in use, decreased to 74.7 percent last month from 74.8 percent
in August. The gauge averaged 80 percent over the past 20 years,
showing there’s enough spare plant equipment and space to
prevent bottlenecks that would lead prices higher.  Bernanke and his colleagues at the policy-making Federal
Open Market Committee are considering ways they can further
stimulate the economy after lowering interest rates almost to
zero and purchasing $1.7 trillion of securities. Bernanke last
week said the economy may need more stimulus because inflation
was too low and unemployment was too high.  Fed Outlook  “There remains lots of unused capacity and, with output
slowing in the quarter, we can see these data providing more
support among some members of the FOMC for QE2,” Ryding said in
a note to clients, referring to a second round of quantitative
easing or large-scale asset purchases.  General Electric Co. ’s Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said there is “slow recovery in a few areas,” during a
call with analysts last week after the world’s biggest producer
of power-plant turbines reported third-quarter sales that missed
analysts estimates. “The environment continues to get better.”  Foreign demand may help sustain growth. Exports rose 0.2
percent in August to the highest level in two years, Commerce
Department figures showed last week.  New York-based Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said sales
abroad are climbing.  Demand Overseas  “In countries such as China, Brazil, India and Russia,
more and more people are moving into the middle class, driving
demand,” Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said in a
statement on Oct. 7.  Reports last week suggested manufacturing will continue to
support the recovery and that consumer spending in gaining
speed.  The  New York Fed ’s October general economic index rose to
the highest level in four months.  Retail sales  for September
beat forecasts, prompting economists at Morgan Stanley in New
York to boost their projection for third-quarter consumer
spending.  In advance of the pickup in spending, businesses increased
inventories in each of the first eight months of 2010, according
to figures from the Commerce Department. Additional gains will
probably be determined by the pace of household purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  