-- Invesco to Lead Money Managers After Flanagan Makes `Order Out of Chaos'
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/invesco-to-lead-money-managers-after-flanagan-makes-order-out-of-chaos-.html
Invesco Ltd ., the Atlanta firm whose
shares have outperformed rival money managers over the past five
years, may lead that group in third-quarter profit growth,
helped by the purchase of Morgan Stanley’s mutual funds
business.  Invesco will probably report a 47 percent increase in
adjusted earnings per share, the most among the 15 members of
the Standard & Poor’s  index  of asset managers and custody banks.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based Federated Investors may do the
worst, with an estimated 32 percent decline in earnings from a
year earlier, according to 14 analysts.  Martin Flanagan , who took over as chief executive officer
in August 2005, has boosted assets under management about 60
percent by acquiring asset managers and cut costs by making
Invesco’s subsidiaries work more closely together. The June
purchase of the Morgan Stanley fund business, which included the
Van Kampen funds, added $114.6 billion.  “They are already seeing most of the benefit from the
acquisition, which is highly unusual,”  Mark Lane , an analyst at
William Blair & Co. in Chicago, said in an interview. “This
integration went very, very smoothly.”  Invesco’s shares have risen 85 percent in the past five
years under Flanagan, the most of all 15 firms in the asset
manager’s index. Only BlackRock Inc., which isn’t part of the
Standard & Poor’s  index  of asset managers and custody banks, did
better among the large firms, more than doubling in price.  BlackRock  New York-based BlackRock became the world’s largest asset
manager with last year’s acquisition of Barclays Global
Investors. It will probably report adjusted earnings of $2.49 a
share, an increase of 19 percent from the third quarter of last
year, according to the average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The BGI deal, completed Dec. 1, more than doubled its
assets under management to $3.15 trillion, adding passive index
funds to BlackRock’s actively managed strategies.  BlackRock is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on
Oct. 20. Invesco will follow on Oct. 25.  Flanagan, 50, announced his first acquisition at Invesco
just five months after being hired, when he agreed to buy
exchange-traded funds provider PowerShares Capital Management in
Wheaton, Illinois. He followed with the takeover of private-
equity firm W.L. Ross & Co. in October 2006, and two months ago
purchased Australian investment manager Concord Capital Ltd.  “We feel we don’t have any gaps right now,” Flanagan said
in a telephone interview. “We’re not in Brazil, but we’ve
concluded we’d rather do a better job in China.”  ‘Order Out Of Chaos’  Apart from expanding through acquisitions, Flanagan reduced
costs by combining technology, support services and management
structure across the firm’s units. In his first four calendar
years, he cut staff by 16 percent.  Invesco units include the former Aim mutual funds,
rebranded under the Invesco name in August; Perpetual, the
largest money manager in the U.K.; and joint venture Invesco
Great Wall Fund Management in Shenzhen, China.  “He’s created order out of chaos,”  Jason Weyeneth , an
analyst in New York for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “He’s got the different pieces paying
attention to each other and sharing resources across different
regions and products.”  Invesco also navigated the financial crisis better than
rivals like  Legg Mason Inc . and  AllianceBernstein Holding LP .
Legg Mason’s assets have slumped by a third to $674 billion from
a peak of $1 trillion in 2007. AllianceBernstein’s assets have
declined 40 percent in the past three years.  Lured From Franklin  Flanagan was lured to Invesco from Franklin Resources Inc.,
where he was co-CEO with  Gregory Johnson , son of the firm’s
founder and chairman,  Charles Johnson . He counts the elder
Johnson among his mentors, along with the late  John Templeton ,
who hired Flanagan when he was 23.  “He got a very high profile at Franklin because he rocketed
to the top,”  Burton Greenwald , an independent fund consultant
based in Philadelphia, said in an interview.  Franklin Resources, manager of the Franklin Templeton mutual
funds, may report an increase of 11 percent in adjusted earnings
per share to $1.78, according to the average estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Franklin, best known for its
global funds, benefited from a surge in deposits into its fixed-
income funds.  Legg Mason’s adjusted earnings per share may rise 30
percent to 39 cents, according to the average estimate of 17
analysts. AllianceBernstein may post a drop of 38 percent,
according to the average estimate of 9 analysts.
AllianceBernstein is not a member of the asset manager index.  Franklin is scheduled to report earnings Oct. 28, Legg
Mason on Oct. 27. Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the biggest
custody bank, and Boston rival State Street Corp. said they plan
to report third-quarter results tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  