-- Quality Egg Warned About Failure to Fix Conditions That Led to Salmonella
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-18T21:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/iowa-egg-farm-in-salmonella-recall-gets-fda-warning-on-corrective-measures.html
Quality Egg LLC, one of two
producers tied to a salmonella recall, may face U.S. enforcement
action unless it fixes health violations, regulators said.  Quality Egg, of Galt, Iowa, hadn’t addressed conditions
that may cause salmonella when regulators inspected the
company’s facilities Aug. 12 to Aug. 30, the Food and Drug
Administration said in a  warning letter  posted today on the
agency’s website. Hillandale Farms of Iowa, also tied to the
salmonella contamination, took “adequate” corrective action
and can resume shipping some eggs to stores, the agency said in
a  letter  also posted on its website.  Wright County Egg, a unit of closely held Quality Egg,
recalled 380 million eggs in August. An additional 170 million
were pulled from the market by closely held Hillandale, based in
New Hampton, Iowa. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention has said more than 1,600 illnesses reported since May
1 may be linked to the eggs, in the largest salmonella outbreak
since the Atlanta-based CDC began tracking the illness more than
30 years ago.  Quality Egg submitted information to the FDA on Oct. 5,
reflecting “discussions with the agency” of corrective
actions, the agency said in the warning letter, dated Oct. 15.
The FDA will inspect facilities to verify those steps were taken
and a lack of action may result in “seizures and/or
injunction,” the agency said.  Official Follow-Up  The problems cited in the agency’s letter have been
addressed, Hinda Mitchell, a spokeswoman for Wright County Egg,
said today in an e-mail. The letter is “just the official FDA
follow-up” to an inspection report released Aug. 30, she said.
Patricia El-Hinnawy, an FDA spokeswoman, confirmed that the Oct.
15 letter is based on the August inspections.  “There’s nothing new here,” Mitchell said. “We responded
swiftly and had expeditious completion of the issues that were
raised. We continue to cooperate fully with FDA and will respond
to this letter accordingly.”  FDA officials who inspected Hillandale’s facility on Oct.
13 through Oct. 15 concluded the company had taken steps to
improve conditions, the agency said. Hillandale can resume
shipping eggs from three of its henhouses, and agreed to hold
eggs from four other houses until they go through four rounds of
salmonella testing, the FDA said.  Congressional investigators found evidence of salmonella at
Wright County Egg dating to 2008, lawmakers said Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 Mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 