-- Italy Seen as Bigger Default Risk Than Indonesia, Philippines: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-19T11:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/italy-seen-as-bigger-default-risk-than-indonesia-philippines-euro-credit.html
Italy’s debt costs more to insure
against default than that of the Philippines or Indonesia, as
Europe’s financial woes overshadow a credit rating six levels
higher than either of the emerging-market nations.  Credit-default swaps on Italy, the only borrower among
Europe’s so-called peripheral nations not to suffer a cut in its
credit rating since last year, trade at 165.5 basis points.
That’s more than the 131 basis points for Indonesia, which had
to restructure some of its debt in 2000, or the 129 basis points
for the Philippines.  “Italy might be pricing in more default risk than it
should,” said  Johannes Jooste , a portfolio strategist at
Merrill Lynch Wealth Management in London, which oversees $1.4
trillion in assets globally. “The emerging market is benefiting
from ample liquidity which has artificially pushed the market
too strongly, more so on the CDS than cash bonds.”  Italy’s credit default swaps reached a record high of 244.7
basis points on June 4 after Greece’s near-default fueled
investor concern about the solvency of the euro-region’s most-
indebted nation. The price of insuring Asian debt has dropped
amid record demand for emerging-market bonds as investors wager
those economies will drive the global recovery while Europe
wrestles with surging budget deficits and sluggish growth.  The cost of insuring Italian government bonds against
payment failure is also higher than that of Russia, which in
1998 defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt.  ‘Clear Demarcation’  Standard & Poor’s rates Italy at A+, six steps higher than
its non-investment grade BB+ level for both the Philippines and
Indonesia.  “We like Italy,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed income
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “There is a clear
demarcation between Italy and the rest of the euro-peripheral
world. Italy might be highly indebted, but its deficit-
consolidation plan in the next five years is pretty much in line
with what Germany has to do.”  The  yield premium  investors demand to buy Italian 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds fell four basis points to a two-
month low of 134 basis points, down from a euro-era high of 185
basis points on June 8. That compares with 158 basis points for
 Spanish debt , while Ireland and Portugal each pay a surcharge of
more than twice that of Italy. Indonesian debt yields 471 basis
points more than bunds.  Fund Flows  A record $40.5 billion has flowed into emerging-market bond
funds this year, more than four times the full-year high of $9.7
billion in 2005, according to data from research firm EPFR
Global. Indonesia, with a budget deficit of 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product, grew 6.2 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, while the Philippines, with a budget gap of 2.2
percent of GDP, expanded at an annual rate of 7.9 percent.  Italian bonds have gained 1.1 percent in the past month and
4.5 percent this year as investors reward Italy for doing a
better job of controlling its deficit than its euro-region
peers. Its shortfall of 5.3 percent of GDP last year is less
than half that of Ireland, Greece and Spain, all of which had to
cut wages and raise taxes to try to meet 2011 deficit-reduction
goals.  “There is an element of Italian bonds being mispriced in
this case,” Jooste said. “The Italian spreads have been
volatile and they tend to follow peripheral stories. Our view on
the peripheral market is that the market might have pushed it a
bit too far. We expect the spread to pull in, although not to
the pre-crisis level.”  Deficit Falling  Italy’s economy, the euro region’s third largest, is set to
expand 1.2 percent this year and unemployment fell for a third
month in August to 8.2 percent, less than the European Union
average of 10.1 percent. The government intends to cut its
budget shortfall to 3.9 percent of GDP next year and to limit
any increase in the debt level to less than one percentage
point, to 119.2 percent of GDP.  Even with deficit falling, investors remained concerned 
about Italy’s ability to cut debt given prospects for economic 
growth, said  John Stopford , head of fixed income at Investec 
Asset Management in London.  “Perceptions of risk are changing,” said Stopford.
“Developed economies in the near term are suffering from low
growth, large debt levels and aging population while the
emerging economies are doing well. Whether the market got that
comparison right might be debatable, but people are quite right
to reappraise risks.”  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($13.9 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  