-- Mizuho Alternative Unit Targets $1.2 Billion From Japanese Pension Funds
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-18T01:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/mizuho-alternative-unit-targets-1-2-billion-from-japanese-pension-funds.html
Mizuho Global Alternative
Investments Ltd.  aims to raise 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in
three years after starting this month to help Japanese pensions
invest in hedge funds.  The firm, a wholly owned unit of Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.,
began on Oct. 5 to provide alternative investment products such
as hedge funds to Japan’s corporate pensions and institutional
investors, said Akira Muto, chief executive officer of the
Tokyo-based firm. In five years, the company aims to increase
its assets from clients to 200 billion yen by introducing
overseas hedge funds, he said.  Mizuho Global Alternative is trying to tap growing demand
from the nation’s more than 60 trillion yen corporate pension
market. Funds are seeking to diversify investments away from
traditional asset classes such as bonds and equities after years
of underperforming stocks and low government bond yields.  “Traditional assets alone aren’t enough to achieve
returns,” Muto, 52, said in an interview in Tokyo on Oct. 14.
“We realized the need to introduce alternative investments
around the world to Japanese investors.”  The unit is the second established by Mizuho Corporate, the
corporate banking unit of  Japan’s second-biggest publicly traded
lender , dedicated to providing alternative investments.  CTA Fund  In 2007, Mizuho Corporate set up  Mizuho Alternative
Investments LLC  based in New York, whose flagship Crystal Japan
Fund has returned an average 9 percent a year since inception in
1997. The fund is a so-called commodity trading adviser, or CTA,
which uses computer programs to search for price signals in
futures markets ranging from equities to oil and gold.  After screening about 1,000 hedge funds in the U.S., the
newly established unit has selected two that it can introduce to
Japanese clients “with confidence” once it conducts due
diligence, Muto said. Initially, the firm will be looking at U.S.
and European single-manager funds to cater to Japanese investors
who seek to scrap a bias toward domestic investments, he said.  Japanese pension funds are seeking reliable returns as
retirees tap their benefits in a nation where the average
lifespan reached a record last year. They have also been hurt by
low bond yields, a declining birthrate and two decades of
slumping stocks that sent the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
to a quarter of its 1989 peak.  Pension Shortfall  The shortfall in pension funding of the nation’s top 278
companies by  market value  rose 50 percent to 21.5 trillion yen
in the year ended March, according to a study by the Tokyo-based
Daiwa Institute of Research.  The likely introduction of International Financial
Reporting Standards, which will require current pension losses
to be posted on a company’s balance sheet instead of being
spread out over a longer period, is also pressuring clients to
seek ways of providing more stable returns, Muto said.  Mizuho Global Alternative, which is the first subsidiary of
a Japanese bank to specialize in gatekeeping business according
to the firm, is planning to expand its current 16-person staff
as it increases assets, Muto said.  It also aims to start a fund that will invest in senior-
class bank loans and a fund of hedge funds, he said, declining
to elaborate as no concrete plans exist at the moment.  “This business is all about trust and it takes years to
win trust from clients, so we need to first build our track
record before branching out to anything new,” Muto said.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the prices of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 