-- Mizuho Targets Lending in Asia Outside of Japan After Local Demand Falls
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2010-10-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/mizuho-targets-lending-in-asia-outside-of-japan-after-local-demand-falls.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
third-largest bank by market value, plans to increase credit to
clients elsewhere in Asia as domestic demand declines.  “There’s no choice but to go to growth markets,”  Hiroshi Yamamoto , general manager of the syndicated finance division at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., said in an interview at his Tokyo
office. Profitability overseas “would be higher.”  Mizuho set up a team of 50 bankers in April that’s seeking
regional lending opportunities as part of a “Project Asia”
initiative, according to Yamamoto. It ranks 20th in Asia-Pacific
loans excluding Japan this year from 22nd in the same period
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mizuho would spend 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion) on an
Asian acquisition that helps boost profit from overseas income
to 40 percent of the total from last fiscal year’s 30 percent,
the lender’s head of international banking said in August.
Mizuho, with  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.  and  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , is shifting resources abroad as
Japan’s economic growth outlook limits profit growth at home.  Japanese bank lending dropped for a  tenth straight month  in
September as companies cut spending, declining 1.6 percent from
a year earlier to 395.3 trillion yen, according to the Bank of
Japan. Mizuho arranged $3.34 billion of non-Japanese Asia-
Pacific loans this year compared with $1.85 billion in the same
period of 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Mitsubishi Corp. agreed to a 35 billion yen term loan
arranged by Mizuho and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in July
that pays interest of 3 basis points more than the yen three-
month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, Bloomberg data
show. Japan’s biggest trading company paid 20 basis points semi-
annually for a 50 billion yen loan in July 2009.  Rural Electrification Corp., India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects, signed a $400 million, five-year term
loan last month with banks including Mizuho, Mitsubishi UFJ and
Sumitomo Mitsui that pays 139 basis points more than three-month
dollar Libor, the data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net 
 Yuki Yamaguchi  in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 