-- J.C. Penney Adopts Stockholder Rights Plan After Pershing Discloses Stake
-- B y   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-10-18T20:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/j-c-penney-adopts-poison-pill-buyout-defense-after-ackman-discloses-stake.html
J.C. Penney Co.  said its board
adopted a short-term stockholder rights plan, 10 days after
 William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP disclosed
that it’s the retailer’s biggest investor.  The plan gives shareholders the right to pay $130 for one
one-hundredth of a share of participating preferred stock -- a
fraction that entitles the owner to a vote equivalent to a share
of common stock -- for every common share owned, J.C. Penney
said today in a regulatory filing. The rights become exercisable
if a party buys a stake of 10 percent or more, or if a group
that currently owns that much attempts to buy more.  While the rights plan won’t prevent a takeover, it will
dilute the holdings of anyone who acquires 10 percent or more of
the common stock, the company said. Ackman, 44, has used his
stakes in retailers to push for share buybacks and asset sales.  “Management is bracing for a battle,”  Lizabeth Dunn ,
analyst at New York-based FBR Capital Markets & Co. said in a
telephone interview. “They’re not viewing this move by Ackman
as friendly.”  On Oct. 8, Pershing Square disclosed a 16.5 percent stake
in J.C. Penney. The New York hedge-fund firm said then that it
planned to engage in discussions with J.C. Penney’s board and
 managers  regarding the retailer’s performance.  The rights plan will “promote fair and equal treatment”
of shareholders should anyone try to gain  control  of the chain,
J.C. Penney said. Representatives at Pershing Square had no
immediate comment on the plan, which expires after about a year.  Increased Earnings  Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney operates more than 1,100
department stores in the U.S. Last quarter the chain reported
net income of $14 million, its third quarter of increased
earnings following more than two years of declines.  J.C. Penney fell 57 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $33.30 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  trading . The shares have
climbed 25 percent this year.  Barclays Capital Inc. and Goldman Sachs & Co. are advising
J.C. Penney on the plan, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP is providing legal counsel, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 