-- Most Japanese Stocks Rise, Led by Energy Utilities; Trading Companies Fall
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2010-10-18T07:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/japanese-stocks-rise-as-nec-leads-advance-on-ratings-increase-mazda-drops.html
Most Japanese  stocks  rose, led by
power and gas utilities and as brokerages increased or
reiterated positive investment ratings.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia’s largest electricity
producer, gained 1.3 percent and Tokyo Gas Co., Japan’s biggest
natural-gas distributor, advanced 2.5 percent. Utilities have
fallen the most this month among the 10 industry groups in the
MSCI Japan Index. NEC Corp., Japan’s No. 1 maker of personal
computers, rose 4 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG boosted their ratings on the stock.
 Mitsubishi Corp. , Japan’s biggest commodities trader, fell 1
percent after oil and metal prices declined.  “Investors are shifting their money into utility and other
defensive stocks, which are regarded as laggards,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , a fund manager in Tokyo who helps oversee $6 billion
at Shinkin Asset Management Co.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  was little changed at 9,498.49
at the close in Tokyo, reversing gains of as much as 0.7 percent
as the yen strengthened, damping the outlook for export earnings.
The broader Topix index rose 0.5 percent to 830.52, with more
than twice as many shares advancing as declining.  The Nikkei 225 has slumped 9.9 percent this year, the
biggest drop among the world’s 40 largest equity markets. Shares
in the index trade at 16.7 times  estimated earnings  on average,
near their highest level since Aug. 10.  Japanese stocks have fallen  this year , hurt by the
strengthening yen. Europe’s debt crisis, China’s steps to curb
property prices and concern about the pace of U.S. economic
growth have also eroded confidence in a global recovery.  Utilities Lead Advance  Utilities contributed the most to the Topix’s gain among
the index’s 33 industries, and all 17 companies in the group
advanced more than 1 percent. Utilities also had the  steepest
percentage increase  among the 10 groups in the MSCI Japan Index.  Tokyo Electric rose 1.3 percent to 1,930 yen and was
Japan’s most-active stock by value traded. Tokyo Gas climbed 2.5
percent to 371 yen. Kansai Electric Power Co., Japan’s second-
biggest energy utility by market value, jumped 3.1 percent to
1,983 yen, the biggest advance since Nov. 30.  NEC gained 4 percent to 237 yen, rising the most since May
27, after Goldman Sachs boosted its rating to “buy” and Credit
Suisse increased its recommendation to “outperform.” Both
brokerages had previously rated the company “neutral.”  NGK Insulators Ltd., which makes insulators and batteries
used in electricity transmission and storage, rose 3.5 percent
to 1,581 yen.  Commodity Prices Drop  “Profit at NGK’s electric-power-related operations may
continue to grow after March 2012, buoyed by both products of
insulators and NAS batteries,” the brokerage said in a
Japanese-language report dated today, citing a $4 billion
investment plan by Rubenius, a Dubai-based energy company.  Mitsubishi , which gets more than 40 percent of its revenue
from metals and energy, sank 1 percent and Mitsui & Co., a
trading company that counts commodities as its biggest source of
profit, fell 0.9 percent.  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. , a producer
of gold and copper, lost 2.6 percent to 1,400 yen.  Crude oil for November delivery declined 1.7 percent on Oct.
15 in New York to $81.25 a barrel, the lowest settlement this
month. The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including
aluminum and copper slipped 0.4 percent on Oct. 15, the biggest
drop since Oct. 7. The  Baltic Dry Index  of shipping rates for
commodities fell for the first time in four days on Oct. 15.  Strengthening Yen  The yen appreciated to as much as 81.13 yen against the
dollar during stock-trading hours today from 81.33 yen at the 9
a.m. opening of the bourse. A stronger yen cuts the value of
overseas  earnings  at Japanese companies when converted into
their home currency.  “A risk factor in the stock market is the appreciation of
the yen,” Shinkin Asset’s Fujiwara said. “But the currency is
unlikely to move drastically ahead of the G-20 meeting,” he
said, referring to this week’s meeting of finance ministers and
central bankers from the group of countries known as the G-20.  The yen is headed for its strongest annual average level
against the dollar since currencies began trading freely in 1971,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and based on each day’s
close.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 