-- Cho’s Smart ‘Archive’ Digs Into Lost Lingo of Love: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-18T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/julia-cho-s-smart-archive-digs-into-the-lost-lingo-of-love-john-simon.html
Julia Cho’s “The Language Archive”
is her best play to date. Without big names or fancy production
values in this  Roundabout Theatre  production, it strikes a
responsive chord in the viewer and also impresses with its
erudition. However whimsical -- even fantastic -- it becomes, it
affirms life no matter how melancholy.  George, the protagonist, and Emma, his assistant, run a
laboratory where they make tapes of people who speak vanishing
languages. There are thousands of tongues in the world, George
explains, but every fortnight one dies. Now he is trying to tape
the last two speakers of Elloway (which Cho invented). They are
an elderly married couple, Resten and Alta, who bicker over
trivia while loving each other deeply.  Meanwhile George, a linguist, cannot find the right words
to say to his own wife, Mary. When he, despite effort, cannot
say he loves her, she finally walks out, leaving him desolate.  Simultaneously Emma, without daring to confess her love,
starts taking lessons in Georges beloved Esperanto, hoping
perhaps in that language she can reach him, Her teacher, a wise
old woman, urges her to declare her love for George even if he
doesn’t reciprocate, to free herself from the misery of her
secret.  Angry Words  The Ellowayans, frustrating George, keep fighting in
English, because, they say, English is the language of anger,
whereas Ellowayan is the language of love. To her credit, Cho
does not provide facile happy endings. Sorrow and joy must find
a way to coexist: that is life.  Quite a bit of varied learning has gone into “The Language
Archive,” some of it more arch than archival, but all worn with
playful lightness.  Add to this Mark Brokaw’s consummate direction, Neil
Patel’s endearing set, Michael Krass’s resourceful costuming ,
and, above all, redeeming the intermittent excesses of the text,
marvelous performances from a cast that looks as good as it
acts.  Debonair Matt Letscher, while not stinting on George’s
absurdities, never lets us lose sympathy with the character’s
most blatant shortcomings. Similarly, Heidi Schreck aptly
humanizes and makes warmly believable Mary’s sundry
eccentricities. John Horton and Jayne Houdyshell couldn’t be
more fun, not only as the lovable Ellowayans, but also in
several other roles.  And then there is Betty Gilpin, whose enchanting Emma rises
to a histrionic apogee in the platonic embrace that concludes
both acts. Her expression epitomizes the author’s philosophy of
wedding joy and sadness in one great existential truth.  At the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St. Information: +1-
212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org   Rating: ***  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 