-- Key Says Strong New Zealand Dollar a Difficult Situation for Exporters
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-18T04:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/key-says-strong-new-zealand-dollar-a-difficult-situation-for-exporters.html
New Zealand’s rising currency is
creating difficulties for many of the nation’s exporters,
particularly those that aren’t benefiting from a rise in
commodity prices, Prime Minister  John Key  said.  While the government wants to reduce costs for exporters
that may be struggling, currency intervention “does not work,”
Key told reporters in Wellington today.  Key’s government is looking to overseas sales of milk, meat
and lumber, which make up 30 percent of the economy, to buoy
economic growth as domestic demand remains sluggish. Finance
Minister  Bill English  last week said the recovery will not be
consumption-led because households opting to save more money
rather than boost spending.  “New Zealanders are making the right choice” to save
rather than spend, Key said today, adding he had seen figures
that growth could be 6 percent if consumers were borrowing and
spending as much as they did in 2007.  New Zealand’s dollar last week rose to 76.44 U.S. cents,
the highest since July 2008. It bought 75.18 cents at 4:55 p.m.
in Wellington.  “An exporter selling into the U.S. with no commodity link
is struggling,” Key said. Still, those who sell to Australia
have benefited, he said. New Zealand’s currency has dropped 6.1
percent against the Australian dollar in the past three months.  The rise in New Zealand’s currency level also helped damp
inflation, Key said.  Consumer prices  rose 1.5 percent in the
year ended Sept. 30, the slowest pace in more than six years,
according to a report released earlier today.  New Zealand businesses have been tentative about investment
and hiring because they didn’t want to “overstretch” in the
face of a possible global double-dip recession, Key said. He
said the government expects confidence and  employment  will
recover over the next year.  The government is running budget deficits and has cut
taxes to bolster growth, Key said. Interest rates are low “and
I expect the will stay low for quite a long period to time,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  