-- Korea Won Retreats on Intervention Risk; 3-Year Bond Yield Near Record Low
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-18T06:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/korea-won-retreats-on-intervention-risk-3-year-bond-yield-near-record-low.html
South Korea’s won fell for a
second day, retreating from a five-month high, on concern the
central bank will seek to counter appreciation that poses a
risk to exports. Three-year bond yields stayed near a record
low.  The currency strengthened in each of the last seven
weeks, the longest winning streak in a year, as  overseas
investors  pumped more than $6 billion into Korean equities.
The Bank of Korea last week held off from raising interest
rates for a third monthly policy meeting, citing concern
about the won’s advance. The won’s surge is due to
expectations of quantitative easing in the U.S., Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today, adding that increased currency
volatility is a risk to the economy.  “We suspect there could be some intervention as the won
has strengthened a lot in the past few weeks,” said  Ko Yun Jin , a currency trader at Kookmin Bank in Seoul. “Since the
won has a bit of difficulty going past 1,110, traders are
starting to buy back the dollar. Importers are also buying
dollars after the recent decline.”  The won fell 0.7 per dollar to 1,119.03 as of the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
reached a five-month high of 1,110.05 last week and has
appreciated 3.7 percent in the past month, a performance
second only to India’s rupee among Asia’s 10 most-active
currencies excluding the yen.  South Korea will focus on addressing currency tensions
between countries at the Group of 20 summit it will host in
November, the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper reported today, citing
a government official it didn’t identify.  Derivatives Audit  The central bank this month began an audit of banks’
foreign-exchange trading to clamp down on speculation. South
Korea will expand an audit of trading in foreign exchange
derivatives to all local and foreign banks operating in the
country, Yonhap Infomax reported on Oct. 13, citing an
unidentified official.  Foreign investors are buying South Korean assets for the
higher returns they offer, Governor Kim said today. The
central bank’s decision last week to leave the policy rate at
2.25 percent wasn’t aimed at stemming the won’s gains but for
economic stability, he added.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s  biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said Pimco will add to the
$5 billion in investments it has made in South Korea,
according to an interview with the Korea Economic Daily.  The South Korean market for bonds and  stocks  is
“undervalued,” the Korean-language newspaper quoted him as
saying in an interview at Pimco’s Newport Beach, California
headquarters. Pimco has bought won-denominated assets
including quasi-government debt, and may invest in the
currency, stocks and South Korean bank debt, the report said.  “Pimco has been buying the won in the past few weeks
anyway, so the remarks are not so significant for the market
although they may help on the sentiment,” Kookmin’s Ko said.  The yield on the 3.75 percent bond due in June 2013 was
unchanged from last week at 3.06 percent, according to prices
from Korea Stock Exchange. That was the lowest level for a
benchmark three-year note on record, according to central
bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 