-- Nationwide Seeks U.S. Buyers for First Mortgage Securitization in a Year
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-10-18T16:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/nationwide-to-sell-1-6-billion-of-bonds-backed-by-residential-mortgages.html
Nationwide Building Society is
seeking to raise $1.6 billion in its first sale of mortgage-
backed bonds in a year, people with knowledge of the deal said.  The U.K.’s largest customer-owned lender is borrowing in
dollars and euros, the first time a lender in the country has
sold mortgage-backed securities devoid of pounds since before
the credit crisis. The last deal was Northern Rock Plc’s $1
billion Granite 2005-3 issue in August 2005, according to
Societe Generale SA data.  Issuance of the debt, which banks use to spread the risk of
lending, has jumped in recent weeks. Lloyds Banking Group sold
more than $3 billion of mortgage-backed securities denominated
in four currencies on Oct. 15. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
issued 4.6 billion pounds ($7.3 billion) of bonds backed by
prime U.K. mortgages on Sept. 22 in its first public sale of the
debt since 2007, Bloomberg data show.  Nationwide will issue its notes through Silverstone 2010-1.
It’s the first mortgage securitization from the Swindon,
England-based bank since October 2009, when it raised 3.5
billion pounds, Bloomberg data shows. The deal will have a
dollar portion with an expected maturity in 2013 and a euro
tranche that will mature in 2015, the people said.  Britain’s mortgage-backed bond market, Europe’s largest,
virtually shut two years ago after notes linked to  U.S. subprime
debt  slumped, causing investors to shun hard-to-value assets.
Sales restarted in September 2009.  Banks create mortgage-backed securities by pooling home
loans and selling them to investors as notes. The bonds
typically allow lenders to raise capital more cheaply than by
issuing unsecured debt.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG
are managing Nationwide’s issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Gutscher at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net  