-- NBAD Will Sell Bonds Only If Yields Are Close to Sovereign Debt Levels
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-10-18T13:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/nbad-will-sell-bonds-only-if-yields-are-close-to-sovereign-debt-levels.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  will
sell bonds only if it can attract investors with yields close to
those of sovereign debt, according to a bank official.  “We are not in a rush to issue,”  Mark Yassin , the
lender’s senior general manager of corporate and investment
banking, said in Abu Dhabi today. “We see ourselves raising
debt at probably 10 to 15 basis points over the sovereign. If we
don’t achieve that, we will not issue.”  National Bank of Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates’
second-largest lender, said yesterday its board will consider
selling bonds under its Australian and New Zealand dollar
medium-term note program. The board will meet on Oct. 26 to make
a decision.  The yield on Abu Dhabi’s five-year 5.5 percent bonds due
April 2014 fell 1 basis point to 2 percent today in the emirate,
according to Bloomberg composite prices. The yield has declined
13 basis points since the end of September.  The bank, which is ranked tenth out of 28 banks advising on
bond sales in the Gulf region, may get two or three more
mandates to manage sales before the end of the year, Yassin
said. The issuers that include U.A.E. financial institutions and
companies are “looking at $500 million plus each,” he said.  The lender was asked to provide “indicative terms” for
financing  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. ’s planned
acquisition of a 46 percent stake in Kuwait’s  Mobile
Telecommunications Co ., Yassin added.  Emirates Telecommunications, known as Etisalat, plans to
borrow more than $9 billion to buy shares in Zain, as the
Kuwaiti phone company is known, three bankers familiar with the
deal said Oct. 13. Etisalat is the U.A.E.’s largest phone
company.  The financing to acquire a stake in Zain would be the
largest acquisition loan by a company in the Middle East and
Africa since at least 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  