-- Nedbank Says Its Annual Headline Earnings Expected to Climb as Much as 14%
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-18T15:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/nedbank-says-its-annual-headline-earnings-expected-to-climb-as-much-as-14-.html
Nedbank Group Ltd. , the South
African bank controlled by  Old Mutual Plc , said earnings
excluding one-time items may rise as much as 14 percent compared
with a year earlier.  The lender’s focus on areas with profit potential is
showing “early signs of success, particularly in the growth in
core fee and commission income within non-interest revenue,”
 Mike Brown , chief executive officer of the Johannesburg-based
bank, said in a statement today. As lower interest rates helped
customers repay debt, “impairments have continued to slow,
reflected in lower levels of early arrears and reduced inflows
into defaulted advances in the retail portfolio,” he said.  On Oct. 15, London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc  abandoned a bid
to buy a $7.3 billion controlling stake in Nedbank, South
Africa’s fourth-largest lender, without giving a reason.
Nedbank’s share price  slid  as much as 10 percent even as Old
Mutual said it didn’t believe there had been any adverse
findings by HSBC and the South African banking regulator said
Nedbank remained sound. The lender may still be up for sale as
Old Mutual seeks to raise cash to pay down 1.5 billion pounds
($2.4 billion) of debt by 2012.  “The prospect of further interest rate reductions, if they
occur, could impact margins negatively in the short term, but
should benefit impairments over the longer term,” Nedbank said
in the statement. Nedbank has recently completed its 2011 to
2013 planning process and remains “confident that we will meet
all our medium- to long-term financial targets by 2013,” Brown
added, without detailing the bank’s targets.  Nedbank  dropped  90 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 137 rand in
Johannesburg trading, having gained 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  