-- Netflix Up 572% Is No Deterrent to Analyst Wible's Bearish Take
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-10-18T20:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/netflix-up-572-is-no-deterrent-to-analyst-wible-s-bearish-take-since-2007.html
Tony Wible  loves streaming movies
from  Netflix Inc . Ask the Janney Montgomery Scott analyst what
he thinks of the company’s stock, and the affection ends there.  Since April 2007, first at Citigroup Inc. and now at
Janney, Wible has argued shares of the mail-order and online
movie service are too costly or too risky. He has had a “sell”
 rating  most of that time, with a couple of “hold” breaks.  Clients who listened have missed out on the best stock in
the Russell 1000 over the past 3 1/2 years and a gain of 572
percent as of Oct. 15. A $100,000 investment then in Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix would be worth about $672,000 today. A
similar bet on the  S&P 500 Media Index , which includes Time
Warner Inc. and Walt Disney Co., would have fallen to $83,000.  “There’s no doubt we’ve been wrong on the stock,” the
Philadelphia-based analyst said in an interview. “It’s been a
bad call. What’s been phenomenal with Netflix is the Street’s
propensity to ignore future risk.”  Wible, 34, who holds a degree in economics and finance from
York College of Pennsylvania, argues Netflix faces threats from
 Amazon.com Inc. ,  Apple Inc. ,  Time Warner ’s HBO and cable
companies that plan to offer fare online. The company’s $8.99-a-
month Web-and-one-DVD service may cannibalize its higher-priced
subscriptions at the same time that costs for film rights are
rising. The pressure will build in the next year, he said.  “Netflix is a great product, it’s a great platform,”
Wible said. “It’s just that its market potential is limited.
This is a story about growth and momentum and those stories can
break at any time.”  Analysts’ Ratings  Of 30 analysts who follow the stock, 9 have “sell”
ratings, 15 say “hold” and 6 suggest buying it, according to
Bloomberg data. Among active recommendations, Wible’s current
“sell” rating dating to March 2009 is the second longest.  Netflix fell $2.72 to $153 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has almost tripled this year and
has a market value of $8.01 billion. The company went  public  in
May 2002 at $7.50 a share, adjusted for splits.  Gains in Netflix have been driven by rising sales and
profit, as the company has taken customers from brick-and-mortar
rivals such as Movie Gallery Inc., which is going out of
business, and Blockbuster Inc., now in bankruptcy.  This year, sales are forecast to grow 29 percent to $2.16
billion, the average of 26  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, from
$1.67 billion in 2009. Net income is projected to increase 32
percent to $152.7 million.  Third-Quarter Earnings  The company is scheduled to report third-quarter results on
Oct. 20, with analysts  projecting  profit will rise 40 percent to
$42.2 million on 30 percent higher sales of $551.7 million.  “The only thing better than Netflix at $9 is McDonald’s $1
menu,” said  David Eiswert , manager of the Baltimore-based  T.
Rowe Price Global Technology Fund , which held 12,400 Netflix
shares as of June 30.  The company’s biggest asset is its growing subscriber base,
Eiswert said in an interview. A new entrant would spend $500
million to $1 billion for similar film and TV rights, and then
have to win subscribers as Netflix becomes ubiquitous on
Internet TVs, Blu-ray players and mobile devices.  “Sure, the risk is that a large competitor is going to be
willing to step up and take a $1 billion hit to operating
expenses for two years,” Eiswert said. “But that’s an awful
lot of pain and what do you get?”  On Oct. 6, Wible boosted his fair value estimate on Netflix
to $110 from $61, based on 20 times projected 2012 earnings per
share of $5.52.  Cable Network  “I look at Netflix as being like a cable network and I
assign a value based on what I think is a really good cable
network,” Wible said, citing  Discovery Communications Inc. 
“While the growth profile on Netflix is higher, the risk
profile is also higher.”  Netflix must win new customers at a faster clip to offset
falling average spending by subscribers, Wible said. He predicts
more users will drop mail-order plans, priced as high as $16.99
a month according to the website, for the $8.99 service.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  is funneling cash
into the “Watch Instantly” service as competition heats up. In
August, Netflix agreed to pay almost $1 billion for rights to
movies from Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures, Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  All About Content  Netflix declined to comment on Wible’s rating, according to
 Steve Swasey , a company spokesman.  Wible says competition will lead to content bidding wars
that could force Netflix to raise fees on the 18.5 million
customers it expects by year-end. That would slow subscriber
growth even if Netflix succeeds in duplicating its service in
other countries.  In a June 16 presentation to investors, Chief Financial
Officer  Barry McCarthy  said “the performance of the business is
starting to disprove this thesis.”  To alleviate concerns of Hollywood studios that fear its
business will erode DVD sales, Netflix delays mailing some new
releases for up to 28 days. In exchange it gets lower prices and
more online material.  “Content gets first dibs on the budget,” Hastings said in
a July 21 interview.  Wible is convinced his view will be vindicated.  “It’s a battle of philosophies,” Wible said. “There’s
the Internet philosophy. It applies the ideology that big brands
win with a first-mover advantage. Then there’s the media
philosophy that content is king.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  