-- New Jersey Terrorism Suspects Negotiating Guilty Pleas With U.S. Officials
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-10-18T22:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/new-jersey-terrorism-suspects-negotiating-guilty-pleas-with-u-s-officials.html
Two New Jersey men accused of
conspiring to kill, maim and kidnap people outside the U.S. by
joining a Somali terrorist group are negotiating guilty pleas
that would avert a trial, court records show.  Mohamed Alessa, 21, and Carlos Almonte, 24, had their case
continued because “plea negotiations are currently in
progress,” according to an order signed Oct. 13 by U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Madeline Cox Arleo  in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey. The men face life in prison if convicted.  David Holman, a lawyer for Alessa, and Rebekah Carmichael,
a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Paul Fishman , declined to
comment. James Patton, a lawyer for Almonte, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The suspects have been in custody since their June 5 arrest
at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, where they
tried to fly to Egypt on their way to join the Islamic Al-
Shabaab movement in Somalia, prosecutors said.  An undercover police officer who spoke Arabic recorded the
men discussing and preparing for violent jihad overseas,
prosecutors said. Alessa and Almonte made an initial appearance
before Arleo on June 7, when prosecutors urged their detention.  At a June 10 hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Andrew Kogan 
said the men are accused of a violent crime and that the
evidence is strong and includes recorded conversations. He noted
that they were arrested at the airport. Alessa lived in North
Bergen and Almonte lived in Elmwood Park at the time of their
arrests.  Dual Citizen  In denying bail, Arleo said that Alessa is a dual citizen
of the U.S. and Jordan, where he has made repeated trips.
Almonte is a dual citizen of the U.S. and the Dominican
Republic, which he also has visited, and has a criminal history
that includes assault charges, the judge said.  The undercover officer met the two men in November and
recorded them speaking of holy war, according to a complaint by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  “My soul cannot rest until I shed blood,” Alessa told
Almonte and the undercover agent, according to the complaint.
“I wanna, like, be the world’s known terrorist.”  Alessa said, “They only fear you when you have a gun and
when you -- when you start killing them, and when you -- when
you take their head, and you go like this, and you behead it on
camera,” according to the complaint. “We’ll start doing
killing here, if I can’t do it over there.”  The complaint paraphrased Almonte, speaking in April, as
saying “there would soon be American troops in Somalia, which
was good because it would not be fun to kill only Africans.”  The suspects played video games and listened to recordings
promoting violent jihadist attacks, according to the complaint.
In February 2007, the two men flew to Jordan and tried to sign
on as mujahedeen fighters, the FBI said.  The men worked out in gyms, played paintball, engaged in
tactical training, and acquired military gear such as Russian-
made night-vision binoculars, according to the FBI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 