-- Four New York Men Convicted in Plot to Bomb Synagogues
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-18T20:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/new-york-men-are-convicted-in-synagogue-bomb-plot-may-face-life-in-prison.html
Four men who plotted to bomb New
York City synagogues and fire heat-seeking missiles at military
planes were convicted by a federal court jury in Manhattan.  The defendants, James Cromitie, 44, David Williams, 29,
Onta Williams, 34, and Laguerre Payen, 29, face as long as life
in prison when they are sentenced on the charges, which include
conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction within the U.S.
and conspiracy to kill U.S. employees.  “Homegrown terrorism is a serious threat, and today’s
convictions affirm our commitment to do everything we can to
protect against it,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said
in an e-mailed statement. “The defendants in this case agreed
to plant bombs and use missiles they thought were very real
weapons of terrorism. We are safer today as a result of these
convictions.”  The case against the four men, all of whom lived in
 Newburgh , New York, began in 2008 when the FBI began sending an
informant, Shahed Hussain, to mosques to pose as a wealthy
Pakistani businessman so he could interact with suspects in
other terrorism investigations.  Hussain had been attending the Masjid-al-Ikhlas mosque in
Newburgh for about six months when he was approached in the
parking lot by Cromitie, who introduced himself as Abdul Rehman,
the informant testified at the trial. Hussain said Cromitie told
him he was unhappy that Muslims were being killed in Afghanistan
and Pakistan and expressed a “desire to do something to
America.”  Dozens of Meetings  Prosecutors said the two men met dozens of times over the
next 10 months to plan their attack, with Cromitie eventually
recruiting the other three defendants to participate. The four
were arrested in a coordinated sting operation in the Riverdale
section of the Bronx on the night of May 20, 2009.  Prosecutors say the men planted three devices packed with
the plastic explosive C4 in two cars. One was parked outside the
Riverdale Temple and one was parked outside the Riverside Jewish
Center. They were planning to later fire heat-seeking Stinger
missiles at military planes at an Air National Guard base
located at Stewart International Airport in Newburgh,
prosecutors said.  All of the weapons had been disabled by the FBI and were
provided to the suspects by the informant, who was posing as a
member of the Pakistan-based terror organization  Jaish-e-
Mohammed .  Anti-Aircraft Missiles  The jury today found all four men guilty of seven counts,
including acquiring and using anti-aircraft missiles and
attempted use of weapons on the temple, the Jewish center and on
the air guard base, following eight days of deliberations.
Cromitie and David Williams also were found guilty of attempting
to kill U.S. officers, while Onta Williams and Payen were found
not guilty of that count. The men will be sentenced March 24.  The defendants showed little reaction upon the reading of
the verdict, while Alicia McWilliams-McCollum, an aunt of
defendant David Williams, had to be escorted out of the
courtroom.  “This justice system is going to hell,” McWilliams-
McCollum said as she was leaving.  Attorneys for the defendants said during the trial that
their clients were victims of entrapment, and indicated after
the verdict that they would appeal the decision.  ‘Miscarriage of Justice’  “It’s a miscarriage of justice, just like this whole
investigation, case and trial,” Susanne Brody, a federal public
defender representing Onta Williams, said while leaving the
courthouse following the verdict.  Defense lawyers said the four men were impoverished, petty
criminals who were lured into the plot by a paid government
informant who helped them buy groceries and pay the rent, bought
them coffee from Dunkin’ Donuts and meals from Denny’s, and
promised reward money and vacations without authorization from
his FBI handlers.  “Obviously we’re disappointed,” said Sam Braverman, an
attorney for Payen. “This was an excellent jury and I don’t
blame them at all. I appreciate their effort during the eight
days they deliberated. I’m disappointed with their verdict, I do
believe my client was entrapped and I’m sorry that the jury
didn’t agree with me.”  Much of the trial, which began Aug. 23, focused on Hussain,
who started working for the FBI in 2002 after being arrested for
fraud in a government sting operation for taking $1,000 from
another informant to help illegally obtain a driver’s license.  Informant Cross-Examination  Hussain was on the stand for the majority of the trial, a
total of 13 days, during which he faced hours of cross-
examination from defense attorneys about his life in Pakistan,
his immigration to the U.S., his finances and his beginnings as
an FBI informant.  The verdict “tells you that entrapment will not likely
work in a terrorism case,” said  Karen Greenberg , executive
director of the Center on Law and Security at New York
University’s law school, in an interview outside the courthouse
following the verdict. “This was the strongest entrapment
defense we’ve seen.”  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 