-- Nexans in Talks With Draka Holding on Possible Offer at 15 Euros a Share
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-10-18T14:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/nexans-in-talks-with-draka-holding-on-possible-offer-at-15-euros-a-share.html
Nexans SA, the world’s biggest maker
of cables, is planning a takeover bid for  Draka Holding NV  that
values its Dutch rival at 731 million euros ($1 billion).  Negotiations will focus on a recommended cash offer of 15
euros a share, Paris-based Nexans said today in a statement.
Flint Beheer NV,  Draka ’s main investor with 48.5 percent, has
provisionally pledged its stake, it said. The 15-euro bid is 9.3
percent higher than Draka’s closing price on Oct. 13, the day
before Het Financieele Dagblad reported Nexans interest.  Nexans, which competes with  Prysmian SpA  and  General Cable
Corp. , is seeking to restore  margins  after the recession and
competition from  South Korean  suppliers clipped earnings and
prompted plant closures. Prysmian, the world’s No. 2 cable
maker, and the main shareholders in Draka, Europe’s third-
biggest, failed to agree on a price in merger talks last year.  Nexans’ offer “is a low ball bid that ignores the value of
cost savings and the positive impact on pricing,”  Martijn den Drijver , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam, said in a
note. “We assume that at 17 euros, a bid will be acceptable to
both Nexans and shareholders other than Flint.”  The 15-euro offer values Draka’s 48.7 million ordinary
shares at 731 million euros, according to Bloomberg
calculations. The Nexans  statement  doesn’t mention an offer for
Draka’s 5.75 million  preference shares .  Draka rose as much as 3 percent to 15.78 euros and was up
0.2 percent as of 3:31 p.m. in Amsterdam. Nexans  rose  as much as
2.9 percent to 54.69 euros and was up 1 percent in Paris.  Building Scale  Buying Draka would add scale in specialty cables and
improve the competitiveness of Nexans’ European asset base,
 Frederic Vincent , chief executive officer of the French company
company, said in the statement.  Nexans had 62 percent of its sales in Europe in 2009, and 9
percent in the Asia-Pacific region. Power cables made up 85
percent of its revenue, while telecommunication cables accounted
for 10 percent. The company had sales of 2.1 billion euros in
the first half, when operating profit fell 25 percent to 80
million euros.  Draka’s operating profit fell 47 percent to 12.2 million
euros out of sales of 1.1 billion euros in the first half.
Europe and Asia represented 55 percent and 21 percent of 2009
sales, respectively. Telecom cables accounted for 36 percent.  “This is a logical step,” said  Tijs Hollestelle , an
analyst at ING Groep NV, in Amsterdam. “The European market
needed to consolidate. At first glance the price also looks very
attractive from Nexans’s point of view.”  Hollestelle has a “buy”  recommendation  on Draka stock.  Sole Suitor  Any takeover would need to boost earnings within one or two
year’s time, the Nexans CEO told Bloomberg on Oct. 5.  Debt  at
the end of June was “low” at 280 million euros, he said.  “The financing to be put in place for this transaction
would ensure keeping a sound financial structure,” Vincent said
today. The proposal will be subject to “customary conditions,”
including recommendation of the offer by the Draka executive
board and its supervisory board, he said.  Draka’s valuation is “close to eight times” 2011
 estimated  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization,  Julien Guez , an analyst at Aurel BGC in Paris,
said in a note today. This deal “wouldn’t create value for
Nexans shareholders in the short term,” he said.  Nexans’ most recent acquisitions include Santiago, Chile-
based Madeco for $822 million and Milan-based Intercond SpA for
90 million euros, both in 2008.  Prysmian isn’t holding competing talks with Draka, its
former target, said Lorenzo Caruso, a spokesman for the Italian
company. He declined to say whether Prysmian has any plans to
also make an offer for Draka.  Michael Bosman , a spokesman for Draka in Amsterdam,
declined to comment when contacted by telephone. The company
said in a statement that it will keep its shareholders informed
of “any and all significant development,” following Nexans’
“unsolicited intention” to enter in talks with Draka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 