-- NFL Weighs Suspending Players for Head-to-Head Blows After Jackson Injury
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-10-18T20:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/nfl-weighs-suspending-players-for-head-to-head-blows-after-jackson-injury.html
The National Football League may
start suspending players for dangerous hits to the head to crack
down on collisions like the one that sidelined Philadelphia
Eagles receiver  DeSean   Jackson .  Ray Anderson, the NFL’s executive vice president of
football operations, said today the league may need more than
fines to protect players from helmet-to-helmet collisions, or
“flagrant” or “egregious” blows.  “We’re going to circle back and take a more aggressive
look at them because the events of yesterday were certainly
disturbing to all of us,” Anderson said in a telephone
interview. “We say it time again: Player safety is our top
priority and then you have a Sunday like yesterday where it
seemed like every time you looked around, a player was on the
ground for an extended period of time.”  Anderson said the change could take effect immediately
since it wouldn’t involve a new rule but instead represent a
“different emphasis” in enforcement. Even first-time offenders
may be suspended, he said.  Jackson and the Falcons’ Dunta Robinson were both knocked
out of their teams’ game yesterday after a head-to-head
collision. Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker  James Harrison 
sidelined two players on the Cleveland Browns with head
injuries.  Jackson Sidelined  Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said it would be a “real stretch”
for Jackson to play in next weekend’s game against the Tennessee
Titans, according to the Associated Press. Harrison said he’s
out to hurt any opposing player who enters his vicinity, the
wire service reported.  The problem of violent hits in football wasn’t limited to
the NFL over the weekend. Two days ago, Rutgers University
defensive lineman Eric LeGrand was paralyzed from the neck down
after suffering a spinal cord injury during the team’s 23-20
overtime win against Army.  Anderson said the league was determined to prevent such
Injuries. He mentioned the case of  Darryl Stingley , a New
England Patriots receiver paralyzed on the field by Oakland
Raiders defensive back  Jack Tatum  in 1978.  “You’re not talking about career-altering hits, these are
potentially life-altering hits,” Anderson said. “We don’t want
another Darryl Stingley.”  Rodney Harrison , a retired Patriots safety, said fines
never stopped him from overly aggressive play.  “You didn’t get my attention when you fined me $5,000,
$10,000, $15,000,” said Harrison, now an analyst with NBC, on
the pre-game show for last night’s “Sunday Night Football”
telecast. “You got my attention when I got suspended and I had
to get away from my teammates and I disappointed my teammates
from not being there. You have to suspend these guys.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 