-- BP Sells Venezuela, Vietnam Assets to TNK-BP for $1.8 Billion
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-10-18T16:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/tnk-bp-agrees-to-acquire-bp-assets-in-venezuela-vietnam-for-1-8-billion.html
BP Plc  agreed to sell assets in
Venezuela and Vietnam to Russian oil venture TNK-BP for $1.8
billion as it raises money to help pay for the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill.  BP, which owns the  TNK-BP  venture 50-50 with a group of
Russian billionaires, will book the cash in full, London-based
spokesman  Mark Salt  said. TNK-BP will make a $1 billion deposit
by Oct. 29 and pay the remainder on completion of the deal,
which is expected in the first half of 2011, the companies said
in statements today.  BP plans to sell $30 billion in assets to cover costs
linked to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S.
history. TNK-BP, which accounts for about a quarter of BP’s
output and a fifth of reserves, is seeking to increase value by
expanding outside Russia.  “It sounds like a good deal,” said  Jason Kenney , head of
oil and gas research at ING Commercial Banking in Edinburgh.
“There’s obviously a lot of value inherent in these assets, so
by selling them to a company they half own they’ll continue to
reap value from them.”  Today’s announcement brings the amount of assets BP has
sold this year to more than $11 billion. It sold $7 billion of
fields in the U.S., Canada and Egypt to Apache Corp. In
Colombia, it divested $1.9 billion assets to Ecopetrol SA and
Talisman Energy Inc.  Russia, Venezuela Support  BP shares  rose 1.6 percent to close at 432.15 pence today
in London. While the stock has recovered since falling as low as
302.9 pence on June 29, it is still down about 34 percent since
the Gulf of Mexico accident.  In Venezuela, TNK-BP will gain a 16.7 percent stake in
PetroMonagas SA, a heavy oil producer; a 40 percent stake in
Petroperija SA; and 26.7 percent stake in Boqueron SA. The joint
ventures with state-run Petroleos de Venezuela SA have a
combined capacity of 25,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, the
Moscow-based company said.  Russia and Venezuela signed an accord supporting the deal
on Oct. 14, during President  Hugo Chavez ’s visit to the Kremlin.  “Given Russia’s strong relationships with Vietnam and
Venezuela we are sure that this transaction will create
significant value both for TNK-BP and our local partners,” TNK-
BP Chief Executive and billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Fridman 
said in the statements.  Low Russian Returns  In Vietnam, TNK-BP will buy BP’s 35 percent stake in an
offshore gas block containing the Lan Tay and Lan Do fields, a
32.7 percent stake in the Nam Con Son pipeline and terminal and
a 33 percent stake in the Phu My 3 power plant, TNK-BP said.  TNK-BP’s working interest in the Vietnamese assets comes
with a production capacity of 30,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day, TNK-BP said.  “The move is quite logical for TNK-BP because at home
returns are low,”  Oleg Maximov , an oil and gas analyst at
Troika Dialog in Moscow, said by telephone. Looming tax
increases as Russia tries to narrow its budget deficit will
probably lower oil companies’ exploration and production profit,
Maximov said.  The acquisitions may be reflected in TNK-BP dividends,
although the total payout this year will probably be about $3
billion,  Stan Polovet s, chief executive officer of the
billionaires’ holding company AAR, said earlier this month. The
dividend payout may be lower than 60 percent of net income,
although probably not less than 40 percent, he said.  BP will consider resuming dividend payments early next year
after the company canceled them for the first three quarters of
2010,  Robert Dudley , the American who became BP CEO on Oct. 1,
said last month. Dudley was head of TNK-BP for five years before
being forced out during a management dispute between BP and the
billionaire shareholders in 2008.  Together the Venezuela and Vietnam acquisitions will add
proved and probable reserves of about 260 million barrels of oil
equivalent to the venture on an entitlement basis, TNK-BP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  