-- Norilsk Nickel Plans $20 Billion Program to Boost Arctic Output
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-10-18T07:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/norilsk-nickel-plans-20-billion-program-to-boost-arctic-output.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel ’s polar
division, the mining company’s biggest earner in the past
decade, will spend $20 billion by 2030 to stop  production  from
falling, according to its head Evgeny Muravyov.  The division must invest in new projects to counter
dwindling output as the ore it mines yields less metal, Muravyov
said in an interview in Norilsk, a town north of Siberia where
the unit is based. The division must raise ore output by about 3
percent a year to keep nickel production flat, he said.  The polar business has accounted for as much as 80 percent
of Norilsk Nickel’s  profit  since the company’s sale by the state
in 1997, and fueled its expansion abroad. Its metallurgical
complex north of the Arctic Circle has mined more than $200
billion of nickel, copper, palladium and platinum -- based on
current prices --since 1935, when prisoners of  Josef Stalin ’s
labor camps began production there.  At stake is the productivity a company that supplies 22
percent of the world’s nickel, a silvery metal used in stainless
steel and batteries, and 40 percent of the world’s palladium,
used in jewelry and pollution-control equipment for vehicles.  “We still have reserves sufficient for at least 80 years
and can mine another $200 billion of metals and hopefully more,
as the share of more expensive platinum-group metals in our
production is set to increase in 20 years,” Muravyov said.  Deeper Mines  The  polar division  has dug 1,200 kilometers (745 miles) of
underground tunnels, four times the length of the Moscow subway,
to produce metals. The company now mines ore from as deep as 1.3
kilometers below ground, pushing up costs.  While output expenses may rise by 10 percent to 12 percent
in the “long term” because of lower-grade ore and spending on
new projects, Norilsk’s costs will remain among the world’s
lowest given the ores’ “unique product mix,” Muravyov said.  Norilsk’s deposits are singular because nickel, copper,
palladium and platinum can be extracted from the same ore, said
 Vladimir Zhukov , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Moscow.
“Other global miners normally have an ore which contains a
single metal at a high grade, and other metals as by-products at
relatively low grades,” Zhukov said.  The polar unit plans to maintain its copper output by
processing state-owned copper-concentrate reserves, stored since
the 1980s, within the next five years, before putting new
deposits into production, according to Muravyov.  Russian Investments  “It appears quite logical, at least for the time being,
for the company to focus on the organic growth opportunities and
domestic investments, where Norilsk has strong competitive
advantages,” said Nomura’s Zhukov. “It is very difficult to
find an attractive acquisition target for Norilsk Nickel
globally at the moment.”  The town of Norilsk, home to about 205,000 people, a
quarter of whom are  employees , will also benefit from the
company’s plans to spend $1 billion by 2015 to cut sulfur-
dioxide emissions and improve the environment of the area,
Muravyov said.  “It’s a purely social project, but we need to improve the
environment in Norilsk and make the working conditions more
comfortable,” he said.  Norilsk Nickel is considering altering the technology it
uses at the polar division and employing chemicals instead of
furnaces to produce metals from concentrate, Muravyov said. The
change would help protect the environment because using furnaces
releases polluting gases into the air.  New Technology  “We’re considering switching from pyro-metallurgy to
hydro-metallurgy based on  Activox  technology,” Muravyov said.
Within a year, the company will test whether the technology,
which Norilsk bought in 2007 as part of its $6.5 billion LionOre
acquisition, will be suitable for Arctic ores. Activox uses
chemicals to dissolve nickel from concentrate and then produce
the pure metal.  “The cost of applying Activox in Norilsk still needs to be
evaluated,” Muravyov said. Installing the technology at all of
Norilsk Nickel’s facilities, at a cost of as much as $10
billion, would allow the company to “remove all ecological
problems and cut electricity and gas consumption,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Norilsk, via the Moscow newsroom
at   ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 