-- Northeast, NSTAR Will Merge to Create New England's Top Utility
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-10-18T20:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/northeast-agrees-to-merge-with-nstar-to-form-new-england-s-biggest-utility.html
Northeast Utilities , New England’s
largest utility owner, agreed to buy energy-delivery company
NSTAR for $4.17 billion of stock, adding cash flow to help fund
expansion and increase the  dividend .  Under the agreement, described by the companies as a merger
of equals, each share in NSTAR will be worth 1.312 shares of
Springfield, Massachusetts-based Northeast, according to a joint
statement today. Northeast’s shareholders will own 56 percent of
the new entity, with the purchase representing a 1.9 percent
premium over NSTAR’s Oct. 15  closing price .  The combined company, to be called Northeast Utilities,
will provide power and gas to more than half of New England’s
customers, with almost 3.5 million homes and businesses in three
states. The companies will each nominate seven members to the
 board  of the combined business, with a nominee from Northeast
Utilities serving as lead trustee.  “The combination of the two will enable us to grow
dividends and earnings more than each of us could do by
ourselves,”  Thomas J. May , 63, chief executive officer of
Boston-based NSTAR and CEO of the new company, said today in an
interview.  Northeast’s dividend will rise to match the payout at
NSTAR, the companies said. At current levels, that would be
about 20 percent, to $1.22 a share annually from $1.025, the
companies said during a conference call. NSTAR may raise its
dividend further before the deal closes, said  Charles Shivery ,
CEO of Northeast.  Northeast’s Benefit  Northeast  fell  28 cents to $30.42 at 4:02 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. NSTAR fell 23 cents to
$39.30.  The companies said on an investor conference call today the
deal will increase opportunities for economic growth in New
England.  “I just don’t see it,” said  Michael Worms , a New York-
based analyst at BMO Capital Markets. Worms rates Northeast
shares “market perform” and owns none. Northeast and NSTAR are
already “major players” at building high-voltage lines across
the region, he said.  “The benefit is to Northeast with the increased
dividend,” Worms said. “Northeast will benefit from the NSTAR
cash flow, eliminating a planned equity offering in 2012.”  Shivery and May said they began talking about a combination
as they pursued construction of a $1.1 billion high-voltage line
to deliver power from hydroelectric dams in Quebec to their New
England utilities, a joint venture 75 percent owned by
Northeastern and 25 percent by NSTAR.  Regulatory Approval  Valued at $6.84 billion in stock and assumed debt, the
transaction is the third-largest U.S. power company deal
announced this year, following the planned $9.22 billion
takeover by FirstEnergy Corp. of Allegheny Energy Inc. and PPL
Corp’s $7.63 billion purchase of E.ON AG’s Kentucky utilities,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some jobs may be eliminated, the companies said today in a
filing. Cost cutting will be done by attrition, which should
make the deal easier to sell to Massachusetts regulators,
Shivery, 65, who’ll be chairman of the new company, said in the
interview.  The deal is expected to close within 12 months, subject to
approval by shareholders as well as Massachusetts and federal
regulators, the companies said.  Massachusetts requires that the transaction have “no net
harm” to customers there, May said during the call. The
companies have discussed the deal with the governors of
Massachusetts, Connecticut and New Hampshire, he said.  Con Ed Acquisition  Under Shivery’s predecessor, Northeast agreed to sell
itself to Consolidated Edison Inc., owner of New York City’s
utility, for $7.5 billion in 1999. The deal fell apart in 2001,
after Con Ed said Northeast took on too much risk with long-term
power contracts.  About $9 billion of new spending is planned by the combined
company over the next five years, Shivery said on the call. The
combined company may build lines into population centers in
Massachusetts and Connecticut from northern New Hampshire and
western Maine, ideal sites for wind-energy production, Shivery
said.  Barclays Plc and Lazard Ltd. are advising Northeast and
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LP is legal counsel. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Lexicon Partners Ltd. advised NSTAR and
Ropes & Gray LLP is legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 