-- Northam Platinum 43-Day Strike by Workers Cost $33 Million in Lost Revenue
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-10-18T16:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/northam-platinum-resumes-operations-as-wage-offer-ends-strike-union-says.html
Northam Platinum Ltd.  said a 43-day
pay strike that cost it 380 million rand ($55 million) in lost
revenue at its only mine ended after workers settled for pay
increases of almost four times South Africa’s inflation rate.  Members of the National Union of Mineworkers, the country’s
biggest labor union, won pay increases of between 10 percent and
13 percent, the company said in a statement today. The country’s
 inflation rate  was 3.5 percent in August.  South Africa, the nation with the world’s biggest platinum
reserves, this year saw violent strikes by teachers, nurses and
miners, demanding above-inflation salary increases.  Exxaro
Resources Ltd . and Richards Bay Minerals Ltd. also had strikes.
Northam’s lost revenue is about a 10th of the 3.95 billion rand
sales the company achieved in its fiscal year ended June 30.  Operations will resume tomorrow, initially ensuring the
mine is safe as underground working areas may have deteriorated
during the stoppage, Northam said. “This, along with other
operational requirements, is likely to have an adverse effect on
the return to normalized production levels.”  Northam  was little changed at 46.50 rand at the close of
trading at 5 p.m. in Johannesburg, giving it a market value of
16.7 billion rand.  Northam’s mine, Zondereinde, taps part of the  world’s
richest platinum deposit , the Bushveld geological complex,
northwest of Johannesburg. The mine employs about 6,800 workers
and produces about 1,000 ounces of metals a day including
platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net .
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 