-- NYSE Software Glitch Spurs $7.9 Billion Misprice in S&P 500 ETF
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-19T20:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/nyse-euronext-cancels-trades-of-s-p-500-etf-at-9-6-below-opening-price.html
Regulators can add a faulty software
update at NYSE Euronext’s electronic Arca stock market to the
list of mishaps that have weighed on investor confidence.  A system upgrade at Arca triggered what appeared to be a
9.6 percent plunge yesterday in an  exchange-traded fund  that
tracks the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, a drop that would have
erased $7.9 billion from one of the most popular securities in
the U.S. Data published by the electronic venue at 4:15 p.m. New
York time showed the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust at  $106.46 , compared
with its opening level of $117.74.  The prices were later voided and the closing price updated
to $118.54, up 0.7 percent, exchange officials said.  “Something went wrong. The question is why,” said  James Angel , a finance professor at Georgetown University in
Washington. “For them to cancel the trades is probably causing
heartburn in back offices across the country.”  The glitch in the  fund  with a market value of more than $80
billion comes as federal regulators are trying to prove U.S.
exchanges still work after the May 6 crash that erased $862
billion of share value in 20 minutes. Data showing the decline
appeared just as  Apple Inc.  and International Business Machines
Corp. were releasing quarterly profit statements.  The apparent plunge in price involved 7.2 million shares in
the closing auction on NYSE Arca, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent to 1,184.71 yesterday.  ‘Alarming’  “People were very focused on after-market trading because
of IBM and Apple earnings so it was very confusing when the
price discrepancy happened,” said  Andrew Ross , a partner and
global equity trader for First New York Securities LLC, who
trades ETFs. “It was alarming that it could happen.”  The exchange operator said its 4 p.m. closing auction in
securities listed on NYSE Arca was delayed for 15 minutes
because of an issue with a software release. Auction prices
occurring at 4:15 p.m. will be the official closing price for
all other securities except for the SPDR S&P 500 ETF. The ETF
slipped 1.5 percent to $116.73 today.  NYSE Arca  will “bust” all the $106.46 trades, according
to an e-mail from exchange spokesman  Raymond Pellecchia . The
fund managed by State Street Global Advisors is one of the most
heavily traded securities in the U.S., averaging 223 million
shares a day this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Issue Revolved  “The issue has been resolved,” Pellecchia said in an
interview yesterday. “Operations will be normal tomorrow.”
Marie McGehee, a spokeswoman for State Street Corp., declined to
comment.  Trading in another security linked to the S&P 500, the  E-
Mini futures contract  traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
helped start the May 6 crash that briefly sent the Dow Jones
Industrial Average down 998.5 points, according to regulators. A
mutual fund company’s automated sale of the contract without
regard to price and “hot potato” trading by computer-driven
firms set off the rout, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Future Trading Commission report.  The 104-page study released Oct. 1 said trading software
known as an algorithm linked the rate at which it traded the E-
Mini contract to overall market volume. The initial sales
spurred a flurry of buying and selling among high-frequency
traders, which in turn led the algorithm to sell faster.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  is trying to protect investors
in a fragmented U.S. stock market while maintaining liquidity on
exchanges dominated by firms that profit from computerized
trading.  Uniform Proposals  The May crash prompted exchanges to implement circuit
breakers that pause trading in more than 1,300 securities during
periods of volatility. Uniform policies for canceling trades and
eliminating stub quotes, or bids and offers at prices far away
from the stock’s last sale, have also been proposed or adopted.  Nasdaq canceled more than 50 trades in  Progress Energy Inc. 
on Sept. 27 after the shares plunged 90 percent, triggering
stock circuit breakers imposed after the May 6 crash. The
exchange cited an “inaccurate limit price entered by a trading
firm” for the mistaken transactions.  Two weeks earlier, a 100-share order for  Nucor Corp.  that
triggered a 99.98 percent decline was canceled by the CBOE Stock
Exchange. Nucor fell from $35.71 to 1 cent on the voided
purchase, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About 200 trades in Core Molding Securities Inc. were
canceled on Aug. 26 after the stock plunged from above $4 to
below a penny in two seconds after going untraded for the first
4 1/2 hours of the day. NYSE Amex, the Nasdaq Stock Market and
Nasdaq’s BX platform canceled all trades at or below $3.94.  Yesterday’s mispricing “indicates a breakdown in market
mechanisms,” Georgetown’s Angel said. “I hope the regulators
are looking at it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 