-- Obama Tells Ohio Democrats November Vote a High-Stakes Election
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/obama-tells-ohio-voters-stakes-could-not-be-higher-in-november-election.html
President  Barack Obama  told Ohio
Democrats the “stakes could not be higher” for the November
congressional elections as he sought to rekindle the energy of
his 2008 presidential campaign.  Obama, making his 11th trip to Ohio since becoming
president, raised money for embattled Democratic Governor  Ted Strickland  outside of Cleveland and tried to tap the enthusiasm
of young voters at a rally at  Ohio State University  in Columbus.  “In a little more than two weeks you can set the direction
of this state and the direction of this country for not just the
next two years but the next five years, the next 10 years, the
next 20 years, just like you did in 2008,” the president told
about 35,000 people at the Ohio State event, organized by the
Democratic National Committee.  Speaking in a  state  hard hit by job losses, Obama called
the recession a “once-in-a-generation challenge,” and said
Republicans would return to policies that led to the financial
crisis. “We do not want what they are selling,” he said. “We
have been there before and we’re not going back.”  Obama is seeking to bolster enthusiasm among Democrats as
the party seeks to stave off Republican gains in the Nov. 2
midterm elections, which will determine control of Congress as
well as key governorships. His appearance today with his wife,
 Michelle,  was their first joint campaign appearance since his
election in 2008.  At both events, Obama struck many of the same themes,
listing the actions he’s taken on health care, financial
regulation and aid to education, and criticizing Republican
ideas.  ‘Difficult’ Election  “We have gone through the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression, so when times are that difficult elections are
going to be difficult and understandably so,” Obama told donors
at the fundraiser for Strickland.  He credited his administration with stopping “the
bleeding” from the recession and defended his handling of
financial regulatory overhaul.  “The free market works best when it’s got some basic rules
of the road,” Obama said. “There’s nothing anti-business about
that.”  Obama said his administration helped make credit-card
companies more responsible, and privatization of the Social
Security retirement system won’t happen “on my watch.”  Strickland and  John Kasich , a former Republican
congressman, are locked in one of the  closest  gubernatorial
races in the U.S., according to the non-partisan  Cook Political
Report .  Persistent Unemployment  The  economy  looms as a major issue as Obama makes his 11th
trip to Ohio since becoming president.  The state’s unemployment
rate  in August was 10.1 percent, compared with a national
average of  9.6 percent  in September, according to the  Labor
Department . Ohio’s unemployment rate has been above 10 percent
for 16   months in a row.   “For the previous decade, the middle class had been losing
ground,” Obama said. From 2001 to 2009 the average middle class
family lost 5 percent of their income, he said.  Democrats are “really hoping the president will resonate
with a subset of voters -- young voters, minority voters, first-
time voters, and rank and file Democrats -- voters who supported
him two years ago,” said  Ohio State University  political
science professor  Herb Asher .  Obama’s goal is to “make sure that at least the base is
energized,” and help Democrats narrow the “enthusiasm gap”
with Republicans, Asher said.  “Bringing the first lady may take a little bit of the
partisan edge off of the event,” said Asher.  Favorability Ratings  Michelle Obama  outshines her husband among voters,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 7-10.
Sixty-two percent viewed her favorably, compared with 53 percent
who had a favorable view of the president.  Even though Obama was defeated by  Hillary Clinton  in Ohio’s
2008 primary election, he  beat  the Republican presidential
nominee, Senator  John McCain , 52 to 47 percent in Ohio in 2008.  At the Strickland fundraiser Obama said it’s hard “to
recapture that sense of possibility” that there was during his
presidential campaign.  “It’s hard sometimes to say ‘yes we can,’ you start
thinking, ‘well maybe I don’t know,” said the president. “But
I said during the campaign this has never been easy.”  In the governor’s race, Kasich leads Strickland by 8
percentage points, 51 to 43, according to  a poll  released Oct.
15 by  the Institute for Policy Research  at the University of
Cincinnati. That’s a 4 point bump for Kasich from the last poll
in the middle of September.  Senate Race  In the state’s open Senate contest, former U.S.
Representative  Rob Portman  leads Democratic Lieutenant Governor
 Lee Fisher , 58 percent to 36 percent, according to the same
poll. Portman’s 22 percentage point advantage marks a 7-point
jump from mid-September. The candidates are vying to replace
Republican  George Voinovich , who is retiring.  The Ohio Poll interviewed a random sample of 705 likely
voters between Oct. 8-13. The margin of error is 3.7 percentage
points.  As part of his final push before the midterms, Obama will
campaign this week for Democrats in California, Oregon,
Washington, Minnesota, and Nevada.  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to win a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. The  Cook Political
Report  in Washington forecasts Republicans will gain at least 40
seats after November’s election. In the Senate, where
Republicans hold 41 of 100 seats, the Cook report says they are
poised to pick up from 7 to 9 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Columbus, Ohio at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  