-- Obama’s Foreclosure Inaction Risks Katrina Redux: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-10-18T01:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/obama-s-foreclosure-inaction-is-katrina-redux-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
The foreclosure crisis that seems on
the brink of spinning out of control may be the decisive nudge
that pushes the U.S. into a double-dip recession. Banks that
have only just begun to recover from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression are about to find themselves in
straitjackets.  As was the case during the aftermath to Hurricane Katrina,
Washington seems not up to the task. Instead of facing the
problem head-on, President  Barack Obama  has mostly deferred to
state attorneys general. This is a terrible time for Obama to
finally discover the virtue of federal restraint.  Delayed foreclosures and litigation regarding how they are
carried out might cost U.S. lenders $10 billion, according to
one new estimate. Questions could be raised about any foreclosed
property, and the only thing between banks and a humungous legal
fiasco is the possibility that trial lawyers and state attorneys
general will show restraint. Ask tobacco companies how that
might work out. Attorneys general are opening widespread
investigations, and trial lawyers might tie banks in knots,
holding out for fat class-action settlements.  While lines are forming to take a pound of flesh from the
banks, their real-estate activities are all but frozen. It will
be difficult for lenders to make decisions about future loans
with their capital positions so fundamentally in question.  Next Spitzer  The probability that some ambitious, populist attorney
general -- does the name  Eliot Spitzer  ring a bell? -- goes
overboard seems high if the detective work is left to the
states. A neutral and authoritative statement of the facts by
federal regulators would go a long way toward limiting the legal
feeding frenzy. If entire swaths of the foreclosure landscape
are deemed high jinks-free, then banks can breathe a sigh of
relief and start lending again.  Which means that Washington needs to step in and do what it
can to preempt the coming legal morass.  As was the case with Katrina -- a different kind of
disaster, under a different president -- there’s a lot of
confusion about what role the state and local governments need
to play in this mess. To date, Obama has been content to let the
states lead. This will allow the same type of extortion game to
play out that sucked billions from the tobacco companies.  Obama’s position is particularly puzzling in light of the
fact that there’s a sparkling new federal entity that could take
charge of the runaway train.  Attention Please  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, created by the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, is charged with maintaining
financial stability and monitoring systemic risk. If the council
takes its assignment seriously, it should turn its attention to
the foreclosure crisis, take authority for resolving it, and do
so as swiftly as possible.  A nice place to start would be to identify the percentage
of foreclosures that were made in error. If that is very low,
and the facts are made public, the litigation wave may be
stopped in its tracks.  Anyone who has ever been to a real-estate closing can grasp
what is going on. A housing transaction requires that a borrower
provide countless signatures on almost every page of a massive
stack of paper. Reviewing each page is virtually impossible for
typical homebuyers, but that doesn’t stop them from signing and
attesting that they understand all the terms.  Imagine you are being deposed by an adversarial attorney,
who asks: “Are you sure you read every word in the document you
signed?” If you’re like me, you would have a hard time
answering honestly in the affirmative.  Temptation to Skim  During foreclosures, bank officials face a similar
temptation to skim, especially when banks are being swamped by
thousands of problem cases. It seems clear that many of them
yielded to that temptation and then gave false assurances that
documents were reviewed carefully.  This doesn’t necessarily mean that the foreclosures were in
error. But doubts about foreclosure processing mean that
virtually every foreclosure that has occurred can now be
challenged as invalid. This is true for recent foreclosures that
purportedly have been processed by “robos.” And it also may
apply to foreclosures that occurred in the past. Can banks
really be sure that they were more careful three years ago?  The stakes are high. The latest average estimate for U.S.
gross domestic product in the third quarter is only 1.9 percent.
With growth so slow, it would take only a nudge to push the
economy back into recession.  If Washington continues to give the foreclosure crisis the
Katrina treatment, the credit contraction that follows will
likely be that nudge.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  