-- Lockhart Says He May Support More Fed Asset Purchases to Combat Deflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-10-18T17:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/lockhart-says-he-may-support-more-fed-asset-purchases-to-combat-deflation.html
Atlanta Federal Reserve President
 Dennis Lockhart  said he may back a second round of purchases of
Treasury securities by the central bank to ensure against the
possibility of falling prices.  More so-called quantitative easing “is a form of risk
management -- an insurance policy that is prudent to put in
place at this time,” Lockhart said today to the Savannah Rotary
Club. “Given the circumstances of sluggish growth and measured
inflation that is too low, I give greater weight to the risk of
further disinflation leading to deflation.”  Lockhart’s comments echoed the view of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last week said additional monetary stimulus may be
warranted because inflation is too slow and unemployment is too
high.  The Fed is considering the purchase of more Treasury
securities and efforts to boost inflation expectations to
stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment persisting near 10
percent, according to minutes of the Sept. 21 meeting of policy
makers released last week. The central bank was prepared to ease
monetary policy “before long,” the minutes said.  “I am leaning in favor of additional monetary stimulus
while acknowledging the longer-term risks the policy may
present,” Lockhart said. He also said he favors adopting a more
explicit inflation target as a way to reduce the deflation risk.  “The fact that growth is so sluggish and inflation so near
zero presents the possibility of a deflationary situation
developing, with very serious implications for employment,”
Lockhart said. “We want to avoid deflationary territory.”  ‘Feed on Itself’  “Deflation can feed on itself, turning into a deflationary
spiral,” he said. “This possibility is by no means my base
case expectation, but I don’t think it can be blithely
dismissed.”  Lockhart said in response to audience questions that he
would favor an inflation target ranging from 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  He repeated his view that the third quarter’s growth
measurement will be sluggish, similar to the second quarter,
with a pickup next year.  “My current forecast sees a modest increase in the rate of
growth in the fourth quarter and further, but still modest,
improvement in 2011,” he said. “In this forecast, inflation
remains low but with no further disinflation and unemployment
comes down very gradually.”  Economic growth decelerated to an annualized 1.7 percent
rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first quarter
and 5 percent in the last three months of 2009, according to the
Commerce Department.  ‘Somewhat Below’  The central bank after its Sept. 21 meeting said inflation
is “somewhat below” levels consistent with its congressional
mandate for stable prices. The Fed said it was “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  Inflation, measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index, minus food and energy, has been below
the Fed’s goal for five consecutive months. The price measure
rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ending August. Prices
excluding food and energy have gained at a 1 percent annual pace
in the three months through August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   Joshua Zumbrun  in Chapel Hill at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  