-- Oil Falls From Two-Week High as U.S. Production Drops, Stockpiles Increase
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-10-19T02:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/oil-retreats-from-two-week-high-on-u-s-factory-output-crude-stockpiles.html
Oil dropped from its highest in
almost two weeks after factory production in the U.S.
unexpectedly declined in September and analysts forecast the
nation’s crude stockpiles swelled to the largest since June.  Futures retraced some of yesterday’s 2.3 percent gain after
output at U.S. plants, mines and utilities fell 0.2 percent, the
first decrease since the recession ended in June 2009, according
to figures from the Federal Reserve. Crude inventories climbed
1.5 million barrels last week, according to the median of nine
analyst estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  “The fundamentals haven’t really improved by a great
deal,” said  Serene Lim , a commodity analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “Inventories have been
on the high range of the five year average so there is
substantial supplies.”  The November contract lost as much as 36 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $82.72 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $82.93 at 1:23 p.m. Sydney
time. Yesterday it increased $1.83 to $83.08, the highest
settlement since Oct. 6. Prices are up 4.5 percent this year.  The more-actively traded December contract slipped as much
as 43 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $83.37.  “We’re probably seeing a bit of profit-taking today with
$83 being a strong resistance level,” said Lim at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group.  Oil surged yesterday after a strike in France curbed fuel
supplies. French truckers blocked highways and officials said
they would use police to prevent strikers from cutting the
delivery of fuel as the standoff hardened over President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plans to raise the retirement age to 62.  Factory Output  September output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities
slipped 0.2 percent, the first decrease since the recession
ended in June 2009, according to figures from the Fed yesterday.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose in October to the
highest level in four months, a sign residential construction is
steadying near record lows, a report from the National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo also showed.  “The housing confidence numbers were certainly welcome,
but the industrial production read indicated renewed weakness in
manufacturing -- a sector critical to the early stages of
recovery,”  David Taylor , a market analyst at CMC Markets Ltd.
in Sydney, said in an e-mailed note today. “It’s clear from
this data set that the U.S. is still very much in need of a
walking frame, and that will no doubt come in the form of more
quantitative easing.”  Refineries  operated  at 81.9 percent of capacity in the week
ended Oct. 8, the lowest level since March, a report from the
Energy Department showed last week. Companies idle units for
maintenance in September and October as gasoline demand drops
and before heating-oil use increases.  Brent crude for December settlement fell as much as 58
cents, or 0.7 percent, to $83.79 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  “Crude oil shouldn’t be at this level,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in
Sydney. “Industrial production is not moving and this was
supposed to be a manufacturing-led recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  