-- Oil Industry Asks Judge Not to Scrap Drill Ban Suit After New Rules Set
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-18T20:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/oil-industry-asks-judge-not-to-scrap-drill-ban-suit-after-new-rules-set.html
U.S. regulators haven’t let deep-
water drilling resume in the Gulf of Mexico despite lifting a
moratorium last week, so an industry lawsuit should continue,
opponents of the ban said.  Lawyers for  Ensco Offshore Co. , which is suing to block a
federal ban on drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, told
U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans that
regulators replaced the ban on Oct. 12 with new rules that
continue to prevent rigs from returning to work.  “Defendants cannot show that their October decision memo
completely and irrevocably eradicated the effects” of the
drilling ban, Lawrence R. DeMarcay III, one of Ensco’s lawyers,
said in papers filed today in New Orleans federal court.
“Defendants, in fact, have not allowed any such activities to
resume, and they show no signs of doing so in the near future.”  The Obama Administration first banned deep-water drilling
in May, in reaction to the BP Plc oil spill caused by the
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig off the Louisiana coast.
Feldman threw out the original moratorium on June 22 as too
broad, after the oil industry and Gulf Coast business and
political leaders sued over claims the ban was improperly
imposed.  New Rules  U.S. regulators last week asked Feldman to throw out
Ensco’s lawsuit, which targets a second drilling moratorium
regulators implemented in July after their first policy was
overruled. The government argued that Ensco’s lawsuit is
irrelevant now that the second ban has been rescinded.  Ensco’s lawyers complain that Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar ’s new drilling rules continue the drilling ban by
requiring oil companies and drillers to pledge they’ll follow
new rules and pass inspections on criteria that haven’t been
fully spelled out yet.  “The pattern is both disturbing and familiar,” DeMarcay
said in the filing, citing the government’s withdrawal and
reimposition of drilling suspension rules after Feldman issued a
court order striking down the ban.  “They claimed to have withdrawn the allegedly improper
action,” he said, “but they continued to engage in the
offending conduct.”  Ensco said the industry’s uncertainty about how to comply
with the new rules, coupled with a requirement that all deep-
water wells must get new permits before drilling may resume, may
effectively extend the moratorium beyond its original Nov. 30
expiration date.  “The matter is with the court, so we have nothing to add
to our filing from last week,” Justice Department spokesman Wyn
Hornbuckle said in a telephone interview. Salazar’s spokeswoman
 Kendra Barkoff  didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request
for comment on the filing.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 