-- Oil Supplies to Rise on Refinery Slowdown, Survey Shows: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-19T19:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/oil-supplies-to-rise-on-refinery-slowdown-survey-shows-energy-markets.html
U.S. crude-oil  inventories  probably
rose to the highest level in more than three months as
refineries idled units to perform seasonal maintenance, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Stockpiles climbed 1.5 million barrels, or 0.4 percent, in
the seven days ended Oct. 15 from 360.5 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 15 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. That would leave supplies at the
most since the week ended June 25. Thirteen respondents forecast
a gain and two a decline.  The glut threatens to end a rally that’s pushed futures to
a five-month high of $84.43 a barrel in New York on Oct. 7. The
U.S. dollar tumbled to the lowest level since January against
the euro on Oct. 15, bolstering the appeal of commodities as an
alternative investment.  “Refineries don’t need the crude because they are using
less capacity,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy, a Stamford, Connecticut-based
procurement adviser. “This adds to the bearish fundamental
picture for oil and raises questions about the continued
strength of a rally that has had more to do with the weakness of
the dollar than with supply and demand.”  Crude oil for November delivery slid $3.59, or 4.3 percent,
to the settle at $79.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the biggest drop since Feb. 4. It closed at $83.08
yesterday, the highest level since Oct. 6.  Refinery Programs  Refineries  operated  at 81.9 percent of capacity in the week
ended Oct. 8, the lowest level since March, last week’s report
showed. Refinery runs, or the amount of crude oil input to
processing units,  dropped  1.6 percent to 13.9 million barrels a
day during the period, the lowest level since February.
Companies shut units for maintenance in autumn, when gasoline
use falls and winter heating-oil demand has yet to increase.  Exxon Mobil Corp . started planned work at its Baytown,
Texas, plant, which accounts for 27 percent of the company’s
U.S.  refining  capacity, on Aug. 25. The refinery can process
584,000 barrels of oil a day, the most in the U.S., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refineries probably operated  at 82.2 percent of capacity
last week, up 0.3 percentage point from the previous week,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  “The drop in crude demand looks like it’s coming to an
end,” said  Antoine Halff , head of energy research at Newedge
USA LLC in New York. “Refinery activity may have bottomed out,
or be close to doing so, but remains remarkably low.”  Gasoline Inventories  Gasoline stockpiles  slipped 1.5 million barrels, or 0.7
percent, from 218.2 million, the survey showed. The drop would
leave supplies at the lowest level since December. All of the
analysts projected a decline. Sixteen respondents gave product-
supply estimates.  Refiners  produced  8.73 million barrels of the motor fuel in
the week ended Oct. 8, the lowest level since February.
 Consumption  dropped 2 percent to 8.81 million barrels a day
during the period, also the least since February.  Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably declined 1 million barrels, or
0.6 percent, from 172.2 million, the survey showed. Thirteen
analysts anticipated a fall, one said there was a gain and two
forecast that supplies were unchanged.  Inventories  in the week
ended Aug. 20 were the most since 1983.  Falling fuel supplies aren’t “too much of a concern given
that inventories remain at exceptionally high levels and demand
remains subdued, so the safety cushion is as tall as the Empire
State Building,” Halff said.  Fuel Demand  Total fuel consumption  slipped 0.7 percent to 18.3 million
barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 8, the lowest level since
November.  U.S. stockpiles  of oil and fuel climbed 3.3 million barrels
to 1.14 billion in the week ended Sept. 17, the highest level
since at least 1990, when the Energy Department began to collect
weekly data.  Total fuel exports  have averaged a record 2.16 million
barrels a day since Sept. 10, according to the department.  Demand for U.S. fuel may climb as French truckers block
highways and officials said they will use police to prevent
strikers from cutting fuel supplies as the standoff hardens over
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plans to raise the retirement age to
62.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 