-- Mol's Slovnaft Unit May Invest Millions in Building Petrochemical Plant
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2010-10-18T13:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/mol-s-slovnaft-unit-may-invest-millions-in-building-petrochemical-plant.html
Slovnaft AS, the Slovak unit of
Hungarian refiner  Mol Nyrt. , may invest several hundred million
euros in building a new petrochemical plant for products with
higher added value.  A decision will be made by Mol executives in the coming
months,  Slovnaft  Chief Executive Office Oszkar Vilagi said in an
interview on Oct. 14. The upgrade will enable the refiner tap
new customers such as tire makers, he said.  “The strategy is to make further investment, which will
allow us to make products with higher margins,” Vilagi said in
an interview in Bratislava, Slovakia. “We will be better able
to cope with volatile external environment.”  Slovnaft, the third-biggest non-financial company, is
seeking to refocus on more “sophisticated” chemicals to make
it less dependent on fluctuations in the economy, whose recent
slowdown cut demand for fuel, he said. Petrochemicals such as
polyethylene accounted for about one-fifth of Slovnaft’s first-
half sales of 1.22 billion euros ($1.7 billion), with the rest
stemming from refinery products.  Over the past three years, Slovnaft has already spent 40
million euros to boost the capacity of its ethylene unit and
make production more energy efficient.  The net loss widened to 12 million euros in the first half
of the year from 5 million euros in the same period last year as
the refiner was hurt by lower demand for fuel and maintenance
works. In 2009, when the Slovak  economy  suffered its first-ever
contraction, the company posted a loss of 55.7 million euros,
compared with a 24.9 million-euro profit a year earlier.  Mol Loss  Budapest-based Mol, which owns 98 percent of Slovnaft and
also operates refineries in Croatia, Hungary and Italy,  reported 
a second-quarter loss of 43.2 billion forint ($217.3 million) as
weaker Hungarian currency boosted foreign-exchange losses and
the company was hurt by higher tax payments. The 2009 net income
fell to 115.8 billion forint from 141.4 billion forint a year
earlier.  The market conditions have improved in recent months and
Slovnaft lines are operating at full capacity, Vilagi said.  “If the trend will continue, we can hope to have a full-
year profit,” he said.  Mol  shares  were unchanged at 20,600 forint at 12:33 pm. The
stock has advanced 21 percent this year, compared with a 10
percent rise in Budapest benchmark  BUX  index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 