-- Old General Motors, Blockbuster, Schutt, Gems TV, Car Expenses: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-18T11:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/old-general-motors-blockbuster-schutt-gems-tv-car-expenses-bankruptcy.html
The creditors’ committee for old
 General Motors Corp.  will face off in bankruptcy court on Oct.
21 against the U.S. Treasury Department over the question of who
is entitled to the fruits of $1.5 billion in lawsuits that the
committee intends to bring.  Treasury doesn’t understand how there is any issue because,
in its view, the government is entitled to take everything in
the estate aside from stock in new GM in repayment of the loan
financing the Chapter 11 case.  The bankruptcy judge at the Oct. 21 hearing will also be
asked to approve the disclosure statement explaining old GM’s
Chapter 11 plan. Approval of the disclosure statement would
enable creditors to vote.  The government admits that lawsuit proceeds aren’t part of
its collateral. Treasury also admits that the loan was a so-
called non-recourse obligation where the government could only
have the loan repaid from collateral.  Still, the government argues that it retained a so-called
super-priority administrative claim that must be paid in full
before the Chapter 11 plan can be confirmed. Resolution of the
dispute may turn on whether the government’s super-priority
claim can be recovered from anything other than the collateral.  When the judge comes to consider approval of the disclosure
statement, the official committee representing asbestos
claimants argues that documents creating the asbestos trust must
be created before claimants vote. The asbestos committee also
says the disclosure statement doesn’t give enough information
allowing claimants to know how much they might eventually
receive.  Creditors of an old GM subsidiary named General Motors Nova
Scotia Finance Co. also find the disclosure statement inadequate
in describing how much they’re likely to recover and how. Old GM
guaranteed Nova Scotia’s notes. The objecting creditors include
Aurelius Capital Partners LP and Appaloosa Management LP.  The loan from the government stood at $1.2 billion at the
end of August. To repay the loan and fund the remainder of the
liquidation, old GM at the time had $964 million cash.  Old GM, now formally named Motors Liquidation Co., has been
saying that creditors will receive stock and warrants received
when the core business was sold to new GM. Old GM’s operating
reports have said that unsecured creditors won’t receive any of
the cash on hand. Old GM’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan was filed
in August. A trust for unsecured creditors would distribute the
stock and warrants in new GM. To read about the plan, click here
for the Sept. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The sale of the core business generated 10 percent of the
stock of the new GM plus warrants for 15 percent. The warrants
will have value if the new company is profitable enough to raise
the company’s value to specified levels. New GM, formally named
 General Motors Co. , is 60.8 percent owned by the U.S.
government.  Old GM began the largest manufacturing reorganization in
history by filing under Chapter 11 on June 1, 2009. The sale was
completed on July 10, 2009. GM listed assets of $82.3 billion
against debt totaling $172.8 billion.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Blockbuster Sees Landlord and U.S. Trustee Opposition  Blockbuster Inc.  will face opposition from the U.S. Trustee
and landlords to some of the matters scheduled for hearing
tomorrow in Manhattan bankruptcy court.  Without saying which locations will close, Blockbuster will
look for approval of procedures for shuttering stores and
rejecting leases. Landlords are objecting, saying termination of
the leases shouldn’t be effective until Blockbuster has vacated
and surrendered possession.  Postponing the effective date for the termination or
rejection of the lease is important because landlords are
entitled to full payment of rent for the period of time the
store is occupied after the Chapter 11 filing.  The U.S. Trustee is objecting to some of the terms for
retaining Rothschild Inc. as Blockbuster’s financial adviser and
investment banker.  The bankruptcy arm of the U.S. Justice Department says that
Rothschild can’t be paid for work by its attorneys unless the
attorneys are retained with approval from the bankruptcy court.
The U.S. Trustee also argues that Rothschild affiliates not
being retained for Blockbuster aren’t entitled to
indemnification if they’re sued.  Prior to the Sept. 23 Chapter 11 filing, Blockbuster
negotiated a reorganization plan with holders of 80 percent of
the senior notes. The plan would give the new stock to holders
of the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured notes.
General unsecured creditors would have warrants for 3 percent of
the stock. Holders of the $300 million in 9 percent subordinated
notes wouldn’t receive anything.  Blockbuster has a deadline of Jan. 15 for securing approval
of a disclosure statement explaining the plan. March 15 is the
deadline for approval of the plan. The deadlines are contained
in an agreement providing financing for the Chapter 11 case. The
plan hasn’t been filed yet.  Dallas-based Blockbuster has 5,600 stores, including 3,300
in the U.S. and the remainder abroad. Among the U.S. stores,
3,000 are owned and the remainder are franchised.  The petition listed assets of $1.017 billion against debt
of $1.465 billion. Blockbuster estimated it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster Inc., 10-14997, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Helmet Maker Schutt Asks $2 Million Bonuses for Execs  Schutt Sports Inc., a football-helmet manufacturer that was
forced into Chapter 11 after being hit with a $29 million
patent-infringement judgment, is asking the bankruptcy court to
reward management by establishing a bonus program that could pay
as much as $2 million.  Riddell Inc., the competitor that won the patent judgment,
responded to a motion Schutt made asking the bankruptcy judge in
Delaware to hold it in contempt of the automatic stay for
sending messages to Schutt customers saying the company was in
bankruptcy and might go out of business.  New York-based Riddell opposed the motion on two grounds.
For starters, Riddell said the communications weren’t contempt
of the stay because they didn’t amount to an effort to collect
the $29 million judgment.  Referring to the right of free speech, Riddell cited cases
saying that communications are protected by the First Amendment
to the U.S. Constitution so long as there is no intent to coerce
payment of a claim. Riddell said speech is protected even if it
has an “actual adverse effect on someone’s business.”  The hearing on the contempt motion will be held Oct. 21.  The proposed incentive bonuses for management would pay a
minimum of $842,000, assuming the lowest targets are met. The
award would go as high as $2 million. The publicly filed papers
don’t disclose the targets to which the bonuses are tied.  Schutt wants the bankruptcy court to consider the bonus
program at the Oct. 21 hearing.  Schutt, based in Litchfield, Illinois, said in the Chapter
11 petition on Sept. 6 that assets and debt both exceed $50
million.  The case is In re Schutt Sports Inc., 10-12795, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Gems TV Confirms Liquidating Chapter 11 Plan  Gems TV (USA) Ltd. , once a television retailer of gemstone
jewelry products, won approval of the liquidating Chapter 11
plan when the bankruptcy judge signed a confirmation order on
Oct. 13.  Unsecured creditors with $28 million in claims were told in
the disclosure statement to expect a recovery between 95 percent
and 100 percent. Holders of $93 million in subordinated notes
are expected to have a 2.1 percent recovery.  The ability to pay creditors nearly in full came from a
settlement where DIRECTV Inc. waived its claims.  There are no remaining secured claims.  Reno, Nevada-based Gems TV shut down the business before
filing under Chapter 11 in April. The petition said assets are
less than $50 million with debt exceeding $100 million.  The case is In re Gems TV (USA) Ltd., 10-11158, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Chem Rx Set for Auction Oct. 29; PharMerica Seeks to Buy  PharMerica Corp.  said that the deadline passed for
antitrust regulators to object to its acquisition of  Chem Rx
Corp. , the third-largest provider of institutional pharmacy
services in the U.S.  Chem Rx filed under Chapter 11 in May. To complete the
purchase, PharMerica must win the auction and get approval from
the bankruptcy court. Under court-approved procedures, other
bids are due Oct. 27, followed by an Oct. 29 auction and a Nov.
2 hearing for approval of the sale.  Unless the price increases at auction, PharMerica will
purchase the Chem Rx business for $70.6 million plus the
assumption of specified liabilities. PharMerica, the so-called
stalking horse for the auction, operates 90 institutional
pharmacies in 41 states.  Chem Rx filed under Chapter 11 in May after first-lien
lenders owed $103 million moved to seize the Long Beach, New
York-based company’s income.  The first-lien debt had been in default since early 2009.
Other liabilities include $37 million owing on a second lien and
$8.3 million in subordinated debt owing to affiliates of
insiders. CIBC World Markets Corp. is agent for the lenders on
the first- and second-lien loans. The petition listed assets of
$170 million against debt totaling $178 million.  The case is In re Chem Rx Corp., 10-11567, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Silent Second Liens, Bear Island Sale, Troubled Resorts: Audio  Another important opinion from  Shelley Chapman , New York’s
newest bankruptcy judge, the winning bidder for Bear Island
Paper Co., bankrupt resorts Daufuskie Island Resort & Breathe
Spa and  Tamarack Resort LLC , an objection to  Workflow Management
Inc.  lawyer, the sale of trademarks owned by  Movie Gallery Inc. ,
and a U.S. bankruptcy by a former chief executive of an Irish
bank are analyzed in the new bankruptcy podcasts on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here
and here.  Statistics  Claim Trading Shrinks as Lehman Case Enters Third Year  The trading of claims against bankrupt companies continues
to decline with  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in Chapter 11 more
than two years.  The 785 transfers reported to the country’s bankruptcy
courts in September were the second-fewest in the past 12
months. Only August had fewer, according to data compiled from
court records by SecondMarket Inc.  The $2.4 billion in face amount of traded claims was the
second-fewest in the past seven months, SecondMarket said in its
report released today.  Lehman  and its brokerage subsidiary Lehman Brothers Inc.
led the pack with $2.03 billion in reported claims.
 Fontainebleau Las Vegas LLC , the owner until recently of an
uncompleted 63-story hotel and casino on the north end of the
Las Vegas Strip, was in second place with 52 transfers totaling
$140.9 million.  Baird CDS Index Flashing Fewer Upcoming Defaults  The risk of corporate bankruptcies may be stabilizing,
according to the credit-default swap index maintained by asset
manager Robert W. Baird & Co.  The Baird index at the end of September was near the mean
and median over the past year. The predicted default rate still
remains at “historically high levels,” Milwaukee-based Baird
said.  Baird’s CDS index in September was six times higher than it
was in January 2006. The Baird report pointed out how 78 public
companies filed in Chapter 11 during the first nine months of
2010, compared with 166 in the same period of 2009.  Bank Failures  Three Bank Failures Bring Year’s to Total to 132  Three bank failures in Missouri and Kansas on Oct. 15
brought the year’s total to 132.  The new failures together cost the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. about $507.8 million.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  There were 140 bank failures last year, five times more
than 2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when
179 institutions were taken over by regulators.  Advance Sheets  Court Says IRS Was ‘Mere Conduit’ on Tax Refund  Chief U.S. District Judge  Robert Bell  from Grand Rapids,
Michigan, wrote an opinion on Oct. 14 that’s a prime example for
how hard cases make bad law. Bell created a novel rule of law to
prevent what seemed like an unjust result for the Internal
Revenue Service in a fraudulent transfer suit.  The opinion expands the notion of what’s a “mere conduit”
in fraudulent transfer cases.  The case involved a subchapter S corporation where the
company itself doesn’t pay taxes. The owners pay taxes resulting
from the company’s income.  One of the owners caused the company to send the IRS an
$82,700 check for credit toward taxes owing by the owner. Later,
the company filed an amended tax return. As a result of the
amended return, the IRS sent the owner a refund of about
$74,500.  After the company went bankrupt, the bankruptcy judge ruled
in favor of the bankruptcy trustee and ordered the IRS to return
the $82,700 as a fraudulent transfer, on the theory that the
company itself had no liability for federal taxes.  On appeal, the IRS raised two defenses. It lost on the
first.  The IRS first argued that it wasn’t the immediate
transferee even though the check came directly from the company.
Bell said it wasn’t proper to recharacterize the transaction as
one where the owner first sent the money to the company which in
turn made payment to the IRS.  Whether the IRS was the immediate transferee is important
because bankruptcy law doesn’t allow an immediate transferee to
raise a good faith defense.  The IRS won on a second theory, however.  Bell looked at the IRS Code and concluded that the IRS was
obligated by statute to make the refund to the owner.
Consequently, Bell ruled that the IRS was a “mere conduit” of
the fraudulent transfer, to the extent of the refund.  The questionable part of Bell’s opinion comes near the end
where he says, without citation of cases, that the obligation to
pay the refund means that the “IRS never had dominion and
control over the overpayment.”  The case is United States v. Moyer (In re Regency
International Flooring LLC), 09-1146, U.S. District Court,
Western District Michigan (Grand Rapids).  Car for Commuting Is Not Exempt Tool of the Trade  An automobile used primarily for commuting to work cannot
be exempted as a tool of the trade, in the view of U.S. District
Judge  Michael McCuskey  in Urbana, Illinois.  The Oct. 14 opinion by McCuskey said that the car didn’t
qualify for exemption as a tool of the trade because it was used
primarily for transportation to and from work and was “not
specially equipped.”  The case is American General Financial Services of Illinois
Inc. v. Robinson (In re Robinson), 10-2121, U.S. District Court,
Central District Illinois (Urbana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 