-- U.S. Homebuilder Confidence Rose to Four-Month High
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-18T14:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-increased-to-a-four-month-high-in-october.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
rose in October to the highest level in four months, a sign
residential construction is stabilizing at depressed levels.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  increased to 16, exceeding the most optimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from 13 the prior month,
data from the Washington-based group showed today. The gauge was
projected to rise to 14, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey.  Housing construction will be slow to recover after the end
of a home buyers’ tax credit and as foreclosures flood the
market with cheaper homes.  Unemployment  near a 26-year high of
10.1 percent is making it difficult for Americans to take
advantage of the lowest mortgage rates on record.  “It is encouraging to see a little more optimism on the
housing side, which might mean the sector is starting to
stabilize,” said  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ Economics
LLC in New York.  Index readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 47
economists ranged from 12 to 15. The measure reached a record
low of 8 in January of last year and averaged 54 in the five
years before the recession began in December 2007.  Stocks Rise  Stocks and Treasury securities maintained gains after the
report. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,179.17 at 10:31 a.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 2.52 percent from 2.56 percent on Oct. 15.
The S&P Supercomposite  Homebuilders Index  declined 0.3 percent.  The builders group’s index of  current single-family  home
sales increased in October to 16 from 13, and the measure of
sales expectations for the next six months rose to 23 from 18.
The gauge of buyer traffic increased to 11 from 9.  The measure of builder confidence rose in all four U.S.
regions.  “Builders are starting to see some flickers of interest
among potential buyers, and are hopeful that this interest will
translate to more sales in the coming months,” NAHB Chairman
Bob Jones, a homebuilder from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, said
in a statement.  With foreclosures reaching a record in September, U.S.
regulators last week said they were investigating whether
employees of lenders including Ally Financial Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  Bank of America Corp.  had falsified documents
used in foreclosure proceedings.  Foreclosures Suspended  Ally Financial and Bank of America are among banks that
have suspended some foreclosures or evictions to review
paperwork, which may further delay a recovery in housing as it
takes longer to clear inventory.  Work began on 580,000 homes at an annual pace in September,
down from 598,000 in August, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed before a Commerce Department report
tomorrow.  Housing starts  plunged to a record-low 477,000 pace in
April 2009 after reaching a three-decade high of 2.27 million in
January 2006. They rose to a 685,000 level in April this year,
thanks to the $8,000 tax credit that expired that month.  Miami-based  Lennar Corp . is among companies finding other
ways to boost earnings as sales languish. The fourth-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue bought about $740 million of
distressed loans and real estate from three financial
institutions to boost earnings, the Miami-based company said
Oct. 1 in a statement.  The newly purchased loans and properties represent “an
excellent investment opportunity for our shareholders,” Lennar
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said in the statement. The
package includes about 397 loans and 306 properties in 17
states, primarily in the mid-Atlantic and Southeast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 