-- Money Flooding Asia Poses `Instability' Threat, IMF Head Says in Shanghai
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-18T12:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/money-flooding-asia-poses-instability-threat-imf-head-says-in-shanghai.html
Capital flooding into Asia could
lead to excessive exchange-rate moves, asset bubbles and
financial instability,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the head of the
International Monetary Fund, said in Shanghai today.  Some flows “can clearly be destabilizing,” Strauss-Kahn
said in a speech distributed at a briefing after a conference
sponsored by the IMF and co-hosted by the Chinese central bank.  Emerging economies have complained about near-zero interest
rates in the U.S. leading to capital flooding their markets,
while U.S. and European policy makers have criticized Asian
governments for holding their currencies down to aid exports.
Strauss-Kahn didn’t refer to the yuan today, while  John Lipsky ,
the IMF’s No. 2 official, welcomed China’s decision in June to
allow more currency flexibility.  U.S. Federal Reserve Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
Oct. 15 that additional monetary stimulus may be warranted to
boost the world’s biggest economy. That fueled speculation the
Fed will embark on more easing next month, even as officials
including Brazil’s central bank President  Henrique Meirelles 
criticize low U.S. rates for triggering money inflows.  While the extra money can boost investment and growth, some
flows can lead to “exchange-rate overshooting, credit booms,
asset-price bubbles, and financial instability,” Strauss-Kahn
said, advocating regional financial cooperation and efforts to
strengthen a global safety net.  Gradual Yuan Reform  Yi Gang , a deputy governor at the  People’s Bank of China ,
said China’s yuan reform must be a gradual process, adding that
increased flexibility will aid monetary policy and help to
contain inflation. He also commented at the briefing in Shanghai.  China will report Oct. 21 that  consumer prices  climbed 3.6
percent in September from a year earlier, the fastest pace in 23
months, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  China has allowed yuan appreciation to gather pace in the
past month, spurred by U.S. and European officials’ criticism of
its exchange-rate policy. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  on Oct. 15 delayed a report on international currencies,
including China’s, while citing progress in the acceleration of
the yuan’s rise.  Since a two-year dollar peg was scrapped on June 19, the
currency has gained 2.7 percent, most of which occurred in the
period since Sept. 8.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last month
that a worldwide currency war is under way as nations try to
shield their economies and give exporters an edge. Lipsky
rejected that assessment today, saying “there is no currency
war.”  Lipsky said there’s no clarity yet on whether the Fed will
enact more quantitative easing, saying officials seemed to be
waiting for more data.  -- Luo Jun ,  Judy Chen , with assistance from  Chinmei Sung .
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Cherian Thomas .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 