-- Hong Kong Used Home Deals Defy Government Measures
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2010-10-18T02:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/hong-kong-weekend-home-sales-jump-90-even-as-tsang-moves-to-curb-prices.html
The number of used home sales in
some of Hong Kong’s biggest private housing estates jumped 90
percent over the weekend, defying government measures to curb
prices that have surged almost 50 percent since early last year.  There were 116 deals recorded on Oct. 16 and 17 at projects
including Tai Koo Shing in the Island East district and Mei Foo
Sun Chuen in Kowloon,  Centaline Property Agency Ltd. , the city’s
biggest privately held real estate broker, said in a press
release yesterday. The increase was from the previous weekend.  The government will stop offering residency to foreigners
who buy properties in the city and will begin a rent-to-buy
program for first-time buyers, Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said
in his annual policy address Oct. 13. The latest curbs follow a
series of measures announced this year to rein in home prices
that have surged on the back of record-low mortgage rates and an
influx of mainland Chinese buyers.  “The market appears to have digested the new set of
measures,” said  Lee Wee Liat , Hong Kong-based analyst at
Samsung Securities Ltd. “If prices go crazy again there may be
further tightening measures. But at this point we don’t think
this is likely.”  Lee forecasts home price growth to “moderate” to about 15
percent over the next 12 months.  A housing bubble poses the biggest threat to financial
stability in Asia, Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive
Norman Chan said in a transcript of a speech to be given in
Shanghai today.  Concerns Soothed  The Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers, was little changed at 10:06 a.m. local time.
The gauge is up 14 percent this year. It fell as much as 3.4
percent immediately after Tsang announced the new measures Oct.
13 before recovering to end the day higher.  The policy address “has calmed buyers’ worries that we’re
heading for a major home price correction,” said  Louis Chan ,
managing director for residential properties at Centaline. “A
weak Hong Kong dollar also helps as people want to use property
investment to hedge against inflation.”  The government will temporarily remove real estate from its
Capital Investment Entrant Scheme, which was set up to encourage
foreigners to invest to gain residency, Tsang said Oct. 13.  The government will continue to boost land supply and
expects 61,000 new units to come onto the market in the next
three to four years, Tsang said. In the past 10 years, an
average 18,500 new units were sold annually, he said.  The government on Aug. 13 raised down-payment ratios and
said it will sell more land for development amid concerns
housing is becoming unaffordable. The HKMA, the city’s de facto
central bank, is also asking the city’s lenders to apply stress
tests on mortgage rates rising 2 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  