-- Plunder Database Lists 20,000 Art Objects Stolen From France
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-10-18T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/looted-art-database-lists-20-000-art-objects-stolen-by-nazis-from-france.html
More than 20,000 art objects seized
by the Nazis from Jewish collectors and institutions in France
are now searchable online in a database that the creators hope
will ease the path for families seeking stolen heirlooms.  About half of the listed art works haven’t yet been
returned to the original owners or their heirs, according to the
 Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany , which
together with the United States Holocaust Museum is the
organizer of the project. As an example, a search on Rembrandt
revealed that 10 works still hadn’t been restituted.  The database provides access to the Nazis’ detailed records
and photographs of the objects plundered in occupied France by
the Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg (E.R.R.), a task force
authorized by  Adolf Hitler  to loot art across Europe. The E.R.R.
set up in France soon after the invasion and sorted its booty at
the Jeu de Paume in Paris, from where it shipped the best to
Germany and sold less highly esteemed works.  “Families robbed of their prized art works can now search
this list to help them locate long-lost treasures,” Julius
Berman, the chairman of the Claims Conference, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Organizing Nazi art-looting records is an
important step in righting a historical wrong.”  The Claims Conference urged museums and dealers to use the
database to check their holdings for unreturned looted objects.
Users can search for items by artist, owner, inventory number
and medium, or they can browse through the 260 collections,
mostly belonging to Jewish families.  Vermeer, da Vinci  Items range from abstract art to 18th-century furniture,
from medieval crucifixes to African masks. Works by  Pablo Picasso ,  Leonardo da Vinci ,  Vincent van Gogh ,  Lucas Cranach  and
 Johannes Vermeer  are among those seized.  “There is a story, a complex human drama behind all the
names in this database,” said Project Director Marc Masurovsky,
a consultant to the  Holocaust Memorial Museum .  “It can benefit the art world, and also gives insight into
the aesthetics and tastes of the time,” he said. “I hope it
will demystify the issue of looting and give as accurate an
account as possible of the journey these works took.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 