-- Morgan Stanley May Lease Old Goldman Sachs Building
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-10-18T20:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/morgan-stanley-said-to-weigh-renting-goldman-s-old-manhattan-headquarters.html
Morgan Stanley may be the next
tenant at the former home of rival  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   Morgan Stanley  is searching for about 1 million square feet
(93,000 square meters) of offices in lower Manhattan and is
considering 1 New York Plaza, where it already rents, and
Goldman Sachs’s former headquarters at 85 Broad St., three
people with knowledge of the discussions said. The bank also is
looking at other properties as it seeks to consolidate some of
its downtown operations, said one of the people, who asked not
to be named because the talks are private.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, moved its headquarters to a new 43-story skyscraper at
200 West St. this year after almost three decades at  85 Broad
St. , a 1.2 million square-foot tower it built for itself in the
early 1980s. Bank of America Corp. and Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. have also considered leasing at 85 Broad, one person said.  “How can you not?” said  Robert Sammons , director of
research in the New York office of Cassidy Turley, a brokerage
that isn’t involved in the tower’s leasing. “It’s got all the
bells and whistles that they would need. All that extra power
they would need is already there, and ready to rock and roll.”  Morgan Stanley, based in Midtown, is seeking space in lower
Manhattan as vacancies in the area climb, in part because of
moves by Goldman Sachs and insurer American International Group
Inc. The downtown  office vacancy  rate jumped to a six-year high
of 12.1 percent in the third quarter from 9.9 percent a year
earlier, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc. Another 4.4
million square feet becomes available at the World Trade Center
in 2013, and 4.6 million square feet of Bank of America leases
expire that year at the World Financial Center.  Leasing Terms  Morgan Stanley has exchanged potential leasing terms with
representatives of MetLife Inc., which owns 85 Broad St., and
has done test layouts to examine how its operations would fit
into the building, two people briefed on the negotiations said.  Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to comment,
as did  James Kuhn , president of Newmark Knight Frank, the broker
representing the bank. T.J. Crawford, a spokesman for Bank of
America, and  Jeep Bryant , a representative for BNY Mellon, also
declined to comment.  Peter Riguardi , MetLife’s broker for 85 Broad, and
president of New York operations for Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.,
didn’t return phone calls.  “We have had strong interest in the property and we
continue to have strong interest, but we have nothing to report
at this time,” said  John Calagna , a MetLife spokesman.  1 New York  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, is a
long way from deciding where to house its downtown operations,
the people said. The company has also looked at potential
layouts at 1 New York Plaza, where it rents about 750,000 square
feet, two people said.  Goldman is leaving behind about 550,000 square feet at 1
New York as it moves to its new headquarters, according to data
from CoStar Group Inc., a Bethesda, Maryland-based real estate
information service.  Brookfield Office Properties  is the majority owner of 1 New
York Plaza and the World Financial Center.  Melissa Coley , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based company, declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley’s new downtown space wouldn’t replace its
headquarters at 1585 Broadway. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, the
brokerage joint venture in which Morgan Stanley owns a
controlling stake, is based in Purchase, New York.  Falling Rents  Lower Manhattan office rents declined to $39.08 a square
foot from $42.01 in the third quarter of 2009, said Cushman, the
biggest closely held commercial property broker. Downtown is
offering “some really good values,” said  Joseph Harbert , the
brokerage’s chief operating officer for its New York region.  Manhattan brokers are anticipating “several large
financial sector leasing relocations in the fourth quarter,”
Sheldon Cohen, head of downtown operations for Cushman rival CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc., said last week.  Manhattan’s overall office vacancy rate was 10.9 percent in
the third quarter, compared with 11.1 percent a year earlier and
10.8 percent in the previous three months, according to Cushman.
Rents fell for the eighth straight quarter to $53.80 a square
foot from $57.08 a year earlier.  Morgan Stanley had been the largest tenant in the World
Trade Center’s twin towers when they were destroyed in 2001.
Following the attack, it bought the former Texaco Inc.
headquarters in Purchase, and moved about 1,500 employees there.
It returned to lower Manhattan in 2005, leasing five and a half
floors at 1 New York Plaza.  Morgan Stanley rose 38 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $25.40 as
of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has lost 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  