-- Morgan Stanley Reduces Weighting in Emerging-Market Equities After Rally
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-18T01:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/morgan-stanley-reduces-weighting-on-emerging-markets-after-equities-surged.html
Investors should start to “scale
back” their holdings of  emerging-market stocks  after a rally
lifted valuations and as economic data points to a rising risk
of a return to recession, Morgan Stanley said.  The brokerage lowered its recommended “overweight” in
developing-nation stocks to 4 percent from 6 percent and added
to holdings of cash,  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report today.
Still, investors should reduce their holdings “gradually,
rather than precipitately,” in part because of the outlook for
liquidity and earnings, he said.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has surged more than 30
percent since the strategist raised the weighting of emerging-
market equities in May, then his first asset allocation change
since June 2009. Technical indicators including the number of
stocks near their 52-week high and the MSCI index’s annual
 volatility  level have deteriorated, he wrote.  “We are starting to dial back the major overweight we have
had in place on Asia and emerging-market equities since our May
26 upgrade,” Garner wrote.  He has a yearend target of 1,200 for MSCI’s gauge of 21
developing nations, which retreated 0.4 percent to 1,117.35 as
of 9:29 a.m. in Singapore. Garner’s forecast for the  MSCI Asia-
Pacific excluding Japan Index  is 486. The measure slid 0.5
percent to 463.67 in recent trading.  The rally in emerging markets means that  valuations  are now
back to “long-run average levels” on metrics such as the 12-
month price-to-estimated earnings ratio and are slightly above
average levels based on companies’ historical book value,
according to Garner.  Technical Indicators  Developing-nation equities have also attracted 20 straight
weeks of inflows amounting to about $47 billion, with strong
fund flows having previously served as a “useful contrarian
indicator,” the brokerage said.  While recent economic data suggests an increasing risk of a
so-called double dip, Morgan Stanley continues to forecast
“robust” global growth next year with inflation likely to
remain “contained,” according to the report.  Indications from the U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of
Japan that further measures to support the economic recovery are
in store also suggests that equity valuations may “overshoot”
their average levels over the long run, the strategist said.  “We are starting to walk to the door rather than
running,” Garner said. “We recommend focusing on quality and
dividends as themes.”  Cut Beta  The brokerage reduced so-called beta, a measure of risk, by
removing  Belle International Holdings Ltd. , China’s largest
retailer of women’s shoes, and Centennial Coal Co., an
Australian producer of thermal and coking coal, from its Asia-
Pacific portfolio. It added CFS Retail Property Trust, a Sydney-
based real-estate trust, and  KT&G Corp. , South Korea’s biggest
tobacco company.  Within global emerging markets, Morgan Stanley removed  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems , Russia’s largest mobile-phone company, and
 Etihad Etisalat Co. , Saudi Arabia’s second-largest mobile-phone
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  