-- Mortgage Buybacks May Cost Lenders as Much as $120 Billion, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-18T16:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/mortgage-buybacks-may-cost-lenders-as-much-as-120-billion-jpmorgan-says.html
Forced repurchases of soured U.S.
 mortgages  may be the “biggest issue facing banks” even as
errors in the foreclosure process draw attention to other
industry risks, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Future losses from repurchases of home loans whose quality
failed to meet sellers’ promises will likely total $55 billion
to $120 billion, or potentially $10 billion to $25 billion for
the next five years, the New York-based mortgage-bond analysts
led by  John Sim  and  Ed Reardon  wrote in a Oct. 15 report.  While a “firestorm of news” sparked by some loan
servicers’ decisions to halt action on defaulted loans is
drawing renewed attention to banks’ mortgage-repurchase risks,
the foreclosure issues themselves are mostly “process-oriented
problems that can be fixed,” the analysts wrote.  “Putback risk may be the biggest issue facing banks,” the
analysts wrote, referring to items such as faulty appraisals
that can be used to force lenders to repurchase mortgages under
sales contracts. The analysts declined to comment beyond the
report.  Speculation over mortgage issues helped drive down bank
stocks last week after attorneys general from all 50 states said
they had jointly opened an investigation into whether lenders
and mortgage companies falsified documents in foreclosure
proceedings. Home-loan servicers including  Ally Financial Inc., 
Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan, which manage outstanding
mortgages, had earlier suspended some foreclosures or evictions
while they review paperwork.  Forced Repurchases  JPMorgan analysts said mortgage repurchase costs stem from
$2 trillion of loans that have defaulted or are likely to go
bad, among the $6 trillion of U.S. mortgages and home-equity
debt originated from 2005 through 2007. The defaults will create
about $1.1 trillion of losses for banks, government-supported
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, bond investors and insurers.  Losses from forced repurchases may total $23 billion to $35
billion for loans sold to or insured by government-backed
companies; $40 billion to $80 billion for so-called non-agency
mortgages that aren’t backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or other
government agencies, and $20 billion to $31 billion for home-
equity loans, they said. Banks have already realized or reserved
for a portion of the losses, the analysts wrote.  Investors in non-agency debt may only recoup 5 percent of
losses in part because of difficulties convincing bond trustees
to ask banks to repurchase bad loans and the necessity of
proving misstatements under the securities contracts are
material, they said. For agency mortgages, the figure will be 10
percent, they said.  Mayo, Ramsden Estimates  Compass Point Research and Trading LLC’s  Chris Gamaitoni 
estimated in August that lenders may suffer as much as $179.2
billion in losses tied to soured mortgages they will be forced
to repurchase from mortgage-bond insurers and investors. Earlier
this year he predicted $28 billion for agency loans.  Last week,  Mike Mayo , an analyst at Credit Agricole
Securities USA in New York, estimated a cost of $20 billion for
repurchases when including government-supported Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Richard Ramsden  said a
worst-case scenario would be $84 billion, while  Paul Miller , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia, said it
could cost the banks as much as $91 billion.  With foreclosure documents, some items are easy to resolve
or don’t need fixing, the JPMorgan analysts wrote.  Mortgage bonds qualify as so-called real-estate mortgage
investment trusts for tax purposes even when the debt is
transferred to the securities with its endorsements left blank,
they said.  Servicers are able to work around legal challenges related
to the  Mortgage Electronic Registration System  by taking loans
out of the system and putting it into their name or that of the
debt’s owner before pursuing a foreclosure, they said.  Foreclosure delays created by the issues will damage
senior-ranked non-agency mortgage securities, costing as much as
4 cents on the dollar for certain bonds if postponements take
six months, according to the analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 