-- Mortgage Securities Show U.S. Foreclosure Crisis Overblown: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-19T16:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/mortgage-securities-show-u-s-foreclosure-crisis-overblown-credit-markets.html
The mortgage-bond market shows
investors are shrugging off speculation the U.S. is in the
throes of a foreclosure-document crisis.  Bonds tied to home loans on which borrowers often failed to
document their incomes or on properties they didn’t plan to live
in were up 1 cent at 64 cents on the dollar at the end of last
week from a month earlier, according to Barclays Capital. The
most-senior securities backed by so-called Alt-A  mortgages  with
a few years of fixed rates have climbed 31 cents from a record
low last March.  Federal officials including Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  say delays in foreclosures, as attorneys general in 50
states investigate allegations of falsified documents, won’t
lead to a moratorium on property seizures. Lenders eventually
will be able to  take back  houses in almost all cases because
homeowners have missed payments and the records aren’t that
seriously flawed, according to TCW Group Inc.’s  Bryan Whalen .  “Maybe it’s going to take a few extra months to shore up
the paperwork, but let’s not take our eyes off the reality of
the situation,” said Whalen, co-head of the mortgage-backed
bond group at Los Angeles-based TCW, which oversees $115 billion
in assets. “These aren’t people, by and large, who deserve to
be in their homes.”  Prices are little changed across the $1.4 trillion market
for so-called non-agency mortgage securities, which lack
government backing and also include bonds tied to subprime
loans, option adjustable-rate mortgages and jumbo debt, even
after servicers including Ally Financial Inc. and Bank of
America Corp. halted foreclosures or evictions.  Seized Properties  Expectations that delays in foreclosures will be limited
are helping to support prices for the securities, TCW’s Whalen
said. About 26 percent of the loans underlying the securities
are at least 60 days late, in foreclosure proceedings or already
backed by seized properties, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt was unchanged at 168 basis points, or 1.68
percentage points, down 13 basis points since Aug. 31, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
Index. Yields averaged 3.41 percent, down from 3.43 percent at
the end of last week.  PepsiCo Inc. , the world’s largest snack-food maker, may
sell debt in a three-part benchmark offering, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. The sale may include 3-,
10- and 30-year bonds and occur as soon as today, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Benchmark sales are typically at least $500 million.  Markit CDX Index  An indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S. climbed
for the fourth time in six days. Credit-default swaps on the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.81 basis point to a mid-price of
97.67 basis points as of 12 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, touched the lowest in
more than five months Oct. 13 at 95.5 basis points. In London,
the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings fell 1.16 to 101.21.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Mortgage-Bond Losses  Losses for mortgage-bond holders typically increase from
when homeowners stop making monthly payments to when the debt is
liquidated, such as through sales of seized properties.  The longer the process takes, the higher the bill for
property taxes, insurance and maintenance. Extended timelines
also increase the amount that loan servicers advance to cover
borrowers’ missed principal and interest payments, benefiting
junior-ranked securities that might otherwise go unpaid and
later hurting investors in senior bonds.  Estimates for the harm to the value of senior bonds include
a reduction of 1 cent on the dollar for an Alt-A bond for three
months of delays to foreclosures, according to Whalen. In an
Oct. 15 report, JPMorgan analysts estimated a drop of 4 cents
for a note with a six-month extension.  Bondholders were already bracing for longer timelines as
foreclosures overwhelmed servicers and the government pushed for
borrowers to get reworked debt, according to Seer Capital
Management LP Chief Executive Officer  Philip Weingord , whose
hedge-fund firm oversees about $300 million.  “So I’m not going to assume it takes three years but
instead three years and four months? It’s not going to change
things much,” Weingord, the former head of global markets in
the Americas for Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Sept. 30 interview
in New York.  Dealer Auctions  Dealer auctions of non-agency mortgage securities on behalf
of investors reached about $6 billion during each of the past
two weeks, double the pace from the preceding few weeks, Bank of
America analysts wrote in an Oct. 17 report.  As investors sought to sell, senior securities backed by
option ARMs, whose minimum payments result in growing loan
balances, were unchanged over the past month at 59 cents on the
dollar, compared with a record low of 33 cents in March 2009.
Bonds backed by fixed-rate jumbo mortgages, or larger than
government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can finance,
were unchanged at 89 cents, up from 63 cents in March 2009.  ‘Very Damaging’  Geithner said in an Oct. 12 interview on “ Charlie Rose ”
that the Obama administration wasn’t prepared to call for a
nationwide moratorium on foreclosures because it would be “very
damaging” to U.S. homeowners and the real-estate market.  The Association of Mortgage Investors, a Washington-based
trade group, on Oct. 1 said home-loan securities trustees should
try to ensure that loan servicers, not bondholders, bear the
damage of the servicers’ inappropriate policies. Ally and
JPMorgan said their employees may have completed affidavits
without confirming their accuracy.  Because “bond prospectuses list an extended foreclosure if
some of the documents are missing as a potential risk,”
investors may not be able to force loans to be repurchased by
lenders or bond creators “if the trust can eventually
foreclose,” Barclays Capital analysts said in an Oct. 15
report.  Missing Documents  In the “less likely” situation where foreclosure can’t be
completed because of missing documents, investors may be able to
force repurchases, even though in some cases the responsible
lenders may be out of business, particularly with subprime debt,
analysts  Sandeep Bordia ,  Jasraj Vaidya  and  Sandipan Deb  wrote.  Bondholders aren’t worried about the validity of the
Mortgage Electronic Registration System, or MERS, which is used
to track the ownership of home loans, because it’s withstood
court challenges, TCW’s Whalen said.  It’s unlikely a large number of mortgage notes are
completely missing and nonsense to worry that loans weren’t
properly transferred to mortgage-bond trusts because of blank
endorsements, potentially invalidating tax benefits, said  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the  American Securitization
Forum , a New York-based trade group.  “My sense is it’s more anecdotal than systemic,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  