-- Los Angeles Mayor Proposes Pension Changes for New Police, Firefighters
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-18T20:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/los-angeles-mayor-plans-cheaper-pensions-for-police-officers-firefighters.html
Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  proposed overhauling pensions for new police
officers and firefighters, part of a broader effort to contain
costs amid growing budget deficits statewide.  The plan would save Los Angeles, the second-largest U.S.
city after New York, $173 million for every 1,000 new police
officers and firefighters hired over 30 years, according to an
Oct. 15 report released by the city.  “We know that a structural imbalance exists between
revenues and expenditures, and projected general-fund deficits
are driven by rising pension and health-care costs,”
Villaraigosa said today in a statement about the proposal.  The plan would require new hires to work longer to qualify
for retirement benefits and to put 2 percent of their pay into
the  pension  to get health care after they stop working. The size
of their pension payment once retired would be based on their
highest two-year average salary, instead of the last year.  Eric Rose, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police
Protective League, and Patrick McOsker, president of the United
Firefighters of Los Angeles City, didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  In May, the mayor and City Council bridged a $492 million
fiscal 2011 budget gap by closing libraries, raising fees and
making workers take unpaid time off. California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  reached an accord with the state’s largest
employee union this month to reduce pension costs.  The pension overhaul must pass the City Council and be
approved by Los Angeles voters before it can take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 