-- 
Galleon, Hermes, Strauss-Kahn, AIG, HSBC, RBS in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-20T12:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/mozilo-daimler-hypo-real-estate-red-sox-soccer-panalpina-in-court-news.html
The jury in the trial of former
Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer heard from a disbarred
lawyer who told of using prepaid cell phones to pass along
merger tips gleaned from his former law firm and taking cash-
stuffed envelopes in return.  Brien Santarlas, 34, who worked as an attorney in the  New
York  office of the firm Ropes & Gray LLP, testified yesterday in
the trial of Goffer, a former employee of Galleon co-founder  Raj
Rajaratnam , and two other men on trial for  insider trading  in
federal court in  Manhattan .  Santarlas, testifying under a cooperation agreement with
the government, said he and another former Ropes & Gray
attorney, Arthur Cutillo, told  Brooklyn , New York, lawyer Jason
Goldfarb in 2007 about acquisitions involving 3Com Corp. and
Axcan Pharma Inc. He said Goldfarb gave him $25,000 for the 3Com
information and $7,500 for Axcan.  “When I received the cash, Jason had told me to dispose of
the phone -- break it in half, submerge it in water and put it
in a garbage can,” Santarlas testified.  Prosecutors claim Goldfarb passed the information to
Goffer, who used it to get a job at Galleon. Santarlas, Cutillo
and Goldfarb have all pleaded guilty in the case.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish played recordings of
wiretapped phone calls between Goffer and Goldfarb in which they
discuss Goffer’s new job at Galleon.  Goffer, 34, founded his own firm, Incremental Capital LLC,
after he was fired from Galleon, his lawyer, William Barzee,
said in his opening statement to jurors May 18. Goffer is being
tried with his brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael
Kimelman, 40, both former traders at Incremental.  All three men are charged with securities fraud and
conspiracy, stemming from one of three overlapping rings tied to
Galleon, prosecutors said. They face as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of fraud.  Santarlas is scheduled to continue his testimony when the
trial resumes on May 23.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Hermes Investors Seek to Quash Family’s LVMH Buyout Defense  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA’s founding family shouldn’t have
received a waiver of market rules allowing them to shield the
firm from takeovers, minority investors in the luxury-goods
maker told a French court.  The Autorite des Marches Financiers erred in granting the
family permission to pool a 50.2 percent Hermes stake into a
holding company without bidding for the rest of the business, as
the regulator would normally require for a group holding that
large a stake, lawyers for minority investors said.  “There must be existing control” to warrant a waiver,
lawyer Alain Geniteau told the court yesterday. “The reality is
that there was no control of the Hermes company by the family,”
as demonstrated by the need to form a new structure to block
hostile bids.  The court has the power to uphold or quash the AMF waiver,
though not to issue a new ruling on the request. The family has
said it wants to keep Hermes, the maker of Birkin bags,
independent since  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the
world’s largest luxury-goods maker, unveiled a 17.1 percent
holding in October. Paris-based LVMH now owns 20.2 percent of
the equity and, while it has said it’s not seeking control or a
board seat, the stake has prompted takeover talk.  The case hinges on whether the new structure alters the
company’s control, according to Hermes family lawyers and
Olivier Douvreleur, the AMF’s director of legal affairs.  The court is expected to rule on the appeal Sept. 15.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank’s Ackermann, Boersig Deny Secret Kirch Plan  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  executives including Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  and Chairman  Clemens Boersig  in court
testimony yesterday countered claims there was a plan to make
 Leo Kirch  hire the bank to restructure his media group in 2002.  Ackermann and Boersig testified about a management board
meeting on Jan. 29, 2002, as part of a 2 billion-euro ($2.9
billion) lawsuit filed by Kirch. While  Rolf Breuer , the bank’s
CEO at the time, talked about a dinner meeting he had with then-
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder over Kirch Media, the board didn’t
decide at the meeting to solicit work from Kirch, Ackermann
said.  “I was certainly not known as someone to back away from an
investments mandate, had that been definitely decided on,” said
Ackermann, who was responsible for  investment banking  at the
time. “But I frankly admit, I didn’t want such a mandate from
Mr. Kirch.”  Kirch has claimed Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank secretly
planned in 2002 to damage his reputation in an effort to exert
pressure on him. According to Kirch, part of that plan was an
interview Breuer gave on Bloomberg Television in which he said
“everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch. Within months, Kirch’s group filed the
country’s biggest bankruptcy since World War II.  Kirch claims that WAZ Mediengruppe and Friede Springer at
the time were interested in acquiring his 40 percent stake in
publisher  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and secretly worked with the bank to
get it. Kirch pledged the stake as collateral for a loan from
the bank.  The case is: OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Strauss-Kahn Granted Bail Pending Sexual Assault Trial  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former head of the
 International Monetary Fund , was granted bail pending his trial
on charges that he sexually assaulted and attempted to rape a
hotel housekeeper.  Conditions include posting $1 million bail and a $5 million
insurance bond secured by his house; submitting to electronic
monitoring 24 hours a day and having an armed guard at all
times. Strauss-Kahn, 62, will spend the night at the Rikers
Island jail complex and may be released today, his lawyer,
William Taylor, said after the hearing.  “If the defendant were to be able to leave the country it
might very well be impossible to bring him back,” New York
state Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus said. “The critical
issue is what, if anything, can be done to ensure that the
defendant remains here.”  Strauss-Kahn was indicted yesterday on seven counts
including criminal sex act; attempted rape; sexual abuse;
unlawful imprisonment; and forcible touching. He is scheduled to
be arraigned in New York on June 6. Defense lawyers said
Strauss-Kahn will plead not guilty. He hasn’t entered a formal
plea to any of the charges.  At the hearing yesterday, Taylor, Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer,
said that as part of his bail, his client would live with his
wife, Anne Sinclair, in New York. Strauss-Kahn was arrested May
14 and sent to Rikers Island May 16 after a judge deemed him a
flight risk.  “We are very relieved and very happy and now we can focus
on some other aspects of the case,” Taylor said after the
hearing.  Strauss-Kahn informed the Executive Board of the IMF of his
intention to resign as managing director effective immediately,
the IMF said in a  statement  dated yesterday.  “I want to say that I deny with the greatest possible
firmness all of the allegations that have been made against
me,” Strauss-Kahn said in a letter included in the IMF
statement.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Says Mets Owners ‘Refuse’ to Return Money  A lawyer for the trustee liquidating the estate of Bernard
L. Madoff said Mets owners  Fred Wilpon , Saul Katz and the
Sterling Equities Inc. partners “refuse to return” $300
million in “other people’s money” received from the jailed con
man.  Trustee Irving Picard’s lawyer,  David Sheehan , made the
statement yesterday as part of a move to persuade a bankruptcy
judge not to dismiss Picard’s $1 billion lawsuit against the
Mets owners. In addition to $300 million in what he called
“fictitious profits,” the trustee is seeking return of their
principal invested with Madoff.  Picard said his case against Sterling and its partners
stems from a bankruptcy-law concept of good faith. The concept
doesn’t require that those sued acted illegally or knew they
were dealing with a  Ponzi scheme , he said.  “Under bankruptcy law, a defendant did not act in good
faith if what it knew about BLMIS gave it a reason to inquire
further, but instead it turned a blind eye and continued to take
money from an enterprise it should have known might be a
fraud,” he said in the statement. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC was Madoff’s investment firm.  “Today’s filing recklessly rehashes the same fictitious
claims” from the trustee, Sterling said yesterday in a
statement. “He has no evidence, and no witnesses, to support
his baseless claims.”  Asking a judge in March to dismiss the Picard suit, the
Sterling partners said they weren’t professional investors and
saw no warning signs.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  AIG to Negotiate Sharing of Data in Sex-Discrimination Case  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  agreed to negotiate with
a lawyer for two former female employees on how to share the
salary data of workers who held similar jobs as part of a
gender-discrimination lawsuit.  Lawyers for AIG disclosed the deal yesterday during a
hearing before Judge Donna Martinez in U.S. District Court in
Hartford,  Connecticut . Both sides will review information on 117
non-revenue producing vice presidents and assistant vice
presidents of  AIG Financial Products , the unit that almost
caused the insurer’s collapse with bets on subprime mortgages.  Susan Potter, 58, and Deonna Taylor, 63, were vice
presidents at Wilton, Connecticut-based AIG FP. Potter lost her
job in July 2009 as the unit was being dismantled in the wake of
a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout that protected banks from losses
on contracts they had with AIG, according to the lawsuit. Taylor
was dismissed in October 2008.  The plaintiffs, who previously had sought information on a
bigger number of employees, “can narrow the field,” said
Deborah McKenna, a lawyer representing the ex-workers. The
Financial Products unit has fewer than 200 employees, compared
with more than 400 before the bailout, as New York-based AIG
winds down derivatives contracts to focus on insurance.  AIG has sought to limit the amount of information it makes
available, saying that records about bonuses for traders may
threaten employees’ safety. Rachel Cowen, an AIG attorney, said
the firm would provide job descriptions for the 117 workers “to
see if we can take some of the people off” the list. The two
sides are “a little bit apart” on the plaintiffs’ requests for
base salary and total compensation for the workers, Cowen said.  The plaintiffs are pushing AIG to identify employees who
were promoted as “there is no real record of how that
happened,” McKenna said.  Martinez set a telephone conference for June 15.  The case is Potter v. AIG Financial Products Corp., 3:10-
cv-00250, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut ( New
Haven ).  HSBC Client Charged With Failing to Report Offshore Account  A managing director at SCG Consulting Group in  Boston  was
charged with failing to report his offshore account at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to U.S. authorities.  Michael F. Schiavo, 53, failed to file a Report of Foreign
Bank and Financial Accounts form, or FBAR, disclosing an account
at HSBC Bank Bermuda, according to a criminal charge filed
yesterday in federal court in Boston. Schiavo agreed to plead
guilty, according to a Justice Department statement.  Schiavo, of Westford,  Massachusetts , is one of at least
three clients of HSBC, the largest European bank by assets,
charged in a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion . Prosecutors
also have charged at least two dozen clients of UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, four UBS bankers and five bankers at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest bank.  Schiavo’s firm serves the  venture capital  and private-
equity industries, according to the charge. Since July 2003, he
has been a director at Boston Private Bank & Trust Co., a
Boston-based commercial bank.  He has been a partner in business deals since the 1990s
with Peter Schober, who pleaded guilty Nov. 23 to failing to
file an FBAR over a  UBS AG (UBSN)  account that held at least $1
million. Schober is cooperating with prosecutors, court records
show.  Schiavo faces as many as five years in prison. James W.
Lawson, an attorney for Schiavo, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Schiavo, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Goodwin Drops Part of Injunction on ‘Sexual Relationship’  Former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive
Officer  Fred Goodwin  withdrew part of an injunction barring
newspapers from writing about a “sexual relationship,” hours
after a lawmaker released details of the court order.  Hugh Tomlinson, Goodwin’s lawyer, said at a hearing
yesterday in  London  that his client no longer required a court
order barring the media from reporting that he obtained the
injunction. Ben Stoneham, a Liberal Democrat member of the upper
House of Lords, said in Parliament that Goodwin’s injunction
related to a relationship with a “senior colleague.”  “The purpose of the injunction was to prevent the
publication that Mr. Goodwin had the sexual relationship in
question,” Justice Michael Tugendhat said. Tugendhat said the
media is still banned from naming the woman involved or giving
any details about the affair.  RBS posted the biggest loss in U.K. corporate history in
2008 and required a bailout following the bank’s 73.3 billion-
euro ($104.9 billion) acquisition of  ABN Amro  of the
Netherlands. Goodwin was cleared of responsibility in December
in a report by the FSA on RBS’s 45.5 billion-pound ($73.7
billion) rescue.  Stoneham said in Parliament yesterday that the injunction
may prevent the incident from being reported to regulators.  “Every taxpayer has a direct public interest in the events
leading up to the collapse of the Royal Bank of  Scotland , so how
can it be right for a super-injunction to hide the alleged
relationship between Sir Fred Goodwin and a senior colleague?”
Stoneham asked. “If true, it would be a serious breach of
corporate governance and not even the Financial Services
Authority would be allowed to know about it.”  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  On The Docket  Rambus $4.3 Billion Trial Scheduled During Judge’s Jury Duty  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ’s trial in its seven-year battle to claim $4.3
billion in damages from memory-chip manufacturers was set for
the same day that the judge presiding over the case is scheduled
to report for jury duty.  San Francisco  Superior Court Judge James J. McBride told
lawyers May 18 that the June 7 start date for the antitrust
trial coincides with his jury duty obligation, leading him to
move the Rambus trial to the following day. Ann Donlan, a court
spokeswoman, confirmed the conflict in a phone interview.  McBride, a former police officer and assistant district
attorney in San Francisco, hasn’t served as a juror in his 17
years on the bench, making it “unlikely” though not impossible
he will be selected next month, Donlan said.  “He has to report June 7 and from there we’ll have to see
what happens,” Donlan said. If he is selected to serve as a
juror, the antitrust trial “would be continued on a day-to-day
basis until he was able to preside” over the proceeding, she
said.  In its complaint, originally filed in 2004, Rambus alleges
that two memory manufacturers, Boise, Idaho-based  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  and Ichon, South Korea-based  Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. (000660) , artificially inflated the price of Rambus-designed dynamic
random access memory, or DRAM, chips to drive Rambus technology
out of the computer memory market.  A previous defendant, Samsung Electronics Co., agreed last
year to pay $900 million in a settlement that removes it from
the litigation.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
43115, Superior Court of  California  (San Francisco County).  Court News  Senate Blocks Confirmation of Appellate Court Nominee Liu  The  U.S. Senate  blocked the nomination of Goodwin Liu to
the  9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals  in San Francisco, the
first rejection of one of President Barack Obama’s judicial
choices.  With 60 votes needed to end debate on the  University of
California  law professor’s nomination, the largely party-line
tally was 52 in favor of proceeding to a confirmation vote, 43
against. Joining 51 Democrats voting to end debate was Senator
 Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican, while 42 Republicans and
Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat, opposed the motion.
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  voted “present.”  The procedural vote came after more than a year of delays
in the confirmation process stemming from Republican opposition
to Liu’s selection.  Opponents said Liu, 40, lacks necessary courtroom
experience and has activist judicial views reflected in writings
and speeches supporting expanded welfare rights, gay marriage
and  privacy rights . Senator Chuck Grassley of  Iowa , the top
Republican on the  Judiciary Committee , said Liu as a judge might
favor contemporary ideas over the Constitution’s legal
standards.  “I am concerned by his apparent lack of appreciation for
the proper role of a judge in our system of checks and
balances,” Grassley said. “His philosophy leads to an
inevitable expansion of the power of the judiciary.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  