-- Tudor's Jones Says May 6 Stock Plunge Shows Need for Tighter Price Limits
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/paul-tudor-jones-says-may-6-crash-shows-need-for-limits-on-price-movements.html
Paul Tudor Jones , founder of $11
billion hedge-fund firm Tudor Investment Corp., said market
regulators should cap how much stocks and derivatives can rise
or fall to avoid a repeat of the May 6 stock crash.  Every financial instrument that’s traded on an exchange
should have some type of price limit, and existing limits should
be reviewed with the goal of tightening many, he said yesterday
at the Global Financial Leadership Conference in Naples,
Florida. Equity index futures and options shouldn’t be allowed
to climb or decline more than 8 percent on a day, he said.  “Anything greater than an 8 percent move in stocks in one
day is probably because of something either so fantastic or so
bad that taking more than another day to think about it is a
good thing,” Jones, 56, said.  Regulators are facing pressure from investors to explain
whether trading rules have failed to keep pace with markets
after a chain of events sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
down as much as 998.50 points on May 6. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission said this month that the automatic execution
of a sale order on a large block of futures with no regard for
price helped trigger the crash, which snowballed into an $862
billion rout.  ‘Cataclysmic Event’  NYSE Euronext yesterday canceled trades in the SPDR S&P 500
ETF Trust at almost 10 percent below the opening price,
according to the exchange. The exchange-traded fund that tracks
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunged 9.6 percent in eight
seconds on NYSE Arca, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent for the day.  The May 6 declines in index futures convinced traders a
“cataclysmic event” was pushing equities down, regulators
found in their Oct. 1 report. Two people with knowledge of the
findings identified the seller as Waddell & Reed Financial Inc.,
an Overland Park, Kansas-based mutual-fund company with about
$68 billion in assets.  “What more pertinent example that underscores the
importance and need of price limits than the flash crash of May
6th of this year,” Jones said. Price limits of 8 percent for
the S&P 500 futures contracts would also have reduced the stock
market crash of October 1987 by half, he said.  In addition to price limits, cash, futures and options
markets should be harmonized so that closing one market doesn’t
force liquidity into another market, he said.  Jones started Tudor, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, in
1983. The firm’s biggest fund, BVI Global, returned 5 percent
this year through Oct. 8, according to a person briefed on the
returns who asked not to be named because the results weren’t
public. The HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index gained 2.5 percent in
the same period, according to data compiled by Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  BVI Global returned an annual average of 21 percent from
its inception in 1986 through September, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  