-- Pawlak Says Enea Sale to French Could Be End of Polish Nuclear Power Plan
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-18T13:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/pawlak-says-enea-sale-to-french-could-be-end-of-polish-nuclear-power-plan.html
Poland’s plan to build its first
nuclear power plant could be threatened if the government sells
utility  Enea SA  to  GDF Suez SA  or  Electricite de France SA ,
Economy Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  said.  “If we sell Enea to a French company, we can kiss our
nuclear program goodbye,” Pawlak, head of the junior coalition
Peasants Party, told reporters in Warsaw today. Pawlak’s
ministry is in charge of the nuclear plan. The Treasury
Ministry, headed by Aleksander Grad of the larger coalition
party, Citizens Platform, is running the Enea sale.  The government picked state-controlled  PGE SA , the
country’s largest utility, to build the first atomic plant by
2020 as Poland seeks to cut its dependence on coal.  “It’s difficult to comment on the issue while we’re still
in talks with potential buyers,”  Maciej Wewior , a Treasury
spokesman, said by phone. “We’re naturally interested in the
companies’ plans for Enea, but price is the most important.”  Pawlak said today two state-controlled French companies and
Kulczyk Holding SA, owned by Polish billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , bid
for Enea.  GDF  and EDF were the two French bidders, people
familiar with the transaction said earlier.  GDF and EDF didn’t return calls today seeking comment.  Pawlak says a French owner could build a nuclear plant by
itself and use  Enea ’s distribution network to sell the power,
bypassing PGE, which aims to complete the first 3,000-megawatt
unit by 2020.  Jacek Strzalkowski, a PGE spokesman, didn’t have any
immediate comment on whether other nuclear projects could
threaten the company’s plan.  PGE is in talks with EDF, GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy, and
Westinghouse Electric Co. LLC to choose the technology for the
plant.  Poland’s Treasury Ministry last week picked three bidders,
out of four offers it had received, for final talks to buy 51
percent of Enea. The ministry didn’t name the companies.  For Related News and Information:  -- Editors:  Nathaniel Espino   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  