-- PBOC's `Vicious Cycle' Worsened by Fed, Yu Yongding Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T12:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/pboc-s-vicious-cycle-is-worsened-by-fed-yu-yongding-says-china-credit.html
Moves by the U.S. Federal Reserve to
print cash would spur capital flows into China, hampering the
Asian nation’s efforts to damp inflation and counter yuan gains,
said  Yu Yongding , a former central bank adviser.  The People’s Bank of China sold a net 209.7 billion yuan
($32 billion) of bills during the last nine months, following
net redemptions of 579.5 billion yuan in 2009. It raised the
reserve-requirement ratio last week for six banks, including the
largest four, by half a percentage point for the fourth time
this year, a move China Securities Co. estimated will cut
lending by 170 billion yuan.  Cash is pouring into China to profit from economic growth
that’s averaged more than 10 percent for the past five years and
accelerating yuan gains following the end in June of a two-year
peg. The nation’s  foreign-exchange reserves  jumped by $100
billion in September to a record $2.65 trillion, the biggest
increase since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1995, and
the inflation rate hit a 22-month high of 3.5 percent in August.  Increases in reserve ratios or interest rates “only
encourage fresh inflows on the anticipation that further hikes
or yuan appreciation are in the pipeline,” Yu, who is based in
Beijing, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 15.
“This vicious cycle is self-defeating.”  China raised its benchmark lending and deposit rates for
the first time since 2007 after the markets closed today.
The one-year deposit rate will increase to 2.5 percent
from 2.25 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of
China said on its website. The lending rate will increase to
5.56 percent from 5.31 percent, it said.  Yuan Gains  Yuan forwards were little changed with the 12-month non-
deliverable contract trading at 6.4425 at 7:48 p.m. in Hong Kong,
compared with 6.4358 before the announcement. That indicates
traders are betting on a 3.2 percent appreciation.  The yuan has strengthened in each of the past six weeks,
the longest winning streak since July 2008, and touched 6.6404
per dollar on Oct. 15, the highest level since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The Fed may add to its existing $1.7 trillion of asset
purchases to help stimulate the U.S. economy, according to
minutes of a Sept. 21 policy meeting. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimated the central bank will announce about $500 billion of
Treasury purchases through mid-2011, helping keep U.S. interest
rates low and spurring demand for higher-yielding assets.  “A consequence of quantitative easing is more capital
flows into emerging markets, and China seems an easy target, for
both higher returns to investment and expectations of yuan
appreciation,”  Tao Wang , a Beijing-based economist at UBS AG,
wrote in an Oct. 14 research note.  Bill Sales  After the central bank issues yuan to limit currency gains,
it needs to tighten monetary policy to contain inflation,
regardless of whether yuan appreciation picks up, she said.  The People’s Bank cut interest rates in 2008 and suspended
sales of 12-month and three-year bills to bolster liquidity and
spur lending as a global recession took hold. It resumed sales
of 12-month notes in July 2009 after economic growth reached a
three-year high of 11.9 percent during the first quarter.  The central bank sold 43 billion yuan of 12-month debt
today. It’s kept the  yield  at 2.0929 percent for the past 18
weekly sales, the highest level since November 2008.  The rate on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, the favored
investment for China’s foreign-exchange reserves, fell 22 basis
points this year to 0.21 percent for similar-maturity notes,
worsening the central bank’s losses from intervention.  “Unless capital controls are effective, higher costs of
sterilization and the various inefficiencies this leads to, will
once again highlight the problems of not allowing the currency
to do its job,” said Yu, currently a member of the state-backed
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  Growth, Inflation  Government data due Oct. 21 will show China’s economic
growth slowed to 9.5 percent in the third quarter, from 10.3
percent in the previous three months, and consumer prices
increased 3.6 percent in September, based on the median
estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China’s benchmark 10-year bonds yielded 3.41 percent today,
rising from as low as 3.26 percent on July 14. That compares
with 2.52 percent for similar-maturity  Treasuries . Five-year
interest-rate swaps, the fixed rate needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, have risen 17 basis points
this month to 3.12 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Rate Gap  Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said Oct. 9 that
current “quantitative tools” are sufficient in containing
inflation expectations.  The central bank’s one-year deposit  rate  compares with
benchmark interest rates of a maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S.
and Japan. China’s three-month  Shibor , which measures interbank
lending costs, has risen 82 basis points this year to 2.65
percent. The equivalent  Libor  rate for dollar loans is 0.29
percent.  Capital flooding into Asia could lead to excessive
exchange-rate moves, asset bubbles and financial instability,
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the head of the International Monetary
Fund, said in Shanghai yesterday. Some flows “can clearly be
destabilizing,” he said.  Pressure on the yuan to gain may increase after the
interest-rate increase, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-
based senior economist and strategist for Credit Agricole CIB,
said in an interview.  “The market was unprepared,” he said. “Probably there will
be more portfolio inflows into China and the currency will gain
in the non-deliverable forward market. They have must have
decided to be tougher on inflation and stimulate savings,
because otherwise there will be asset bubbles.”  -- Belinda Cao . With assistance from Frederik Balfour in Hong
Kong. Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  