-- Philips Third-Quarter Net Rises to $728 Million on Stake Sale, Cost Cuts
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-10-18T16:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/philips-net-beats-analyst-estimates-cautious-on-fourth-quarter-sales.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV  dropped
the most in more than two months in Amsterdam after the world’s
biggest lighting company said it’s “cautious” for the year’s
final three months because of the current economic climate.  “We take a cautious view on revenue development in the
fourth quarter,” the Amsterdam-based company said in a
statement today. Excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency
shifts, third-quarter sales advanced 1 percent to 6.2 billion
euros ($8.6 billion).  Frans van Houten , who takes over as chief executive officer
of the more than 100-year-old company in April, faces the
challenge of boosting sales. Philips, whose health-care and
lighting units compete with  General Electric Co.  and  Siemens AG ,
is facing “uncertain economic times on the one hand and
consumer sentiment, which is patchy,” Chief Financial Officer
 Pierre-Jean Sivignon  said in a Bloomberg TV interview today.  “The weaker-than-expected Q3 comparable sales growth and
cautious outlook for Q4 will likely limit short-term upside to
the stock.”  Peter Olofsen , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
in Amsterdam, who rates the stock a “buy.”  Philips fell 4.2 percent to 22.88 euros, the biggest
declined since Aug. 11. Before today, the shares  had advanced 
more than 15 percent this year, compared with a 1.8 percent rise
of the 25-member Amsterdam Exchanges Index.  Job Cuts  Net income rose to 524 million euros in the third quarter
from 174 million euros a year earlier, helped by cost cuts and a
154 million-euro gain from the sale of its NXP Semiconductors NV
stake. Philips last year set out to slash 6,000 jobs to bolster
profitability. The company today said the restructuring will cut
its 2010 fixed-cost base by “well over” 700 million euros.  Founded in 1891 as a maker of carbon-filament lamps,
Philips was restructured by CEO  Gerard Kleisterlee , who is
retiring. Kleisterlee has reshaped Philips since 2001 with
targeted acquisitions and divestments to focus on industries
with higher margins and stable earnings.  Kleisterlee spent more than $10 billion buying health-care
assets, including the 3.6 billion-euro takeover of Respironics
Inc., a maker of masks and ventilators to treat respiratory
disorders at home. It made the company less reliant on the
imaging equipment market, which is forecast to grow at a slower
pace than the higher-margin home health-care and services
markets. The company’s three main businesses now are health-
care, lighting and consumer lifestyle.  “They have quite a bit of work to do in terms of revenue
growth but costs are under control better than expected,” said
 Jos Versteeg , an Amsterdam-based analyst at Theodoor Gilissen
Bankiers NV.  Earnings Targets  Van Houten, a 20-year Philips-veteran, will have to show
that the restructuring efforts will accelerate sales and
earnings growth.  Earnings  before interest, taxes and amortization almost
doubled to 648 million euros. Philips, which makes products
ranging from vacuum cleaners to defibrillators and halogen
traffic lamps, said Ebita was 10.5 percent of sales.  “We will continue to drive growth initiatives and
operational improvements to further exceed the targeted EBITA,
adjusted for restructuring and acquisition-related charges, of
10 percent for the full-year 2010,” the company said today.  Philips aims for sales excluding acquisitions, disposals
and currency swings to rise 2 percentage points faster than
global economic growth in the next five years. The television
operations are excluded from this goal because of their
volatility, Philips said last month.  Weak Consumer Demand  The company also  set a target  for earnings per share to
grow at twice the rate of sales until 2015 as the company
focuses on more profitable lighting and medical products and
faster growing markets including India and Brazil.  Revenue at the consumer lifestyle division, including the
coffee-machine and television businesses, was hurt by “weak
demand” in some markets, Philips said today. Comparable sales
fell 5 percent to 2.09 billion euros. The TV unit had a loss
before interest, taxes and amortization of 31 million euros.  Philips forecasts the television business will get “close
to break-even” this year, CFO Sivignon  told reporters on a
conference call today. The company continues to “believe it
should be part of Philips business portfolio,” he said.  Revenue at the health-care unit, the world’s largest maker
of patient-monitoring systems, advanced 4 percent on a
comparable basis to 2.07 billion euros. The unit’s equipment
order intake increased 7 percent, Philips said.  Healthcare Demand  “In the U.S., we saw hospitals focus on lowering their
operating costs and managing their return on invested capital,”
Sivignon told analysts. The CFO said that there is “some
uncertainty” regarding the overhaul of the U.S. health-care
system and the taxes on health-care equipment. “As expected, we
see the easing of pent-up demand, which saw large multi-year
deals in the first half of 2010.”  Philips’s lighting-unit sales advanced 7 percent on a
comparable basis to 1.91 billion euros, helped by growth in
lighting electronics and the Lumileds business.  The company doesn’t exclude larger acquisitions, Sivignon
said, adding that “there’s nothing around the corner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  