-- Philips Net Beats Estimates; `Cautious' on Fourth-Quarter Sales
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-10-18T07:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/philips-third-quarter-net-rises-to-728-million-on-stake-sale-cost-cuts.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV , the
world’s biggest lighting company, posted a better-than-estimated
increase in third-quarter profit, while saying it’s “cautious”
on sales for the final three months of the year.  Net income rose to 524 million euros ($728 million) from
174 million euros a year earlier, helped by cost cuts and a 154
million-euro gain from the sale of its NXP Semiconductors NV
stake, the Amsterdam-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts had predicted profit of 358 million euros. Excluding
acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts, sales advanced 1
percent to 6.2 billion euros.  “The weaker-than-expected Q3 comparable sales growth and
cautious outlook for Q4 will likely limit short-term upside to
the stock.”  Peter Olofsen , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
in Amsterdam, who rates the stock a “buy.”  Frans van Houten , who takes over as chief executive officer
of the more than 100-year-old company in April, faces the
challenge of boosting sales. Philips, whose health-care and
lighting units compete with  General Electric Co.  and  Siemens AG ,
last year set out to slash 6,000 jobs to bolster profitability.  Philips fell as much as 4.9 percent in Amsterdam to 22.70
euros, valuing the company at about 22.4 billion euros. Before
today, the shares  had advanced  more than 15 percent this year,
compared with a 1.8 percent rise of the 25-member Amsterdam
Exchanges Index.  “Given the uncertain economic climate and fragile consumer
confidence in some of our markets, we take a cautious view on
revenue development in the fourth quarter,” Philips said today.  Cautious Outlook  Caution on the outlook for the fourth quarter stems from
“uncertain economic times on the one hand and consumer
sentiment, which is patchy,”  Pierre-Jean Sivignon , Philips’
chief financial officer, said in a Bloomberg TV interview.  Founded in 1891 as a maker of carbon-filament lamps,
Philips was restructured by CEO  Gerard Kleisterlee , who is
retiring. Kleisterlee has reshaped Philips since 2001 with
targeted acquisitions and divestments to focus on industries
with higher margins and stable earnings.  Kleisterlee spent more than $10 billion buying health-care
assets, including the 3.6 billion-euro takeover of Respironics
Inc., a maker of masks and ventilators to treat respiratory
disorders at home. It made the company less reliant on the
imaging equipment market, which is forecast to grow at a slower
pace than the higher-margin home health-care and services
markets. The company’s three main businesses now are health-
care, lighting and consumer lifestyle.  “They have quite a bit of work to do in terms of revenue
growth but costs are under control better than expected,” said
 Jos Versteeg , an Amsterdam-based analyst at Theodoor Gilissen
Bankiers NV.  Earnings Targets  Van Houten, a 20-year Philips-veteran, will have to show
that the restructuring efforts will accelerate earnings growth.  Earnings  before interest, taxes and amortization almost
doubled to 648 million euros. Philips, which makes products
ranging from vacuum cleaners to defibrillators and halogen
traffic lamps, said Ebita was 10.5 percent of sales.  “We will continue to drive growth initiatives and
operational improvements to further exceed the targeted EBITA,
adjusted for restructuring and acquisition-related charges, of
10 percent for the full-year 2010,” the company said today.  Philips aims for Ebita to total 10 percent to 13 percent of
sales from 2011 through 2015, compared with margins of 10
percent to 11 percent in the five years through 2010, it said
last month.  The company also  set a target  for earnings per share to
grow at twice the rate of sales until 2015 as the company
focuses on more profitable lighting and medical products and
faster growing markets including India and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  