-- Poland Won't Raise Rate, Danske Bank Says, Countering Most Analysts, FRAs
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-18T15:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/poland-won-t-raise-rate-danske-bank-says-countering-most-analysts-fras.html
Investors in Polish interest-rate
swaps may profit by betting that borrowing costs will not rise
this year or in 2011, Danske Bank AS said in a recommendation
that runs counter to economists’ projections and market gauges.  The bank recommends investors receive a fixed rate of 4.77
percent for two years in exchange for floating-rate payments in
anticipation that the fixed rate will fall to 4.58 percent
within the next three months, according to a research note
issued by the bank today.  Derivatives traders, as indicated by forward-rate
agreements, raised bets that the central bank may lift its
benchmark interest rate from a record low of 3.5 percent after a
report last week showed inflation accelerated in September. The
main rate is likely to climb to 4.5 percent by end of 2011,
according to the median estimate of 12 banks surveyed by
Bloomberg News. That includes a quarter-point increase by the
end of this year.  “There is no sign that the economy is moving into an
overheated scenario,”  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market
analyst at Danske Bank, said by phone from Copenhagen. “If
anything we are returning into the situation where Polish
economy is growing in line with its long-term trend and
inflation is where it should be.”  Danske Bank predicts Poland’s annual inflation rate will
rise to 2.7 percent at the end of this year and 2.9 percent at
the end of 2011, Christensen said. That’s higher than the 2.5
percent annual inflation rate as of last month, according to a
government report on Oct. 13. The rate now matches the central
bank’s target.  ‘No Peer Pressure’  Still, it’s unlikely that Poland will raise rates in the
next year, possibly causing the zloty to appreciate, when the
Federal Reserve plans more monetary stimulus that might cause
the dollar to weaken, Danske Bank said. European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet today rejected Bundesbank
President Axel Weber’s call to end the bond purchase program
that has shored up the finances of Europe governments and banks.  “There is no peer pressure to hike interest rates,”
Christensen said. “You don’t want to hike and call attention to
yourself in this excessive liquidity environment and cause the
zloty to strengthen.”  Capital inflows have the potential to “derail monetary
policy,” Polish central bank Governor  Marek Belka  said on Oct.
9. The economy is expanding at a “moderate” pace with limited
wage and inflationary pressures, policy makers said in a
statement explaining last month’s decision to keep rates
unchanged.  Economic Growth  The country’s gross domestic product is likely to expand by
3.4 percent in 2010, tying with Germany as the fastest-growing
of major European economies including Spain, France, Italy, the
U.K. and the Netherlands, according to European Commission
estimates.  Three-month forward-rate agreements, money market contracts
used to speculate on changes in interest rates, rose to trade at
4.23 percent, or 41 basis points higher than the current three-
month  Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate  of 3.82 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread, or differential, has
widened from 33 basis points on Oct. 12, before the inflation
data came out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  