-- Polish September Wage Growth Lags Median Forecast, Jobs Gains Accelerate
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-10-18T12:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/polish-september-wage-growth-lags-median-forecast-jobs-gains-accelerate.html
Polish average corporate wages rose
less than economists forecast in September, reducing the chances
that the central bank will increase interest rates this month.  Wages advanced an annual 3.7 percent to 3,403.68 zloty
($1,203.95) from 4.2 percent in August, the Central Statistical
Office reported in Warsaw today. The result was below the median
forecast of 4 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 14 economists. On
the month, wages fell 0.1 percent.  “The figures point to very moderate improvement in the
labor market and suggest no inflationary threat from this
quarter,” said  Marta Petka-Zagajewska , an economist at
Raiffeisen Bank in Warsaw. “These data are neutral or if
anything strengthen the doves on the Monetary Policy Council.”  Annual inflation accelerated to the central bank’s 2.5
percent target in September, faster than economists forecast,
prompting derivatives traders to boost bets the central bank
will raise borrowing costs before the end of the year. According
to a Bloomberg  survey  of 15 economists, six expect the central
bank to raise its benchmark seven-day reference rate at the
Monetary Policy Council’s next meeting on Oct. 26-27, while nine
said the rate will remain unchanged until at least November.  The zloty weakened to 3.9278 against the euro at 2.19 p.m.,
from 3.9256 before the wage and jobs figures were published.  Employment increased by 1.8 percent in September from the
same period last year, above the 1.7 percent median forecast by
14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Employment grew 0.2 percent
on the month to reach 5.36 million.  “The better-than-expected jobs figure entirely offsets
weaker wage growth and bodes well for consumption in the third
quarter,” Petka-Zagajewska said of the employment data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris in London at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  