-- U.K. Pound Falls Against Dollar Before Osborne Spending Review Wednesday
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-10-18T15:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/pound-falls-against-dollar-before-osborne-spending-review-on-deficit-fears.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar before Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
announces details of the coalition government’s spending cuts to
tackle Britain’s record  budget deficit  this week.  Sterling fell against 14 of its 16 most-traded peers as
some investors speculated the finance minister’s cuts won’t
reduce the deficit fast enough. The Centre for Economics and
Business Research yesterday said the Bank of England will expand
its debt-purchase stimulus program by 100 billion pounds ($159
billion) and keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of
0.5 percent until at least late 2012 to bolster the economy.  The pound “is looking quite vulnerable,” said  Jane Foley ,
a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International
in London. “We’ve got the spending review on Wednesday, and
what the market fears is that some of the cuts announced in the
budget may be delayed and potentially it will take longer to cut
down the deficit.”  The U.K. currency fell 0.6 percent to $1.5900 at 4:21 p.m.
in London. It also depreciated 0.5 percent to 87.83 pence per
euro, near the lowest since May 7 when it reached 88.08 pence.  The government’s Comprehensive Spending Review, intended to
slash most ministerial budgets by a quarter, will be presented
to parliament on Oct. 20. Osborne says his measures to almost
eliminate the  156 billion-pound deficit  within four years are
essential to prevent a loss of confidence from investors. The
minutes of the BOE’s rate decision on Oct. 7 will be released
the same day.  The last Monetary Policy Committee minutes showed members
had a “dovish inclination,” indicating they were leaning
toward further easing, Foley said. If a similar sentiment is
expressed on Oct. 20, the minutes may weaken the pound further,
she said.  Economic Data  U.K. government bonds fell 0.1 percent, driving up the
yield on the 10-year gilt 1 basis point to 2.96 percent. The
two-year yield rose 2 basis to 0.66 percent.  While the U.K.  economy  grew at the fastest pace in nine
years in the second quarter, recent data indicates the recovery
is weakening. Manufacturing growth slowed in September, jobless
claims rose and Nationwide Building Society’s  consumer-
confidence gauge  fell to an 18-month low as Britons braced for
austerity.  Former Bank of England policy maker  David Blanchflower 
today said the spending cuts will be a “terrible mistake” and
threaten to derail any recovery.  ‘Double Dip’  “We are desperately in danger of a double dip, and the
last thing you do in a recession is make things worse,”
Blanchflower said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“The BOE unfortunately looks like the only ‘plan B’ the
government has, but quantitative easing just doesn’t act fast
enough.”  The central bank left interest rates at a record low and
refrained from increasing its 200 billion-pound bond-buying
program to stimulate the economy on Oct. 7. Policy maker  Adam Posen  has advocated further stimulus measures, saying monetary
policy “should continue to be aggressive.” Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has voted to raise interest rates since June.  The pound has dropped 5.4 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the second-
worst performing currency after the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  