-- Kan Says Anti-Japanese Demonstrations in Chinese Cities Were `Regrettable'
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-10-18T01:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/prime-minister-kan-says-anti-japan-demonstrations-in-china-regrettable-.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said his government lodged a complaint with China following
anti-Japanese protests in several Chinese cities, which he
called “regrettable.”  Demonstrators in both countries staged weekend rallies over
rival claims to uninhabited islands in the East China Sea, a
dispute that was reignited by a Sept. 7 collision between a
Chinese trawler and two Japanese Coast Guard boats. Protesters
in Chengdu, Sichuan Province forced the early closure of an
 Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd . store and smashed windows at an
Ito-Yokado supermarket.  “We have informed relevant Chinese authorities that this
was regrettable and strongly demanded that they secure the
safety of Japanese citizens and enterprises there,” Kan said
today in parliament. “While there are several issues between
us, it’s important to face these problems together calmly and
build a mutually strategic relationship.”  Japan and China are working on arranging a summit between
Kan and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  at this month’s meeting of
Asian leaders in Hanoi. The leaders of Asia’s two biggest
economies met in Brussels at an Asia-Europe summit on Oct. 4 and
pledged to mend ties frayed after the collision near islands
known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.  Rival Demonstrations  As many as 3,000 Japanese marched through Tokyo on Oct. 16,
protesting against China. Thousands of Chinese in cities
including Xi’an and Hangzhou took to the streets to support
their country’s claims, the state-run Xinhua News Agency
reported. Control over the area would give the holder rights to
undersea natural gas and oil reserves. China and Japan have yet
to implement a 2008 agreement to jointly develop the gas fields.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Ma Zhaoxu  said  on Oct.
16 that maintaining ties with Japan was important, and that
issues should be “resolved by dialogue to maintain the
strategic relationship of mutual benefit.”  Protesters in Tokyo expressed anti-China sentiment as well
as disappointment with their own government’s foreign policy.
Japan arrested the fishing boat captain responsible for the
collision then released him 17 days later, sparking domestic
criticism that the government submitted to Chinese pressure.  The captain’s release came after China detained four
Japanese employees of the construction company Fujita Corp. on
Sept. 20 for allegedly videotaping military targets. The last of
the Fujita employees was freed on Oct. 9.  China also reportedly curbed exports of rare earth metals
necessary for Japan’s automobile and high-tech industries over
the incident.  As many as 600 people gathered in front of the Isetan store
in western China’s Chengdu, forcing it to close about five hours
early, company spokesman Yasuhiro Suzuki said. Windows were
smashed at the Ito-Yokado supermarket in the city, said Minoru
Matsumoto, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based parent company,  Seven
& I Holdings Co.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  