-- Quantitative Easing Is Only Show in Town: David G. Blanchflower
-- B y   D a v i d   G .   B l a n c h f l o w e r
-- 2010-10-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/quantitative-easing-is-only-show-in-town-commentary-by-david-blanchflower.html
Central bankers would like to be
able to get back to business as usual where they change the
price of money rather than its quantity. That day seems a long
way off on both sides of the Atlantic.  The data this month that changed everything came from the
U.S. labor market. September non-farm payrolls fell by 95,000;
the creation of 64,000 jobs in the private sector wasn’t enough
to compensate for the decline of 159,000 in the public sector.
The minutes of the last Federal Reserve meeting, published last
week, added fuel to the flames with calls for more action.  The markets have taken all of this as evidence that the Fed
will start doing more quantitative easing at its meeting on Nov.
2-3. Stock markets surged and the dollar fell on the news.  I was at the Fed last week in Washington for one of its
occasional meetings with academics. Half a dozen labor
economists, including myself, met with Fed Board members to
discuss the labor market. Of particular importance was a paper
by  John Haltiwanger , a professor of economics at the University
of Maryland, who showed there has been a big decline in the job-
creation rate over the past decade. The current obstacle is the
lack of credit for small firms.  The Fed is especially concerned about unemployment and the
weak housing market. Chairman  Ben Bernanke  made that clear in
his speech last week. It would be a major surprise if the Fed
didn’t do more quantitative easing -- creating money by
enlarging the central bank’s balance sheet with the purchase of
securities -- at its next meeting. Failing to act now with such
high expectations may throw the markets into a tailspin.  Out of Question  The economic models are telling us that we need more
stimulus. Lowering interest rates and more fiscal stimulus are
out of the question. Quantitative easing remains the only
economic show in town given that Congress and President  Barack Obama  have been cowed into inaction.  The major questions about quantitative easing aren’t so
much if, but how much will the Fed buy and of what type? There
is little point in moving slowly. So $100 billion a month for
six months seems a reasonable amount.  What will they buy? They are limited to only federally
insured paper, which includes Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities insured by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. But they are
also allowed to buy short-term municipal bonds, and given the
difficulties faced by state and local governments, this may well
be the route they choose, at least for some of the quantitative
easing. Even if the Fed wanted to, it couldn’t buy other
securities, such as corporate bonds, as it would require
Congress’s approval, which won’t happen anytime soon.  U.K. Easing  The Bank of England also seems likely to do more
quantitative easing at its next meeting, when it will also
publish its latest outlook. Its economic-growth forecast will
surely be lowered as business and consumer confidence has slowed
in the U.K. over the last few months. Unemployment has started
rising and house prices have begun to fall ­- with the Halifax
index dropping 3.6 percent in September.  The probability of the Monetary Policy Committee moving on
Nov. 4 will increase if the Fed acts first: These aren’t
currency wars but quantitative-easing wars, preventing the U.S.
from gaining a competitive advantage and damping further
appreciation of the pound against the dollar.  In an important speech, MPC member  Adam Posen  set out the
case for more easing. Others, including  Paul Tucker ,  Martin Weale  and  Paul Fisher , have made comments that seem sympathetic
to restarting the asset-purchase program.  Who’s in Charge?  The new government under Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
made it clear it wants to coordinate monetary and fiscal policy.
So Chancellor  George Osborne ’s intervention at the International
Monetary Fund meetings, saying he wanted more monetary easing,
came as no surprise before he announces a program of massive
fiscal tightening. This raises the question of who is setting
central-bank policy. Will Osborne decide the scale, timing and
type of assets to be bought? If so, we don’t need an MPC.  In any case, Osborne does have the power to change any
decision he doesn’t like if he considers it in the national
interest under the Bank of England Act ­- such as raising
 interest rates . So the MPC is now under the chancellor’s thumb,
which may be a resigning matter for some. I certainly would not
have taken to being told what to do.  When I was a member of the MPC, we first asked the Treasury
for permission to do so as we needed to insulate the Bank’s
balance sheet. Chancellor  Alistair Darling  then wrote back and
agreed to QE up to a fixed amount, leaving the details of the
speed, scale and type of purchases up to the MPC. We asked him
rather than the reverse.  Central bankers yearn for the days when they used to meet
to decide on the price of money by setting interest rates. It is
hard to see when those times will return.  ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  