-- Quicksilver Rises After Saying Darden Family, SPO Partners Consider Buyout
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-10-18T15:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/quicksilver-resources-stock-jumps-as-darden-family-considers-buyout-offer.html
Quicksilver Resources  Inc. said it
was contacted by shareholders who are considering taking the
natural-gas explorer private.  Quicksilver Energy LP and the Darden family said in an Oct.
15 letter filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that
they’re interested in “exploring strategic alternatives” for
the company, including buying it out. Another shareholder, SPO
Partners & Co., has said it would like to participate in the
talks with the partnership, Quicksilver Energy said in its
letter.  The partnership is controlled by members of the Darden
family, according to a statement today from  Quicksilver
Resources . Thomas Darden is the chairman of Quicksilver
Resources, and Glenn Darden, who signed the Oct. 15 letter from
Quicksilver Energy LP, is the chief executive officer.  Quicksilver Resources  climbed $2.13, or 16.9 percent, to
$14.74 at 10:47 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Quicksilver Energy owned 24 percent of Fort Worth-based
Quicksilver Resources as of Feb. 23, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, making it the largest shareholder.  “In addition, we have all been made aware that another
significant stockholder, SPO Partners & Co. has expressed an
interest in receiving nonpublic information and engaging in
discussions with us regarding strategic alternatives for the
company,” according to the Oct. 15 letter.  Quicksilver Energy L.P. and the Darden family said any
proposal they might make to take the company private “would
involve a substantial premium to the current market price.”  The company said it has assembled a committee of
independent directors to consider any possible transactions. The
committee has retained Credit Suisse Securities LLC and Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. Securities Inc. as financial advisers, and
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP as its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  