-- Rand Weakens as Stocks, Metals Decline; Traders Reduce Foreign Inflow Bets
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-18T14:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/rand-weakens-as-stocks-metals-decline-traders-pare-foreign-inflow-bets.html
The rand slid to an almost one-week
low as commodity prices fell and traders scaled down
expectations of foreign capital inflows following HSBC Holdings
Plc’s abandonment of a bid for South Africa’s Nedbank Group Ltd.  The currency depreciated as much as 1 percent to 6.9086 per
dollar, the weakest level since Oct. 12, and traded 0.4 percent
weaker at 6.8687 by 4:30 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous
close of 6.8413. Against the euro, the rand lost 0.4 percent to
9.5598.  Gold and platinum, which account for about a fifth of South
Africa’s exports, slid as a rebound in the dollar reduced demand
for the precious metals as alternative investments.  Emerging-
market stocks  fell as much as 1.3 percent, the most in seven
weeks, on bets the U.S. Federal Reserve won’t provide enough
stimulus to sustain a recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  “The rand’s weaker bias is being fuelled by softer
commodity prices and weaker equity markets,”  Standard Bank
Group Ltd.  analysts led by  Michael Keenan  in Johannesburg wrote
in a client note today.  The rand has rallied 37 percent versus the dollar since the
start of last year as near-zero interest rates in developed
nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply there and invest
in higher-yielding emerging markets. The currency also gained on
speculation that funds would flow into South Africa from
proposed acquisitions by overseas companies, including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s planned purchase of Massmart Holdings Ltd. and
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.’s buyout of Dimension Data.  HSBC on Oct. 15 abandoned a bid to buy as much as 70
percent of Nedbank following eight weeks of talks. The
cancellation of the deal “takes away an expected $5 billion
inflow,” into South Africa, said  John Cairns , head of foreign-
exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg.  Bonds  Government bonds rose, with South Africa’s benchmark 13.5
percent security due September 2015 adding 34 cents to 126.19
rand. The yield declined eight basis points to 7.08 percent.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors added to bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower its 6
percent benchmark rate when it announces its next decision on
Nov. 18. The cost of  three-month contracts for cash in three
months  fell six basis points from a previous close to 5.69
percent, the lowest since the central bank first introduced the
repurchase rate in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  