-- Treasuries Gain on Prospects Federal Reserve Will Step Up Asset Purchases
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-18T20:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/treasuries-gain-as-traders-bet-federal-reserve-to-keep-borrowing-costs-low.html
Treasuries rose, rallying from the
biggest weekly slump this year, as an unexpected slide in U.S.
industrial production last month bolstered speculation the
Federal Reserve will purchase the debt as a way to inject more
cash into the economy.  The gains pushed down 10-year Treasury yields from near the
highest level this month. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart 
said he may back a second round of purchases of Treasury
securities by the central bank to ensure against the possibility
of falling prices. Policy makers meet in two weeks.  “The overriding factor in this market is the anticipation
of asset purchases by the Fed,” said  Larry Milstein , New York-
based managing director of government and agency debt trading at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “The big question is how big it will
be.”  The  yield  on the 10-year note dropped five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 2.51 percent at 4:34 p.m. in New York,
according BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625 percent
security due in August 2020 rose 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 31/32. The  yield  touched 2.59 percent on Oct. 15,
the highest level this month. It increased 17 basis points last
week, the most since the period ended Dec. 25.  The  30-year bond yield  fell three basis points to 3.95
percent, and the  two-year yield  touched 0.3508 percent, the
least since reaching a record-low 0.3270 on Oct. 12.  Industrial Production  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities declined 0.2
percent in September, the first decrease since the recession
ended in June 2009, figures from the Fed showed today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for
a 0.2 percent gain. Factory production also fell 0.2 percent,
reflecting decreases in consumer durable goods, such as
appliances and furniture.  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets rose in August, another report showed, as investors
bought Treasuries in anticipation of more bond purchases by the
Fed, the strategy called quantitative easing.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$128.7 billion in August compared with net buying of $61.2
billion in July, according to data released today by the U.S.
Treasury Department. Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes
and bonds were $117 billion in August, compared with purchases
of $30 billion in July, the data showed.  Lockhart’s comments echoed the view of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said last week that additional monetary stimulus
may be warranted because inflation is too slow and unemployment
is too high.  ‘Risk Management’  More quantitative easing “is a form of risk management --
an insurance policy that is prudent to put in place at this
time,” Lockhart said today to the Savannah Rotary Club. “Given
the circumstances of sluggish growth and measured inflation that
is too low, I give greater weight to the risk of further
disinflation leading to deflation.”  The  yield gap  between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations for
consumer prices, shrank to 2.09 percentage points, from 2.13 on
Oct. 15. Its 2010 low was 1.47 percentage points in August.  Bernanke said on Oct. 15 at a conference in Boston that
there appears to be a “case for further action.”  ‘Hostage’ to Fed  “Until we clear the air and get the program going, we are
hostage to the Fed,” said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York
at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “As
we move closer we will expect it more and more the outlaying
economic data will become more irrelevant.”  Foreign holdings of U.S. debt increased 3.6 percent in
August to $4.2 trillion, giving foreign investors a larger share
of outstanding Treasuries than their U.S. counterparts for the
first time since April, as  China  and Japan, the two largest
holders of Treasuries both increased their positions.  Overseas holdings of $4.21 trillion made up 50.1 percent of
the $8.4 trillion of U.S. government debt outstanding at the end
of August, Treasury data showed.  “Things aren’t good, and investors continue to stay
engaged in dollar-denominated assets,”  Kevin Giddis , president
of fixed-income capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan
Keegan Inc. in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients.
“The love affair with U.S. stocks, bonds and other assets is
still going strong.”  China increased its Treasury holdings the most in a year,
by $21.7 billion to $868.4 billion, and added the most longer-
term debt since March, $12.1 billion, raising its holdings of
notes and bonds to $852.7 trillion.  Japan  raised its position in
Treasuries for a third month, reaching a record $836.6 billion.  “Foreign demand for Treasuries has remained solid as other
countries have relatively greater credit risks,” said  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “We are seeing some
bargain hunting, especially on the long end of the curve, which
was beat up last week, and bets that inflation won’t be
severe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  