-- Rice Output in Australia May Jump Fourfold on Heavier Rains, Growers Say
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-18T07:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/rice-output-in-australia-may-jump-fourfold-on-heavier-rains-growers-say.html
Rice production in Australia may
almost quadruple next harvest as heavier-than-usual rainfall
boosts water supplies following a decade of drought, a growers’
group said after raising its production forecast.  Output may be 800,000 metric tons compared with an early
September’s forecast for 600,000, said Ruth Wade, executive
director of the Ricegrowers’ Association of Australia, based in
Leeton, New South Wales. The last harvest was 205,000 tons,
according to exporter Ricegrowers Ltd., which trades as SunRice.  A  La Nina  event has brought wetter-than-normal weather to
eastern Australia, including New South Wales, where rice is
grown. The rains have replenished reservoirs after years of
drought slashed Australia’s rice output in 2008 to the lowest
level since the 1920s.  “We have got pretty secure water now,” Wade said by phone
from Sydney today. “People will be much more confident that
they will be able to plant as much as they can and have access
to water to finish it.”  Rice for November delivery in Chicago rose 0.6 percent to
$13.675 per 100 pounds at 4:09 p.m. Melbourne time. The futures
touched a seven-month high of $13.87 on Oct. 15.  Planting of the Australian crop started earlier this month
and will finish by early November, Wade said. The rice will be
harvested in April.  Australia grows medium-grain rice compared with the long-
grain varieties in Thailand and Vietnam, the top two exporters.
Before the drought, production regularly exceeded 1 million tons,
with exports of more than 600,000 tons, according to the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics. Output
in 2008 fell to 19,000 tons, according to  SunRice .  Water Plans  Output this decade may be curbed by government plans to
reduce water allocations to irrigators and boost environmental
flows in the Murray-Darling Basin. Allocations should be cut as
much as 37 percent, according to a preliminary report released
Oct. 8 by the  Murray-Darling Basin Authority .  “It would have a significant impact,” Wade said. The
group is using the authority’s consultation framework and
parliamentary-committee process “to get it rebalanced to
something that talks equally about the environment and social
and economic impacts,” she said.  The basin authority will submit a final report to the
government by the end of next year, while a separate
parliamentary committee announced last week will examine the
“human cost” of the proposals.  The La Nina, characterized by cooling temperatures in the
Pacific Ocean, will persist into at least early 2011,
Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said Oct. 13. The Southern
Oscillation Index, an indicator of the events, in September
reached the highest monthly value since 1973, the bureau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  