-- Royal Bank of Canada to Acquire Bond-Fund Manager BlueBay for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-10-18T20:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/royal-bank-of-canada-agrees-to-acquire-u-k-s-bluebay-for-1-5-billion.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
biggest lender, agreed to buy the U.K. fixed-income money
manager  BlueBay Asset Management Plc  for 963 million pounds
($1.53 billion) in its biggest takeover in three years.  Royal Bank will pay 485 pence a share in cash for BlueBay,
a 29 percent premium to the London-based asset manager’s closing
price on Oct. 15, the companies said today in a joint statement.
BlueBay directors said the bid is “fair and reasonable.”  Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon , 53, said
last month that the Toronto-based company is looking to expand
its wealth management unit, focusing on the U.S. and Europe. The
BlueBay purchase increases the fixed-income fund business,
adding $40 billion in assets.  “The acquisition of BlueBay is well within Royal’s stated
strategy of expanding its wealth management operations, in the
U.K. in particular,” Barclays Capital analyst  John Aiken  said
in a note to clients. “We view the acquisition quite
favorably.”  Royal Bank  rose  65 cents to C$56.20 at 4:22 p.m. trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. BlueBay  climbed  111.3 pence, or 30
percent, to 487 pence in London, its biggest rise on record.  Royal Bank is paying more for BlueBay compared with other
announced global deals for investment management firms in the
past year. The price to buy such firms was 26 percent higher
than the average share price in the 20 days before the
announcement, according to Bloomberg data. Royal Bank paid a 40
percent premium on that measure, according to Bloomberg data.  Asset Values  The RBC offer “crystallizes people’s attention on what
these businesses are worth,” said  Stuart Duncan , a London-based
analyst at KBC Peel Hunt Ltd. with a “buy” rating on BlueBay.
He values RBC’s bid at about 19 times BlueBay’s 2011 earnings.
 Man Group Plc , the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager, earlier this year bought GLG Group Inc. for 20 times
2009 profit.  BlueBay, led by co-founder and CEO  Hugh Willis , is a fund
manager that invests in fixed-income assets including high-yield
corporate bonds, emerging-market debt and structured products.  The firm shut its $1.2 billion Emerging Markets Total
Return Fund in November 2008 after manager  Simon Treacher 
resigned following a breach of internal rules. He was later
banned by the Financial Services Authority. BlueBay rose more
than six-fold between the closure of the fund and Oct. 15.  BlueBay is Royal Bank’s largest  takeover  since it bought
RBTT Financial Holdings Ltd. in Trinidad & Tobago for about $2.2
billion in October 2007. The deal eclipses its C$1.33 billion
takeover of Vancouver-based money manager Phillips, Hager &
North Investment Management Ltd., which closed in May 2008.  Global Expansion  “This acquisition also aligns with our global expansion
objectives and RBC’s view that the wealth management segment
will continue to grow at a faster pace than other parts of the
global financial services industry,”  George Lewis , group head
of RBC Wealth Management, said today in a conference call with
analysts.  Royal Bank is paying about 3.9 percent of assets under
management for BlueBay, almost double the 2 percent it paid to
buy Phillips, Hager & North, CIBC World Markets analyst  Robert Sedran  said in a note.  “Royal Bank has acquired a franchise that was growing
rapidly in part owing to the beneficial impact of falling
interest rates,” Sedran said.  Royal Bank’s Nixon has said he expects wealth management to
grow at a faster pace than other areas of the financial services
industry due to growing demand for retirement planning by aging
people in developed countries, and a rise in wealthy investors,
especially in emerging countries.  Not Volatile  “The banks want to make inroads into this wealth-
management business,” said  David Baskin , president of Toronto-
based Baskin Financial Services, which manages C$375 million in
assets including Royal Bank shares. “It’s non-volatile, it’s
lucrative, and it’s a steady business. There’s not a lot of risk
involved with it.”  BlueBay’s directors own 20.5 percent of the company’s
shares. Willis and Chief Investment Officer  Mark Poole  are the
biggest individual shareholders, each owning 8.5 percent of the
company. Those stakes are valued at about 81.9 million pounds in
the deal.  Willis and Poole agreed to invest 25 percent of their
proceeds from the deal into BlueBay funds. They will forfeit 40
percent of those funds if they leave the company within three
years. BlueBay employees will have $280 million invested in the
company’s funds following the transaction, the company said.  Assets Climbed  BlueBay said in a separate statement today that assets
under management climbed 17 percent to $40 billion in the three
months to Sept. 30. Inflows into emerging-markets funds climbed
23 percent to $8.1 billion and the company also benefitted from
a rise in the euro against the U.S. dollar in the period.  BlueBay was advised by Spencer House Partners LLP and
Credit Suisse Group AG. RBC was advised by Perella Weinberg
Partners and RBC Capital Markets.  Royal Bank ranks 32nd worldwide among financial firms based
on assets under management, with $247 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. Blackrock Inc. ranks first, with $3.15 trillion
in assets, followed by UBS AG at $2.02 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;  Kevin Crowley  in London at 
   kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  