-- Royal KPN Appoints Eelco Blok as Chief Executive to Replace Scheepbouwer
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-10-18T08:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/royal-kpn-appoints-eelco-blok-as-chief-executive-to-replace-scheepbouwer.html
Royal KPN NV , the biggest Dutch
phone company, appointed  Eelco Blok  to succeed Chief Executive
Officer  Ad Scheepbouwer , who is retiring.  Blok, 53, who has been on KPN’s board since 2004 and is
currently responsible for international activities including
iBasis, will take the helm on April 6, The Hague-based KPN said
in a statement today.  “He looks a sensible, fairly low-risk appointment,” said
 Steve Malcolm , an analyst at Evolution Securities in London.
“He will probably bring a very similar philosophy to the job as
Mr. Scheepbouwer. He did a good job in Dutch wire-line,
particularly on costs. He is probably more of an execution than
an ideas-driven CEO.”  Blok will take over as KPN, like other European operators,
seeks to boost revenue from services such as television and Web
calls to make up for a drop in sales from traditional phone
operations and regulatory tariff cuts. KPN is building a fiber-
optic network to support these services in the Netherlands.  “The biggest challenges for KPN is whether they can
continue to cut costs in the face of continued revenue
declines,” said  Mark James , an analyst at Liberum Capital in
London.  KPN shares rose as much as 1.5 percent to 11.54 euros.
Before today, they had fallen 4.1 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 17.9 billion euros. That compares to a
4.9 percent gain in the  Stoxx 600 Telecommunications Index .  Elbowed Aside  Blok’s rise to CEO marks a reversal after he was ousted
from his position as the head of the fixed-line unit in
December, 2004, after an investigation by KPN into discounts
given to corporate clients resulted in the tightening of
internal compliance.  His fortunes improved as head of KPN’s international
operations. On Blok’s watch, sales in Germany, where KPN is the
third-largest wireless operator, rose 0.8 percent to 803 million
euros in the second quarter. Service revenue in the country
increased 2 percent after two quarters of decline.  Blok “has played an integral role in establishing KPN’s
reputation for generating shareholder value and his skills fit
with our board’s ambition to continue with its strategy,”
Chairman  Jos Streppel  said in the statement.  KPN’s E-Plus Mobilfunk GmbH unit was the only one of
Germany’s four mobile phone operators that didn’t secure
spectrum in the coveted 800-megahertz band in May. E-Plus spent
283.6 million euros on other frequency bands, saying it
preferred to use its current infrastructure to expand its
network’s capacities rather than overpay.  Scheepbouwer’s Record  “KPN faces major strategic questions over its commitment
to fibre-based access in the Netherlands and E-Plus’s position
in an increasingly data-driven mobile world,” said Malcolm.
“It remains to be seen if Mr. Block has the correct answers to
these strategic questions.”  The new CEO will receive an annual fixed compensation of
800,000 euros ($1.1 million) and will be entitled to a
performance-related short-term bonus in cash of as much as 90
percent of base salary and a long-term incentive in conditional
shares of as much as 135 percent. Scheepbouwer was paid 3.2
million euros in 2009, including a 2.2 million-euro bonus.  Blok will take over from Scheepbouwer, 66, who became CEO
in 2001 as the operator struggled with 22.8 billion euros in
debt after buying E-Plus and taking on the 8.7 billion-euro cost
of licenses for faster wireless access to the Internet.  Scheepbouwer set out to slash spending and reduce costs,
while at the same time investing in new services such as calls
over the Internet, digital television and computer services for
corporate customers. KPN in July repeated it is on track to
eliminate 10,000 jobs by the end of 2010 to boost profit.  Before taking over KPN, Scheepbouwer headed TPG NV,
Europe’s second-largest express delivery company, as it went
from being a state mail monopoly to an independent business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  