-- Royal Bank of Canada to Buy U.K.'s BlueBay for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-10-18T13:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/royal-bank-of-canada-agrees-to-buy-bluebay-to-expand-in-fixed-income-funds.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
biggest lender, agreed to buy the U.K.’s  BlueBay Asset
Management Plc  for 963 million pounds ($1.5 billion) as it seeks
to become one of the world’s top 10 wealth managers.  Royal Bank will pay 485 pence a share in cash for BlueBay,
a 29 percent premium to the London-based asset manager’s closing
price on Oct. 15, the companies said today in a joint statement.
It’s the largest acquisition for the Toronto-based bank in three
years, adding $40 billion in assets.  “It looks to me to be a relatively fair and attractive
price for a very high quality asset,” said  Stuart Duncan , a
London-based analyst at KBC Peel Hunt Ltd. with a “buy” rating
on BlueBay. “This is a sector where consolidation always looks
a possibility and where scale does matter.”  Royal Bank is looking to expand its wealth management
business in Europe and the U.S. after the financial crisis
depressed asset values in those regions. BlueBay is the lender’s
largest takeover since it  bought  RBTT Financial Holdings Ltd. in
Trinidad and Tobago for about $2.2 billion in October 2007.  “This acquisition will further RBC’s strategy to leverage
our position as a top 10 global wealth manager,”  George Lewis ,
group head of RBC Wealth Management, said today in a conference
call with analysts.  Shares Jump  BlueBay  climbed  111.5 pence, or 30 percent, to 487.2 pence
as of 2:31 p.m. in London, its biggest rise on record. That
values the firm at about 968 million pounds. Royal Bank rose 20
cents to C$55.75 at 9:38 a.m. trading on the Toronto Stock
Exchange.  Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon  has said he
expects wealth management to grow at a faster pace than other
areas of the financial services industry due to growing demand
for retirement planning by aging people in developed countries,
and a rise in wealthy investors, especially in emerging
countries.  The RBC offer “crystallizes people’s attention on what
these businesses are worth,” Duncan said. He values RBC’s bid
at about 19 times BlueBay’s 2011 earnings.  Man Group Plc , the
world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund manager earlier this
year bought GLG Group Inc. for 20 times 2009 profit.  BlueBay, led by co-founder and CEO  Hugh Willis , is a fund
manager with long-only and hedge funds that invest in fixed-
income assets including high-yield corporate bonds, emerging-
market debt and structured products.  The firm shut its $1.2 billion Emerging Markets Total
Return Fund in November 2008 after manager  Simon Treacher 
resigned following a breach of internal rules. He was later
banned by the Financial Services Authority. BlueBay rose more
than six-fold between the closure of the fund and Oct. 15.  Directors’ Holdings  BlueBay’s directors own 20.5 percent of the company’s
shares. Willis and Chief Investment Officer  Mark Poole  are the
biggest individual shareholders, each owning 8.5 percent of the
company. Those stakes are valued at about 81.9 million pounds in
the deal.  Willis and Poole agreed to invest 25 percent of their
proceeds from the deal into BlueBay funds. They will forfeit 40
percent of those funds if they leave the company within three
years. BlueBay employees will have $280 million invested in the
company’s funds following the transaction, the company said.  BlueBay said in a separate statement today that assets
under management climbed 17 percent to $40 billion in the three
months to Sept. 30. Inflows into emerging-markets funds climbed
23 percent to $8.1 billion and the company also benefitted from
a rise in the euro against the U.S. dollar in the period.  BlueBay was advised by Spencer House Partners LLP and
Credit Suisse Group AG. RBC was advised by Perella Weinberg
Partners and RBC Capital Markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;  Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
   dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  