-- Royal Bafokeng Platinum Plans Largest South African Mining IPO in a Decade
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-18T17:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/royal-bafokeng-platinum-plans-largest-south-african-mining-ipo-in-a-decade.html
Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd., South
Africa’s largest black-owned platinum miner, plans to raise as
much as 3.2 billion rand ($466 million) through the nation’s
biggest mining initial public offering in at least 16 years.  RBPlat, as the company is known, is selling 49.2 million
shares at 56 rand to 65 rand each, it said today in a statement.
That consists of 16.5 million new shares and 32.7 million shares
held by existing holders, including the over-allotment amount,
according to terms of the sale obtained by Bloomberg News. After
the IPO, 30 percent of the company will be publicly tradable.  RBPlat, a unit of Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd., needs funds
to develop the Styldrift 1 section of its Bafokeng Rasimone mine
venture northwest of Rustenburg. The IPO, open for orders from
today, follows share sales by Optimum Coal Holdings Ltd., which
raised 1.4 billion rand in a private placing before listing in
Johannesburg in March, and Keaton Energy Holdings Ltd., which
raised 100 million rand ahead of its April 2008 listing.  The Rasimone venture is 67 percent held by RBPlat, while
 Anglo Platinum Ltd. , the world’s largest producer of the metal,
owns the rest. The venture produces about 270,000 ounces of
platinum concentrate annually and plans to spend 11.8 billion
rand digging the Styldrift 1 section.  Output Target  RBPlat could “easily” grow to produce 1 million ounces of
platinum group metals and gold annually in about 10 to 15 years,
even without acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Phiri 
told reporters in Johannesburg today.  “It’s quite exciting, given the size and scale, and there
are some quality assets in there,”  Sasha Naryshkine , a fund
manager at Johannesburg-based Vestact Ltd., said by phone from
the city. “They work with some of the most high-profile miners
in the form of Anglo Platinum and they have a key tie-up with
Impala Platinum too.”  Anglo Platinum, producer of more than a third of the metal
mined globally, will own 12.7 percent of RBPlat once it’s
listed, compared with 15 percent now. Royal Bafokeng Holdings
owns 13.4 percent of  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. , the second-
largest platinum producer.  Impala valued Bafokeng’s  Rasimone  venture at just under 20
billion rand during a failed takeover that would have combined
the venture with Impala’s biggest mine. That represents a 50
percent premium to the “imputed” IPO price, Royal Bafokeng
Holdings CEO  Niall Carroll  said on Oct. 13. The takeover plan
was vetoed by Anglo Platinum.  Styldrift Cooperation  Impala agreed to mine a portion of RBPlat’s South Shaft in
exchange for royalty payments, Phiri said today, adding that the
two are in talks on collaborating in an area in the southeastern
part of its Styldrift project.  The share sale is “attractive” because it’s unlike most
platinum listings,  Rudi van der Merwe , chief investment officer
at Standard Private Bank Equity Advisory Services, said by phone
from Johannesburg. “Typically new listings are exploration
companies or companies that are far from production.”  RBPlat plans to start sinking a shaft at Styldrift this
quarter, ramping up to stable production of about 420,000 ounces
of platinum concentrate a year by 2017, Phiri said.  The company’s 7.9 billion-rand portion of the project will
be funded 50 percent with its own cash, 28 percent with debt and
22 percent with capital, said  Martin Prinsloo , chief financial
officer at RBPlat. The company plans to raise a minimum of 1
billion rand through the IPO and may return to the market in
2014 to raise any outstanding funds needed for Styldrift,
Prinsloo said.  Largest Platinum Reserves  RBPlat had revenue of 1.2 billion rand last year, while
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
were 330 million rand, it said in the statement. RBPlat is the
platinum arm of the Royal Bafokeng nation, a community of about
300,000 people based near South Africa’s Sun City. The country
has the world’s largest reserves of the metal.  A 3.2 billion-rand IPO would be the largest among South
African mining companies since at least 1994, when Bloomberg’s
share-sale data for the country begin.  Bookrunners Morgan Stanley, Rand Merchant Bank and
Macquarie Group Ltd. will take orders for the IPO through Nov.
1, the terms show. The shares are due to start trading on the
stock exchange in Johannesburg on Nov. 8. Nedbank Group Ltd. is
also a co-lead manager for the stock sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 