-- RWE Says Nabucco Won't Need Turkmen Gas If Azeri, Iraq Supplies Secured
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-10-18T13:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/rwe-says-nabucco-won-t-need-turkmenistan-gas-if-supplies-materialize-.html
RWE AG , the German utility planning
the Nabucco natural-gas pipeline to Europe to help cut reliance
on Russia, said the venture may not need fuel from Turkmenistan.  Nabucco is in negotiations to source gas from northern Iraq
and Azerbaijan, and “if those materialize there will be no room
for Turkmen gas anymore in Nabucco phase 1, the 31 billion cubic
meter capacity pipeline,”  Stefan Judisch , head of RWE’s supply
and trading unit, said in a phone interview today. “The supply
picture becomes slowly but surely clearer.”  The 7.9 billion-euro ($11 billion) pipeline is designed to
carry fuel more than 3,300 kilometers (2,050 miles) from Turkey
to Austria. Turkmenistan, holder of the world’s fourth-largest
 gas reserves , must maintain its relationship with Russia and
agree with Azerbaijan on transporting gas across the disputed
Caspian Sea in order to sell to Europe via Nabucco.  Turkmen export volumes to Europe must be taken into account
in the planning of a pipeline to transport gas from Azerbaijan’s
Shah Deniz field westward across Georgia, Judisch said.  The countries in the region and the six companies working
on Nabucco will need a concept for gas volumes from Turkmenistan
by the end of March to integrate the supplies into Nabucco, the
executive said.  ‘Most Economic’  RWE, which is based in the German city of Essen, views a
pipe across the Caspian as “the most economic route and the one
which promises the most value” when compared with alternatives,
such as compressing gas and shipping it across the body of
water, Judisch said.  The trans-Caspian link between Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan
could cost about 1 billion euros, depending on its capacity and
precise length, Judisch said.  Compressed natural gas  shipping may cost three to four
times as much and it would be “very difficult” to build a
sufficient number of vessels, the executive said, adding that
RWE has studied the option.  Iraq is the “most real” supplier for Nabucco as it is
less dependent on Russia than Turkmenistan or Azerbaijan,
Dimitar Abadjiev, head of corporate affairs at  Nabucco Gas
Pipeline International GmbH, said in Bucharest last month.  RWE may to reach an agreement on sourcing gas from northern
Iraq before the end of the year, according to Judisch.  Germany’s second-largest utility, signed in August a
cooperation agreement with the Kurdistan Regional Government to
help develop the Iraqi region’s gas distribution network.  Iraq Consensus  “Before any export, our gas will be used to meet the needs
of the people of the Kurdistan region and neighboring areas,”
KRG Prime Minister Barham Salih said in an Aug. 26 statement
posted on the regional government’s website.  The Iraqi Oil Ministry responded with a statement on its
 website  “stressing that Iraq is exporting crude oil and gas
through the Iraqi oil marketing company exclusively and there is
not any other party authorized to sign contracts with
international companies.”  “We certainly recognize that an export can only happen if
all stakeholders are happy,” Judisch said today. “We are in
contact with the relevant authorities and we expect people
coming to consensus on this matter soon.”  Nabucco wants to save on construction costs by leasing a
Turkish pipeline owned by Botas which runs to Diyarbakir, close
to the Iraqi border, to transport gas to the main trunk of
Nabucco. The group may reach an agreement on the use of the pipe
“soon,” Judisch said.  The European Union’s sanctions against Iran probably won’t
stop Vienna-based Nabucco from sourcing gas from Azerbaijan’s
Shah Deniz gas field, in which Iran holds a stake through state-
owned Naftiran Intertrade Co., according to the executive. BP
Plc, Statoil ASA and Total SA are among Shah Deniz shareholders.  “From all that we know, and we are in continuous contact
with the EU Commission, there will be no impact,” Judisch said.  Nabucco partners, which also include OMV AG, Mol Nyrt. of
Hungary, Bulgargaz EAD, Romania’s Transgaz SA and Ankara-based
Botas, are scheduled to decide on the investment next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  