-- S&P Rating Plan Faulted for Reducing Repo Cash, Funds' Choices
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-18T11:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/s-p-risk-rating-plan-faulted-for-reducing-repo-cash-money-funds-choices.html
A  Standard & Poor’s  plan to change
the way it rates the credit risk of counterparties in repurchase
agreements will boost costs for broker-dealers who draw cash
through the arrangements and shrink the pool of liquid assets
for money funds, according to industry participants.  Today is the final day in a one-month public comment period
on S&P’s proposal to view unrated broker-dealers serving as
counterparties in  repos  to rated money funds as having “high
credit risk.” S&P now assigns to an unrated counterparty that’s
at least half-owned by a rated entity the parent company’s risk
level.  “This would be disruptive not only to the dealer
community, whose funding costs will go up, but also to the money
funds who will need to find some replacement for that overnight
liquidity,” said  Joseph Abate , a money-market strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York. “The changes are unnecessary because
the overwhelming majority of repos held by money market funds
are against government securities which are liquid and the
transactions are typically overnight.”  Money-market mutual funds have come under scrutiny since
September 2008, when credit markets nearly froze after the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund collapsed on losses related to
bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Lehman failed partly
because lenders lost confidence in the firm’s ability to pay
repo loans or post adequate collateral.  ‘AAA Standard’  S&P is proposing to modify criteria for assessing
counterparty credit risk in funds with principal stability fund
ratings and fund credit quality ratings. These counterparty
transactions include repos, reverse repurchase agreements,
swaps, forward purchases, foreign-exchange contracts and other
hedging positions.  “There are a lot of issues that go on if something goes
wrong with the counterparty,” said  Peter Rizzo , senior director
of fund services at S&P in New York, in an interview. “That is
not a risk we want to see in our rated funds. While we are not
ignorant to the fact that our criteria may change behavior, we
need to apply and develop criteria that we feel is best suited
for AAA standard.”  Rating companies and regulators have increased scrutiny of
derivatives and short-term funding tools, which proved
vulnerable during the financial crisis. U.S. regulators have
increased the amount that money-market mutual funds hold in the
form of cash and easy-to-sell securities.  Barclays’s View  Funds must be able to sell 10 percent of their assets in
one day and 30 percent within a week under rules approved in
January by the Securities and Exchange Commission to reduce
investor runs.  As of late September, taxable money funds had a total of
$570 billion in outstanding repo transactions, the majority with
unrated broker-dealer counterparties, according to Barclays. If
the S&P plan is adopted, dealers without their own explicit
rating will effectively be blocked from doing repo transactions
with rated money funds, Barclays said in a report last week.  “There is definitely risk of the S&P proposed changes
affecting money funds’ use of repos,” said  Deborah Cunningham ,
chief investment officer in Pittsburgh for taxable money markets
at Federated Investors Inc., which manages more than $336
billion in money-market investments. “It would change the
marketplace if it comes through. If this becomes required, then
it’s a question of will the counterparties go down the path of
paying for this additional rating. That remains to be seen.”  Assets in Repos  The more than  $4 trillion-a-day  repo market is used by
dealers to finance their holdings of securities in inventory.
Rates are typically below unsecured borrowing costs because the
loans are backed by collateral.  In a repo arrangement, a lender sends cash to a borrower in
return for collateral, often Treasury bills or notes, which the
borrower agrees to repurchase as soon as the next day for the
face value of the securities plus interest.  As of Aug. 31, U.S. prime money market funds held 17
percent, or $281.5 billion, of their assets under management in
repos, up from a long-term average of 11 percent, according a
Fitch Ratings report published Oct. 4. Prime money funds
typically invest in commercial paper, bank certificates of
deposit and floating-rate notes issued by private firms.  “The surprising part of the S&P proposal is that loans by
money-market funds to broker-dealers would get a low credit
rating even when they are backed by U.S. Treasuries,” said
 Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at Stanford University and
president of the American Finance Association. “The broker-
dealers that now depend on those loans for a substantial amount
of their financing would probably go elsewhere, at a slightly
higher average interest rate.”  Tri-Party Market  Repos undertaken by U.S. money market funds are almost
entirely done on a tri-party basis to help reduce the risks
associated with a counterparty default, analysts led by Viktoria
Baklanova wrote in the  Fitch Ratings  report.  The Federal Reserve has been working to strengthen the tri-
party repo market after its near-collapse in 2008 and 2009. In a
tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the agent for
the transaction and holds the security as collateral. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are the only banks
that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the market.  A tri-party repo reform task force, formed in September
2009 by the private industry group sponsored by the New York Fed
called the Payments Risk Committee, recommended cash investors
focus on the collateral underlying repo agreements.  In a May statement of proposals, the task force called for
investors, such as money funds, to secure “liquidation plans”
for repo collateral in the case of a dealer default. In many
cases, “cash investors were unprepared to cope with the
consequences of a dealer default” and at times had “financed
assets that they would not normally hold outright,” during the
financial crisis, the task force  statement  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  