-- SABMiller Beer Sales Beat Estimates on Asian, African Growth
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-18T11:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/sabmiller-first-half-organic-beer-volume-increases-1-beating-estimates.html
SABMiller Plc , the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, said first-half beer sales rose as
gains in Asia and Africa more than offset declines in Latin
America and Europe.  The quantity of lager sold increased 1 percent in the six
months ended Sept. 30, excluding the effect of acquisitions,
London-based SABMiller said today. That beat the 0.5 percent
median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  SABMiller is among brewers seeking growth in developing
markets and through takeovers to combat sluggish consumer
spending in Europe. Sales declined “marginally” in Latin
America and slid 5 percent in Europe, while gaining 10 percent
in Asia and 7 percent in Africa, the company said.  The brewer’s third-biggest market of South Africa, which
 contributes  about 23 percent of revenue, “was the star of the
show,” bolstered by the effects of the World Cup soccer
tournament, said Simon Hales, a London-based analyst at
Evolution Securities. “A big, positive swing” in Europe in the
second quarter, bolstered by Russia, also helped.  SABMiller  rose  as much as 16 pence, or 0.8 percent, to
2,075.5 pence and was up 0.2 percent as of 12:45 p.m. in London
trading. The stock has gained 13 percent this year, valuing the
company at 32.7 billion pounds ($52 billion).  Latin American Decline  Latin American volume fell in the second quarter, reversing
a 1 percent increase in the first three months of the year. The
decline was led by Colombia, where volume dropped 7 percent,
hurt by price increases, poor weather and five “dry days”
around the country’s elections in May and June, the company
said.  “My worries are that Latin America has got worse,” as
“that’s their biggest single profit contributor right now,”
Hales said. “There’s going to be a bit of caution around
that.”  First-half results were helped by price increases, “some
raw material cost reductions” and “strengthening of key
operating currencies against the U.S. dollar,” SABMiller said.
The company, which said it has continued to invest in marketing,
reports earnings figures on Nov. 18.  “You may get a little bit of tweaking up of analyst
numbers on the foreign exchange movements in the last weeks, but
I don’t think there’s anything which would make me change my
top-line numbers or margin  estimates ,” said Hales, who
 recommends  buying SABMiller stock and predicts the shares will
reach 2,100 pence.  Beer volume in Africa rose 11 percent when including
figures from Zimbabwe, SABMiller said. The company said it’s
resuming reporting of sales from the country following the
stabilization of its economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 