-- Santander Sells $2.7 Billion Stake in Brazil Unit to Qatar Through Bonds
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-10-18T15:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/santander-sells-2-7-billion-stake-in-brazil-unit-to-qatar-through-bonds.html
Banco Santander SA  agreed to sell
$2.7 billion of bonds that must be converted into stock in its
Brazilian unit to Qatar Holding LLC as Spain’s biggest bank
seeks to raise funds following acquisitions.  The exchange price for the three-year bonds will be 23.75
reais ($14.22) a share, Santander said today in a filing to
regulators in Madrid. The bonds pay an annual coupon of 6.75
percent, it said. The converted stock represents a 5 percent
stake in Santander’s Brazilian unit, which closed at 24.88 reais
a share on Oct. 15.  The Spanish lender, which still owned 83.6 percent of its
Brazilian bank after an initial public offering last year, had
to sell more shares to comply with securities regulations that
mean the company must have 25 percent of its shares traded on
the Sao Paulo stock exchange. Madrid-traded Santander shares
rose today as investors speculated the sale may reduce the
likelihood of a capital increase, according to  Daragh Quinn , an
analyst at Nomura International Plc in London.  “The market’s conclusion will be that the more they
strengthen group capital, the less likely it is that they will
have to consider a capital increase,” Quinn, who rates
Santander shares “neutral,” said in a phone interview.  Santander rose 0.6 percent to 9.54 euros at the 5:36 p.m.
Madrid close, reversing an earlier decline of as much as 1.5
percent. Santander’s Brazilian unit shares fell 1.3 percent to
24.57 reais in Sao Paulo.  ‘A Bit Generous’  “They sold shares in the IPO at 23.50 reais and now they
are selling to the Qataris at 23.75 reais, which looks a bit
generous to them,” said  Bill Rudman , who manages about $1.5
billion, including Santander Brazil shares, at Blackfriars Asset
Management in London. “The news is neutral to a little bit
negative.”  Santander has spent at least $10 billion since June buying
up businesses from Poland, where it agreed to pay 2.94 billion
euros ($4.1 billion) for 70 percent of Bank Zachodni WBK SA, to
the U.K., where it’s buying 318 branches of Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc for 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion).  The purchases announced this year will shave as much as 1.4
percentage points from its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure
of financial strength that stood at 8.6 percent at the end of
June, according to  Santander  estimates. Even so, the bank
expects to be able to keep the measure above 8 percent in 2011
as it generates capital from earnings.  Qatar Investments  Qatar Holding is the investment arm of the Qatar Investment
Authority, the Persian Gulf country’s sovereign wealth fund that
is a shareholder in Volkswagen AG, Barclays Plc and J Sainsbury
Plc. The fund may spend $30 billion this year, matching the
value of investments last year, the country’s Prime Minister
Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber Al-Thani said in March.  Qatar bought Harrods Ltd., owner of the London department
store, for $2.2 billion earlier this year and agreed to invest
$2.8 billion in an initial public offering by Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. The Qatar Investment Authority intends to invest
$5 billion in Greece’s economy, according to a memorandum signed
between the two countries last month.  “The reference price is not that far from the market
price, so I’d say Qatar Holding is getting a good deal,” said
 Fabio Cardoso , a partner at Adinvest Consultoria, a Rio de
Janeiro-based equity consulting firm. “It looks like a good
deal for both, because Santander opens up a new channel for
capitalization.”  The sale will allow Santander’s Brazil unit to achieve its
commitment of having a free float in the stock market of 25
percent by the end of 2014, the bank said.  “This investment means the incorporation of Qatar Holding
as a strategic partner of the Santander Group in Brazil and the
rest of Latin America,” the Spanish bank said. Barclays Capital
advised Qatar on the transaction, Qatar Holding said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  