-- Saudi Business Confidence Increases in Fourth Quarter, Bank Index Shows
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-10-18T07:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/saudi-business-confidence-increases-in-fourth-quarter-bank-index-shows.html
Saudi Arabia’s business confidence
increased in the fourth quarter as oil prices rebounded and
lending revived,  Banque Saudi Fransi  said today.  The Banque Saudi Fransi Business Confidence Index climbed
to 100.2 points from 99.8 points in the third quarter, the
Riyadh-based bank said in a report released today. It’s still
below the 100.7 reading in the second quarter. More than two-
thirds of the companies polled in the latest survey said they
expect revenue will rise this quarter.  “Steady or higher oil price outlooks among businesses
underpin confidence that revenues will improve in the next two
quarters,” Banque Saudi Fransi’s chief economist,  John Sfakianakis , wrote in the report. “Investors are more
comfortable taking risks with their surplus cash than they were
in Q3.”  Growth in Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier,
slowed to 0.6 percent last year as crude output declined and
prices dropped. The government is seeking to revive the economy
with a $400 billion, five-year stimulus package that includes
investments in education and renewable energy.  Saudi Arabia’s economy will expand by 3.4 percent this year
and 4.5 percent in 2011 as it benefits from higher oil prices
and government spending, the International Monetary Fund said on
Oct. 6. Challenges to the region include reviving credit growth
and easing concerns over the “health of the corporate sector”
following defaults in Gulf countries including Saudi Arabia, the
IMF said.  Crude has risen about 7 percent in the past two months and
is trading at about $81 a barrel today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  