-- Saudi Sabic May Restructure Plastic Unit Loan as Markets Improve, CEO Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-18T05:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/saudi-sabic-may-restructure-plastic-unit-loan-as-markets-improve-ceo-says.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the
world’s largest petrochemical maker, known as Sabic, may
restructure a loan taken by its Sabic Innovative Plastics unit
as global borrowing conditions improve.  “The environment for restructuring the loan within Sabic
IP is reasonable now,” Chief Executive Officer Mohamed al-Mady
said in an interview in Riyadh yesterday. “We will start the
process, and if we find we are getting a good deal, we will
conclude. Otherwise, we are not in a hurry to finalize.”  Sabic  bought its plastics unit from General Electric Co.
for $11.6 billion in 2007 to gain products and operations in the
U.S., Asia and Europe. It helped purchase the unit, a record
acquisition in the Gulf region, with a $6.6 billion term loan
and by selling $1.5 billion of bonds.  After buying the unit, Sabic cut about 9.5 percent of its
workforce as the company reorganized its sales and marketing
model to adapt to rising material costs and falling demand for
products during the global financial crisis. The unit
contributed to Sabic’s first-quarter loss last year.  Sabic said today  third-quarter profit  jumped 46 percent to
5.33 billion riyals ($1.42 billion) on higher prices, increased
demand for its products and income. This was due “to the
improvement in the performance of overseas affiliates,” the
company said in the statement.  Sabic Innovative has had a “tremendously good
performance” with costing restructuring and renewed demand from
the automobile, electronic and healthcare sectors, Al-Mady said.
The unit plans to expand its resin capacity in China and build a
manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia, he said.  “The only sector that really didn’t contribute was the
construction sector because of the U.S. housing situation,” Al-
Mady said.  Sabic shares  closed 2.3 percent higher at 89 riyals at the
3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh yesterday. The stock gained 7.9
percent this year compared with a 2.3 percent rise in the
benchmark Tadawul All Share Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 