-- HSBC, Lloyds Banking Said to Be Ready to Sign U.K. Code on Tax Avoidance
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-10-18T11:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/hsbc-and-lloyds-said-to-be-ready-to-sign-britain-s-code-on-tax-avoidance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc  will sign the British government’s code of conduct on
tax avoidance, according to two people familiar with the plans.  The banks aim to sign before the deadline expires in
November, the people said, declining to be identified because
the matter is private.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank, has already
signed, a person with knowledge of the situation said, while
 Northern Rock Plc  spokesman  Simon Hall  said the taxpayer-owned
bank is “in the process” of reaching agreement.  Chancellor  George Osborne  yesterday told the British
Broadcasting Corp. that he will pressure banks to sign the
pledge, putting an end to “immoral” tax avoidance. The
government will announce the biggest spending cuts since World
War II on Oct. 20, after taxpayers funded more than 1 trillion
pounds ($1.59 trillion) for bank bailouts and guarantees during
the financial crisis.  The new  Code of Practice on Taxation  will require banks to
establish formal policies and accountability for directors to
ensure tax is paid. Former Chancellor  Alistair Darling  initiated
the code in June last year. Banks refusing to sign up to the
code would face more intrusive inspections from tax authorities,
the government has said.  “It is important political gesturing,” Richard Murphy,
U.K. accountant and director of Tax Research LLP. “It gives a
clear and essential signal that this activity is abusive. As it
stands, it’s not going to rock the world but it is an indicator
of intent and symbolically is extremely important.”  Officials at  Barclays Plc , Standard Chartered Plc,  HSBC ,
Lloyds, RBS and the Treasury declined to comment. A spokesman
for Santander U.K. Plc wasn’t immediately available to comment.  U.K. banks will avoid paying 19 billion pounds of tax on
future profits by offsetting their losses during the financial
crisis against their tax bills, Murphy said in a report
published by the  Trades Union Congress  today. That’s equivalent
to more than 1,100 pounds for every family in the U.K., the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  