-- Senate Candidates Count Cyber Friends in Facebook Social Media Campaigns
-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-18T15:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/senate-candidates-count-cyber-friends-in-facebook-social-media-campaigns.html
In Florida’s three-way U.S. Senate
race, poll numbers aren’t all that is going  Marco Rubio ’s way.
The Republican nominee also has the most “friends.”  On his Facebook page, Rubio’s 128,800 followers far surpass
those for Democratic rival  Kendrick Meek  and Governor  Charlie Crist , who is seeking the Senate seat as an independent. The
combined number of Facebook friends for Crist and Meek is about
51,600.  Rubio, a former state House speaker from Miami backed by
Tea Party activists, held a 14-percentage point lead over Crist
and a 22-point advantage over Meek in a poll released Oct. 13 by
the Quinnipiac University  Polling Institute  in Hamden,
Connecticut.  Television ads for Rubio urge viewers to sign onto his
Facebook page, and aides see a connection between the
candidate’s standing in the polls and the campaign’s use of
social media.  More friends can mean more money for candidates, as most
Facebook pages encourage fans to donate to campaigns. Rubio’s
Facebook site gives out signs and stickers to fans who recruit
additional donors online.  “Never underestimate the power of word-of-mouth and
sharing with friends,” said Alex Burgos, a Rubio spokesman. He
said the TV ads direct viewers to Facebook instead of the
campaign’s website to prompt a more direct conversation with the
candidate. Facebook also allows the campaign team to better
monitor voter reaction and support, Burgos said.  Candidate Accounts  All of the 73 Senate candidates for the two major parties
this year have  Facebook  accounts, 72 candidates have websites
and 70 utilize  Twitter , a social network featuring short message
updates, according to Bloomberg research. On campaign websites,
85 percent of these candidates have video-sharing  YouTube 
accounts and 43 percent have blogs, the research found.  Such reliance on Internet-based tools illustrates how
candidates have recognized their potential value. “People are
getting more savvy about what audiences they can reach and where
they can reach them,” said  Evan Tracey , president of Kantar
Media’s Campaign Media Analysis Group.  Facebook, which touts more than 500 million users, allows
members to join groups, express political beliefs and plan
events. Twitter lets users express beliefs, repost comments by
others and track online conversations about candidates and
policies. With YouTube, candidates can create online channels to
post videos for the public.  ‘Opened the Door’  The tools enable even poorly funded candidates to extend
their reach. “Social media has opened the door for the little
guy,” said Heather LaMarre, a University of Minnesota professor
leading a  study  on social media and the 2010 campaigns. “It’s a
way of getting a message to a lot of people. It’s very quick and
very responsive,” she said.  How effective social media campaigns prove to be in the
Nov. 2 elections will help dictate future funding for them over
television and print advertising, LaMarre said.  Tracey said candidates are developing “a better
understanding” of how the digital tools “fit in the
campaign.”  In North Dakota, Democratic Senate candidate  Tracy Potter 
features himself in YouTube videos he calls “Grillside Chats,”
evoking President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s fireside chats
broadcast on radio during the 1930s.  Grassley Ad  Senator  Chuck Grassley , an Iowa Republican seeking a sixth
term, flaunts his Twitter skills in a TV campaign spot on
television. The ad starts with one woman saying to another: “I
heard Chuck Grassley has a Twitter.” The second woman, with a
concerned look, asks: “Oh, can it be cured?”  “Oh, not that kind,” the 77-year-old Grassley says in the
ad. He adds: “I’ll tweet, I’ll text, I’ll do whatever it takes.
I work for you.”  Rubio, 39, “tweets,” or posts, messages on Twitter that
include personal notes to show people he is “just a normal guy
who watches football, takes kids to school, and experiences
things,” Burgos said.  The candidate eschews help from aides with his postings.
“Authenticity is a big deal there,” said Michael Beach, a
partner at Alexandria, Virginia-based Targeted Victory, Rubio’s
digital strategy firm.  Rubio’s communications team controls a second Twitter
account that posts press releases.  Use of Aides  Many candidates shy away from posting directly on their
Twitter accounts, relying instead on aides, said Tracey.  Meek, 44, calls in tweets to his communications department,
which then proofreads the postings, said campaign spokesman
Nathan Click. “He is the fire behind it,” Click said.  Crist, 54, posts updates and pictures to his Twitter
account to let followers know about his activities. “Quick stop
for coffee w the First Lady at Panera Bread in South Tampa,”
Crist posted Oct. 3.  The increased political use of social media was spurred by
President  Barack Obama ’s success in the 2008 presidential
election. He collected over $500 million online, according to
 Blue State Digital , the online fundraising firm that worked on
the Obama campaign.  Chris Hughes , a co-founder of Facebook Inc., created a
social media site for the Obama campaign --  mybarackobama.com  --
which allowed its 2 million members to organize efforts in
neighborhoods and workplaces.  A failure by Republicans to aggressively embrace new
technology cost the party votes in 2008, Beach said. “Social
media was a big part in that,” he said.  Tea Party  This year, social media has helped the Tea Party movement
by providing the small-government, anti-tax activists with
“technologies to organize them structurally to become a bigger
force,” Tracey said.  In Nevada’s Senate race, Tea Party-backed Republican  Sharon Angle  has about 94,700 friends on Facebook; Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , the Democrat seeking his fifth term, has
13,700. In Delaware, Tea Party-backed Republican  Christine O’Donnell ’s 25,600 friends more than double those of Democratic
opponent  Chris Coons  in a race for the Senate seat once held by
Vice President  Joe Biden .  In California’s Senate race, Republican  Carly Fiorina ,
former chairwoman and chief executive officer of  Hewlett-Packard
Co. , has 306,000 Twitter followers, compared with 23,400 for
Democratic incumbent  Barbara Boxer .  Boxer campaign spokesman Matthew Kagan, when asked about
the disparity, said “I have no idea.” He also said, “Senator
Boxer’s supporters are a very loyal and dedicated group.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  