-- Singapore's Export Growth Eases as Slowing Global Expansion Hurts Demand
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/singapore-s-export-growth-eases-as-slowing-global-expansion-hurts-demand.html
Singapore’s export growth slowed in
September as shipments of electronics and pharmaceuticals eased,
heralding softening demand in the coming months as the global
economy weakens.  Non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 22.7 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 30.8 percent gain in August, the trade
promotion agency said in a statement in Singapore today. The
median forecast of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was
for an increase of 19.7 percent.  Overseas demand, which has lifted export-dependent Asian
economies including Singapore and China, may falter as
governments in Europe embark on austerity programs to cut
deficits and households in some of the world’s largest economies
hold back spending. Singapore’s economy contracted last quarter
as manufacturing cooled, a report showed this month.  “The purchasing manager indices of key export markets are
tapering off and the electronics cycle has peaked,”  Irvin Seah ,
an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said
before the report. This “essentially implies a slower pace of
growth but not contraction,” he said.  Electronics shipments  by companies including Venture Corp.,
Singapore’s biggest publicly traded electronics contract
manufacturer, climbed 21.2 percent in September from a year
earlier to S$5.8 billion ($4.4 billion), after a revised 34.8
percent gain the previous month.  Pharmaceuticals Sales  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, gained 23.7 percent. Pharmaceutical shipments
rose 16 percent after climbing 64.7 percent in August.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as  Sanofi-
Aventis SA  can cause  industrial output  to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  dropped a seasonally adjusted
4.5 percent last month from August, when they gained a revised
9.8 percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  