-- Singapore Economy May Fall Into Technical Recession
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-18T08:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/singapore-says-economy-may-fall-into-technical-recession-in-second-half.html
Singapore said its economy could
experience a technical recession in the second half of 2010 even
as the island remains “on track” for an expansion of 13
percent to 15 percent for the full year.  Singapore’s economy will moderate in the second half of
2010 and next year,  S. Iswaran , senior minister of state for
trade and industry, said in parliament today. A technical
recession is two consecutive quarters of economic contraction.  “The pace of recovery in the global economy is expected to
remain subdued for the rest of the year,” Iswaran said. “This
will affect the performance of our manufacturing and trade-
dependent services sector. The biomedical manufacturing cluster
could also continue to be affected by some scheduled plant
maintenance shutdowns.”  Singapore has remained vulnerable to fluctuations in
overseas demand for manufactured goods even after the government
boosted financial services and tourism. A 19.8 percent annual
rate of decline in the island’s  gross domestic product  in the
third quarter halted a record pace of expansion in the first
half, a trade ministry report showed last week.  “A technical recession could happen in the second half of
the year,” Iswaran said. “If this happened, it would largely
be a reflection of the sharp swings in the biomedical
manufacturing cluster.”  Volatile Industry  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as  Sanofi-
Aventis SA  can cause  industrial output  to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s export growth slowed in September as shipments
of electronics and pharmaceuticals eased, the trade promotion
agency said in a statement today. The island’s dependence on
overseas trade, with non-oil exports equivalent to more than
half of GDP, makes it vulnerable to swings in global growth.  Still, continued global demand for  electronics goods  will
“lend some support” to the electronics and precision
engineering industries, Iswaran said today.  Singapore is also benefitting from rising visitor arrivals
as new attractions such as the island’s integrated resorts lure
tourists, he said. The resorts run by  Genting Singapore Plc  and
Las Vegas Sands Corp. incorporate casinos, restaurants, malls
and a Universal Studios Inc. theme park.  Singapore in August announced measures to cool the property
market, including increasing down payments for second mortgages
and imposing a stamp duty on property held for less than three
years, to curb speculation.  It’s too early to assess the success of the government’s
property-market measures,  Mah Bow Tan , the island’s national
development minister, said in parliament today. The government
will “reserve the right” to take more steps if needed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  