-- South Africa Ends Attempt to Weaken Rand as Currency Hits Three-Year High
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-19T11:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/south-africa-stops-fighting-currency-war-as-soaring-rand-damages-economy.html
  South Africa  is opting out of a
global “currency war,” unable to halt a rally in the rand that
has pushed the currency to its strongest in almost three years,
damping exports and adding to job losses.  While Brazil, China, Turkey and other emerging markets have
moved to weaken their currencies, South African central bank
Governor Gill Marcus says the country can’t afford to act more
aggressively. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has called instead
for a coordinated global response, a push that has failed to win
traction among policy makers around the world.  The central bank’s efforts haven’t kept the rand from
rallying 37 percent against the dollar since the start of 2009,
the second-best performance among emerging markets after
Brazil’s real. With unemployment of about 25 percent and
economic growth one-third of that in  China , Turkey and Brazil,
South  Africa  should give manufacturers tax breaks to offset the
rand’s gains, the  International Monetary Fund  says.  “The risk is that they get left behind with an increasing
deluge of emerging market countries starting to fiddle in
currencies,” said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “South Africa needs to make a move
simply to stand still.”  Near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S., Japan and the euro
region have fueled demand for high-yielding assets in emerging
markets such as South Africa, where the benchmark interest rate
is 6 percent. Foreigners have bought a net 88.6 billion rand
($13.1 billion) in stocks and bonds this year, according to data
from  JSE Ltd ., which operates the country’s stock exchange.  ‘War’  The rand, which traded at 6.9320 to the dollar as of 1:06
p.m. in Johannesburg, is likely to maintain most of its rally
this year, with the median forecast of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg indicating the currency will trade at 7 per dollar by
year-end.  Even so, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Oct. 15 that the
currency is likely to rally to 6.20 per dollar over the next
year. Goldman had earlier predicted the rand would trade at 7.50
per dollar by the end of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in a Sept. 27
speech that inflows into the emerging markets have led to a
worldwide “currency war.”  Countries such as Israel and  Turkey  have bought dollars to
limit gains in their currencies.  Israel  has added $25 billion to
non-gold reserves since the beginning of 2009, pushing them to
$66.3 billion. By contrast, South Africa, whose economy is
almost one-and-a-half times the size, has increased gross gold
and foreign currency reserves by $10.4 billion to $44.1 billion
over the same period.  Turkish Reserves  On Oct. 1, Turkey’s central bank increased the amount of
foreign currency it buys each week to $500 million from $400
million. Reserves stood at $78.4 billion on Oct. 8, or 10.8
percent of gross domestic product.  South Africa’s  Reserve Bank  used longer-term foreign
exchange swap transactions to add about $600 million to its
reserves for the whole month of September, according to the
bank’s data.  Marcus said today that the bank can’t afford to accelerate
purchases because it earns less in interest on foreign currency
reserves than it pays out on the bonds it sells to soak up
excess liquidity. The bank made a loss of 1.05 billion rand
($153 million) in the year through March.  ‘Deepest Pockets’  As countries move to curb their currencies “it’s going to
be the one with the deepest pockets who wins the game,” Lesetja Kganyago, director-general of South Africa’s National Treasury,
told economists in Johannesburg on Oct. 15. “South Africa
doesn’t particularly have deep pockets.”    Brazil  tried to follow a cheaper policy last year when it
imposed a tax on foreign portfolio investment. The Latin
American country yesterday raised the tax on foreign investment
in fixed-income securities to 6 percent from 4 percent.  The tax has failed to stem the rally in the real and a
similar move by South Africa would damp the investment the
country needs to finance its current account deficit, Kganyago
said on Sept. 7. The government would be “shooting itself in
the foot” by implementing such a tax, he said.  Gordhan should follow a different tack in his mid-term
budget on Oct. 27 and give tax breaks to manufacturers and
exporters, the IMF said in a Sept. 21 report. Marcus said on
Oct. 13 that South Africa has to look at a “multitude of
policies” to address the rand’s gains, including tax
incentives. Gordhan declined in an interview on Oct. 14 to
comment on whether he will impose such measures.  ‘Trade War’  “What we have right now is a serious danger of competitive
devaluations,” Gordhan said in a speech to the Consumer Goods
Council in Johannesburg today. “If we continue on this road, it
will result in a trade war. And then each country is going to
put up barriers.”  South Africa’s inaction may encourage currency traders to
push the rand higher, said  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic
research at Standard Chartered Plc in London.  “From the market’s perspective, taking a global view of
currency wars, South Africa’s defense may appear the most
weak,” said Khan.  Money has continued to flow into Africa’s biggest economy
even as it lags behind other emerging markets. Growth reached an
annual 3 percent in the second quarter, while Turkey grew 10.3
percent,  Malaysia  expanded 8.9 percent and Brazil increased 8.8
percent in the same period, according to official data.  South Africa’s jobless rate of 25.3 percent is the highest
of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Despair’  Allied Electronics Corp., which invests in companies that
make communications equipment and power cables, and  Sasol Ltd .,
the world’s biggest maker of motor fuel from coal, both based in
Johannesburg, have complained in the past two months that the
rand is undermining their profits. Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
Africa’s biggest bank, said on Oct. 5 it may cut jobs in
Johannesburg and London as costs increased, in part because of
the stronger rand.  Local farmers are in “despair” as the strong currency has
made exports of corn “uneconomical,” Grain SA, which
represents the industry, said on Oct. 13.  “There’s no question that it hurts many areas of the
economy,” Marcus said on Oct. 13.  “There is no disagreement
that the rand is overvalued. The question is what to do about
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  