-- Spain's Solar Deals on Edge of Bankruptcy as Subsidies Founder
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-10-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/spanish-solar-projects-on-brink-of-bankruptcy-as-subsidy-policies-founder.html
German Vilimelis heard about Spain’s
solar gold rush from his brother-in-law in 2007.  Across the plains around Lerida, the northeastern Spanish
town where they spent weekends, farmers were turning over their
fields to photovoltaic panels to capitalize on government solar-
energy subsidies. Vilimelis persuaded his father, Jaume, who
made a living growing pears on 5 acres (2 hectares) of land in
Lerida, to turn over a portion of his farm for the project,
Bloomberg Markets reported in its November issue.  Vilimelis, 35, a procurement manager for a consumer goods
company, pooled his family savings and mortgaged his apartment
to obtain a loan of more than 400,000 euros ($558,500) to cover
the investment. Within nine months, the family’s 80-kilowatt
generation unit -- 500 solar panels on seven racks angled toward
the sun -- was feeding power into the national grid.  Solar investors such as Vilimelis were lured by a 2007 law
passed by the government of Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  that guaranteed producers a so-called solar tariff of
as much as 44 cents per kilowatt-hour for their electricity for
25 years -- more than 10 times the 2007 average wholesale price
of about 4 cents per kilowatt-hour paid to mainstream energy
suppliers.  Thanks to the incentives, the family met the monthly cost
of the loan and even earned a small profit. Once the debt was
paid off in 2018, Vilimelis looked forward to making even more
money during the 15 additional years of subsidies guaranteed
under Spanish law.  ‘You Feel Cheated’  Now Vilimelis and more than 50,000 other Spanish solar
entrepreneurs face financial disaster as the policy makers
contemplate cutting the price guarantees that attracted their
investment in the first place.  “You feel cheated,” he says. “We put our money in on the
basis of a law.”  Zapatero introduced the subsidies three years ago as part
of an effort to cut his country’s dependence on fossil fuels. At
the time, he promised that the investment in renewable energy
would create  manufacturing jobs  and that Spain could sell its
panels to nations seeking to reduce carbon emissions.  Yet by failing to control the program’s cost, Zapatero
saddled Spain with at least 126 billion euros of obligations to
renewable-energy investors. The spending didn’t achieve the
government’s aim of creating green jobs, because Spanish
investors imported most of their panels from overseas when
domestic manufacturers couldn’t meet short-term demand.  Stark Lesson  Spain stands as a lesson to other aspiring green-energy
nations, including China and the U.S., by showing how difficult
it is to build an alternative energy industry even with billions
of euros in subsidies, says Ramon de la Sota, a private investor
in Spanish photovoltaic panels and a former General Electric Co.
executive.  “The government totally overshot with the tariff,” de la
Sota says. “Now they have a huge bill to pay -- but where’s the
technology, where’s the know-how, where’s the value?”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  highlighted solar energy as
part of his plan to create green jobs this month with a decision
to install photovoltaic panels on the roof of the White House.
The government also approved the first large-scale solar-power
projects on public land. Dublin-based utility NTR Plc and
 Chevron Corp.  will build plants in California generating enough
electricity between them to power about 600,000 homes.  Sun Surplus  At first glance, Spain appears to be the perfect incubator
for a solar-energy revolution. Thanks to its location in
southern Europe, the country’s land mass receives 900,000
terawatt-hours of  irradiation from the sun  each year, according
to the European Commission -- more than 3,000 times the power
used annually by its citizens. In contrast, Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, receives less than half that amount of
irradiation. (A terawatt-hour streams enough power to run 1
billion washing machines for 60 minutes.)  The challenge for Spain was to transform that free resource
into an industry that made economic sense and attracted
investors. The first problem lawmakers encountered was price.
Solar power, like wind and other renewable-energy sources, can’t
yet compete on price against electricity generated from natural
gas or coal.  Power from the most-efficient photovoltaic plants costs
utilities about $275 per megawatt-hour to produce compared with
about $60 for a coal-fired plant, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. The cost of electricity from coal is held down
in part by a plentiful supply of the mineral from established
mines.  Miscalculation  Spanish policy makers reasoned that generous subsidies
would help the country meet its goal of 400 megawatts of
installed solar power by 2010 as well as spur the development of
a manufacturing industry.  The feed-in tariff proved too successful in luring
investors. By the end of 2007, solar installations had exceeded
the government’s target, three years early, and the following
year, investors pumped 16.4 billion euros into Spain’s solar
industry, quintupling power capacity to 3,500 megawatts from 700
megawatts.  “They underestimated the technology -- how cheaply panels
could be installed and how quickly they could be installed,”
says  Jenny Chase , Zurich-based chief solar analyst at New Energy
Finance. “When you have 40 megawatts of photovoltaic panels, you
don’t think that if you get it wrong, you’ll end up with 3,500
megawatts.”  Panel Demand  At the same time, Spanish installations triggered a spike
in panel demand. The benchmark price of crystalline silicon
panels rose to a record $4.13 per watt in the second quarter of
2008, according to BNEF, a 28 percent increase from the same
period in 2004. Most of the panels installed in Spain came from
China and Germany.  Renewable-energy subsidies may not help to create companies
that can operate on their own, says  Annie Petsonk , international
counsel at the  Environmental Defense Fund . Policy makers need to
plan for the long term when setting up tax breaks and grants,
she says.  “Attempting to stimulate the deployment of a practical
technology needs to be very carefully done,” Petsonk says. “When
the economy turns downward, the pressure to get rid of the
subsidies can bring you crashing down.”  Zapatero’s Plan  Zapatero’s predecessor,  Jose Maria Aznar , laid the
foundation for Spain’s development of renewable energy. In 2004,
his government shifted to revising renewable-energy subsidies
every four years instead of annually, which meant project
revenue estimates were stable enough to raise financing,
according to  Tomas Diaz , spokesman for the Spanish Photovoltaic
Industry Association in Madrid.  When Zapatero came to power in April of the same year, his
Socialist Party pushed green energy as a new source of economic
growth. Under his program to create “the sustainable economy,”
he funneled 6.3 billion euros into developing renewable energy
and embarked on a 250 billion-euro  transport plan  that aims to
complete a 10,000-kilometer (6,000-mile) high-speed rail network
by 2020.  He also introduced subsidies of up to 20,000 euros for
buyers of electric vehicles as part of a 4 billion-euro package
of tax deductions, grants and subsidized loans to spur the
modernization of the country’s auto industry.  ‘Poster Child’  In 2007, the Spanish parliament approved Zapatero’s plan to
introduce a feed-in solar tariff -- called that because it fixed
the price at which producers can sell their power to the grid --
for photovoltaic plants at 10 times the wholesale rate.
Spain’s number crunchers failed to anticipate the spiraling cost
of an open-ended incentive, says  Charles Yonts , a renewable-
energy analyst at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong.  “Spain is the poster child of how things can go badly
awry,” he says. “Far too much money was being paid out.”  Chinese panel manufacturers, thanks to their lower labor
costs and ability to step up production, are best placed to
benefit from any solar revolution, Yonts says.  Four of the five best-performing  solar stocks  this year are
headquartered in China, including Qidong-based panel
manufacturer Solarfun Power Holdings Co., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In  November 2007 , Zapatero unveiled a solar plant at his
official residence in Madrid, with photovoltaic panels made by
Spain’s Isofoton SA.  “We are a world power in this field, we are capable of
exporting our technology and competing across five continents
and we are today at the forefront of the renewable-energy
industry,” he said.  Investment Surge  The surge in investment put Spain at the center of the
solar-energy business just as Bilbao-based power company
 Iberdrola SA  became the world’s largest producer of wind power,
using turbines produced in Spain by Gamesa Corporacion
Tecnologica SA. Iberdrola is the largest shareholder in Gamesa,
with a 15 percent stake.  As the state’s renewable-energy costs spiraled, Zapatero
reduced the subsidy for new solar parks by about a quarter
starting on Sept. 30, 2008. The move virtually eliminated any
new solar investment in 2009, according to the Photovoltaic
Industry Association.  Isofoton, the panel maker Zapatero deployed as a symbol of
the Spanish solar industry, suffered an 83 percent sales slump
and its losses almost tripled to 226 million euros in 2009. In
June of this year, the closely held company was taken over by
Madrid-based Affirma Energy Engineering & Technology SL and
South Korea’s TopTec Co., which invested 50 million euros to
strengthen the company’s balance sheet.  Germany, U.S.  Zapatero said Spain’s clean-power industry employed 180,000
in 2007. During the next three years, jobs fell by a third to
116,000, according to a study by the Madrid-based Trade Union
Institute of Work, Environment and Health.  Lawmakers in Germany may be repeating some of Spain’s
mistakes, Chase says. New solar-generating capacity in Germany
reached 713 megawatts in the first quarter, almost 10 times the
amount installed in the year-earlier period, thanks to
government subsidies, she says.  In the U.S., Obama has rolled out a more modest program of
inducements for clean-energy investors. The U.S. economic
stimulus package included about $67 billion in loans, loan
guarantees, grants and tax credits for clean energy.  When Zapatero took a delegation to the White House on Oct.
13, 2009, Obama praised Spain as a model of green-energy-driven
economic transformation.  ‘Worldwide Leader’  “We have enormous commercial ties between our two
countries, and we pledged to work diligently to strengthen them,
particularly around key issues like renewable energy and
transportation, where Spain has been a worldwide leader,” Obama
said at a press conference.  Miguel Sebastian , the minister responsible for Spain’s
industry and energy policy, traveled two weeks later to the
Solar Power International trade fair in Anaheim, California,
with a group of executives to boost Spain’s renewable-energy
exports.  In private encounters on the trip, Sebastian was criticized
by Spanish executives for gyrations in the government’s energy
policy, according to  Carlos Navarro , chairman of Siliken SA,
Spain’s biggest solar panel maker, who was part of the
delegation.  “You’re whiners,” Navarro says Sebastian told executives.
Sebastian declined to be interviewed for this article; a
spokesman for Zapatero declined to comment on criticisms of the
government’s solar-subsidy policy.  ‘Sinking’ Solar Investors  Navarro told Sebastian that the industry needed a stable
set of rules to help match production to the level of demand in
the market. Siliken, which is aiming to trade on the Madrid
Stock Exchange by 2012, suffered a 61 percent sales slump in
2009 after Zapatero cut solar subsidies. Overseas revenue will
fuel the company’s recovery this year, Navarro says.  “Sebastian was telling people that photovoltaic was a
priority, while at home they are sinking us,” Navarro says
during an interview at Siliken’s solar-module assembly plant
near Valencia. “I’ve developed a bit of a motto: If the
Socialist government says they’re going to help you, run!”  In April, after the  budget deficit  ballooned to 11.2
percent of GDP, Industry Ministry officials announced that the
government was considering cutting the subsidies for existing
solar facilities -- even though the law guaranteed those rates
for 25 years.  Investor Uncertainty  The suggestion triggered outrage among the owners and
operators of photovoltaic systems and caused investors to flee
solar energy investments.  Because of lack of investor interest, Renovalia Energy SA
and T-Solar Global SA postponed initial public offerings that
aimed to raise about 300 million euros. Solar Opportunities SL
suspended 1 billion euros of investment in Spanish photovoltaic
plants. The price of panels fell to $1.90 per watt by the second
quarter of this year.  Foreign investors also joined in on the criticism, saying
that rewriting the rules would jeopardize confidence in all
Spanish assets. HgCapital, Hudson Clean Energy Partners and
Impax Asset Management Group Plc wrote to Zapatero on May 27
saying the move would wipe out 400 million euros of client funds
they had invested in the Spanish solar industry.  “The mere discussion of such a change at high government
levels is already undermining confidence in Spain as a place for
foreign direct investment,” the letter said.  40 Percent Cut  In June, Sebastian told solar executives he intended to
reduce subsidies to existing photovoltaic plants by almost 40
percent, according to Photovoltaic Industry Association Chairman
 Javier Anta , who attended the meeting.  That news plunged German Vilimelis into despair.
Sacrificing about 10 tons of profitable pear production a year
to turn over the 1-acre plot to solar power made sense under the
original pricing system, especially as the panels required
almost no maintenance. The cut would require his family to kick
in their own cash every month to avoid defaulting on the loan.  “Banks are unforgiving,” he says. “It would mean no more
holidays. We’d have to cut back on everything.”  Across Lerida, solar construction has stopped dead.
Vilimelis and his partners face more months of uncertainty as
the government keeps postponing a final decision on the subsidy
levels. Should Zapatero push through the cuts, he may find that
foreign investors are equally unwilling to forgive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  