-- Speculation of U.S. Easing Behind Won's Surge, Bank of Korea Governor Says
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-18T07:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/speculation-of-u-s-easing-behind-won-s-surge-bank-of-korea-governor-says.html
The won has surged because of
expectations of a second round of monetary easing by the U.S.
and a prolonged currency “war” is a risk to South Korea’s
economy, the nation’s central bank governor  Kim Choong Soo  said.  “The won has appreciated rapidly since September on
expectations of further quantitative easing” by the Federal
Reserve,  Kim  said in Seoul today at an annual parliamentary
audit of the Bank of Korea’s policies.  Increased currency volatility is a risk to the economy, Kim
said, while signaling the central bank’s decision to leave
borrowing costs unchanged in October at 2.25 percent wasn’t
aimed at stemming the won’s advance. The currency has risen 7.5
percent in the past three months against the dollar, non-Japan
Asia’s second-best performance, threatening trade gains.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week additional
monetary stimulus may be warranted to boost the world’s biggest
economy. That fueled speculation the Fed will embark on a second
round of easing next month, even as officials including Brazil’s
central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  criticize low U.S.
rates for flooding emerging markets with cash.  “If the currency war continues, it will be a big problem
for our economy,” Kim said, referring to the risk of
competitive devaluations as nations strive to cheapen their
currencies to support overseas shipments.  Export Threat  The won fell 0.7 percent to 1,119.03 at the close in Seoul
today, retreating from a five-month high on concern the central
bank will seek to counter gains imperiling the export growth
fueling South Korea’s economy.  Nation’s from Brazil to China, Japan and South Korea have
moved to limit currency gains this year to protect their
economies. The U.S. and Europe have been pressuring emerging-
market nations to let their exchange rates appreciate to help
rebalance demand in the global economy.  Currency policy may dominate talks at the summit of the
 Group of 20  economies in Seoul in November, after finance chiefs
failed to eliminate tensions at an International Monetary Fund
meeting earlier this month. Lee Jong Koo, a lawmaker from the
ruling Grand National Party, said at the audit today that South
Korea, as chair of the G-20 summit, should allow the won to rise.  Inflation  will be about 2.9 percent in 2010 and may
accelerate to 3.4 percent next year, Kim said at the audit. The
central bank’s previous forecast for this year was 2.8 percent.
Consumer prices grew 3.6 percent in September, the fastest pace
in more than a year.  ‘Foremost Concern’  The central bank aims for inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent on average through 2012, and Kim said policy makers need
to keep the reading from rising to more than 3 percent.  “Our foremost concern is inflation,” the governor said.
“We see inflation building up and we may have to take
preemptive action against it.”  While the bank’s basic stance is to normalize borrowing
costs if economic conditions allow, the timing of a rate
increase is a “hard” decision, he said. “Normalized rates”
will be “far” above the current level, and there may be a
“backlash” if interest-rate rises come too late, he said.  The policy board left the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
last week for the third straight month, joining counterparts
from Australia to Malaysia in pausing increases to assess the
strength of the global economy. The bank boosted borrowing costs
by a quarter-percentage-point in July from a record-low 2
percent, the only advance this year.  Global Outlook  A global “double dip‘’ recession is unlikely and the
phenomenon of “negative” real interest rates is a worldwide
trend, the governor also said today.  The Bank of Korea said in a report prepared for the
parliamentary audit that it plans to adjust its  foreign-exchange
reserve  portfolio to increase profit and manage risk amid
heightened fluctuations in financial markets.  The report comes after the U.S. dollar fell to a 15-year
low against the yen and reached parity with the Australian and
Canadian dollars last week.  The central bank’s dollar-holdings fell to 63.1 percent of
its foreign-exchange assets in 2009 from 64.5 percent in 2008,
similar to the international average of 62.1 percent, according
to the report. The bank also said that its foreign-exchange
reserves, which rose to a record of $289.8 billion in September,
are “enough” to endure capital flight during an emergency.  The central bank will implement additional measures to
contain foreign debt if needed, according to the report. The
country’s overseas borrowing is increasing due to foreign demand
for government bonds, thought it is not climbing by a
“significant” amount, it said.  The easing of mortgage-lending regulations hasn’t produced
a visible impact on a sluggish domestic housing market, the
report said. The monetary authority must guard against a
household debt bubble, even though the chance of one occurring
is low, because it could threaten the country’s growth potential,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eunkyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net 
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  