-- St. Jude Medical Agrees to Buy Devicemaker AGA Medical for $1.3 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-18T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/st-jude-to-buy-aga-medical-for-1-3-billion-in-cash-stock-assumed-debt.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. , the world’s
second-largest maker of heart-rhythm devices, agreed to buy  AGA
Medical Holdings Inc.  for about $1.08 billion to expand its
cardiovascular business.  St. Jude will pay $20.80 a share in cash and stock, and
also assume $225 million of Plymouth, Minnesota-based AGA
Medical’s  debt , the companies said today in a statement. The
price represents a premium of 41 percent over the Oct. 15
closing value of $14.71. Investors holding about 63 percent of
AGA Medical’s shares agreed to the sale, the companies said.  The acquisition provides a complementary product line that
expands St. Jude’s heart-device programs, the companies said.
 AGA Medical , which had sales of $199 million in 2009, makes
devices to treat heart defects and cardiovascular disease.  St. Jude’s acquisition “represents a clearly positive
strategic and financial fit,”  Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann & Co.
analyst in New York, said in a note to investors. The deal
“will propel St. Jude in a more significant way into one of the
fastest-growing areas of medical technology.”  St. Jude increased 73 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $40.63 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
of the St. Paul, Minnesota-based company had gained 8.5 percent
this year before today. AGA Medical soared $5.99, or 41 percent,
to $20.70 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock
had been little changed this year before today.  Heart Defects  AGA Medical is a leading seller of products to treat
 structural heart defects  such as abnormal valves, and its
revenue has grown at a compound rate of 19 percent a year since
2005, the companies said. Following the transaction, AGA Medical
will become part of St. Jude’s cardiovascular division and will
continue operations in Plymouth.  In the past five years, acquirers paid an average premium
of 41.8 percent in 240 deals for medical-device makers, based on
the previous 20 days of stock trading, according to Bloomberg
data. On that basis, St. Jude is paying a premium of 44.93
percent. St. Jude’s offer equals 22.8 times the target’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
which is the median for similar deals in the past five years,
the data show.  Deal ‘In Line’  “Financially, the transaction is in line with recent med-
tech M&A,” said  Joanne Wuensch , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in New York, in a note to investors. “Looking forward,
we believe it boosts St. Jude’s top line.”  Moody’s Investors Services changed its outlook on St.
Jude’s Baa1 senior unsecured debt to “stable” from
“positive,” citing the higher debt the company will take on
from “what appears to be a richly priced transaction and a
subsequent share buyback,” the rating service said in a
statement.  Fitch Ratings in New York affirmed its ratings on about
$1.96 billion of St. Jude’s debt.  “Fitch believes the acquisition is strategically sound,
given the new market opportunities that AGA Medical’s business
offers St. Jude’s cardiovascular segment,” the agency said in a
statement.  AGA makes medical devices that treat heart-valve defects
and blood-vessels problems through minimally invasive techniques
that don’t require extensive surgery. Many of the products are
used to treat congenital heart defects in children, said  John Heinmiller , St. Jude’s chief financial officer. St. Jude is a
leading maker of defibrillators and pacemakers, implantable
devices used to treat abnormal rhythms in the heart.  Growth Opportunities  “There are a lot of aspects of AGA’s business that are
growing nicely,” Heinmiller said today in a telephone
interview. “They have a number of products under development
that have significant market potential if they are successfully
developed that are particularly attractive to St. Jude.”  The transaction is expected to close by the end of the
year, the companies said. St. Jude said it will discuss the deal
Oct. 20 when it releases quarterly results.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch is financial adviser to St.
Jude, while Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher is the device maker’s legal
adviser. Piper Jaffray Cos. is financial adviser to AGA Medical,
and Fredrikson & Byron is legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 