-- Raw Sugar Climbs on Renewed Demand After Slump; Cocoa, Coffee Futures Drop
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-10-18T18:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/sugar-drops-the-most-in-two-weeks-in-london-on-indian-export-speculation.html
Sugar rose on renewed demand
following a 3.1 percent slump in the previous session. Cocoa and
coffee dropped in New York.  Brazil, the world’s biggest sugar producer, isn’t showing
“much interest” in selling, said  Michael McDougall , a senior
vice president at Newedge USA in New York. The market is “going
to have difficulty” falling should the country withhold
supplies, he said. The decline on Oct. 15 snapped a six-session
rally.  “There seems to have been at least some physical demand,”
McDougall said.  Raw sugar for March delivery rose 0.52 cent, or 1.9
percent, to settle at 27.58 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. The price has gained 15 percent in the
past year.  Brazil may produce less next year because of drought and
aging fields, Stefan Uhlenbrock, an analyst at Ratzeburg,
Germany-based F.O. Licht, said today in Sao Paulo.  In the week ended Oct. 12, hedge-fund managers and other
large speculators increased their net-long position, or bets
that prices will climb, in futures by 4.4 percent, the first
gain in two weeks, government data showed on Oct. 15.  The  dollar  was little changed against a basket of major
currencies, erasing a gain of as much as 0.8 percent. The
greenback slumped in the past five weeks, enhancing the appeal
of raw materials as alternative investments.  Dollar Rally Stalls  “The dollar has lost some of its initial rally as well,”
McDougall of Newedge said. “Commodities are coming back a
little bit on that.”  In London, refined-sugar futures for December delivery slid
90 cents to settle at $695.30 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe.  India’s output may be 26 million metric tons in the year
ending Sept. 30 as an extended monsoon lifts yields, Shree
Renuka Sugars Ltd., the nation’s biggest refiner, said last
week. That would exceed the 25.5 million tons forecast by the
Indian Sugar Mills Association.  “Potential exports from India could put a lid on London,”
said  Naim Beydoun , a broker at Rolle, Switzerland-based Swiss
Sugar Brokers.  In New York, cocoa futures for December delivery dropped
$11, or 0.4 percent, to settle at $2,794 a ton.  In London, cocoa futures for December delivery rose 9
pounds, or 0.5 percent, to close at 1,859 pounds ($2,962) a ton.  Arabica-coffee futures for December delivery fell 0.85
cent, or 0.5 percent, to $1.856 a pound in New York.  Robusta-coffee futures for January delivery fell $2 to
settle at $1,680 a ton in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  