-- Sukuk Entice Canada Issuing $2 Billion to Spread Funding: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-10-18T09:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/sukuk-entice-canada-issuing-2-billion-to-spread-funding-islamic-finance.html
The growing demand for securities
that meet Islamic religious principles may lead Canadian
governments and companies to start issuing Shariah bonds.  HSBC Bank Canada may offer $500 million and three
government-related borrowers from one Canadian province may
issue $1.5 billion of sukuk, Omar Kalair, chief executive
officer of Toronto-based  UM Financial , said in an Oct. 14
interview. A “handful” of Canadian companies may sell C$1
billion ($980 million) of Islamic debt by 2013, said Daud Vicary
Abdullah, global Islamic finance leader at Deloitte Corporate
Advisory Services Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur.  Egypt, Nigeria, the Philippines and Thailand have announced
plans to sell their first sukuk in the past three months, partly
to tap Persian Gulf oil wealth. The combined wealth of the
Middle East’s more than 400,000 millionaires grew 5.1 percent in
2009 to $1.5 trillion,  Cap Gemini SA  and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit said in June.  “We would definitely be interested in a sukuk out of
Canada,”  Ramiz Moukarim , head of debt capital markets at  Qatar
Islamic Bank SAQ , who helps manages more than 1 billion riyals
($275 million), said in an Oct. 17 interview from Doha.
“Whether it’s regional or federal, it doesn’t matter because of
the nation’s rating. We’d have to look at their approach to the
market, their pricing structure and the issuance size.”  Positive Response  UM Financial is working with a bank in the Middle East,
HSBC and Canadian provinces to help issue sukuk, Kalair said. He
declined to name the Canadian borrowers or the Middle East bank
because the negotiations are ongoing.  Charles Clarke , a
spokesman with  HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd.  in Dubai, declined to
comment when contacted by telephone yesterday.  “Canada is seeking to tap wealth in the Gulf to help
diversify funding,” said Kalair of UM, a Shariah-compliant
financial institution offering credit and investment services.
“The province’s minister of finance received a positive
response from investors in the Middle East.”  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 24 percent to $11.8
billion this year from a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Nigeria plans to sell its first Islamic debt
within a year, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Sept.
24.  Yields Narrow  The  difference  between the average yield for global sukuk
and the London interbank offered rate has narrowed 20 basis
points this month, the most since July, to 353, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . The spread shrank 114
basis points this year.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent note due in June 2015
has dropped 18 basis points to 2.52 percent since Sept. 30,
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show. Its yield gap
with the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk due
in November 2014 narrowed 19 basis points this month to 354.  Shariah-compliant debt returned 12 percent so far this
year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index , while
bonds in developing markets gained 16 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  Muslims account for about 2 percent of the 33.5 million
people in Canada, which hasn’t issued sovereign Islamic bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Canada has top AAA
ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service.
Canada’s non-Islamic five-year note maturing December 2015
yielded 1.98 percent when it last traded on Oct. 15, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Not all investors may buy Islamic bonds offered by Canadian
borrowers because non-Persian Gulf sukuk are typically held by
banks to maturity, according to Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd.  “Institutions or investors are going to be a bit hesitant
because they rely on secondary market liquidity a lot more than
Islamic banks” that tend to buy-and-hold debt,  Abdul Kadir Hussain , chief executive officer at Mashreq in Dubai said in an
interview Oct. 17.  ‘Global Appetite’  Deloitte is advising fewer than 10 Canadian companies on
possible Islamic debt sales, Vicary Abdullah wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions Oct. 13. Some local corporates plan
to meet investors in the Gulf this month, he said, without
providing details.  Canada emerged from recession faster than other Group of
Seven nations as consumers, spurred by low  interest rates ,
boosted spending. Bank of Canada said in July it’s relying on
consumers to contribute about half of the 2.9 percent  economic
growth  next year, while forecasting investment will add 0.7
percentage point to growth in 2011, up from 0.1 percentage point
this year.  Economic growth in the Middle East and North Africa will
accelerate to 4.1 percent this year, from 2 percent in 2009, the
International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6.  “There are very few Aaa sukuk out there,”  Khalid Howladar , a Dubai-based senior analyst at Moody’s said in a
telephone interview in Dubai Oct. 17. “There’s global appetite
for high-quality paper. Combine that with the sukuk format and
Islamic financial institutions would certainly be interested in
a Canadian Islamic bond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  