-- Sumitomo Mitsui To Overtake Ford as Mazda's Top Shareholder, Chairman Says
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-10-18T07:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/sumitomo-mitsui-financial-says-it-will-become-top-shareholder-in-mazda.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
expects to overtake  Ford Motor Co.  as the largest shareholder in
 Mazda Motor Corp. , according to the bank’s chairman.  The company will become the leading shareholder in Mazda by
the end of this year,  Masayuki Oku , chairman of the Tokyo-based
bank, said today.  Ford , Mazda’s largest current shareholder,
owns about 11 percent of the Hiroshima, Japan-based automaker.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group owns at least 2.9 percent,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg.   Ford, which held a controlling stake in Mazda until two
years ago, has joint ventures in Thailand and the U.S. with the
Japanese company, while the companies plan to dissolve a
partnership in China. Ford has reached a tentative agreement to
reduce its holding, worth about $515 million, by selling shares
to Sumitomo Mitsui, Sumitomo Corp. and suppliers of the Japanese
automaker, Nikkei English News reported Oct. 16, without saying
where it got the information.  “There might be a gap between Mazda and Ford in their
affiliation strategy,” said  Takeshi Miyao , an analyst at
consulting company Carnorama in Tokyo. “Ford should focus on
strengthening business in developing countries like China or
Thailand and shift production to South East Asia,” while Mazda
has been trying to reinforce its domestic production, he said.  Mazda  fell  0.9 percent to 212 yen in Tokyo, after earlier
declining as much as 4.7 percent.  Capital Relationship  The Nikkei report about a change in the capital
relationship between the two automakers is speculation, Mazda
said in an Oct. 16 statement.  Ken Haruki , a spokesman for the
automaker, declined to comment further when contacted by
Bloomberg News today.  “Ford’s ownership stake in Mazda remains unchanged,”  Mark Truby , a Ford spokesman, said Oct. 15. “Ford continues to have
a close strategic relationship with Mazda, and we cooperate in
areas of mutual benefit. We have no further comment on the
speculation.”  Ford is not releasing Mazda shares because it needs the
finance, Sumitomo’s Oku said earlier today. The business tie-ups
and spirit of the Ford-Mazda alliance won’t change, he said.  ’Good for Mazda’  The bank will hold on to the Mazda stake it plans to buy by
the end of the year “for a while,” Oku said.  “Having a bank as the largest shareholder is good for
Mazda to ensure its financial status,” said  Tatsuya Mizuno , a
director at Mizuno Credit Advisory in Tokyo. “Mazda needs to
find a new auto partner in the long term.”  Mazda had 64.4 billion yen ($793.6 million) in long-term
borrowing from Sumitomo Mitsui, according to the automaker’s
annual financial report. Mazda is considered part of Sumitomo’s
network of Japanese corporations, or keiretsu, that typically
own stakes in one another.  Ford owns more than 195 million Mazda shares, valued at
about $515 million, based on last week’s closing price in Tokyo.  The second-largest U.S. automaker has signaled it intends
to end developing cars and trucks jointly with Mazda. Ford’s new
Fiesta small car is based on the mechanical foundation of the
Mazda2 subcompact. Ford’s Fusion family sedan is based on the
Mazda6 platform and its new Ranger pickup truck is built
alongside its mechanical twin, the Mazda BT-50, at a factory in
Thailand that the automakers jointly own.  “For a lot of designing and engineering, we’re going to be
focused on Ford,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president for the
Americas and a former Mazda chief executive, said last December.
“Our efforts will be focused on the Ford system, as opposed to
relying on others such as Mazda.”  In China, the world’s biggest auto market, Mazda and Ford
are dissolving a joint venture with  Chongqing Changan Automobile
Co ., Chief Executive Officer Takashi Yamanouchi said on July 1.
A restructuring of the venture, currently 35 percent owned by
Ford, 15 percent owned by Mazda and the rest held by Changan,
will result in Mazda and Ford each forming 50-50 ventures with
Changan, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net 
 Yuki Hagiwara  in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  