-- Sundaram Sells Stocks for Coal India's Initial Share Sale, Ramanathan Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-18T07:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/sundaram-sells-stocks-for-coal-india-s-initial-share-sale-ramanathan-says.html
Satish Ramanathan , who oversees the
equivalent of $2.5 billion as head of equities at Sundaram
Mutual, comments on the outlook for Indian stocks. Chennai,
South India-based Ramanathan gave his remarks by telephone
today.  Coal India Ltd. , the state-owned coal producer, began
selling 631.6 million shares today to raise as much as 151.5
billion rupees ($3.4 billion).  Ramanathan said he’s investing in India’s biggest initial
share sale and is “trimming” positions “across the board” to
raise cash.  Morgan Stanley today advised investors to “scale back”
their holdings of  emerging-market stocks  after a rally lifted
valuations.  This year’s 14 percent rally makes the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s  Sensitive Index , or  Sensex , the best performer among
the world’s 10 biggest stock markets. Foreign fund inflows have
surged 69 percent this year, making the gauge the most expensive
in Asia and among the BRIC markets that also include Brazil,
Russia and China.  On valuations:  “There could be better opportunities elsewhere. Some of
the developed markets are fairly good in terms of valuations.”  On fund flows:  “All this happens in a herd. When money comes, it’s
together. When money leaves, it’s together. That’s a fundamental
risk emerging markets have.”  On investment strategy:  “We are positive on the consumption theme, which can range
from airlines stocks to liquor stocks to cigarette stocks.
Consumption is one theme that looks good.”  On infrastructure and banking shares:  “The one theme that was favored but is no longer so is the
infrastructure theme. We think the infrastructure market is not
developing as fast as we had wanted. We are playing it in a
proxy manner through financials. While earlier we used to buy
infrastructure stocks, we think that since it’s difficult to
find out which infrastructure stock will do well or do badly, we
are looking at an overall basket of financials that lend to
infrastructure space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  