-- Surgery Complications Decline 10% After Hospitals Share Data, Study Says
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-10-18T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/surgery-complications-decline-10-after-hospitals-share-data-study-says.html
Michigan hospitals cut surgical
complications almost a tenth, reducing medical costs, by pooling
data about practices that keep patients safer, a study found.  The portion of patients deemed ill following surgery fell
to 9.7 percent after the information sharing, from 10.7 percent
before, scientists said today in the Archives of Surgery.
Sixteen institutions, led by the  University of Michigan Health
System , saved $13 million on cases of ventilator-associated
pneumonia alone, the researchers said in a statement.  The program, which predated President  Barack Obama ’s effort
to cut U.S. health expenses and improve care, gets competing
institutions to determine which practices are effective at
preventing surgical complications, said David Share, executive
medical director for health-care quality at Detroit-based Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, a not-for-profit insurer that
paid the hospitals to collaborate.  “Complications are relatively rare, and any one hospital
may not have enough data to see the links between processes and
outcomes,” said Share, a study co-author, in a telephone
interview. A specialist in public health and preventive
medicine, Share is affiliated with the University of Michigan
Health System, based in Ann Arbor.  The study involved more than 35,000 Michigan patients and
focused on general and vascular surgeries from April 2005
through December 2007. The complications seen after April 2007,
by which time the collaboration was expected to have effects,
were compared with those that occurred earlier.  Fewer Infections  Complications reduced the most were blood infections,
septic shock, prolonged ventilator use and cardiac arrest,
according to the study.  For the same time periods, data from the  National Surgical
Quality Improvement Program , an initiative of the Chicago-based
American College of Surgeons, showed no changes in the
prevalence of complications for more than 280,000 patients who
were treated at 126 non-Michigan hospitals, according to the
report.  Under the Michigan program, Blue Cross Blue Shield
reimburses hospitals for the “rigorous data collection
necessary for the success of this kind of program,” and
provides “a little extra reward to encourage their active
participation,” Share said.  The collaboration now involves 34 institutions, mostly
community hospitals, and they’re paid to review the records of
all patients, not just Blue Cross members, Share said.  “If the system was adopted nationally, not just in
Michigan, I think you would find a greatly accelerated pace of
surgical quality improvement,” said  Darrell Campbell , the lead
author and a surgeon, in a statement. Campbell is chief of
clinical affairs in the University of Michigan system.  Besides Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, the American
Surgical Association Foundation, based in Beverly,
Massachusetts, also supported the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 