-- Swiss Franc Gains Versus the Euro as Stock Losses Boost Safe-Haven Bids
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-18T09:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/swiss-franc-gains-versus-the-euro-as-stock-losses-boost-safe-haven-bids.html
The Swiss franc rose against the
euro as a decline in stocks and speculation that economic data
will strengthen the case for additional monetary easing in
Europe boosted demand for a refuge.  The franc advanced alongside the Japanese yen and the
dollar, climbing against 12 of its 16 most active counterparts,
before a German report tomorrow that’s forecast to show investor
confidence dropped for a sixth month in October. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index retreated 0.3 percent today, while the MSCI
World Index of shares fell 0.4 percent.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty out there, and that
provides a positive support for what is perceived as safe-haven
currencies,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The Swiss franc is trading like
gold. A rise in money supply stemming from monetary policy
easing that people expect from major central banks will benefit
the franc in a risk-averse environment.”  The franc strengthened 0.3 percent against the euro to
1.3365 as of 10 a.m. in London. It also appreciated 0.3 percent
against the British pound to 1.5290. The currency fell against
the dollar and the yen, trading at 96.29 centimes and 84.30 yen
respectively. It rose to a record 94.63 centimes against the
dollar on Oct. 14.  The Swiss currency has gained 5.2 percent against its major
trading peers this year, making it the best performing currency
after the yen and the Australian dollar, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The Organization for Economic Coordination and
Development’s purchasing price parity index showed the Swiss
franc is 37 percent above the level where it should be, making
it the most overvalued currency against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 