-- U.K. Proposes Eight More Sites as Suitable to Build Nuclear-Energy Plants
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-10-18T15:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/u-k-may-share-some-financial-risks-to-support-nuclear-power-developments.html
The U.K. listed eight possible sites
for new nuclear reactors and said it may share certain financial
risks as Electricite de France SA, Centrica Plc, E.ON AG and RWE
AG plan to build atomic plants in Britain.  “There will be no public subsidy for new nuclear power,”
Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  said today in a
statement on the government’s website. The U.K. doesn’t rule out
action to “take on financial risks or liabilities” of
operators, he said.  EDF and Centrica’s British Energy unit are planning to
build four atomic plants in the country, the first planned to be
ready by 2018. Horizon Nuclear Power Ltd., a joint venture of
the U.K. units of  RWE AG  and E.ON AG, will spend as much as 15
billion pounds ($24 billion) to build 6,000 megawatts of nuclear
capacity in Britain by 2025. The government may reduce some
financial risks of building reactors by maintaining a limit on
liability costs.  The government published revisions today of the previous
Labour government’s energy policy  statements . They outline the
nation’s need to build new atomic plants, generate more energy
supplies from renewable sources and upgrade the electricity and
natural gas networks to secure supplies and slash emissions. The
revisions included dropping three sites from a list of possible
locations for new nuclear-power plants.  Braystones, Kirksanton and Dungeness were deemed not
appropriate, a spokesman for the Department of Energy and
Climate Change said today by phone.  ‘Energy Security’  “The government has rightly recognized that the U.K. needs
to do more to bolster our energy security while cutting
emissions,”  Neil Bentley , director of business environment at
the Confederation of British Industry, said in an e-mail. The
revised statements are a “key piece of the jigsaw” to attract
investment in Britain’s energy supplies, he said.  The U.K. currently limits nuclear operators’ liability at
140 million pounds under the Paris Convention on nuclear third
liability and the Brussels Supplementary Convention. That limit
could be raised to as much as 1.2 billion euros (1 billion
pounds), Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said today to
journalists. The level must be “justifiable in the public
interest,” and must be “the right way of ensuring that risk is
appropriately managed,” Huhne said in his written speech.  ‘Subsidy by Another Name’  Friends of the Earth, a London-based environmental charity,
said the government was going “back on its word” of promising
not to subsidize nuclear power.  “Not ruling out a cap on liability costs for nuclear
operators in case of an accident is a subsidy by another name,”
Simon Bullock, a climate campaigner, said by e-mail. “Nuclear
power is not the solution to tackling climate change. It would
leave us saddled with toxic waste for centuries to come and not
another penny of public money should be spent on it.”  About a quarter of Britain’s power generating capacity will
expire over the next decade as coal power stations shut to meet
European pollution requirements and reactors reach the end of
their working lives. The U.K. identified nuclear power as one
way to help reduce carbon emissions from generation and to help
secure energy supplies. Nuclear currently accounts for about a
fifth of U.K. generation.  Huhne, a Liberal Democrat, has criticized nuclear power in
the past as being uneconomical.  ‘Taking Title’  “I am making clear that new nuclear will be free to
contribute as much as possible, with the onus on developers to
pay for the clean-up,” he said. Huhne also published documents
detailing how nuclear waste and decommissioning costs will be
paid by nuclear operators as set out by a law in 2008.  “We will not rule out taking title to radioactive waste,
including spent fuel, at a fixed price provided that price
properly reflects any financial risks or liabilities assumed by
the state,” Huhne said. The government is calculating price per
unit of electricity to cover the costs of making the waste safe
and burying it underground.  Radioactive waste and the decommissioning of Britain’s
current fleet of nuclear power stations, owned by EDF and
Centrica, will be paid for by taxpayers. The clean-up costs
could be as much as 76 billion pounds, at today’s prices,
according to Greenpeace calculations.  EDF said today’s statement provided “great clarity” and
allow investors to further develop nuclear plants in Britain.   Possible Sites  Iberdrola SA , Spain’s largest utility, together with  GDF
Suez SA  and Scottish & Southern Energy Plc, are planning to
develop 3.6 gigawatts of nuclear capacity at Sellafield in
northwest England. Horizon Nuclear has bought land at Wylfa in
Anglesey, Wales, and Oldbury-on-Severn, southwest England. There
are atomic plants currently running at these sites, both
operated by Magnox North Ltd.  The remaining  sites  are Bradwell and Sizewell in the east,
Hinkley Point in the southwest, Hartlepool in the northeast and
Heysham in the northwest of England. Planners will need to get
consent to build a nuclear plant.  The government halted today plans to generate tidal power
from the estuary of the River Severn in southwest England
because of cost.  The revised documents will be presented to parliament for
approval next spring, Huhne said in the speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  