-- U.K. Said to Cut Lockheed F-35s on One Carrier, Put Helicopters on Another
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-19T11:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/u-k-said-to-cut-lockheed-f-35s-on-one-carrier-put-helicopters-on-another.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
say today that the U.K. will order fewer, cheaper planes for one
new aircraft carrier and station only helicopters on another to
cut costs, two people familiar with the plans said.  Announcing the results of a defense review to lawmakers in
London, Cameron will say one ship, HMS Prince of Wales, due to
enter service in 2019, will be redesigned with a catapult and
arrester-wire system, the people said. That will enable it to
take carrier-variant  Lockheed Martin Corp.  F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter aircraft, rather than a more expensive version that can
take off over a shorter distance and land vertically.  “That gives us a whole new capability,” Defense Secretary
 Liam Fox  told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “The design of the
carriers that we have would not have allowed the American navy
to land on our carriers, nor the French navy. Interoperability
with our allies seems to me a priority.”  Cameron called President  Barack Obama  yesterday to say the
U.K. will “remain a first-rate military power and a robust ally
of the United States,” the premier’s spokesman,  Steve Field ,
told reporters in London today. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said last week they
were concerned the spending squeeze might damage NATO.  Harriers Withdrawn  The first new carrier in service in 2016, HMS Queen
Elizabeth, will carry no planes, only helicopters, and may be
mothballed once the Prince of Wales begins operations. With
existing Harrier jump jets being withdrawn, Britain will be left
without the ability to launch carrier-based plane strikes for 10
years.  The people declined to say how many F-35s would be ordered
instead of the 140 the previous Labour government said it hoped
to buy. Fox said there were long periods in the past when
Britain was unable to fly planes off carriers.  Cameron’s announcement will also set out details of cuts to
other weapons programs to help tackle the  record budget deficit 
and redefine military needs for the post-Cold War era.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will outline
reductions in other ministries’ spending tomorrow.  The dispute over the military budget has been the most
public within Cameron’s government, with Fox dubbing it a “soap
opera.” Fox told the premier in a letter leaked last month that
deep cuts while Britain is at war in Afghanistan would hurt
morale. Cameron intervened personally on Oct. 16 to make sure
the defense ministry had a budget with which it could work.  Catapult Costs  The addition of the catapult system to the Prince of Wales
will cost several hundred million pounds, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the results of the review are
not yet public.  The carriers are being built by a group including  BAE
Systems Plc , Babcock International Group Plc and  Thales SA  at a
cost of 4.9 billion pounds ($7.8 billion).  Cameron will say that HMS Ark Royal, a carrier launched in
1981, will be decommissioned immediately. Another, HMS
Illustrious, will carry helicopters until 2014, when it will be
decommissioned and its crew transferred to the Queen Elizabeth.  From 2017, the crew of HMS Ocean, a helicopter landing
platform, will transfer to the Prince of Wales to get it ready
for service and Ocean will be decommissioned. The Prince of
Wales will only have catapult-launching facilities from 2020,
the people said.  Conservative lawmaker  Douglas Carswell  said the defense
cuts “mark a milestone” in Britain’s “decline” as a military
force.  ‘Belgium With Nukes’  “We have the third or fourth largest military budget in
the world, we are the sixth largest economy, yet we’re reduced
to the status of being Belgium with nukes,” Carswell told Sky
News television today.  A decision about the future of the Queen Elizabeth,
including the possibility that it may be sold, will be made in
2015. The carrier may be mothballed once the Prince of Wales
goes into operation in 2019, the people said. Another
possibility would be to fit it, rather than the Prince of Wales,
with catapult equipment before a sale of either carrier.  The overall Defense Ministry budget is being cut by 7
percent to 8 percent, a person involved in the discussions said
two days ago. That represents a victory for Fox after Osborne
asked for reductions of as much as 20 percent.  The U.K. will also press ahead with building the remaining
ships from an order to London-based BAE for seven Astute-class
hunter-killer submarines, the people said.  Trident Delay  A decision on replacing the Trident submarine-based
nuclear-missile system will be delayed until after the next
election in May 2015, the people said. BAE and Rolls-Royce Group
Plc are among the project’s contractors.  “I’ve always believed that we should have the Trident
program, and I’ve always believed in continuous-at-sea
deterrence,” Fox said. “Neither of those have changed.”  Cameron will also announce that the Royal Air Force’s fleet
of Tornado jets will be kept in service because they are needed
for the current mission in Afghanistan, the people said.  QinetiQ Group Plc said today the defense ministry has
terminated the first phase of its training program in Wales with
immediate effect, leading to costs for the company of 37 million
pounds.  London-based QinetiQ fell as much as 13.2 percent and was
down 3.3 pence, or 3 percent, at 107.3 pence at 12:33 p.m. in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 