-- Banks Face Mortgage Scrutiny as $49 Billion in Value Vanishes
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-18T12:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/u-s-bank-earnings-face-mortgage-scrutiny-as-49-billion-in-value-vanishes.html
Citigroup Inc. , Bank of America
Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co. , set to report earnings this week,
face investors groping for answers after evidence of flawed
foreclosure documents triggered a selloff of U.S. bank  stocks .  The banks plus  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  saw $49.3 billion in
market value shaved off in the three days ended Oct. 15 amid
concern that rising costs of faulty  foreclosures  will eat into
profits. JPMorgan set aside $2.3 billion of reserves to cover
mortgage repurchases or litigation expenses, including some for
“mortgage-related matters,” the lender said Oct. 13.  “We’ve had two banks report good earnings in terms of
credit-quality costs coming down,” said  Erik Oja , an equity
analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York, referring to  JPMorgan 
and  First Horizon National Corp.  “But people don’t care. They
say ‘Well, how many foreclosures do you have in the pipeline?
And what are you seeing?’ And they answer that we’re looking at
each one. And people say ‘All right, sell.’”  An investigation by attorneys general in all 50 states into
foreclosure practices has fueled speculation that banks will
have to purchase  billions of dollars in loans  from mortgage-bond
investors who will challenge the paperwork. Lenders have
suspended foreclosures in some states and started reviews after
court documents surfaced showing employees at several large
mortgage firms signed papers without ensuring their accuracy.  Oja cut his recommendation on Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America  to “hold” from “strong buy” on Oct. 15
because of uncertainty about mortgage costs.  Dimon’s ‘Blip’  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, faced
analysts’ questions about foreclosures on the company’s third-
quarter conference call Oct. 13. Dimon said the New York-based
lender probably will pay an “incremental” sum to review and
fix foreclosure documents.  “If you’re talking about three or four weeks, it will be a
blip in the housing market,” Dimon told investors. “If it went
on for a long period of time, it will have a lot of
consequences, most of which will be adverse on everybody.”  Analysts differ in their cost estimates. Compass Point
Research and Trading LLC’s  Chris Gamaitoni  estimated in August
that lenders may suffer as much as $179.2 billion in losses tied
to soured mortgages they will be forced to repurchase from
mortgage-bond insurers and investors. Last week,  Mike Mayo , an
analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA in New York, estimated
a cost of $20 billion for repurchases when including government-
sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s  Richard Ramsden  said a worst-case scenario would be
$84 billion, while  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets in Arlington, Virginia, said it could cost the banks as
much as $91 billion.  ‘A Lot of Uncertainty’  “There’s a lot of uncertainty surrounding what the
eventual cost of mortgage repurchases will be,” Deutsche Bank
AG analysts led by  Matthew O’Connor  wrote in a note last week.
“The bad news is we (and the banks) won’t know the answer for
some time. The good news is the banks should have time to absorb
the losses.”  Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo have the most at
stake, O’Connor wrote.  Citigroup  today said third-quarter profit rose to $2.17
billion, beating analyst estimates, as it reduced loan-loss
reserves. The New York-based bank set aside $322 million to
repurchase mortgages, compared with $347 million in the second
quarter.  Bank of America , which has halted foreclosure sales in
50 states, is scheduled to report third-quarter results
tomorrow, and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo  will announce
results  Oct. 20.  ‘Messy Process’  The four banks control more than 55 percent of the market
for billing and collections on U.S. home loans, according to
Barclays Capital Inc. When borrowers default, the firms handle
the foreclosure process.  Wells Fargo, which said it is proceeding with foreclosures,
may have litigation and repurchase expenses of $15 billion over
the next four years, according to  Anthony Polini , a banking
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “Litigation expenses are going to be high,” Polini said
in a phone interview. “Foreclosures are a messy process and one
that will provide a headwind to earnings, but it doesn’t mean
this recovery is postponed. It just means it happens at a slower
pace.”  ‘Grossly Distorted’  Barbara Desoer , 57, head of home lending at Bank of
America, said Oct. 15 that estimates of added costs from
foreclosures have been “grossly distorted.” The bank, the
largest in the U.S. by assets, stands by the accuracy of its
process, she said in an interview.  Mark C. Rodgers , a spokesman for Citigroup, said in an e-
mailed statement last week that the bank has safeguards in place
to prevent improper filings. Wells Fargo has enacted an
additional review of pending foreclosures in 23 states to
provide “further assurance” that information is correct, a
spokeswoman, Vickee Adams, said last week.  Bank of America  dropped $1.54, or 11.4 percent, in the
three days ended Oct. 15, while Citigroup fell 29 cents, or 6.8
percent, the biggest three-day drop for the stocks since July.
 Wells Fargo  declined $2.39, or 9.2 percent, the largest such
falloff since May. JPMorgan fell $3.25, or 8 percent, over the
same three days, the worst such period since the three days
ended Jan. 22.  The market value of the 24 lenders in the  KBW Bank Index 
fell by a combined $58.5 billion in the three days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People are trying to sort out who’s going to bear the
costs,” said  James Barth , a professor of finance at Auburn
University in Alabama and senior finance fellow at the Milken
Institute in Santa Monica, California. “Someone has to pay for
this, and that’s going to be the lenders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  