-- U.S. Pushes Middle East Exports on $1 Trillion Investment Plans
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-10-18T20:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/u-s-pushing-exports-from-qatar-to-libya-on-1-trillion-investment-plans.html
More than $1 trillion in planned
infrastructure spending in nine Arab nations is driving U.S.
ambassadors to encourage small and medium-sized American
businesses to export to the region.  The diplomats, in a six-city tour in the U.S. this week,
detailed opportunities including a $325 billion investment plan
over the next five to 10 years in Libya aimed at creating a
railway system, improving healthcare and upgrading the power
company.  Algeria  plans to spend $287 billion over five years on
infrastructure, telecommunications and water treatment, said
 David Pearce , the U.S. ambassador to the country, in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  The ambassadors are calling on U.S. company executives to
set aside concerns about terrorism in the region and Iran’s
nuclear program and tap into expanding economies seeking job
creation. They pointed out the 19 percent gross domestic product
growth rate in Qatar, the world’s fastest according to forecasts
by the International Monetary Fund, a free trade agreement with
Oman and a reduced tax rate on foreign corporations in Kuwait.  “We want to help U.S. companies that aren’t acquainted
with the Middle East in order for the U.S. to export more
there,”  Robert D. Hormats , the U.S. undersecretary of state for
economic affairs, said in the interview. “A lot of future
growth is outside of the U.S.”  Libya began to emerge from decades of international
isolation in 2002 when  Muammar al-Qaddafi  abandoned a nuclear-
arms development effort, pledged to destroy stockpiles of
chemical weapons and renounced terrorism. The country aims to
attract more foreign investment, especially outside of the
petrochemical industries, said  Gene Cretz , the U.S. ambassador
to Libya, said in the interview yesterday.  In Egypt, the most populous Arab nation, the
telecommunications industry is expected to grow more than 20
percent in the next three years while healthcare will expand 5
percent in the following two years, said  Margaret Scobey , the
U.S. ambassador based in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  