-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Citigroup Earnings, Speculation of More Fed Easing
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-18T20:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/u-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-before-citigroup-earnings-exxon-declines.html
U.S.  stocks  rose to a five-month
high, led by financial shares, after Citigroup Inc.’s earnings
topped estimates and an unexpected drop in industrial production
added to signs the Federal Reserve will help fuel the recovery.  Citigroup , the bank 12 percent-owned by U.S. taxpayers,
rallied 5.4 percent to lead a measure of financial shares to the
biggest gain among 10 groups.  Hasbro Inc. , the second-largest
toymaker, advanced 3.8 percent after reporting higher-than-
estimated earnings as sales of preschool products gained.
 Halliburton Co. , the second-biggest oilfield-services provider,
slumped 4.8 percent as profit missed some analysts’ estimates.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.7 percent to 1,184.71 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the highest level since May 3. The gauge gained 1
percent last week after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
economy may need further stimulus and earnings boosted investor
confidence. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 80.91 points,
or 0.7 percent, to 11,143.69.  “We remain positive on the market based on decent earnings
and the Fed’s expected actions,” said  Stewart Beach , who
oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment strategist at Old
Second National Bank in Aurora, Illinois. “Even Citigroup beat
earnings, which is kind of amazing considering the problems
we’re seeing on the foreclosure front.”  The S&P 500 has rallied 13 percent since Bernanke said at
the Fed’s August conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that he
has the tools to prevent another recession.  The Fed chief said
on Oct. 15 that there’s a case for “further action”  by the
central bank in the form of additional monetary stimulus because
inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  Industrial Production  The need for more stimulus was highlighted today by a Fed
report showing production in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped in
September for the first time in more than a year, showing the
industry that led the economy out of the recession is cooling.
Output at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.2 percent, the
first decline since the recession ended in June 2009.  Citigroup  jumped 5.4 percent to $4.17 after third-quarter
earnings amounted to 7 cents a share, compared with a loss of 27
cents a share in the same period a year earlier, as the lender
reduced loan-loss reserves by $1.99 billion and Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  said the bank may return capital to
shareholders in 2012. Ten analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated per-share earnings of 5 cents a share at the bank, the
third-biggest in the U.S. by assets. Bank of America Corp.,
Wells Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are also
scheduled to post results this week.  Financial Companies Rebound  Bank of America advanced the most in the Dow, gaining 3
percent to $12.34. Wells Fargo increased 5.5 percent to $24.87,
the first gain in four days as evidence of flawed foreclosure
documents triggered a selloff of U.S. bank stocks last week. The
 S&P 500 Financials Index  climbed 1.9 percent, the most among 10
industries in the benchmark measure.  Hasbro increased 3.8 percent to $46.81. Third-quarter
earnings excluding some items were $1.09 a share, beating the
average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey by 5 percent as
sales from games such as Monopoly and preschool toys such as the
Mr. Potato Head brand, featured in “Toy Story 3,” rose.  H&R Block Inc.  declined the most in the S&P 500, tumbling
11 percent to $10.94 and helping lead a measure of consumer
discretionary shares to the only decline among 10 industry
groups. The largest U.S. tax-preparation firm said it may not be
able to provide customers refund anticipation loans next year
because of a dispute with HSBC Holdings Plc.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has said it will no
longer help banks including HSBC and  Republic Bancorp Inc. 
underwrite tax refund loans that lawmakers and consumer groups
say carry unfairly high interest rates. H&R Block has a contract
with London-based HSBC to provide the loans through 2013.  Halliburton Sinks  Halliburton  fell 4.8 percent to $34.09 after gaining 7.5
percent in the previous two weeks. The world’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider said third-quarter earnings excluding
some items were 58 cents a share, exceeding the average  analyst
estimate  by 3.4 percent. The beat was the smallest since the
third quarter of 2008, according to Bloomberg data. Some
analysts had estimated earnings as much as 62 cents a share.  Of the 24 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results
since Oct. 7, 18 have  beaten  analysts’ per-share earnings
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg predict 24 percent growth in third-quarter
profit from a year earlier for S&P 500 companies, the fourth
straight quarterly increase.  Stocks held gains as confidence among home-construction
companies rose in October to the highest level in four months, a
sign residential building is stabilizing at depressed levels.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  confidence
index  increased to 16, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey, from 13 the prior month. The gauge was
projected to rise to 14, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey.  AGA Medical Jumps  AGA Medical Holdings Inc.  soared 41 percent to $20.70. St.
Jude Medical Inc. agreed to buy the maker of medical devices for
$20.80 a share in a cash and stock transaction valued at $1.3
billion, including assumed debt, to expand its range of heart
devices.  Fluor Corp.  retreated 5.1 percent to $49.23. The largest
publicly traded construction and engineering company in the U.S.
lowered its full-year earnings forecast to no more than $2.50 a
share, down from its previous forecast of $2.90 a share to $3.20
a share. The company took a third-quarter charge because of
delays on a wind-farm project.  McMoRan Exploration Co.  slid 13 percent to $16.02. The
company, which has been a partner in some of the largest U.S.
offshore oil discoveries of the past decade, reported a third-
quarter net loss of 26 cents a share, worse than the 22-cent
loss forecast by analysts.  Quicksilver Resources Inc.  surged 16 percent to $14.65. The
natural-gas explorer said controlling shareholders Quicksilver
Energy LP and the Darden family are considering taking the
company private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 