-- UBA of Nigeria to Create a Holding Company, to Sell Shares in it Next Year
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-10-18T11:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/uba-of-nigeria-to-create-a-holding-company-to-sell-shares-in-it-next-year.html
United Bank for Africa Plc ,
Nigeria’s fourth-biggest lender by market value, said it will
create a holding company in the second quarter of next year that
will sell shares on the country’s stock exchange.  The bank will relinquish its universal banking license that
allowed it offer multiple services and will become an
international lender to be known as UBA Plc, the Lagos-based
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The holding
company will house UBA Plc, UBA Capital and UBA Africa, a new
unit that will coordinate bank’s subsidiaries in 18 other
African countries, it said. United Bank for Africa’s insurance,
asset management, stockbroking and investment-banking units will
now be under UBA Capital, according to the statement.  UBA wants to put in place “a best-practice structure in
accordance with international norms,” Chief Executive Officer
 Phillips Oduoza  said in the statement. Once shareholders approve
the plan, it will be submitted to the high court, he said.  After last year’s debt crisis that almost crippled banking
in Africa’s most populous country, the central bank in March
asked lenders to separate their banking and non-banking
businesses to allow for better supervision. Banks needed to
chose whether to operate as regional, national or international
lenders and the regulator set minimum capital requirements
ranging from 15 billion naira for regional banks to 100 billion
naira ($651.5 million) for international lenders.  In September, the central bank said it would repeal
universal licenses that allow banks to offer several services,
with lenders now having to apply for permits for specific
banking functions.  Compliance  Central Bank of Nigeria  Lamido Sanusi  last year fired the
heads of 8 of the country’s 24 lenders for their handling of the
crisis that resulted after investors borrowed to buy shares on
the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  and couldn’t repay debts when prices
plummeted. Bank of America Corp. estimated that at least 1
trillion naira of these so-called margin loans were extended.  “What the central bank wants to do is to see that losses
from subsidiaries don’t hit the accounts of banks again,”  Mike Uzor , head of Datatrust Consult, a Lagos-based fund manager,
said in a telephone interview today. “Most of the debts they
incurred during the crisis came from their capital-market
subsidiaries and they simply transferred them onto the banks.”  UBA also said it would establish a new company that will
run its real-estate investments worth more than 100 billion
naira ($662 million). The unit, which will be known as UBA
Properties, will sell shares to “existing shareholders”,
according to the statement.  Guaranty Trust Bank Plc , Nigeria’s third-biggest lender by
market value, will sell its interests in its non-banking units,
including 68 percent of Guaranty Trust Assurance Plc, to focus
on its core business, it said on Sept. 17.  United Bank for Africa climbed to the highest in almost two
weeks, adding 39 kobo, or 4.1 percent, to 10 naira by 11:39 a.m.
in Lagos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 