-- UBS Names Ex-Citigroup Salles, Two Directors to Rebuild Brazilian Business
-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-10-18T18:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/ubs-names-salles-centola-mendonca-barros-to-head-brazil-unit-bank-says.html
UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank,
appointed Lywal Salles to oversee business in Brazil and named
two other senior directors to lead investment banking and
brokerage units in the country.  As chairman of UBS Group Brazil, Salles will be responsible
for all of the bank’s operations there, Zurich-based UBS said in
a statement today. It named  Eduardo Centola , 42, chief executive
officer of UBS Investment Bank in Brazil.  Daniel Mendonca Barros , 40, will lead the firm’s brokerage and securities units
there after UBS completes the acquisition of Link Investimentos.  “We are committed to bringing leading talent into our
Brazil operation to drive the growth and competitiveness of our
business,”  Carsten Kengeter , co-CEO of UBS Investment Bank,
said in the statement. “With the addition of these seasoned
leaders, we believe that we are building strong momentum to
regain a leading position in Brazil.”  The firm is seeking to bolster business in Brazil after
selling its Pactual unit in April last year for $2.5 billion as
it sought to free up capital. UBS, the European bank with the
highest losses from the credit crisis, is competing with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp . and local players
including Banco Itau BBA and Banco BTG Pactual SA, as growth in
Latin America’s biggest economy fuels private-equity deals,
stock offerings and bond sales.  Expansion Efforts  UBS started a wealth-management unit in Brazil last month
and in April agreed to buy brokerage Link Investimentos for
about $112 million to gain access to licenses for doing business
in the country.  Fernanda Pasquarelli , executive director of
asset management at UBS in Brazil, said last month the bank is
considering acquisitions.  The Swiss bank fell to 13th place this year among
underwriters of equity and equity-linked offerings by Brazilian
companies from 10th last year and seventh in 2008, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Itau ranks third, while BTG Pactual is in
seventh place.  Salles has been chairman of Banco Itau Holding Financeira
SA’s private banking units Banco Itau Europa International and
Itau Europa Securities, according to today’s statement. He
previously led Itau Private Bank and held positions at  Citigroup
Inc ., including as regional director in Latin America for high
net worth clients. He will report to  Robert Wolf , head of UBS’s
Americas unit, and  Raul Esquivel , who leads investment banking
in Latin America, the company said.  Centola was hired from  Standard Bank Group Ltd. , where he
worked starting in February 2009 as CEO for the Americas. He
previously worked at Goldman Sachs.  Mendonca Barros was a founding partner of Link
Investimentos. He will be responsible for equities and fixed-
income in Brazil, reporting to Centola and  Neal Shear , global
head of securities at UBS, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helder Marinho  in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Price at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 