-- Lula's Tax on Foreigners Fuels Rally in Overseas Real Bonds: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-18T21:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/lula-s-tax-on-foreigners-fuels-rally-in-overseas-real-bonds-brazil-credit.html
Brazil may sell real-linked bonds in
the international market for the first time in three years as a
tax increase on foreigners’ purchases in the local debt market
shifts demand overseas.  The government’s international real-linked bonds due in
2016 are rising faster than its local bonds with similar
maturity since the tariff change on Oct. 4, driving the yield
difference to a seven-month high of 372 basis points, or 3.72
percentage points. The gap was 214 points on July 13, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  today boosted the tax
on foreigners’ fixed-income investments to 6 percent, two weeks
after doubling it to 4 percent, to stem a currency rally that
pushed the real up 34 percent in the past two years. Colombia,
Chile and the Philippines are selling such debt abroad as
record-low interest rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan fuel
interest in higher-yielding securities. Emerging-market bonds
denominated in local currencies have rallied 20 percent this
year after a 22 percent gain in 2009, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  GBI-EM Global Diversified Index .  “It’s a good opportunity for the government to sell
debt,”  Diego Donadio , a Latin America strategist at BNP Paribas
in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “It’s expensive to
invest locally because you have to pay more taxes. Brazilian
assets are seen as a good opportunity for foreigners.”  ‘Great’ Demand  Latin America’s biggest country may offer real-denominated
overseas bonds before the end of the year, Treasury Secretary
 Arno Augustin  told reporters in Brasilia Oct. 14. Augustin was
traveling and unavailable for further comment on Oct. 15,
according to the Finance Ministry’s press department.  Paulo Valle , an undersecretary at the Treasury, declined to comment.  Developing countries have raised $2.8 billion by selling
local-currency debt abroad, the most since 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Russia is also planning to issue
ruble securities to international investors this year, Deputy
Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  told reporters in Moscow on Sept.
8.  “Demand from investors has been great for global bonds,”
 Ram Bala Chandran , a Latin American currency and rates analyst
at Citigroup Inc., said in telephone interview from New York.
“If Brazil wants to issue, the market has appetite for it.”  Brazil raised the levy on foreigners’ fixed-income
purchases, known as the IOF tax, to 4 percent on Oct. 4 from 2
percent after the real reached the strongest level in more than
two years.  The tax on foreign investors’ margin deposits for futures
markets will climb to 6 percent from 0.38 percent, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters today in Sao Paulo. The
government left the IOF rate at 2 percent on equity investments.  ‘One More Obstacle’  Brazilian interest rates are too high and are luring
capital as the U.S. lets its currency weaken and takes the
Chinese yuan with it, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters in Brasilia on Oct. 4. Brazil’s 10.75 percent
overnight interbank rate compares with a benchmark rate target
of between zero and 0.25 percent in the U.S. The tax increase
will slow speculative investment into Brazil and protect
exporters and domestic producers, Mantega said.  The tax has so far failed to curb the currency’s advance.
The real gained 1.4 percent since Oct. 4 to 1.674 per dollar,
extending its advance this year to 4.2 percent.  The IOF increase may have created the unintended
consequence of driving investors to seek out international real
bonds, said  Marcela Meirelles , an emerging-market analyst with
TCW Group Inc. in Los Angeles, which manages about $110 billion.  “The fact that the tax creates one more obstacle to go
local could be a stronger argument to buy the global ones,”
Meirelles said in a telephone interview. “The tax, on the
margin, improves the demand for the global bonds versus the
local counterparts.”  International Bonds  The yield on Brazil’s 12.5 percent international bonds due
in 2016 fell 62 basis points since Oct. 4 to 8.1 percent,
compared with a 23 basis-point drop to 11.57 percent on the
local bonds due in 2017, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on the government’s international dollar bonds
due in 2017 declined 25 basis points over that time to 2.84
percent.  The yield gap between the foreign and local real-
denominated securities may narrow, said  Daniel Tenengauzer , head
of emerging-markets foreign-exchange and rates strategy at Bank
of America Corp. in New York. In March, he predicted the
difference would narrow to about 200 basis points.  “The 4 percent one-off tax is important, but in the grand
scheme of things, Brazil is a very important market and
investors have to be involved,” Tenengauzer said. “The tax has
a marginal impact, but the big trend will not change.”  Credit Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose nine
basis points today to 181, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.
The spread on emerging-market government dollar debt widened six
basis points to 253.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years climbed three basis points today to 100, according to
CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2012 rose six basis points to 11.28 percent.  Augustin said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Brasilia in July 2009 that he planned an offering of real-linked
debt overseas. Valle said in a Sept. 1 telephone interview that
the government was considering a sale before year-end.  Colombia, Chile  “They’ve been saying that for quite some time but they
haven’t done anything yet,” said Bala Chandran. “I’m not sure
they want to sell.”  Brazil last sold real-linked bonds overseas in 2007, when
it issued $1.9 billion of 10.25 percent notes due in 2028,
Bloomberg data show.  Colombia sold the equivalent of $1.3 billion of 7.75
percent peso bonds due in 2021 in international markets in July,
according to Bloomberg data. Chile issued $520 million of peso
notes in July. Philippines raised $1 billion in its first sale
of local-currency notes to overseas investors in September.  Brazil may offer as much as $1 billion of the bonds abroad,
according to Donadio of BNP Paribas.  The tax “can cause a migration to the secondary offering
for offshore bonds,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  