-- German Planner of London's Pinnacle Tower May Invest in More Developments
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-10-18T06:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/union-investment-planner-of-pinnacle-targets-other-european-developments.html
The  German fund-management company 
that devised the Pinnacle tower in London may invest in more
European developments, working with companies that are finding
it harder to borrow money from banks.  “We may take on more risk and not just look at standing
assets,”  Reinhard Kutscher , the 55-year-old chairman of
Hamburg-based Union Investment Real Estate AG, said in an
interview at Munich’s Expo Real property trade fair.  As the financial crisis makes bank loans harder to obtain,
developers are looking for partners to back projects instead of
taking out loans. Union Investment, Germany’s second-largest
real-estate mutual fund manager, works with local developers by
sharing construction costs or buying a project once tenants have
been lined up to occupy at least half of a building.  Last month, Union Investment and developer ECE
Projectktmanagement GmbH & Co. KG opened the 220-million-euro
($305-million)  Rhein-Galerie mall  in Germany’s Ludwigshafen
after 2 1/2 years of construction. Another retail property is
scheduled to open at Kayseri in Turkey in 2011, after a 130-
million-euro investment in a venture with  Multi Corp. , a Gouda,
Netherlands-based developer.  City Skyscraper  The property fund manager commissioned the  Pinnacle tower 
in London’s main financial district in 2005 before selling the
site with planning consent to Arab Investments Ltd. for 200
million pounds ($318 million) two years later as property values
soared. When completed, the 64-story building will be the
tallest in the area.  Union Investment favors large shopping centers and “we
haven’t had one flop” in the properties started before 2006,
Kutscher said.  These include the 300-million-euro  Limbecker Platz  mall in
Essen, the Forum Mersin Shopping & Lifestyle Centre in Turkey
and the 130 million-euro purchase of the Area Sur mall in Jerez
de la Frontera, Spain, which opened in 2007.  Next year, the property fund manager is scheduled to open
its  Emporio tower complex  in central Hamburg, a refurbishment
that will include the addition of two stories. Union Investment
has already leased 45 percent of the space to Scandic Hotels AB
and local events organizer Nord Event and plans to use the
property as its own headquarters next year.  Union Investment Real Estate is part of Union Investment
AG, the fund management arm of Germany’s cooperative banks, and
oversees 19.1 billion euros of real estate spread across six
vehicles, three of which are mutual funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 