-- United Technologies to Buy Rest of Clipper Windpower After Orders Decline
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-10-18T07:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/united-technologies-to-buy-rest-of-clipper-windpower-after-orders-decline.html
United Technologies Corp., the maker
of Pratt & Whitney jet engines, agreed to buy the rest of
 Clipper Windpower Plc  after reduced orders left the wind-turbine
manufacturer struggling to finance operations.  The U.S. company will pay Clipper stockholders 65 pence a
share, a 31 percent premium to their last closing price, Clipper
said today in a statement. United Technologies, the maker of
Otis elevators, owns 49.5 percent and the cash offer values all
of London-based Clipper at 139.5 million pounds ($222 million).  The wind-turbine producer said in September that it was
considering ways to raise money, including acquiring lines of
credit from its biggest shareholder because of lower receipts of
deposits and payments from customers for existing orders.
Financing for wind farm development has been undermined by the
global economic and credit crisis and Clipper’s customers have
also reduced investment and delayed projects.  “In the context of the challenging environment that Clipper
has faced in recent years, we believe that the transaction
represents good value,” Chief Executive Officer  Mauricio Quintana  said in the statement today.  Clipper shares jumped 29 percent to 64 pence in London
trading as of 8:06 a.m. The  stock  had declined 71 percent this
year before the offer. The turbine maker estimated first-half
losses will be $26 million to $30 million. Its consolidated cash
position fell to $86 million at the end of August from $140
million at the end of June.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Clipper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net .
CWP LN <Equity>
UTX <Equity> 