-- Turkey's Lira Weakens as Investors Await Fed Stimulus Details; Stocks Rise
-- B y   S e d a   S e z e r
-- 2010-10-18T08:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/turkey-s-lira-weakens-as-investors-await-fed-stimulus-details-stocks-rise.html
The Turkish lira weakened, heading
for its biggest tumble in more than a month, as traders and
investors awaited an indication of how much stimulus the Federal
Reserve will provide to boost the U.S. economy  The lira depreciated 0.9 percent to 1.4269 per dollar at
11:32 a.m. in Istanbul. The main ISE National 100 Index added
359.63, or 0.5 percent, to 70,460.85 after earlier retreating as
much as 0.5 percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets  Index  declined
1.3 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 15
the central bank may expand asset purchases to sustain the
recovery in the world’s largest economy, hurting the dollar. He
didn’t offer new details on how the Fed would undertake easing
or give assurances the bank will act at its November meeting.  “Markets have been pricing a new quantitative easing step
from the Fed in the past month,”  Fatih Keresteci , a strategist
at HSBC Bank AS in Istanbul, wrote in a report today. “A
correction was inevitable.”  Turkish stocks gained for a second day, extending a record
high. Some investors are betting on a possible credit rating
upgrade for the country, said traders including  Altug Dag  at EFG
Istanbul Securities last week. The lira is still up 5.6 percent
versus the dollar in the last month.  Turkish equities rallied last week after the government
announced a three-year economic program and newspaper Today’s
Zaman reported a delegation from Moody’s Investors Service is
visiting Ankara to review economic performance ahead of a
possible rating upgrade.  Benchmark two-year lira  bonds  rose, with yields falling one
basis point to 7.72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seda Sezer  in Istanbul at 
 ssezer2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 