-- Vale CEO Says Not Pursuing More Acquisitions After `Quietly' Buying Assets
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-10-18T19:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/vale-ceo-says-not-pursuing-more-acquisitions-after-quietly-buying-assets.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-
ore miner, said it is not planning any more acquisitions because
it has enough assets to double its capacity.  Vale, which aims to become the biggest mining company in
the world, doesn’t need to compete with rivals for assets
because it has the highest-quality iron ore and a pipeline of
other metals projects, Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli 
told investors today in New York.  “Everybody is looking for assets, they are going after
acquisitions and we are not going after acquisitions,” Agnelli
said in a presentation. Vale is “very well positioned” after
“quietly” buying assets in 2004 through 2006, he said.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale will start six new projects this
year including its Onca Puma nickel mine in Brazil’s Para state
after spending $12.6 billion, according to a regulatory filing
today. The company’s 7.9 million metric tons of nickel reserves
put it above OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest
supplier, according to the presentation. Vale is also planning
to expand production of minerals such as copper and fertilizers.  “We are the only mining company in the world that can
double the capacity only with our own projects,” Chief
Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti  said today during the
same event at the New York Stock Exchange.  New Smelter?  Vale isn’t planning a new bid for Paranapanema SA after it
failed to buy the Brazilian copper producer in September,
Agnelli said today at a news conference in New York. The company
is analyzing options including building a new smelter in Para
state that may be cheaper than the acquisition of the company
based in Dias D’Avila, Brazil, he said.  Vale will only take advantage of “some opportunities,”
like it did when it acquired the Rio Colorado potash mine in
Argentina in 2009, Agnelli said.  Vale is boosting capacity at Carajas, the world’s biggest
iron-ore mine, and seeking to start output from Guinea’s
Simandou project by the end of 2012. The Simandou geology “is
almost the same as Carajas” and its high-quality ore would make
production profitable even if prices collapse to $30 a ton,
Agnelli said. The company sold iron ore at $91.93 a ton in the
second quarter, up from $47.82 a ton in the year-earlier period,
Vale said July 30.  2011 Budget  Vale may spend as much as $28 billion in the next two years
“just to finish” projects under construction, Agnelli said.  “I don’t know who is going to compete with this kind of
asset base and the volume that we are able to put into the
market,” he said. The company will announce its 2011 capital
expenditures budget plan by the end of the month.  Vale is selling all its output and benefiting from growth
in China, South Korea and Brazil, Angelli said. Demand for
metals in Europe is “only okay” and “not getting worse,” he
said.  The miner boosted third-quarter iron-ore output 24 percent
to 82.6 million tons, the highest since the record 85.8 million
tons produced in the third quarter of 2008, Vale said earlier
today.  This year “will be a very good year for Vale,” Agnelli
said. “2011 may be a little bit better.”  Vale’s “main challenge” to contain its costs is the
falling dollar against currencies such as the Brazilian real and
Canadian dollar, Cavalcanti said. Brazil’s real has gained 9.3
percent against the dollar since the start of June, the second-
biggest increase in Latin America after Chile’s peso.  Preferred shares of  Vale  jumped after today’s presentation
to its highest level since April. 27. Vale  gained  96 centavos,
or 2 percent, to 48.74 reais at 3:22 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  