-- Wal-Mart Sells $5 Billion of Bonds Including Debt With Record Low Coupons
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-18T21:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/wal-mart-sells-5-billion-of-bonds-in-retailer-s-largest-sale-since-1999.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, sold $5 billion of debt in a four-part
offering at some of the lowest coupons ever.  The transaction included $750 million of three-year, 0.75
percent notes that yield 30 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries and $1.25 billion of five-year, 1.5 percent
debt at a spread of 48 basis points, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Interest rates  on both securities are the least on record,
according to Bank of America Corp., which helped manage the sale
along with Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer may be taking advantage of
low borrowing costs to fuel expansion outside the U.S. after its
proposed  acquisition  of South Africa’s Massmart Holdings Ltd.,
said  Tim Hoyle , director of research at Haverford Investments.  “The company is still on the hunt for international growth
opportunities, and it only makes sense to fund them with the
cheapest capital available,” said Hoyle, who’s based in
Philadelphia and helps oversee $6 billion of assets, including
Wal-Mart shares.  Wal-Mart also sold $1.75 billion of 10-year securities that
pay a spread of 78 basis points and $1.25 billion of 30-year
bonds that yield 115 basis points more than benchmarks,
Bloomberg data show. The offering was the company’s largest
since it sold $5.75 billion of debt in a three-part offering in
August 1999, Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  ‘Phenomenal Time’  Wal-Mart offered to buy Massmart, South Africa’s biggest
food and general goods wholesaler, on Sept. 27 in a transaction
valued at 29.8 billion rand ($4.34 billion).  “It’s a phenomenal time to be issuing debt with yields so
low,” said  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
in New York, in an e-mail. “Keeping the balance sheet stable
and making sure the company has sufficient liquidity to be
opportunistic are the key drivers.”  Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and to
repay commercial paper, said Wal-Mart spokesman  Greg Rossiter .  “It’s a testament to how Wal-Mart is viewed in the
market,” said  Andrew Karp , head of investment-grade debt
syndicate for the Americas at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“They’re seen as a bellwether name and investors are willing to
take more exposure to them than they are in other credits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 