-- WaMu Wins Court Approval of Seeking Creditor Votes for Liquidation Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-18T17:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/wamu-wins-court-approval-of-seeking-creditor-votes-for-liquidation-plan.html
Washington Mutual Inc. , the former
parent of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, won court approval to
send its plan to liquidate most of its remaining assets out to
creditors for a vote.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  said she would sign
an order approving the so-called disclosure statement describing
the liquidation plan after Washington Mutual, known as WaMu,
worked out minor, final wording changes with creditors.  Walrath denied a request by shareholders to put off the
hearing today in Wilmington, Delaware, on the disclosure
statement. The investors asked Walrath to delay a vote until a
court-appointed examiner issues a report on the failure of
Washington Mutual’s former bank, the biggest bank failure in the
U.S.  The liquidation plan would divide $7 billion among
creditors and is based on a settlement among Seattle-based
Washington Mutual, known as WaMu,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , which
bought the failed bank, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
which is overseeing the distribution of bank assets to bank
creditors in a separate legal proceeding.  That settlement has the support of all the creditors who
have any realistic chance of getting part of their debts repaid,
noteholder lawyer  Tom Lauria  told Walrath.  “The report is not going to change how everyone is going
to vote,” Lauria said.  Insurance Unit  One insurance unit of WaMu would be reorganized under the
plan and exit bankruptcy. That unit could be worth as much as
$150 million, shareholder attorney Justin Nelson said in court.  WaMu filed for  bankruptcy  Sept. 26, 2008, the day after its
banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to JPMorgan
for $1.9 billion. Before it failed, Washington Mutual Bank had
more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  Under the company’s voting process, creditors have until
Nov. 15, two weeks after the examiner’s report is made public
Nov. 1, company attorney  Brian Rosen  said in court.  Walrath will take the votes into consideration when she
decides whether to approve the plan after a hearing scheduled
for Dec. 1.  Shareholders and some lower-ranking creditors oppose the
plan. Shareholders argued in court papers that WaMu could raise
as much as $30 billion by filing lawsuits related to the
takeover of its bank.  Shareholders have long claimed that the takeover was
invalid.  WaMu, JPMorgan and the FDIC have agreed not to sue each
other over the takeover and to split cash and tax refunds worth
about $10 billion.  As part of the voting, creditors will be asked to promise
not to sue as well.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 