-- Wine-Swigging Rednecks Battle With Hired Guns in Two New Books
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/wine-swigging-rednecks-battle-with-hired-guns-in-new-books-john-mariani.html
The barrage of inane glossy books
about matching wines to every imaginable food seems to have
ceased this season. Instead there are two books that inject some
much-needed sense and historical perspective in the face of the
rapidly changing way in which wines are made, marketed, shipped
and sold around the world.  They are not massive tomes. Like most of the best wine
writing, Terry Thiese’s new  “Reading between the Wines” 
( University of California Press , 189 pages, $24.95) is a small,
personal book that can be read in an evening with a bottle
alongside. Thiese is an importer of Champagnes and Austrian and
German wines, so he knows how the market works: the brandishing
of scores on a 100-point scale, as if there was any difference
between a 92 and a 95, when 70 or so wines are tasted and spat
out in the same morning.  “The most successful wine isn’t always the one with the
highest score, it is the one the tasters reach for to drink
after the tasting,” he reminds us. “‘The best wine is the
first one emptied,’ is a wise proverb.”  Thiese is a true wine writer, not a compiler of notes and
numbers, so he can extol the character and nuances of a wine in
a way that the oenophile can really appreciate. As he says
himself: “I’d far rather read the genial musings of a humane
spirit mulling over the little nimbus between his soul and the
wine in the glass than to see how many arcane adjectives some
anal geek can string together.”  California Cults  He is as shocked as any reasonable person should be at
California cult wines that bound into the market with no prior
history, recalling how a wine salesman whose dream was to make
wine went out and bought grapes, had them “custom-crushed” for
him by a “hired gun” winemaker out of  U.C. Davis , then offered
the finished wine for $125, at which time, writes Thiese, “I
knew the world had gone mad.”  Thiese reminds us how certain wines are inextricably linked
to human emotions and memories -- the day a child was born, the
night a father died -- and he remains staunchly catholic in his
belief that, “There are no ‘invalid’ moments of pleasure in
wine,” only higher and lower pleasures. “It’s good to stay in
touch with your inner redneck, or you risk your taste becoming
precious.”  Thiese is a man I’d like to drink with. Any wine.  I have happily drunk wine with Matt Kramer, whose new
collection of essays fills  “Matt Kramer on Wine”  ( Sterling
Epicure , 334 pages, $19.95). The cover line calls him America’s
most “Lucid Wine Writer,” and I’m good with that.  Becoming a Geek  Kramer is a columnist for  Wine Spectator Magazine  and loves
nothing more than to puncture the pretensions of the same kind
of wine writing Thiese deplores. Kramer even has a hilarious
essay on an imaginary visit to his doctor, telling him, “This
is gonna be a little difficult to explain...I’m afraid that I’m
becoming a geek” and confessing his anxieties about wondering
what’s the right glass for various cru Beaujolais.  In fact, Kramer is never anything less than good fun to
read, even when he’s being highly critical. He characterizes the
salivating human response to wines with the deepest color, most
attractive nose, and scent as the “Low-Cut Dress Syndrome.” He
skewers California winemakers who contend it’s a “good thing”
to drive alcohol content in their wines up to 17 percent
(“about the limit of what a yeast can ferment before it dies
from alcohol toxicity”), then “water back” the juice --
“jargon for taking a garden hose and pumping water into the
vat” to dilute it to a still-high 15.5 percent.  Soul of Wine  He takes on the manipulators who use lab techniques like
reverse osmosis and microoxygenation, saying it de-humanizes the
wine, comparing it to a  Tour de France  rider using performance-
enhancing drugs. “Want proof?” asks Kramer. “Recall (if you
can) the taste of real cream compared with today’s ubiquitous
ultrapasteurized versions.”  Kramer wrote in 2001: “We’re at a crossroads. The fight
for the soul of wine has begun.”  The battle was joined by many of his colleagues, including
myself, who believe that a passion for tradition is not the same
thing as nostalgia. With Kramer on the front lines, we have a
good shot at pushing back the forces for whom wine is just a
commodity to be rated and priced by numbers.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 