-- Women See Dimmer Prospects Than Men on Retirement, Jobs in Poll
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/women-see-dimmer-outlook-than-men-for-retirement-joblessness-poll-shows.html
Women voters, who are less confident
they’ll have enough money in retirement and say they’ll have to
work longer than many men expect to, are taking more steps to
trim household budgets.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 7-10 finds that 41
percent of female likely voters are either very or fairly
confident they will have enough money in retirement, compared
with 48 percent of male likely voters. Thirty-two percent of
these women are confident they won’t have to work beyond their
target retirement age; 40 percent of men say the same.  Janice Woods Moorman, a 55-year-old retired bus driver from
Roanoke, Virginia, who lost much of her retirement savings in
the  stock-market  collapse of 2008, says she has cut back.  “I’m always looking for bargains,” she says.
“Financially, I can’t do what I used to be able to do.”  The poll reflects that women, who have been less affected
by job cuts than men in the longest recession in seven decades,
are more concerned about  unemployment . Among women voters, 54
percent say unemployment is the biggest issue facing the U.S.,
compared with 43 percent of men.  Overall, unemployment stood at 9.6 percent in September,
down from a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009.  From December 2007, the beginning of the recession, to June
2009, when it officially ended, men accounted for 66 percent of
job losses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That gap
has narrowed as hiring in sectors such as financial services has
picked up: In September, the  unemployment rate  for women  20 and
older  was 8 percent and the rate for  men  was 9.8 percent.  Favorable to Obama  The relatively more favorable employment picture for women
in the recession may help explain why female voters in the poll
are less critical than men about President  Barack Obama ’s
handling of the economy. Thirty-six percent of women say they
expect their economic situation to improve, compared with 32
percent of men.  Female poll respondents were more likely than men to say
the tough economy has forced them to make some changes in their
household spending behavior. Greater percentages of women than
men say they’ve changed where they shop to save money, put off a
major needed purchase and made cuts in regular household
expenses such as cable television, telephone and Internet
service.  Staying Home  “We think more carefully about vacations and trips,” says
Jeri Neidhard, 49, a high school English teacher from
Centerville, Ohio, who votes as an independent. Instead of
traveling this summer, Neidhard says she saved money for some
needed home renovations.  Male voters in the poll are more likely than women to be
concerned about the  budget deficit , and show greater interest in
the Tea Party movement, which has made government spending the
thrust of its campaign to oust incumbent members of Congress.
Among women, 44 percent say the deficit is a manageable burden,
compared with 34 percent of men.  The shortfall between spending and revenue was $1.29
trillion in the year that ended Sept. 30, down from $1.42
trillion the previous year, according to the Treasury. At 8.9
percent of the nation’s gross domestic product, the 2010  deficit 
was the second biggest since 1945.  Overall 38 percent of men, compared with 25 percent of
women, consider themselves supporters of the Tea Party movement.
Four in 10 men, compared with one-quarter of women, say they
believe the Tea Party will change things for the better if its
candidates are elected to Congress. More than half of men say
Obama’s health-care law should be repealed, while just four in
10 women favor that option.  Presidential Match-up  Gender differences show in attitudes toward former Alaska
Governor  Sarah Palin , a leading Tea Party figure and a possible
Republican presidential contender, with 30 percent of women
saying they would vote for her if she were Obama’s adversary in
a presidential election held today, compared with 40 percent of
men. Palin leads Obama among men 45 and older.  The poll finds that more than half of women likely voters
approve of the job Obama is doing, including on health care, and
say the economy will either get worse or stay the same if
Republicans win control of the Congress. Men, by a margin of 58
percent to 39 percent, disapprove of Obama’s job performance on
the economy.  Still, these female voters are less motivated this year to
turn up at the polls to support Democratic candidates than their
male counterparts are to support Republicans. Overall, 66
percent of women voters say they will definitely vote or already
have voted, compared with 74 percent for men. Almost four in ten
women voters say the election is exceptionally important,
compared with almost half of men.  ‘Harms Democratic Candidates’  “Women are not linking any participation in the midterms
to their support for President Obama,” says J.  Ann Selzer ,
president of Des Moines, Iowa-based  Selzer & Co. , which
conducted the poll. “That harms Democratic candidates and may
make the second half of Obama’s first term more complicated.”  Some female poll respondents explained they may sit out the
Nov. 2 vote because the Democrats haven’t lived up to the
promise of change that fueled the party’s victories in the 2008
campaign.  “The same old people are just getting re-elected and we’re
not changing in any way,” says Amy Nay, a 25-year-old homemaker
from Victorville, California, a Democrat who voted for Obama and
may not turn out to vote for a candidate from that party next
month. “We need more skirts in the White House and in our
Congress.”  Government Spending  Women are less receptive to Republicans’ priorities,
including their campaign pledge to cut or freeze government
spending, with 45 percent calling it a good idea compared with
52 percent of men.  Fifty-five percent of women say they oppose any plan to
privatize Social Security as a way to cut the deficit. That
compares with 45 percent of men. Women voters also are less
likely to support the Republicans’ goal of extending all the  tax
cuts  enacted under former President  George W. Bush  that expire
at the end of the year, with just 28 percent of women saying
they should be extended to all income levels, compared with 40
percent of men.  Obama and most Democrats have proposed renewing all the
cuts, except those that exclusively affect the highest earners.  Health care is a particularly divisive issue across gender
lines in the poll, with women voters more supportive of the
Obama-backed overhaul passed by Congress this year.  Among likely voters, 44 percent of women say the health-
care law will strengthen the economy and 35 percent say it will
weaken the economy. That compares with 37 percent of men who say
it will improve the economy and 48 percent who say it will make
it worse.  The poll of 721 likely voters has a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.7 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  