-- Woodside, China May Sign Agreement for Natural Gas Supplies by End of 2010
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-18T04:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/woodside-china-may-sign-agreement-for-natural-gas-supplies-by-end-of-2010.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s
second-largest oil producer, may reach an initial agreement to
supply liquefied natural gas from its Browse project to China by
the end of 2010, the head of its China unit said.  “We are currently in detailed discussion with Chinese
state-owned companies about LNG supply and we are interested to
reach key terms in the next few months or even by the end of the
year,”  George J. Gilboy , general manager for the Greater China
Region, said in an interview in Shanghai yesterday.  Chinese energy companies are building LNG terminals as part
of the government’s plan to use more of the cleaner-burning fuel.
Woodside has supplied 3 million metric tons of the fuel a year
since 2006 to  China National Offshore Oil Corp. ’s terminal in
the southern province of Guangdong, the nation’s first.  “Australia will be a big partner for China’s LNG
development as Chinese companies know Australia is special to
them,” Gilboy said. “They understand the advantages of
Australia in terms of geography, political stability,
transparency of laws and fair dealing with partners.” He
declined to give details of the negotiations or identify the
Chinese partner.  Separately, talks with  PetroChina Co.  on LNG supply are
continuing even after an agreement lapsed, Gilboy said.  “PetroChina is interested in development in Australia and
it is a very important company in China’s energy market and we
like to work with PetroChina in future,” he said.  Agreement Expires  Woodside’s preliminary agreement to supply as much as 3
million tons of LNG a year from the Browse project to the
Chinese company, valued at about A$45 billion ($44 billion),
expired last year.  Woodside and partners Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
BP Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. in February opted to process the
fuel at a hub in the Kimberley region of Western Australia after
accepting a government deadline to decide how to develop the
Browse venture. A final investment decision for Browse is due in
2012.  The Browse fields, off Western Australia, are estimated to
contain 13 trillion cubic feet of sales gas and 355 million
barrels of condensate, a type of light oil, Macquarie Group Ltd.
said in a client note Feb. 25.  CPC Corp., Taiwan’s state-owned oil refiner, extended a
preliminary agreement to buy LNG from Browse venture to the end
of this month and wants to acquire as much as 10 percent of the
project, Vice-President  Lin Maw-Wen  said in January.  “We still aim to finalize the CPC contract. For the
agreement, we don’t worry too much about speculation on the
deadline,” Gilboy said. “What we really care about is both
parties are interested to continue to make progress to finalize
the deal.”  CPC is also keen to import condensate from Browse and
discussions with the Taiwan company extend beyond LNG, he said,
without giving details.  China will need about as much as 50 million tons a year of
LNG by 2020, which means they will have to buy 15 million to 20
million tons above current contracted supplies, Gilboy said.  “Woodside is developing several projects to meet the
demand and Browse is exactly the project to meet it,” he said.  -- Winnie Zhu , with assistance from  James Paton  in Sydney.
Editors:  Jane Lee ,  John Viljoen .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  