-- Typhoon Megi Kills 10 People in Philippines, Heads Toward Southern China
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 2010-10-19T09:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/typhoon-megi-leaves-three-people-dead-in-philippines-heads-toward-china.html
Typhoon Megi, which left at least 10
people dead as it crossed the Philippines yesterday,
strengthened as it churned over the South China Sea on a path to
Hong Kong, the U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center  said .  The storm, which made landfall as a supertyphoon on
Luzon’s northeast coast yesterday before weakening over land,
was about 350 kilometers (220 miles) northwest of Manila and 780
kilometers southeast of Hong Kong at 2 p.m. local time, the U.S.
Navy  said . Megi’s winds increased to 185 kilometers per hour and
the storm was moving west-northwest at 11 kph.  Megi’s winds are forecast to strengthen to 213 kph as it
crosses the South China Sea. That would make it a Category 4
storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, capable of
“ catastrophic damage ,” according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center. Megi may hit Hong Kong within three days, the
U.S. Navy tracking map  shows .  Megi will “severely” affect China’s coast, the nation’s
National Meteorological Center said in a statement yesterday.  China’s State Disaster Relief Commission issued warnings
for the southern regions of Hainan, Guangdong, Guangxi and
Fujian to prepare for relief operations yesterday, the official
Xinhua News Agency  reported . On the island of Hainan, work began
to shore up reservoirs, Xinhua said in a separate  report .  Luzon Victims  At least 10 people died as the storm passed over Luzon, the
most populous island in the Philippines, including three
fishermen killed off the coast of Isabela province, Civil
Defense Administrator Benito Ramos told reporters in Manila
today. Three members of a family were killed by a falling tree
in Pangasinan province, he said.  A state of calamity was declared in Isabela province, where
Megi made landfall.  The storm, which had sustained winds of about 270 kph
before making landfall, destroyed five houses and damaged 30
others as it disrupted power supply in 210 towns and cities, the
National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council  said  on
its website today. Mobile phone networks were also damaged and
some roads were blocked by landslides.  Four northern provinces may have power disruptions for as
long as a week after Megi toppled 11 towers in a transmission
line, National Grid Corp. said in a press briefing today. Manila
Electric Co., which supplies the capital and neighboring areas,
said there may be three-hour outages in parts of the city today.  Storm Ketsana  Rice crops in key growing regions in Isabela and Cagayan
provinces may have been “severely affected” by Megi, the
strongest storm to hit the country this year, the government
said today. As much as 132,847 hectares (328,272 acres) may be
affected, with power and communication outages making it
difficult to get accurate reports of damage, the Department of
Agriculture said in a faxed statement.  The Philippines is regularly battered by tropical cyclones
that form over the Pacific Ocean to the east of the country. The
government was criticized for its response last year when
Tropical Storm Ketsana flooded Manila and parts of Luzon,
leaving about 460 people dead and affecting almost 5 million.  Thousands of people died this year in China as torrential
rain and floods inundated the country. Typhoon Fanapi, the 12th
storm of the season, brought the heaviest rains in a century to
China’s southern province of Guangdong in September, Xinhua News
Agency reported at the time.  Storms in the northwest Pacific are designated as
supertyphoons when their wind speed exceeds 241 kph, according
to the  U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Megi is the name of a catfish in South Korea and is related
to the feeling of getting wet, according to the Hong Kong
Observatory, which  lists  names assigned to storms in the
northwest Pacific. It’s the 15th storm of the season.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Sheldrick  at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash@bloomberg.net  