-- Yuan Forwards Rise as Central Bank Signals Gradual Currency Appreciation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-18T10:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/yuan-forwards-rise-as-central-bank-signals-gradual-currency-appreciation.html
Yuan forwards strengthened on
speculation China’s central bank will allow its currency to rise
to help reduce the economy’s dependence on exports.  China should keep a gradual and controlled pace in re-
valuing its currency,  Li Daokui , an adviser to China’s central
bank, said at a forum in Beijing on the weekend. Central bankers
and other officials meet in Shanghai today for a conference
sponsored by the International Monetary Fund.  “The bias for China is to allow the currency to continue
to have a greater appreciation,” said  Irene Cheung , director of
local-markets trading at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Singapore. “I’ll expect Chinese officials to reiterate what
they have said” in the coming international meetings, she said.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.23 percent to
6.4130 per dollar as of 6 p.m., reflecting bets the currency
will strengthen 3.5 percent from the spot rate of 6.6441,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Treasury Department said Oct. 16 it will delay a
report on manipulation of international currencies, including
China’s, citing progress in the acceleration of the yuan’s gains.
The report will be delayed until after meetings of the Group of
20 nations in the coming weeks, it said.  A currency war over the Chinese yuan is not likely, while
exchange-rate frictions will likely persist, He Fan, deputy
director at the Institute of World Economics and Politics of the
Chinese Academy of Social Science, said on the sidelines of the
conference today.  The People’s Bank of China set today’s reference rate
weaker for the first time in four days at 6.6541 a dollar,
having fixed it at the highest rate since July 2005 on Oct. 15.  The currency has strengthened 2.7 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the last four months. The central bank said it would
allow greater flexibility in the yuan rate with reference to a
currency basket on June 19, ending a two-year dollar peg.  -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 