-- Zapatero Heads to Spain Budget Victory After Getting Majority
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-19T11:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/zapatero-heads-to-victory-on-spain-budget-as-deal-provides-winning-margin.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  is headed to victory on the country’s deepest
budget cuts in three decades after striking deals with regional
parties to support his 2011 fiscal blueprint.  Coalicion Canaria, a party with two seats representing the
Canary Islands, agreed yesterday to back Zapatero in exchange
for concessions to the archipelago off the west coast of Africa,
Canary Islands President  Paulino Rivero  said.  By winning allies for his proposals, Zapatero may be able
to complete the remaining year and a half of his term. A loss on
the budget might have led to early elections. The accord, along
with an Oct. 15 agreement with the  Basque Nationalist Party ,
gave his minority Socialist government 177 seats out of 350. The
budget debate started today at noon in Madrid, with lawmakers
voting on it tomorrow.  “For Zapatero this is a huge win because if he didn’t get
this, his government was going to fall,” said  Ken Dubin , a
political scientist who teaches at Carlos III University and IE
business school in Madrid. “Clearly they’re going to be able to
get to the end of the legislature.”  Paving the Way  The alliances also clear the way for Zapatero, whose
initial package of austerity measures passed in May by one vote,
to overhaul the pension system and employment policies as the
country emerges from the deepest  recession  in six decades.  “Spain wins because we have to get out of the crisis by
working and seeking consensus,” Rivero told reporters after a
meeting with Zapatero yesterday. “The commitment aims for
responsibility and institutional stability that will allow
structural measures to be adopted.”  Still, Zapatero faces criticism from opposition lawmakers
for making concessions to the regional parties. The agreement
with the Basque party opens the way for more powers to be
transferred to the region as well as 112 million euros ($156
million) for scientific research in the Basque Country.  Rivero said the deal was “historic” for the Canary
Islands, which will get control of employment policies and the
internal waters of the archipelago.  The Socialist government is planning the most austere
budget since at least 1980 as it aims to halve the deficit in
two years. Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  defended the budget in
the debate today, saying she’s “convinced” the deficit and
growth forecasts are “realistic.”  Growth Forecasts  The budget is based on a growth forecast of 1.3 percent for
2011, almost twice the 0.7 percent rate estimated for next year
by the International Monetary Fund. The government sees the
economy shrinking 0.3 percent this year in the second annual
contraction.  If more measures are needed to cut the deficit to 6 percent
of gross domestic product next year from 11.1 percent in 2009,
the government will take them “without hesitating,” Salgado
said today. Spain’s budget gap is forecast to be the second-
highest in the euro region this year at 9.3 percent.  The  budget  includes a new tax rate for high earners and
scraps a universal tax rebate for mortgage holders, while 2011
will be the first year that a value-added-tax increase will be
in place for a full year.  Zapatero has lost the support of traditional Socialist
allies and of Catalan lawmakers who backed some of his earlier
legislation. He made a policy U-turn in May, cutting public
wages and freezing pensions under pressure from other European
leaders and investors who were demanding higher premiums to hold
Spanish debt rather than German equivalents.  Popularity Poll  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
debt rather than German bunds fell to 158.8 basis points today,
compared with 161.7 basis points yesterday and a euro-era high
of 221 basis points on June 16.  Zapatero’s popularity is also trailing in the opinion
polls, with the opposition People’s Party extending its lead to
13.4 percentage points, according to a survey by Publico
newspaper on Oct. 11. The prime minister has the lowest approval
rating among party leaders, at 3.3 points out of 10, the poll
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  