-- Zions Bancorporation Has Eighth Straight Quarterly Loss on Loan Balances
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-18T21:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-18/zions-bancorporation-has-eighth-straight-quarterly-loss-on-loan-balances.html
Zions Bancorporation , the best-
performing bank in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year,
reported an eighth straight quarterly  loss  as expenses increased
and provisions stayed elevated.  The third-quarter lossw narrowed to $47.3 million before
preferred dividends were paid, or 47 cents per common share,
from $155.3 million, or $1.43, a year earlier, the Salt Lake
City-based company said today in a statement. Zions last
reported a profit in the third period of 2008. The average
estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a loss of
50 cents a share.  “There is some balance-sheet shrinkage but as long as it’s
not alarming they can keep the top-line strength,”  Brian Klock ,
a KBW Inc. analyst based in San Francisco, said in a phone
interview before results were announced. Total loans declined to
$37.7 billion from $38.1 billion in the second quarter, the
lender said in the statement.  Zions has gained 66.4 percent this year, making it the
fifth-best performer overall in the  S&P 500  as concern eased
about loan losses. The lender is tied to commercial real estate
markets in some of the states hardest-hit in the financial
crisis, Klock said.  “Overall, we are encouraged by the trends exhibited in our
third quarter results,” Chief Executive Officer  Harris H. Simmons , 56, said in the statement. “Asset quality metrics
improved across all major fronts and we generally expect
continued improvement into the fourth quarter and beyond.”  Charge-Offs  Zions said net charge-offs declined to $235.7 million from
$255.2 million in the second quarter. The lender set aside
$184.7 million in the quarter to cover those losses, leaving the
allowance for credit losses at $1.6 billion.  Noninterest expense increased to $456 million, including
$11.6 million for costs associated with a total-return swap
executed with Deutsche Bank AG, from $430.4 million in the
second quarter, Zions said.  The swap, announced in July, transferred the risk of $1.16
billion of bonds backed by bank-issued trust-preferred
securities to Deutsche Bank and allowed Zions to increase
capital levels.  The lender has yet to repay $1.4 billion in government
bailout funds. Simmons has said the company needs to break even
or be “somewhat” profitable before repaying the government.  In September, Simmons said about commercial real estate,
“we don’t see any indication it will get a lot worse.” The
Moody’s/REAL  Commercial Property Price Index , which measures
real-estate values, is 43 percent below its 2007 peak, Moody’s
Investors Service said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  