-- Unions seek gains with airlines healthier
-- By  John Crawley
-- Sun Jun 3, 2007 10:13am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/03/businesspro-airlines-labor-dc-idUSN0134310820070603

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The biggest U.S. airlines, 
struggling to cement their shaky recovery, face a rising 
challenge from angry unions looking to recoup billions in wages 
and pensions lost since 2001. 

  But labor experts question whether pilots, mechanics, bag 
handlers and flight attendants will be able to take back a 
measurable percentage of restructuring givebacks, even if 
profits improve from a modest 2006.  The performance outlook for airlines this year has been 
dimmed by softer demand, stubbornly high fuel costs, diminished 
pricing power and expectations of intensifying competition.  Nevertheless, unions are demanding a bigger share of any 
recovery after losing 160,000 jobs and absorbing $8 billion in 
lost wages, benefits and pensions from 2001-2006.  Determined to upgrade contracts even before January's 
forecast of a second-straight profitable year, labor amplified 
its demands after executives at big airlines got millions in 
stock when restructurings were completed and performance 
improved.  "I would have to say they're frustrated and angry," said 
Gregg Overman, a spokesman for 9,000 active and 2,600 
furloughed pilots at AMR Corp.'s AMR.N American Airlines.  Pilots at American lost more than $2.5 billion from wage 
cuts and work rule changes since 2003. They joined other labor 
groups at the company's annual shareholders meeting to blast 
about $160 million in stock awards for senior management.  Unions also complained about awards at Northwest Airlines 
NWA.N and United Airlines. UAUA.O.  American pilots are seeking a 30 percent raise, the amount 
the union calculates it gave up to see American through its 
out-of-court restructuring.  American made $230 million in 2006, while Continental 
Airlines CAL.N earned $343 million. United Airlines posted a 
small profit for the 11 months it operated outside bankruptcy, 
and US Airways ( LCC.N ) pulled in $300 million.  There is labor peace at Delta Air Lines Inc. ( DAL.N ) where 
pilots are the lone major union. Unions are quiet at Northwest, 
which won a contract with flight attendants this week.  But pilots at US Airways are in bitter negotiations and 
their counterparts at United, along with other unions, want to 
reopen contracts early, something United is not expected to do.  "I think you will see people getting more and more 
aggressive with their companies and their management," said 
Patricia Friend, international president of the Association of 
Flight Attendants, whose 46,000 members fly for United, US 
Airways, Northwest and other carriers.  Friend's organization surrendered 40 percent in wages and 
benefits and lost 15,000 members during the downturn. She said 
unions likely will make more demands and raise questions more 
often in public.  Since 2002, four major carriers, US Airways, United, 
Northwest and Delta, overhauled operations in bankruptcy. 
Continental, like American, restructured out of court. All 
carriers slashed operating costs and debt, and are looking to 
hold down expenses permanently.  "Cost cutting has become a way of doing business," said 
Susan Gordon, a spokeswoman for American.  Daniel Petree, dean of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical 
University's business school, and other experts agree some 
gains by labor are possible. But they say the overall economic 
pressure on airlines, including shifts in demand that have 
weakened revenue, are enormous.  "The cost structure that is emerging in recovery is 
different than what was in place before. It makes the prospects 
for substantial recoveries under traditional collective 
bargaining arrangements more difficult," Petree said.  Jerrold Glass, a consultant and a former executive with US 
Airways, said a one-year recovery is not a trend. However, he 
added, individual airline managements may be open to discussing 
possible changes and limits if performance improves.  At American, Gordon said the pilot's pay proposal will be 
considered but cost concerns are paramount. American hopes to 
save at least $300 million this year. She added that employees 
share in the carrier's success, having received stock options 
that are now worth more than $1 billion.  Friend, the flight attendants leader, acknowledged any 
recovery of concessions would be incremental. "We have no 
illusions that we will recover everything that we gave up in 
one contract, but we have to start," she said.