-- BHP names Kloppers as CEO to replace Goodyear
-- By  Denny Thomas
-- Thu May 31, 2007 1:57am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/31/businesspro-bhp-ceo-dc-idUSSYD14822520070531

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - Top global miner BHP Billiton Ltd. 
( BHP.AX ) ( BLT.L ) named insider Marius Kloppers as its new chief 
executive, replacing Chip Goodyear, as markets bet on a rash of 
mega-mergers amid an unprecedented commodities boom. 

  The widely-expected appointment of the South African-born 
former management consultant comes at a time when global mining 
companies are looking at alliances to bolster their position 
during the China-led surge in demand for minerals.  BHP shares jumped 2.2 percent to A$31.74 in a firmer 
overall .AXJO market and investors said the market was happy 
to see a leader emerging from within the company.  "It is always a good sign when people appoint from inside, 
because that is a sign of a decent succession plan," said Peter 
Chilton, a fund manager with Constellation Capital Management 
Ltd., which oversees A$1.7 billion ($1.4 billion) including BHP 
shares.  "I am not really sure if he is deal maker. But he is a 
detailed person. He has been quite good on things like 
maximizing revenues, trying to extract the most out of iron 
core contracts."  Analysts said 44-year-old Kloppers would be under pressure 
to deliver value and make acquisitions, but added there was a 
risk of the US$142 billion sector heavyweight overspending at 
what looked to be the top of the market.  BHP Billiton has been linked in recent weeks with possible 
moves on Rio Tinto Ltd./Plc ( RIO.AX ) ( RIO.L ) and Canadian 
aluminum group Alcan AL.TO ( AL.N ), but has made no official 
approaches.  "With uncertainty over the new CEO resolved, we place a 
higher probability that the company could be a participant in 
the continued wave of M&A sweeping through the sector," broker 
Citigroup said in a note to clients.  Goodyear, 49, surprised the market by announcing his 
retirement back in February.  Brought in to staunch the bleeding at the then-debt laden 
BHP, he was the second-successive American to head the "The Big 
Australian" and will leave the company after nine years -- five 
as CEO.
  NEW GROWTH AREAS  While BHP has largely relied on organic growth, rival 
Xstrata Plc. XTA.L made three acquisitions in 2006, including 
the purchase of Canadian miner Falconbridge, and has flagged 
more deals.  Analysts said the change of guard could see BHP tapping new 
growth areas, including water and energy, while continuing to 
focus on traditional areas of oil, gas and base metals.  "They might look at water as a resource and try and make 
some money out that," said Ken West, a portfolio manager with 
Perennial Growth Management, which oversees about A$2.2 
billion.  BHP said in a statement that Kloppers, currently group 
president non-ferrous materials, its most profitable division, 
and executive director, would take charge from October 1, 2007.  "This is an extraordinary opportunity to lead an 
outstanding company with talented people and I am committed to 
continuing the great work of Chip and his team," Kloppers said 
in a statement.  A former management consultant with McKinsey & Co, he 
joined Billiton in 1993 before the merger with BHP and was a 
core member of the team that created the group's aluminum 
business.  Married with three children, he is based in Melbourne, 
where dual-listed BHP Billiton has its Australian headquarters.  "We are in a time of considerable change in our industry 
with the emergence of new markets and source of supply," Don 
Argus, BHP Billiton's chairman said in the statement.  Kloppers brought experience in the resources sector and 
strategic leadership abilities to the role, he said.  "I think continuity is the theme for the time being," said 
Mark Daniels, head of equities with Aberdeen Asset Management. 
"I don't think there is a change in tack here because there is 
another individual."  ($1=A$1.22)