-- Exxon investors put exec pay issue above climate
-- By  Michael Erman  and  Ed Stoddard
-- Wed May 30, 2007 8:32pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/31/businesspro-exxon-dc-idUSN3045787620070531

 

 DALLAS  (Reuters) - Exxon Mobil Corp. ( XOM.N ) spent much of 
its annual meeting on Wednesday defending its environmental 
policy, but shareholders of the world's largest company were 
more concerned with its executive pay and governance practices. 

  None of the 15 shareholder proposals that were up for 
approval at the annual meeting received 50 percent of the 
shareholder vote, but four dealing with pay and governance 
received at least 40 percent.  All four measures would increase the accountability of 
Exxon's management and board for their policies and 
performance.  About 47.8 percent of the voting shareholders backed a 
measure that would give holders of 10 percent of Exxon's 
outstanding common shares the right to call special shareholder 
meetings and 47.2 percent favored a proposal to allow the 
company to recoup incentive bonuses it determined not to be 
justified.  Proposals to give shareholders an advisory vote on 
executive pay and to split the chief executive and chairman 
positions got 41.2 percent and 40 percent of the vote, 
respectively.  But climate change was the central topic of discussion at 
the meeting and one environmental proposal -- that the company 
adopt goals for greenhouse gas reductions from its products and 
operations -- received 31 percent of the shareholder vote.  Exxon Chief Executive Rex Tillerson disputed claims by 
investor activists and environmentalists that the company is 
working to mislead the public about the causes of climate 
change.  "What I find perplexing is why people feel threatened 
because we want to have a discussion," Tillerson said, when 
offering an explanation for why the company funds some groups 
that are skeptical of the mainstream scientific views of 
climate change.  "I'm not going to just adopt a slogan. If that makes me 
public enemy number one, so be it," he said.  Investors also voted in all 12 nominees to Exxon's board, 
including Michael Boskin, who received 93 percent of the vote 
despite an effort by a group of investors to unseat him in 
protest of the company's climate policy.
  PROTESTS OUTSIDE, INSIDE MEETING  About three dozen protesters -- outnumbered by police -- 
staged a peaceful demonstration outside the meeting against the 
company's funding of groups they believe deny or distort the 
science of global warming.  The protesters waved banners with slogans like "People 
Before Profits" and chanted "No More Junk Science."  "Exxon Mobil is double-crossing the public and policy 
makers. It's avoiding real changes and continuing to fund 
groups that purposefully distort the science of global 
warming," said Shawnee Hoover, the campaign director of Exxpose 
Exxon, a coalition of green and scientific groups.  They say the company still funds about 40 organizations 
that the environmental group classified as "global warming 
deniers," shelling out over $2 million to the groups in 2006.  Exxon disagrees with the claim that the groups, many of 
which concern themselves with a wide range of issues, are 
"deniers of climate change."  Exxon has said man-made greenhouse gas emissions could be a 
source of global warming, while arguing that climate science is 
still uncertain.  Most scientists believe the use of fossil fuels causes 
global warming.  Shareholder activists inside the meeting also took 
advantage of the opportunity to air their grievances about 
Exxon's environmental record.  "Can you imagine what would happen if the largest company 
in the world stood up and took a leadership position" on 
climate change, Sister Patricia Daly, a Dominican nun, asked 
Tillerson.  "We are challenged by one of the most profound moral 
concerns and we have the wherewithal to respond," she said.  Tillerson generally listened quietly as the shareholder 
proposals were presented, but became more lively as he disputed 
criticism of his company during the question and answer period 
that followed.  He said Exxon would continue to fund scientific research on 
climate change so the company can understand it better.  He also addressed claims that the company's environmental 
policy would leave it at a financial disadvantage to its peers 
who have already made more concessions on the issue.  "If that makes us not Shell -- well, based on my results, 
I'm kind of glad we're not Shell," he said, referring to 
competitor Royal Dutch Shell. ( RDSa.L )