-- Chevron says Australia LNG projects face challenge
-- 
-- Thu May 31, 2007 5:32am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/31/businesspro-chevron-australia-dc-idUSSYD28787420070531

 

 DARWIN  (Reuters) - Australia's plan to quadruple liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) exports to 60 million tonnes a year by 2017 
was becoming more challenging due to soaring costs, oil giant 
Chevron Corp. ( CVX.N ) said on Thursday. 

  Neil Theobold, in charge of marketing the Gorgon project 
for Chevron Australia, said while construction costs for LNG 
projects were rising globally, cost pressures in Australia were 
higher.  "The fundamental nature of Australia being a high cost 
environment means that controlling costs has been a particular 
challenge," Theobold said at an oil and gas conference in 
Australia's northern city of Darwin.  Australia, which aims to be the world's second-largest LNG 
exporter after Qatar, has six proposed LNG projects along its 
northwest coast, led by companies including Woodside Petroleum 
Ltd. ( WPL.AX ), Chevron and Japan's Inpex Holdings ( 1605.T ).  But rising construction costs, environmental concerns and 
shortage of manpower are threatening to delay or even halt some 
of these projects.  Chevron's Greater Gorgon project was first expected to 
deliver in 2010, but analysts now say 2015 is more likely after 
delays due to environmental issues. Its cost is expected to 
jump to $12.4 billion, from $11 billion estimated three years 
ago.  Chevron, the third-largest U.S. oil company by market 
value, scrapped a 2006 deadline for approving the giant 
project.  Theobold said Chevron was undertaking a study to offset the 
cost increase of Gorgon, which he expected to be complete in a 
few months.  "We will then reassess the project and its timelines," 
Theobold said.  Industry analysts have suggested Chevron and its partners 
will increase the scale of the project, building two LNG trains 
with up to 7.5 million tonnes capacity each, compared with 5 
million tonnes per train planned earlier.