-- Freakonomics Guys Flunk Science of Climate Change: Eric Pooley
-- Eric Pooley
-- 2009-10-20T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-19/freakonomics-guys-flunk-science-of-climate-change-eric-pooley.html

          
          
             Steven D. Levitt  and  Stephen J. Dubner  are so good at tweaking conventional wisdom that their
first book, “ Freakonomics ,” sold 4 million copies. So when
Dubner, an old friend, told me their new book would take on
climate change, I was rooting for a breakthrough idea.  
 No such luck. In “ SuperFreakonomics ,” their brave new
climate thinking turns out to be the same pile of misinformation
the skeptic crowd has been peddling for years.  
 “Obviously, provocation is not last on the list of things
we’re trying to do,” Dubner told me the other day. This time,
the urge to provoke has driven him and Levitt off the rails and
into a contrarian ditch.  
 Their breezy take on global warming unleashed a barrage of
 highly detailed criticism  from  economists  and  climate experts ,
including a scientist who is misrepresented in the book.  
 Dubner wonders why everyone is so angry. In part, it’s
because the book’s blithe remedies -- “We could end this debate
and be done with it, and move on to problems that are harder to
solve,” Levitt  told  the U.K. Guardian newspaper -- are an
insult to the thousands of scientists who have devoted their
careers to this crisis.  
 One of the injured parties is  Ken Caldeira , a climate
scientist at Stanford University who is quoted (accurately) as
saying that “we are being incredibly foolish emitting carbon
dioxide.” Then Dubner and Levitt add this astonishing claim:
“His research tells him that carbon dioxide is not the right
villain in this fight.”  
 Provocative, Untrue  
 That’s provocative, but alas, it isn’t true. Caldeira, like
the vast majority of climate scientists, believes cutting carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse-gas emissions is our only real
chance to avoid runaway climate change.  
 “Carbon dioxide is the right villain,” Caldeira wrote on
his Web site in reply. He told  Joe Romm , the respected climate
blogger who  broke the story , that he had objected to the “wrong
villain” line but Dubner and Levitt didn’t correct it; instead,
they added the “incredibly foolish” quote, a half step in the
right direction. Caldeira gave the same account to me.  
 Levitt and Dubner do say that the book “overstates”
Caldeira’s position. That’s a weasel word: The book claims the
opposite of what Caldeira believes. Caldeira told me the book
contains “many errors” in addition to the “major error” of
misstating his scientific opinion on carbon dioxide’s role.  
 Why does this matter? Because there’s a titanic battle
going on over whether and how to reduce carbon emissions, and
this soon-to-be bestseller tries to convince people that we
don’t need to do so. Dubner and Levitt trumpet their “wrong
villain” line in their table of contents and  promotional
material . On National Public Radio the other day, Levitt  said ,
“The real problem isn’t that there’s too much carbon in the
air.”  
 Multiple Villains  
 “SuperFreakonomics” never identifies the “right
villain,” so I called Dubner and asked. “I don’t think anybody
knows for sure,” he told me. Then he acknowledged that the
chapter’s most newsworthy claim “could have been better
phrased, as ‘carbon dioxide is not the only villain.’”  
 That’s a huge admission. No climate scientist believes
carbon dioxide is the only villain: methane, nitrous oxide and
other gases need to be reduced too. But that basic truth
wouldn’t have drawn attention. It wouldn’t have given Levitt a
bold contrarian line for NPR.  
 Dubner and Levitt acknowledge that the planet has warmed
but pretend that cutting emissions is a hopelessly old-school
response. “It’s not that we don’t know how to stop polluting
the atmosphere,” they write. “We don’t want to stop.” They
ignore the fact that U.S. emissions have  dropped 9 percent  since
2007 -- not just because of the recession but also thanks to
energy efficiency and cleaner fuels.  
 Chance of Catastrophe  
 They exaggerate the cost of climate action and
underestimate the likelihood of runaway global warming,
pretending that the “relatively small chance of worldwide
catastrophe” isn’t worth getting bothered about.  
 They dismiss global warming as a “religion” and rehash
the so-called “global cooling” scare of the 1970s, a favorite
skeptic  myth . (A handful of scientists warned of a coming ice
age, a false alarm in no way comparable to today’s scientific
consensus on warming.)  
 They trumpet the “little-discussed fact” that the average
global temperature has decreased in recent years. This is
accurate according to one set of global data -- the other shows
an increase -- but scientists say it proves nothing. Imagine the
Dow climbing to 14,000, with a wobble to 13,950. That’s what
global temperatures have done. Even with small fluctuations,
this decade is by every measure the  hottest  in recorded history.
The second hottest is the 1990s. The third hottest is the 1980s.
Get the picture? Levitt and Dubner don’t.  
 Shooting Sulfur Dioxide  
 Having downplayed the problem, they try to solve it with a
set of silver-bullet technologies known as geoengineering. One
would shoot millions of tons of sulfur dioxide 18 miles into the
air to artificially cool the planet. This could work; it also
could have dire unintended consequences.  
 Caldeira, who is researching the idea, argues that it can
succeed only if we first reduce emissions. Otherwise, he says,
geoengineering can’t begin to cope with the collateral damage,
such as acidic oceans killing off shellfish.  
 Levitt and Dubner ignore his view and champion his work as
a permanent substitute for emissions cuts. When I told Dubner
that Caldeira doesn’t believe geoengineering can work without
cutting emissions, he was baffled. “I don’t understand how that
could be,” he said. In other words, the Freakonomics guys just
flunked climate science.  
 ( Eric Pooley , a former managing editor of Fortune magazine
who is writing a book about the politics of global warming, is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Pooley at  epooley2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        