-- Yukos Investors Lose U.S. Suit Over Russia Takeover
-- Laurence Viele Davidson
-- 2007-11-26T20:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-26/yukos-investors-lose-u-s-suit-over-russia-takeover-update1-.html

          
          
             Investors in OAO Yukos Oil Co., once
 Russia 's largest oil producer, lost their U.S. lawsuit alleging the
confiscation of the company's assets by the Russian government made
their holdings worthless.  
 U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in  Washington  threw
out the case after determining she had no jurisdiction to decide
it. Kollar-Kotelly said in her 51-page order today that the
allegations contained in the suit, if true, were ``troubling.''  
 The 2005 lawsuit was brought by 43 plaintiffs who held Yukos
American depositary receipts. They alleged that the Russian
Federation, acting with senior government officials and energy
companies, expropriated Yukos in 2003. The defendants purportedly
levied illegal taxes, forced the sale of Yukos's assets, seized
shares and harassed its executives, according to the complaint. The
investors sought at least $3.3 million in damages.  
 ``The court finds that it cannot reach the merits of the
plaintiffs' claims based on the doctrines of sovereign immunity and
personal jurisdiction,'' Kollar-Kotelly said.  
 Russian President  Vladimir Putin 's government dismantled Yukos
after it was hit with more than $30 billion in tax charges. He used
Yukos's assets to help turn state-run OAO Rosneft and OAO Gazprom
into global energy companies big enough to challenge BP Plc and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Yukos was declared bankrupt in August 2006.  
 Plaintiffs include FCT America Ltd., a Cayman Islands
corporation with offices in  Chicago , and 11 U.S. and Dutch
individuals who bought American depositary receipts in Yukos. The
lawsuit alleged conspiracy to commit fraud, racketeering and
securities fraud.  
 The defendants include the Russian Federation and OAO
Rosneftegaz, senior Russian government officials, and Gazprom,
Russia's largest energy company.  
 `Little Recourse'  
 ``This decision confirms the fears of these and other American
investors in Russia that they have little recourse when the Russian
government steals their property,'' plaintiffs' attorney  Tom
Johnson , of Covington & Burling in Washington, said in an email.  
 Russian Federation attorney Jay Alexander, with  Baker Botts 
in Washington, said he couldn't immediately comment on the court
decision. Gazprom lawyer Gordon Dobie of Winston & Strawn in
Chicago didn't immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  
 The case is Allen v. Russian Federation, 05-cv-2077, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Jordan at   kjordan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        