-- Cell Genesys Surges on Prostate-Drug Pact With Takeda
-- Tom Randall
-- 2008-04-01T20:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-01/cell-genesys-surges-on-prostate-drug-pact-with-takeda-update2-.html

          
          
             Cell Genesys Inc. surged the most in
almost a year in Nasdaq trading after it agreed to sell worldwide
commercial rights for its experimental prostate cancer treatment
to  Takeda (4502)  Pharmaceutical Co.  
 The South San Francisco-based company jumped 74 cents, or 31
percent, to $3.09 at 4 p.m. New York time in composite  trading ,
the biggest increase since April 3, 2007. Takeda will pay $50
million initially and additional payments totaling as much as
$270 million if the drug is approved for sale and achieves sales
goals, Cell Genesys said yesterday in a statement.  
 Takeda,  Japan 's largest drugmaker, will gain exclusive
worldwide rights to treat prostate cancer with GVAX, a drug that
stimulates the immune system against tumor cells, according to
the statement. The drug is now in the final stage of
effectiveness testing.  
 The agreement ``removes uncertainty around GVAX prostate
launch and commercialization while ensuring ongoing clinical
trials for expanding indications,'' said Pamela Bassett, an
 analyst  with Cantor Fitzgerald in New York, in a note to clients
today. She reiterated a ``buy'' rating on the stock with a price
target of $10.  
 ``GVAX will be the first new, low-toxicity therapy providing
substantial improvement in the outcome of men with prostate
cancer, a potential block-buster,'' Bassett said.  
 Double-Digit Royalties  
 Under the deal, Osaka-based Takeda will pay Cell Genesys
tiered, ``double-digit'' royalties based on U.S. product sales if
the product is cleared for marketing, and a flat double-digit
royalty in other parts of the world, Sherwin said. Takeda agreed
to pay future development and commercialization costs and didn't
buy rights to use GVAX for other diseases.  
 GVAX is made of whole tumor cells that have been dosed with
radiation to prevent them from multiplying in the body. The cells
carry markers of prostate cancer that are supposed to ``teach''
the immune system to recognize them as foreign and mount an
attack.  
 Cell Genesys rose 32 percent on April 3, 2007, after updated
test results showed GVAX improved survival better than previously
indicated.  
 The company is studying the drug in a trial called, Vital-1,
which has enrolled 626 patients with prostate cancer. The trial
is designed to measure whether the drug can help patients live
longer than those taking  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) 's Taxotere, a
chemotherapy drug.  
 Results from Vital-1 are expected in the second half of
2009, the company said. Another trial of GVAX in combination with
Taxotere, called Vital-2, is expected to finish enrolling 600
patients in the first half of 2009.  
 Takeda rose 160 yen, or 3.2 percent, to 5,150 yen in Japan
trading. Takeda has dropped 24 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        