-- Security Capital Defends Merrill Contract Termination
-- Christine Richard
-- 2008-04-01T22:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-01/security-capital-defends-merrill-contract-termination-update4-.html

          
          
             Security Capital Assurance Ltd., the
bond insurer sued by Merrill Lynch & Co. for seeking to cancel
coverage on $3.1 billion in collateralized debt obligations,
accused the brokerage firm of ``blatantly'' ignoring terms of the
policy.  
 Merrill Lynch ``undertook a rushed campaign'' to find third
parties willing to take on the CDOs so it could avoid further
losses, violating terms of the agreement, Hamilton, Bermuda-based
SCA said today in a response to the Merrill Lynch lawsuit.  
 Merrill Lynch, the third-largest U.S. securities firm, sued
SCA's XL Capital Assurance unit in March to force the company to
honor the default protection on the CDOs, which repackage bonds
and other assets into new securities. Losses on CDOs have
prompted Merrill Lynch to write down the value of its assets by
$25 billion, including $17 billion in the fourth quarter.  
 ``Determined to get these CDO risks off its books at all
costs before the third quarter of 2007 closed, Merrill Lynch made
the decision to blatantly ignore its prior commitments to XLCA,''
SCA said in a statement today.  
 Merrill Lynch ``is confident that the credit default swaps
are fully enforceable and we will continue to seek a court order
to that effect,''  William Halldin , a spokesman for the New York-
based securities firm, said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 Projected losses on CDOs have led to at least four bond
insurers being stripped of their top AAA credit ratings. The
CDOs, which repackage mortgage bonds, buyout loans and other
assets into new securities with varying risks, also have been the
biggest source of the more than $232 billion of writedowns and
credit losses reported by the world's largest banks and
securities firms since the beginning of last year.  
 Counterclaim  
 Merrill Lynch sued XL Capital Assurance in a Manhattan
federal court. SCA today said it filed a counterclaim seeking
damages of at least $28 million from Merrill Lynch and asking the
court to absolve it of any obligations related to the contracts.  
 ``On behalf of our policy holders and shareholders, we
intend to defend the terminations vigorously and look forward to
presenting our case to the court soon,'' SCA said.  
 The company's financial guarantee subsidiaries -- XL
Financial Assurance and XL Capital Assurance -- were cut six
levels to a below-investment-grade rating of BB by Fitch Ratings
last week. The rating had been as high as AAA in January. Moody's
Investors Service and Standard & Poor's each downgraded the
company from AAA in February.  
 SCA competitor FGIC Corp. said it's walking away from an
agreement to provide $1.9 billion in guarantees on mortgage-
linked securities because  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank (IKB)  didn't live up to their side of the deal.  
 The debt that Merrill bought protection on from XL last year
includes classes of: West Trade Funding II Ltd., Silver Marlin
CDO I Ltd., and Jupiter High-Grade CDO VI Ltd. The credit-default
swaps offer payments if the securities aren't repaid as expected,
in return for regular insurance-like premiums.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Richard at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        