-- Russian Stocks Advance, Led by Rosneft, Norilsk Nickel, OGK-3
-- William Mauldin
-- 2007-08-31T14:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-31/russian-stocks-advance-led-by-rosneft-norilsk-nickel-ogk-3.html

          
          
             Russian stocks climbed for a second
day along with global stock markets before an announcement by
President  George W. Bush  that may allow U.S. subprime borrowers to
keep their homes.  
 OAO Rosneft, OAO OGK-3 and OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel led the
advance.  
 The ruble-denominated  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  increased 2.2 percent to
1,677.02 as 28 stocks advanced and two retreated. The index lost
3.7 percent in August. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  added 2.1
percent to 1,919.89.  
 The U.S. president will announce steps today that the
administration says should help prevent people from losing their
homes. A rout in U.S. subprime mortgages has hurt stock markets
around the world amid investor concerns that it could spread
through the financial system and lead to an economic slowdown.  
 ``I think Bush's announcement will be good for confidence,''
said Tom Mundy, a strategist at Moscow-based  Renaissance Capital ,
in an e-mailed interview.  
 Rosneft,  Russia 's biggest oil producer, climbed 3.1 percent
to 212.01 rubles on the Micex Stock Exchange. The company plans to
sell 45 billion rubles ($1.8 billion) in bonds, Interfax reported,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the sale. The oil
producer had canceled a sale of dollar-denominated bonds in July.  
 ``Switching emphasis to the local market for funding is a
smart move in the current environment,'' said  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. ``Rosneft has already found
out that the international markets have become tougher because of
the subprime fallout, but the domestic market is flush with petro-
rubles.''  
 Norilsk Nickel  
 Norilsk Nickel, the biggest mining company in Russia, rose 2
percent to 5,673.09 rubles on higher metals prices. Nickel for
three-month delivery jumped 6.5 percent to $30,125 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange. Nickel, used in making stainless steel,
has rebounded 20 percent from its low on Aug. 16.  
 The Micex Metal & Mining Index jumped 3.7 percent, led by
shares of OAO Severstal, the Russian steel producer controlled by
Alexei Mordashov. Russia's Federal Anti-Monopoly Service today
said it had given permission for companies owned by Mordashov and
billionaire Oleg Deripaska to bid for turbine-maker OAO Power
Machines. Severstal shares jumped 5.9 percent to 441.94 rubles.  
 OGK-3, an electricity generation unit of OAO Unified Energy
System, added 1.4 percent to 3.693 rubles.  Norilsk Nickel  will pay
Unified Energy 4.54 rubles a share for 5.2 billion shares of OGK-
3, a spokeswoman for Unified Energy said late yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mauldin in Moscow at 
 wmauldin1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balduin Hesse at   bhesse2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        