-- U.S. Spent $47.5 Billion on Spying in Fiscal 2008
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2008-10-28T17:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-10-28/u-s-spent-47-5-billion-on-spying-in-fiscal-2008-update1-.html

          
          
             The U.S. spent $47.5 billion on
spying in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, a 9 percent
increase over 2007, according to Michael McConnell, the country's
head of intelligence.  
 Last year, Congress passed a law requiring the director of
national intelligence to make public the amount of money
appropriated annually for spying. The  Bush administration  opposed
the measure, arguing that revealing the number might compromise
operations.  
 In 2007, the U.S. spent $43.5 billion on spying, according
to McConnell.  
 The law doesn't require the release of any details on how the
money is spent ``because such disclosures could harm national
security,'' McConnell said in a  statement  today.  
 The spending figure doesn't include money spent on military
tactical intelligence. Funding for these operations would be at
least an additional $10 billion, said Steven Aftergood, director
of the project on government secrecy at the Federation of
American Scientists in  Washington .  
 The group sued the Central Intelligence Agency in 1997 to
force the release of the total intelligence budget. The
intelligence community disclosed that its annual budget was $26
billion in both 1997 and 1998.  
 Spending Cut Predicted  
 The Pentagon's top intelligence official said the fiscal
2008 budget could be a high point for intelligence spending
because the next administration faces numerous fiscal pressures.  
 ``My assessment is this may be the high-water mark for a
while, that we may see a downturn,'' Undersecretary for
Intelligence  James Clapper  told reporters at a conference in
Nashville. ``We have a lot of challenges today, not the least of
which is the economic crisis, health-care reform, Social Security
reform -- the list goes on.''  
 ``Intelligence is only part of the broader context of
demands on the budget so my sensing is we are probably in for
some period of retrenchment,'' he said.  
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Boeing Co.,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  ITT Corp. (ITT)  are among the largest contractors
receiving intelligence funding.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        