-- New Aranesp safety concerns seen in cancer trial
-- By  Bill Berkrot
-- Fri Feb 16, 2007 7:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/17/businesspro-amgen-aranesp-dc-idUSN1632036720070217

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Amgen Inc.'s ( AMGN.O ) 
multibillion-dollar anemia drug Aranesp is facing further 
safety concerns after a medical newsletter reported on Friday 
that a Danish study of the drug in head and neck cancer was 
halted due to adverse outcomes seen in patients taking part. 


  Amgen shares fell more than 2 percent on Nasdaq.  The report in The Cancer Letter said the study was 
temporarily halted in October after an interim analysis of the 
first 484 patients turned up a statistically significant 
increase in disease recurrence in patients receiving Aranesp.  It said a decision not to resume the study was made on 
December 1 as investigators felt that Aranesp appeared unlikely 
to improve the effect of radiation in non-anemic cancer 
patients.  The trial was conducted by the Danish Head and Neck Cancer 
Group (DAHANCA) and Amgen said it has no control over data from 
studies done by outside investigators.  "We have not had access to any of their results. It's their 
data, it's not our data," Roger Perlmutter, Amgen's executive 
vice president for research and development, told industry 
analysts on a conference call.  "We don't know anything about the data other than what was 
posted on the (DAHANCA) Web site."  Amgen said it informed U.S. and European health regulators 
about the cessation of the study as soon as it was told.  "We are aware of the study data and are looking at it as 
part of our ongoing assessment of the safety and efficacy of 
this class of drugs," FDA spokeswoman Karen Riley said.  But Amgen did not disclose the information to analysts and 
investors during a January 25 conference call on its quarterly 
results. Company officials acknowledged on Friday it probably 
should have mentioned the trial halt at the time.  Amgen said full data from the DAHANCA study will not be 
available until later this year.  It was during that January 25 call that Amgen revealed a 
statistically significant increased risk of death seen in a 
different study of cancer patients not undergoing chemotherapy 
who were treated with Aranesp.  There has been speculation that the drug, which fights 
anemia in chemotherapy and kidney dialysis patients by boosting 
production of red blood cells, may be feeding cancerous tumors. 
Studies have attempted to demonstrate that oxygenation of 
tumors with Aranesp could improve tumor reaction to treatments 
such as radiation.  "We believe Aranesp poses no additional risks other than 
those that appear on the label when used to treat chemotherapy 
induced anemia," Perlmutter said of the use for which Amgen 
receives the lion's share of Aranesp revenue.  Aranesp had sales of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 
2006 for the world's largest biotechnology company, a 27 
percent jump over 2005.  Morgan Stanley analyst Steven Harr said in a research note 
that given mounting safety concerns, investors may have to dial 
back their future expectations for Aranesp sales.  "This trial raises the question again of whether Aranesp 
promotes cancer growth, and given some previous trials with 
similar conclusions and the recent negative data in other areas 
we expect physicians and regulators are likely to continue to 
question the proper role of Aranesp, Epogen, and other drugs in 
the treatment of anemia," Harr said.  "The multiple threats facing Amgen's anemia franchise are 
likely to challenge expected growth rates over the next several 
years, and investor growth expectations likely need to 
decrease," Harr said.  Amgen shares closed down $1.55, or 2.3 percent, at $66.73.  (Additional reporting by  Susan Heavey  in Washington)