-- Tata Steel Unit to Buy Vietnam Mills for $41 Million
-- Jason Folkmanis
-- 2007-03-08T10:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-08/tata-steel-unit-to-buy-vietnam-mills-for-41-million-update4-.html

          
          
             Tata Steel Ltd., set to become the
world's fifth-biggest producer after buying U.K.'s Corus Group
Plc, said its unit agreed to buy two mills in Vietnam to tap
rising demand from construction companies.  
 Natsteel  Asia  Pte will pay $41 million for the steel-bar
rolling plants including assumed debt and expects to complete
the purchase by June 2007, the company said today.  
 India's Tata Steel joins producers such as Arcelor Mittal
and Posco in seeking to build plants in Asia, where demand for
buildings and cars is growing. Vietnam's $53 billion economy is
moving away from farming roots, and industry and construction
now make up 41 percent of gross domestic product and services.  
 `` Southeast Asia  is one of the fastest-growing markets for
steel in the world and it makes sense to have a bigger share of
the market there,'' said Hitesh Agrawal, an analyst at Mumbai-
based Angel Broking Ltd. ``It will continue to be a lucrative
market for the foreseeable future.''  
 NatSteel is acquiring two of the biggest units of  Vietnam
Industrial Investments Ltd. (VII) , SSE Steel Ltd. and Vinausteel Ltd.,
which have a combined capacity of 430,000 tons a year, according
to the  statement . Vietnam Industrial is listed in  Australia  and
controls five steel plants in the Southeast Asian country.  
 `Makes Sense'  
 Operations at SSE and Vinausteel have been affected by the
volatility in prices of billets, a raw material, said Alan Young,
chief operating officer of  Vietnam  Industrial. Tata will ship to
NatSteel low-costs billets next year, Mukherjee said on Feb. 15.  
 ``Tata can produce billets and once they can produce enough
to supply their other operations they'll be able to send billets
here,'' Young said today in a phone interview. ``It makes sense
for them to have an outlet to utilize that.''  
 Vietnam Industrial's shareholders will get $10.8 million,
including $2.7 million to be held in escrow pending recovery of
past dues and finalization of tax issues, the company said in a
statement to the Australian Stock Exchange.  
 Economies in East Asia including China, Malaysia and  South
Korea , will grow 7.3 percent next year, three times faster than
the 30 nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, according to the  World Bank . The forecast excludes
Japan and the  Indian subcontinent .  
 ``This acquisition is part of the company's strategy to
establish itself as a strong player in the construction sector
that is growing rapidly in Asia,'' Tata Deputy Managing Director
T.K. Mukherjee said today by phone from Jamshedpur, India.  
 Shares (TATA)  of Tata Steel rose 3.5 percent to 427.4 rupees at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai after four days of losses.  
 Takeovers  
 Posco in November said it will spend $1.13 billion to build
two mills in Vung Tau city by 2012 to make hot-rolled and cold-
rolled coils. Posco will buy the hot-rolled coil needed for the
first plant from  Korea  or import it from other countries until
its plant in the  India 's Orissa state is completed.  
 NatSteel, Tata Steel's first purchase outside South Asia,
gave Tata Steel plants in Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Australia, Vietnam and China. In December 2005, Tata agreed to
buy Thailand's Millennium Steel Pcl from Siam Cement Pcl.  
 The Corus transaction will form a company with revenue of
$24.4 billion. Mittal Steel Co. acquired Arcelor SA last year
for $38.3 billion in the industry's biggest-ever takeover.  
 ``Steel industry worldwide is consolidating and anyone who
wants to grow substantially has to look at an inorganic way of
growing,'' said Agrawal. ``That's what Tata is doing.''  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Folkmanis in Sjusjoen, Norway at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        