-- France Telecom Loses Appeal Against EU Inspections
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2007-03-08T11:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-08/france-telecom-loses-appeal-against-eu-inspections-update2-.html

          
          
             Europe 's second-highest court said
the European Commission had a right to search the offices of
 France Telecom  SA and its Wanadoo unit during an antitrust
probe, rejecting a challenge from the companies.  
 The commission, the European Union's antitrust arm, in 2004
ordered the offices of France Telecom and all its businesses to
be searched to find evidence of anti-competitive pricing. The
decision followed the commission's finding the year before that
Wanadoo had undercut competitors by selling high-speed Internet
services at a loss.  
 France Telecom, based in Paris, and Wanadoo had their
offices searched for two days in June 2004. Two months later
they filed separate appeals with the  European Court  of First
Instance in Luxembourg. France Telecom argued it shouldn't have
been inspected for Wanadoo's actions. The Internet unit
challenged the legality of the commission's order.  
 ``The commission's alleged neglect'' hasn't been
established, the court ruled today, rejecting all points of
appeal brought by the companies.  
 Wanadoo argued the commission had ``on several levels''
breached its duty to cooperate fully with French authorities by
withholding information from the national court, including a
case before the French competition council and orders in the
2003 EU decision.  
 No Justification  
 ``Neither the ongoing procedure before the competition
court, nor the decision by the competition council, nor the
injunctions in the July 16, 2003, decision lead to the
conclusion that the said inspection wasn't justified,'' the
court wrote in a 31-page ruling.  
 In a separate 41-page judgment, the court also rejected
France Telecom's arguments that the commission had breached its
right to a defense, making it impossible to cooperate fully by
not clearly outlining why its premises were targeted if the
actual subject of the antitrust probe was Wanadoo.  
 France Telecom was at the time the parent company of
Wanadoo and as such would have known that its unit had been
accused of anti-competitive actions in the 2003 decision, the
court said. ``The commission was therefore in the right to
suspect that some evidence could have been hidden on the
premises of the claimant,'' the court said.  
 All Over  
 ``This is a non-event,'' Patrick Thielemans, a spokesman
for France Telecom, said by telephone today. ``The European
Commission in 2006 closed the procedure that led to the
inspections in this case.''  
 The commission today confirmed it closed the case last
year. The regulator welcomes today's judgment, spokesman
 Jonathan Todd  said.  
 The same EU court on Jan. 30 dismissed France Telecom's
appeal against the 10.4 million-euro ($13.7 million) fine levied
as part of the 2003 decision. The commission was right to
conclude that the Wanadoo unit ``abused its dominant position''
during the period under investigation, the court said.  
 Today's cases are T-339/04 France Telecom v Commission, and
T-340/04 France Telecom v Commission.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in London at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eamonn Sullivan at 
 esullivan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        