-- PPR Annual Profit Rises 28% on Boucheron, Fnac Stores
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2007-03-08T11:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-08/ppr-annual-profit-rises-28-on-boucheron-fnac-stores-update2-.html

          
          
             PPR SA (PP) , the world's third-biggest
 luxury-goods  maker, said annual earnings climbed 28 percent as
the Boucheron brand broke even for the first time and
profitability improved at its Fnac book and electronics stores.  
 Net income rose to 685 million euros ($903 million), or
5.63 euros a share, from 535 million euros, or 4.40 euros, in
2005, the Paris-based owner of Gucci Group said today in an e-mailed statement. That was higher than the 646.2 million-euro
average of 13 analysts' estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
gained 5.9 percent to 17.9 billion euros, PPR said Jan. 25.  
 Profitability was driven by the company's luxury unit as more
consumers buy fashions and  leather goods  under brands which
include Boucheron and Yves Saint Laurent. Chief Executive Officer
Francois-Henri Pinault plans to speed up openings of luxury stores
this year and will aim to draw customers with an increased number
of high-price products such as $19,000 crocodile-skin handbags.  
 ``Gucci has been an important booster of growth compared with
the retail business,'' said Emmanuel Soupre, a  fund manager  at
Neuflize Gestion in Paris, which manages $15 billion in assets.  
 PPR's Pinault said the company has the ability to make
small or large acquisitions to expand its retail operations
internationally and strengthen its collection of luxury brands.  
 Gucci Group  
 Shares of PPR rose 2.19 euros, or 1.9 percent, to 116.38
euros at 12:19 p.m. in Paris. Their 19 percent climb in 2006 beat
the 6.5 percent gain by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the
world's biggest luxury-goods company, though it was less than the
26 percent advance by second-ranking  Cie. Financiere Richemont AG. (CFR)   
 Annual profit at Gucci Group, which includes  Bottega Veneta 
and Balenciaga, rose 44 percent to 565 million euros, beating the
523.8 million-euro average estimate of five analysts. PPR plans
to increase investment in the division by 40 percent this year.  
 ``We have an important program to renew stores, both in
luxury and retail,'' Chief Financial Officer Jean-Francois Palus
said on a conference call.  
 Palus said Yves Saint Laurent narrowed its loss to 49
million euros from 66 million euros in 2005 on revenue of 194
million euros. The brand should be able to break even with sales
of about 300 million euros, he said.  
 ``Every indicator is on green,'' the CFO said of  Yves Saint
Laurent . PPR's Pinault declined to specify when he expects YSL
to break even, saying only that he is ``increasingly confident''
the brand will make money when questioned at an analysts'
conference in Paris today. Pinault said sales of leather goods
now represent more than 50 percent of YSL revenue.  
 Conforama, Redcats  
 The ``other brands'' unit, which includes  Stella McCartney 
and Sergio Rossi, posted its first profit, a year ahead of
forecast, as Boucheron made money.  
 PPR forecast further improvement in its  financial
performance  this year. Sales growth in January and February was
``slightly higher'' for the retail division than in the fourth
quarter and ``broadly in line'' for luxury goods.  
 The retail unit raised profit by 4.1 percent to 759 million
euros. While the division, which includes Conforama furniture
stores and home-shopping specialist Redcats, accounts for about
80 percent of revenue, sales growth was more than five times
stronger last year at the luxury unit.  
 LVMH, the maker of Krug champagne and Givenchy fashions, said
Feb. 14 annual profit rose 30 percent to 1.88 billion euros.
Richemont, whose products include Van Cleef & Arpels jewelry and
Purdey shotguns, is due to report full-year profit on May 24.  
 PPR's annual net income from continuing operations rose 32
percent to 698 million euros. The company said it would pay a
 dividend  of 3 euros a share, a 10 percent increase.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Gay Forden in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fbenedettiva@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        