-- U.S. February Retail Sales Trail Estimates on Weather
-- Andria Cheng
-- 2007-03-08T21:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-08/u-s-february-retail-sales-trail-estimates-on-weather-update8-.html

          
          
             The coldest February since 1979
caused U.S. retailers'  sales  to grow at the slowest pace in
three months as consumers delayed purchases of spring
merchandise.  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world's biggest retailer, said
sales at stores open at least 12 months rose 0.9 percent, less
than the company's forecast of 1 percent to 2 percent. Luxury
stores and retailers with designer clothes, including  Target
Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount chain, fared better,
with sales surpassing analysts' estimates.  
 Total U.S. same-store sales rose 2.5 percent, the smallest
gain since November, the  International Council of Shopping
Centers  said based on results from 53 retailers. Most retailers
missed estimates after cold weather cut demand for shorts,
dresses and spring merchandise, while a snowy Valentine's Day in
the U.S. Northeast kept some shoppers home.  
 ``We hate to hear weather as an excuse, but I think it was
pretty legitimate this month,'' said Lori Wachs, who helps
manage $100 billion at Philadelphia-based Delaware Investments,
including retail shares. Retailers ``are going to have a lot of
ground to make up in March.''  
 Wal-Mart shares fell 5 cents to $47.88 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Target gained $1.09, or
1.8 percent, to $61.69. The Standard & Poor's 500 Retailing
Index added 1.1 percent.  
 ICSC Forecast  
 New York had its sixth-coldest February since 1949, while
Chicago recorded the fourth-coldest February in 78 years,
according to weather consulting firm Planalytics Inc., which is
based in Wayne,  Pennsylvania .  
 The ICSC had expected February sales to rise 2.5 percent to
3 percent. ICSC's chief economist  Michael Niemira  said sales
will gain 3 percent this year, the slowest pace in at least
three years. March sales should increase 4 percent, boosted by
Easter buying, ICSC said.  
 February is the second-smallest sales month of the year,
representing about 6.2 percent of the total, Niemira said.
Retailers typically clear out their winter stock of coats and
sweaters in January and by February have outfitted stores with
spring merchandise.  
 ``What we need to see now is warmer weather,'' said
Angelique Dab, an analyst at Nollenberger Capital Partners.
``That's going to be critical.''  
 Target Sales  
 Target said sales rose 5.7 percent, spurred by exclusive
designer merchandise such as a Proenza Schouler jersey dress
that sells for about $30.  
 Luxury-department stores exceeded estimates. Seattle-based
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  said comparable sales surged 9.1 percent, beating
analysts' forecast for a 5.7 percent increase. Saks Inc. based
in Birmingham,  Alabama , yesterday said its sales soared 25
percent, more than triple what analysts estimated. Neiman Marcus
Group Inc., based in  Dallas , said sales gained 6.7 percent.  
 Nordstrom shares rose 4.5 percent and Saks added 0.6
percent.  
 ``The high end continues to serve as a relative source of
strength,'' said Michelle Clark, a Morgan Stanley analyst, in a
report.  
 Sales at J.C. Penney Co., the No. 3 U.S. department store
company, dropped 0.2 percent, matching estimates. The stock rose
4.1 percent.  
 Sixty percent of retailers reported sales that trailed
estimates, compared with the long-term average of 42 percent,
according to Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics LLC.
Both teen and specialty apparel retailers' sales missed
estimates and their performance trailed those of department
stores and discounters.  
 Costco Sales  
 Luxury stores sales surged 11 percent, while wholesale club
sales gained 3.9 percent. Department stores and discounters'
sales increased 2.1 percent and 1.5 percent respectively.
Apparel stores sales fell 0.8 percent, ICSC said.  
 Sales at Costco Wholesale Corp., the largest U.S. wholesale
club, rose 4 percent, compared with an estimate for a 5.1
percent gain. Federated Department Stores Inc.  sales  advanced
1.2 percent, compared with an expected increase of 2.6 percent.
Costco shares fell 3.3 percent and Federated gained 2.6 percent.  
 Gap Inc., the largest U.S. apparel chain, said sales
dropped 4 percent. Analysts estimated a decline of 4.7 percent.
Limited Brands Inc. sales rose 3 percent, missing estimates for
a 3.7 percent increase after Valentine's Day weather hurt sales
at Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works. Gap shares fell 0.2
percent and Limited added 1.9 percent.  
 Kohl's Corp. (KSS)  sales rose 4.4 percent, beating the average
analyst estimate of 2.9 percent. The shares gained 2.5 percent.  
 Sears Holdings Corp., the largest U.S. department-store
retailer, doesn't report monthly sales.  
 Winter Weather  
 Two major U.S. blizzards, one in New York and one in the
Midwest, increased February's snowfall totals 60 percent more
than last year, according to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based
Weather Trends International.  
 Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , a clothing retailer for teens and
college students, reported a 5 percent comparable sales decrease
in the fourth quarter. Bon-Ton Stores Inc. said sales jumped 15
percent, exceeding the 1 percent estimate of analysts, after
shoppers bought jackets, cold weather accessories, cosmetics and
underwear. The York, Pennsylvania-based company's shares
increased as much as 17 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andria Cheng in  New York  at   lcheng@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bridge Balthaser, 20, shops for clothes inside a Super Target store in Littleton, Colorado Thursday, March 8, 2007. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
