-- New rules enable healthy savings
-- By  Linda Stern
-- Sat Dec 23, 2006 1:27pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/23/businesspro-column-finance-dc-idUSN15253920061223

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Health Savings Accounts are a great 
deal, and they are about to get even better. The 109th 
Congress, in one of its final acts, expanded the tax breaks 
that are linked to these accounts. 

  The new rules, which go into effect January 1, 2007, will 
make it easier for workers and their families to build a 
sizable  health-care nest egg to see them through the 
high-health-care consuming retirement years. But you have to 
know how to make the best of them.  An HSA is a tax-favored savings account that is paired with 
a traditional but high-deductible health insurance plan. The 
health plan may cover most of your medical costs, but you are 
responsible for the deductible and other co-pays.  To really appreciate these accounts, you need to adjust 
your attitude a little and accept that you will be paying more 
out of pocket right off the bat. HSAs have high deductibles: In 
2007, the minimum deductible for a qualified plan is $1,100 for 
single coverage and $2,200 for family coverage. They've been 
criticized as unaffordable for folks who live at the financial 
edge and don't have the extra cash to meet their deductibles.  But if you can afford to set aside that deductible amount 
in an HSA savings account, you can save big. The premiums tend 
to be lower than they are in traditional insurance plans. And 
your contributions are tax deductible. The real savings come 
into play if you can afford to let your HSA build up without 
tapping it. If you can pay out-of-pocket costs from your 
regular checking account, you're really positioned to profit 
from these accounts and from the new provisions. Here's how.  -- Load it to the max. For 2007, you're allowed to put away 
as much as $2,850 for single coverage or $5,650 for family 
coverage in your HSA account, even if your policy's deductible 
is less than that. That's a new provision and worth taking 
advantage of. HSA holders 55 or older can stash an extra $800 
in their accounts.  -- Invest it. Some banks and investment companies which 
offer HSA savings accounts offer companion investment accounts. 
Consider the amount you've put into your HSA as a long-term 
investment, and put it into stocks, bonds or mutual funds just 
as you would any other tax-advantaged retirement asset. (You 
can search for a good plan at  www.hsainsider.com  or 
 www.ehealthinsurance.com .)  -- Pay out of pocket for your health-care costs and don't 
use the HSA money unless you absolutely must. This will enable 
you to build that HSA nest egg for retirement -- a time when 
you'll need close to $300,000 for health care alone, according 
to the Employee Benefit Research Institute.  -- Push your employer a little. The new rules encourage 
employers to offer HSAs to workers by allowing them to offer 
their employees the option of moving money from existing 
Flexible Spending Account or Health Reimbursement Accounts into 
an HSA. Let your boss know about these rules and encourage the 
shift. Over the long term, you'll benefit more from an HSA than 
a flexible account you have to drain every year.  -- Make a full contribution in your first year. Old rules 
required you to pro-rate your first-year contribution to an 
HSA, based on when you got the policy. That seemed unfair, as 
deductibles are never pro-rated, even if you join part way 
through. The new law allows the full deduction even if you join 
late in the year.  -- Pass on the IRA transfer. The new law also allows 
individuals to seed their HSAs with money from their IRA 
accounts. It allows a one-time transfer from the IRA to an HSA, 
up to the maximum HSA contribution for that year. If you're 
close to retirement, that could be a good way to get some money 
out of your IRA without having to pay taxes on it. But 
basically, it's not netting you any new savings, and you'd be 
better off leaving your IRA intact and seeding your HSA account 
with extra money -- if you can afford to do it.  (Linda Stern is a freelance writer. Any opinions in the 
column are solely those of Ms. Stern. You can e-mail her at 
lindastern(at)aol.com.)