-- Housing Boom Finds 190 Million New Customers: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-07-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-29/housing-boom-finds-190-million-new-customers-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             The world’s next great housing boom
may be taking shape in Brazil. The missing ingredients are a
full-fledged mortgage market -- one that steers clear of the
pitfalls the U.S. encountered -- and sound government policy.  
 Construction sites dot the landscape throughout the vast
country of 190 million. In fact, Caixa Economica Federal,
Brazil’s second largest federally controlled bank, is hiring a
satellite-imaging company to monitor work on thousands of
buildings financed with Brazilian government money.  
 The key drivers of the activity are both economic and
political. There’s no doubt Latin America’s biggest economy is
coming out of a recession as the nation’s  benchmark  interest
rate was cut to a record 8.75 percent last week.  Credit  is
flowing more freely as bank lending expands at the fastest rate
this year.  
 Mostly, though, the hot real estate market is fueled by
political forces rather than economics. In March, the Brazilian
government adopted “Minha Casa, Minha Vida” -- “My Home, My
Life” -- a 34 billion reais ($18 billion) program to build 1
million homes for low-income families.  
 Under the new program, families earning as much as 4,200
reais a month will be able to buy a home at a near-zero interest
rate, refinance it over 36 months in case of unemployment and be
fully bailed out by the government in case of death. Meanwhile,
a mortgage for a middle-class Brazilian can carry an effective
interest rate of more than 13 percent with no comparable breaks.  
 This housing plan, along with tax cuts for selected
building materials, originally was part of a broad policy to
counter the impact of the global financial crisis on Brazil’s
economy.  
 Election-Year Handouts  
 With the economy already rebounding, the subsidy’s main
impact will be its role in next year’s presidential campaign.
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva hopes the plan will attract
votes for his Workers Party candidate,  Dilma Rousseff . Lula used
another government subsidy -- Bolsa Familia, a cash transfer
program to the poor -- to help his re-election in 2006.  
 The four-month old “Minha Casa, Minha Vida” program is
just getting off the ground. Yet, the government’s support for
it is already encouraging real estate development, creating
thousands of construction jobs and boosting the local stock
market.  
 The nation’s civil construction businesses employed 27
percent of all workers formally hired in the first half of the
year, according to the labor ministry. Meanwhile, the country’s
manufacturing industry lost 144,000 jobs.  
 Homebuilders Rally  
 While the  Bovespa Index  is up 43 percent this year, the two
largest Brazilian homebuilders,  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA  and
 Gafisa SA , have more than doubled. Shares of  Construtora Tenda
SA , which serves the lower end of the market, have quadrupled
this year; Gafisa purchased a controlling stake in the company
last year.  
 But the potential for Brazil’s real estate market beyond
the government program is stunning. Mortgage lending represents
only 2.5 percent of the country’s gross domestic product,
according to the  central bank . The comparable figure is 11
percent in Mexico, 20 percent in Chile, 45 percent in Germany or
Spain and 68 percent in the U.S.  
 In the last 12 months, the worst period of the worldwide
credit crunch, mortgage lending in Brazil rose 41 percent, twice
as fast as consumer credit.  
 So Brazil’s real estate market has nothing but rosy days
ahead, right? Not quite.  
 The Brazilian banking system is healthier and less
leveraged than in the U.S. The problem is that mortgage
financing is dominated by public banks. Government institutions
control 73 percent of outstanding mortgage loans, while private
banks, foreign and local, split the rest of the market.  
 Too Risky  
 Private-sector bankers aren’t writing many mortgage loans
because they view other types of credit as more profitable and
returns on mortgage transactions still aren’t commensurate with
the risks of late payments and default. Brazilian consumers pay
 interest rates  that average 45.6 percent on most financed
purchases, more than triple the rate on mortgages.  
 Politicians, on the other hand, don’t seem to care much
whether the financing for the government-backed housing plan
generates about bad loans. They figure the Treasury will bail
them out if needed.  
 Meddling Hands  
 If Lula and Rousseff put political interests first, they
probably will demand construction of more houses than Caixa and
other federal banks can safely finance.  
 Lula has already shown a fondness for meddling in the
affairs of the public-sector banks by replacing directors with
Workers’ Party loyalists. Earlier this year Lula fired the head
of publicly traded Banco do Brasil for refusing to cut the
bank’s interest rates to aid the economy and, in turn,
Rousseff’s election prospects.  
 Brazilian authorities have come a long way toward
developing the mortgage market. Still, a lot remains to be done.
One key change: encourage private banks to participate by
allowing them to negotiate loan terms and interest rates with
home buyers. Currently, government legislation stipulates the
characteristics of 80 percent of the contracts.  
 Without getting the private sector on board, the risk of
taxpayer money being used to bail out federal banks will mount,
risking a repeat of Brazil’s 1980s subprime debacle. Back then,
government subsidies created a mortgage liability equal to 150
billion reais, which Brazilians will be paying for until 2027.  
 It might take more than advanced imaging satellites to keep
this boom from going bust.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:
More Marinis columns: NI MARINIS <GO>
More commentary: NI COLUMNS BN <GO>
Top opinion menu: OPED <GO>
More news on Latin America economies: TNI LATAM ECO <GO>  
          
          


  


        