-- Watson First-Quarter Net Jumps 26% on Drug Sales
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2007-05-01T20:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-01/watson-first-quarter-net-jumps-26-on-drug-sales-update1-.html

          
          
             Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the
second-biggest U.S. seller of generic drugs, said quarterly
profit rose 26 percent on demand for low-cost copies of
medicines.  
 First-quarter net income climbed to $31.6 million, or 29
cents a share, from $25.2 million, or 23 cents, a year earlier,
the company said today in a statement on PR Newswire. Earnings
beat analysts' estimates.  
 Results include the first full quarter of sales from Andrx
Corp., the drug distributor and maker of controlled-release
medicines that Watson, based in Corona,  California , bought in
November. Watson said it has started seeing benefits from its
efforts to reduce operating costs and boost products margins.  
 ``What they indicated they would do in terms of improved
gross margins, we're starting to see it now in the numbers,''
said  Mark Taylor , an analyst with  Roth Capital Partners  in
 Newport Beach , California. Taylor doesn't own any shares, and his
firm hasn't done banking with Watson. ``The numbers look really
good.''  
 Revenue jumped 65 percent to $671.6 million. Fourteen
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had projected sales of $631.4
million, on average. Profit excluding some items was 34 cents a
share. On that basis 16 analysts expected 24 cents on average.  
 Shares of Watson rose $2.22, or 8.1 percent, to $29.52 in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading today before earnings
were announced. The stock has gained 13 percent this year.  
 Higher Margins  
 Gross margins for the company's generic drugs were 35.8
percent in the quarter, up from 32.5 percent a year earlier, the
company said.  
 Investors have been waiting for Watson to introduce copies
of Johnson & Johnson's pain patch Duragesic and GlaxoSmithKline
Plc's nasal spray Flonase since last year. Watson Chief Executive
Officer Allen Chao said in February the company is taking a more
``conservative'' approach this year and assuming U.S. regulators
will approve only one of the two products.  
 Watson's current products include generic versions of brand-
name birth-control pills, blood pressure medicines and
painkillers that have lost patent protection. The company also
makes its own urology and kidney treatments, which account for
about a quarter of revenue.  
 Watson, including Andrx, had $1.83 billion in sales of
generic drugs last year, second among U.S. companies to Mylan
Laboratories Inc., according to data compiled by IMS Health Inc.  
 The company reiterated its full-year forecast of $1.20 to
$1.30 a share, excluding certain items.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Simison at   rsimison@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        