-- Correction: Dow Chemical to close plants, cut jobs, take charge
-- 
-- Tue Dec 4, 2007 10:26am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/04/businesspro-dowchemical-writedowns-corre-idUSN0448471820071204

 

  (Corrects product in paragraph 12 to polyethylene from 
polypropylene) 

  By  Euan Rocha NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Dow Chemical Co ( DOW.N ) said on 
Tuesday it would shut down a number of plants and eliminate 
about 1,000 jobs to cut costs and direct capital toward 
businesses with better growth prospects.  The largest U.S. chemical maker said it would incur a 
related charge of $500 million to $600 million, which includes 
severance costs and asset write-downs.  The plant shutdowns and job cuts will generate annual 
savings of about $180 million, the Midland, Michigan-based 
company said.  Dow this year has been hurt by soaring hydrocarbon 
feedstock and energy costs. It has been attempting to improve 
its earnings through a series of joint ventures and by 
expanding its more profitable specialty businesses.  "Our focus on financial discipline and low cost ... remains 
as sharp as ever, and we will continue to seek ways to refine 
our organizational structure, asset base and business 
portfolio," said Chief Executive Andrew Liveris, in a 
statement.  Dow has been under pressure from Wall Street and investors 
to announce a transformational deal that would reduce its 
exposure to the more cyclical and low margin commodity 
chemicals business.  The company postponed an investor meeting that was to be 
held last month, and the move has made analysts and investors 
believe that a deal from Dow is imminent.  Analysts expect the company to announce a joint venture for 
its North American commodity chemical assets or the acquisition 
of a specialty chemical company, both of which could change the 
company's earnings profile.  The company said it will exit the automotive sealers 
business in North America, Asia Pacific and Latin America 
within the next nine to 18 months. It will also explore 
strategic options for the business in Europe.  It will also take an impairment charge related to its plan 
to shut down its agricultural sciences manufacturing facility 
in Lauterbourg, France.  Dow plans to exit the business due to overcapacity within 
the industry, a disadvantaged cost position, and increasing 
pressure from generic suppliers.  The company will also write down an investment in its 
Petromont and Co polyethylene joint venture in Canada. 
Polyethylene is a very common plastic used for bags.  Dow also said it will idle its styrene plant in Camacari, 
Brazil, from January 1, following escalating competition and 
weak industry fundamentals.  The company will close its manufacturing facility for 
hydroxyethyl cellulose located in Aratu, Brazil, in the face of 
capacity limitations, high structural and raw material costs.  Hydroxyethyl cellulose is a naturally derived polymer that 
is used as a thickener in creams and lotions.  Union Carbide Corp, a wholly owned unit of Dow, will shut 
down its polypropylene facility in Louisiana before the end of 
the year. Polypropylene is used in fibers as constituents of 
fabrics, upholstery and carpets.  It will also trim research and development efforts at its 
Union Carbide site in West Virginia.  Shares of the company, which have fallen 3.5 percent over 
the last three months, closed at $41.54 Monday on the New York 
Stock Exchange.  (Reporting by Euan Rocha; editing by John Wallace and Dave 
Zimmerman)