-- UPDATE 3-Rinker rejects $12 bln Cemex bid, talks to others
-- 
-- Wed Nov 29, 2006 1:28am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/29/rinker-cemex-idUSSYD31337620061129

 

  (Adds details, Rinker comment, updates shares) 

  By  Richard Pullin SYDNEY  Nov 29 (Reuters) - Australian building materials
maker Rinker Group Ltd. RIN.AX rejected a $12 billion bid by
Mexico's Cemex as "far too low," and suggested a price tag
almost 40 percent higher.  Rinker shares climbed 2.5 percent on Wednesday to more than
10 percent above the bid price as the company said it had held
talks with other unidentified industry players.  A takeover by Cemex ( CMXCPO.MX ) ( CX.N ), the world's third
biggest cement maker, would create the largest ready-mix
concrete maker and the largest aggregates firm in the world,
although it would still lag France's Lafarge ( LAFP.PA ) and
Swiss-based Holcim Ltd. ( HOLN.VX ) in cement.  Rinker said Cemex was trying to take advantage of a slump
in the target's share price that was due to a downturn in the
U.S. housing market.  "Shareholders should not surrender their stake in a company
that is generating excellent returns now and has excellent
prospects," Rinker Chairman John Morschel said. "This bid is
opportunistic and far too low".  Rinker said it had held preliminary talks with other
industry players -- an indication that it might be open to
other offers -- although analysts said the high values being
ascribed to Rinker's U.S. assets in a report it commissioned
could make it hard for it to extract value from any rival deal.  "Is this rejection an invitation in disguise -- whether
it's an invitation to another over-bidder to commit, or an
invitation to Cemex?" said ABN AMRO analyst Simon Thackray.  Cemex bid $13 (A$16.64) a share on Oct. 27 in what would be
the biggest takeover ever by a Mexican company. Rinker's shares
traded above A$21 in April, but fell sharply after that on a
weak residential construction outlook in its key markets of
Florida and Arizona.  Rinker Chief Executive David Clarke played down the
importance of third-party talks.  "We have had very preliminary discussions with a lot of
players in the industry, but they are just that, preliminary
discussions," he said.  FUNDS EYE A$20 PLUS  Morschel said an independent report commissioned by Rinker
valued the company at A$20.58 to A$23.04 a share -- 29 percent
above the Cemex offer at the mid-point and more than 38 percent
higher at the top.  Fund managers said the valuation appeared attractive.  "We've always said it needed to have a 20 in front it. I
think we just wait and see," said Rob Patterson, managing
director of Argo Investments, which holds 0.4 percent of
Rinker.  The independent report, by corporate adviser Grant Samuel
said its valuation was equivalent to an EBITDA (earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) multiple of
10.4-11.6 times the median broker forecast for Rinker's 2006/07
EBITDA of $1.44 billion.  Multiples for similar companies over the past 10 years had
ranged from 8-10 times, but the industry has consolidated, and
there was a recognition that assets such as quarries were not
renewable, ABN AMRO's Thackray said.  Rinker, which makes around 85 percent of its earnings in
the United States, has said the Florida housing market is
likely to bottom in the next 6-12 months, but Cemex says it
will take longer to turn around.  Clarke said a surprise increase on Tuesday in U.S. existing
home sales for October was another sign of hope for the sector.  The Grant Samuel report also said Rinker was undergeared,
with net debt of US$1 billion, less than one times EBITDA, and
suggested the company could carry debt of US$3.5 billion.  Morschel declined to comment on whether the company would
consider a capital return or share buyback, but said Rinker was
reviewing all possibilities.
 ($1=A$1.28)


