-- WRAPUP 1-US economy stronger than first thought in 3rd qtr
-- By Joanne Morrison
-- Wed Nov 29, 2006 9:10am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/29/usa-economy-idUSN2822812420061129

 

 WASHINGTON  Nov 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. economy grew faster
than first thought in third quarter on strong business
investment, even as the housing sector posted its biggest
decline in more than 15 years, the government said Wednesday. 

  After-tax corporate profits during the quarter were far
stronger than expected, and will likely reinforce expectations
that Federal Reserve policy-makers would keep interest rates
unchanged for the next few months.  "Net/net, I think the data is not going to change too many
opinions (about Fed policy)," said Adam Brown, co-head of U.S.
Treasury trading at Barclays Capital in New York.  Gross domestic product, which measures total economic
activity within U.S. borders, expanded at a 2.2 percent annual
rate during the third quarter, higher than the 1.6 percent gain
first estimated and above Wall Street expectations for a 1.8
percent gain.  "This kind of cools the talk that the economy is edging
closer to the brink of recession," said Chris Rupkey, senior
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York.  U.S. Treasury debt prices turned lower after the release of
the higher-than-expected third quarter GDP reading. The euro
held steady against the dollar, which was relatively unchanged
against the yen.   The third quarter gain was still weaker than the 2.6
percent advance in the second quarter.   Even so, business spending was stronger than first thought
according to the Commerce Department report, which was the
second estimate of the third quarter figures after an initial
report issued last month.  Business spending rose at a 10 percent annual rate, up from
the 8.6 percent rise first estimated. Corporate profits during
the quarter, after taxes, advanced by 4.6 percent. That was far
above the scant 0.3 percent advance in the second quarter and
surprisingly higher than the 0.4 percent gain economists in a
Reuters poll were expecting.  Business spending on inventories increased at a $58 billion
rate, sharply higher than the $50.7 billion earlier estimated.  Investment in housing tumbled by 18 percent during the
quarter, a slightly bigger decline than the 17.4 percent
decrease in the government's earlier estimate. It was the
biggest decline since a 21.7 percent slide in the first quarter
of 1991.  Adding more evidence to a weakened housing market,
applications for U.S. home mortgages fell last week, pulled
down by a shortened holiday week and namely by a decline in
mortgage refinancing, according to separate data released
Wednesday by the Mortgage Bankers Association.  CONSUMER SPENDING WEAKENS  Consumer spending, which accounts for roughly two-thirds of
national economic activity, advanced at a 2.9 percent annual
rate during the quarter, a weaker reading than the 3.1 percent
advance first estimated.   A key inflation measure favored by the Federal Reserve --
personal spending excluding food and energy -- advanced at a
2.2 percent rate during the quarter, down slightly from the 2.3
percent first estimated and close to Wall Street expectations.  So-called core prices, measured on a year-over-year basis
were up 2.4 percent, the same as first estimated and the
strongest rate since 1995.




