-- WRAPUP 4-US economy stronger than first thought in 3rd qtr
-- 
-- Wed Nov 29, 2006 5:03pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/29/usa-economy-idUSN2934336320061129

 

  (Adds market closings) 

  By Joanne Morrison WASHINGTON  Nov 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. economy grew faster
than first thought in the third quarter on strong business
investment even as the housing sector posted its biggest
decline in more than 15 years, the government said on
Wednesday.  Gross domestic product, which measures total economic
activity within U.S. borders, expanded at a 2.2 percent annual
rate during the third quarter, higher than the 1.6 percent gain
first estimated and above Wall Street expectations for a 1.8
percent gain.  The housing market picture beyond the
July-through-September quarter thus far does not look very
bright, with separate data on Wednesday showing an unexpectedly
sharp drop in sales of new homes during October.  U.S. Treasury debt prices fell on Wednesday, while U.S.
stock prices jumped after a surge in oil prices lifted energy
stocks and after release of the government's
better-than-expected reading on the economy.  The Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  ended up 90.28
points, or 0.74 percent, at 12,226.73, while the Standard &
Poor's 500 Index  .SPX  jumped 12.76 points, or 0.92 percent,
to 1,399.48. The Nasdaq Composite Index  .IXIC  advanced 19.62
points, or 0.81 percent, to 2,432.23  The dollar was up against the yen and the euro.  After-tax corporate profits during the quarter were far
stronger than expected, rising 4.6 percent after a scant 0.3
percent increase in the prior quarter. Economists had indeed
been expecting another weak quarterly gain, of 0.4 percent.  "This kind of cools the talk that the economy is edging
closer to the brink of recession," said Chris Rupkey, senior
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York.  The third quarter gain in GDP was still weaker than the 2.6
percent advance in the second quarter -- and the weakest since
Gulf Coast hurricanes depressed the fourth quarter of last
year.  Some analysts said the report was not quite as strong as it
appeared, noting that more of the third quarter's output went
into inventories than previously believed, while consumer
spending was a touch softer.  "Most of the revisions came from inventory and a narrower
trade deficit," said Lara Rhame, senior currency strategist at
Credit Suisse in New York.  Even so, business spending in the third quarter was
stronger than first reported, according to the Commerce
Department report, which was the second estimate of the figures
after an initial report issued last month.  Business spending rose at a 10 percent annual rate, up from
the 8.6 percent rise first estimated. Business spending on
inventories rose, increasing sharply to a $58 billion rate from
the $50.7 billion earlier estimated.  HOUSING MARKET WEAKENS  Investment in housing tumbled 18 percent in the quarter, a
slightly bigger decline than the 17.4 percent decrease in the
government's earlier estimate. It was the biggest decline since
a 21.7 percent slide in the first quarter of 1991.  Adding more evidence to that weak housing market picture, a
separate Commerce Department report showed sales of new homes
dipped 3.2 percent in October, bringing up the supply of homes
for sale to 7.0 months' worth. Compared to a year ago, new home
sales dropped 25.4 percent.  In addition, many parts of the United States saw housing
market activity continue to slow from mid-October into the
first three weeks of this month, according to a Federal Reserve
report, which was released on Wednesday.  This Beige Book report of economic anecdotes will be
weighed by Federal Reserve-policy makers when they meet on Dec.
12 to decide whether to hold benchmark interest rates steady at
5.25 percent.  Several regions watched by the Fed showed expectations of
weak housing market conditions for several months.  CONSUMER SPENDING WEAKENS  Consumer spending, which accounts for roughly two-thirds of
national economic activity, advanced at a 2.9 percent annual
rate during the quarter, a weaker reading than the 3.1 percent
advance first estimated.   A key inflation measure favored by the Fed -- personal
spending excluding food and energy -- advanced at a 2.2 percent
rate during the quarter, down slightly from the 2.3 percent
first estimated and close to Wall Street expectations.  These so-called core prices measured on a year-over-year
basis were up 2.4 percent, the same as first estimated and the
strongest rate since 1995.
 (Additional reporting by Patrick Rucker and  Mark Felsenthal )



