-- Restaurants on list of top 100 US retailers: report
-- By  Martinne Geller
-- Fri Jun 29, 2007 12:29am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/29/businesspro-retail-rankings-dc-idUSN2826950920070629

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - In a sign of the growing influence 
that restaurants have on how and where consumers spend their 
money, a major retail trade group has included for the first 
time six restaurant companies on its list of the top 100 
retailers, released on Friday. 

  According to the annual Top 100 Retailers ranking featured 
in the July issue of the National Retail Federation's magazine 
STORES, McDonald's Corp. ( MCD.N ), the world's largest fast-food 
chain, is the 16th largest retailer.  Yum Brands Inc. ( YUM.N ), which operates the Pizza Hut, Taco 
Bell and KFC chains, is No. 35, while Starbucks Corp. ( SBUX.O ) 
clocks in at No. 42. Darden Restaurants Inc. ( DRI.N ), the 
operator of Red Lobster and Olive Garden, is No. 53.  The rankings are based on 2006 annual revenues.  The addition of restaurants to this year's ranking shows 
that the definition of "retail" is broadening, and that food is 
becoming a more important part of shopping, especially with the 
growth of lifestyle centers versus traditional malls, according 
to Susan Reda, executive editor of STORES.  "Malls always had a traditional food court but lifestyle 
centers integrate food with retail," Reda said, noting that the 
integration gets to the heart of how consumers shop.  "They like to go out to eat ... and, 'Oh, let's walk next 
door and see what's in Pottery Barn ... and by the way I need a 
new pair of jeans for the weekend,"' Reda said. "'If I can hit 
those three stores in one shopping trip, I'm happy."'  Reda also said that an increasing portion of shoppers' 
budgets are being devoted to restaurants.  The other restaurant chains to make the list are Brinker 
International Inc. ( EAT.N ), which owns Chili's Grill & Bar and 
Macaroni Grill, at No. 73, and Outback Steakhouse, which was 
recently taken private, at No. 80.
  TOP THREE UNCHANGED  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), Home Depot Inc. ( HD.N ), and 
Kroger Co. ( KR.N ) maintained their standing as the top three 
retailers, respectively.  "It shows a certain amount of resilience in our industry 
and continued growth despite challenging times for all three of 
those companies," Reda said.  Wal-Mart's 2006 sales, which rose 11.7 percent to $348.65 
billion, were greater than those of the next five largest U.S. 
retailers combined, the report said.  "I don't think there's a company that gets more beat up by 
all of us than Wal-Mart," Reda said. "We're constantly taking 
them to task for one thing or another. But at the same time, 
this is a company that continues to innovate, continues to grow 
and continues to respond to the consumer."  Costco Wholesale Corp. ( COST.O ) and Target Corp. ( TGT.N ) 
each advanced one notch to move into the No. 4 and No. 5 spots, 
respectively.  Sears Holdings Corp. ( SHLD.O ), which is controlled by hedge 
fund manager Edward Lampert, dropped two spots to No. 6, while 
drugstore chain Walgreen Co. ( WAG.N ) rose one spot to No. 7.  Bringing up the rear of the top ten U.S. retailers were 
Lowe's Cos. Inc. ( LOW.N ) at No. 8, CVS/Caremark Corp. ( CVS.N ) 
at No. 9; and Safeway Inc. ( SWY.N ) at No. 10.