-- `Twilight,' Toyota, Garmin, General Mills, Vogue: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-21T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/-twilight-toyota-garmin-general-mills-vogue-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Garmin Ltd.  and  Toyota Motor Corp. 
were among seven companies that defeated patent-infringement
claims filed by  Encyclopaedia Britannica Inc.  over digital maps.  
 Two patents owned by the research publisher are invalid,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit  said  June 18.
The decision upholds a lower-court ruling that the patents
covered ideas that were publicly known more than a year before
the date of the Encyclopaedia Britannica inventions.  
 Encyclopaedia Britannica claimed its inventions, related to
interactive mapping, were used without permission in global-
positioning systems and demanded royalties.  
 The court decision also is a victory for  TomTom NV ,
Europe’s largest maker of car-navigation equipment; GPS-maker
Magellan Navigation Inc.; stereo maker  Alpine Electronics Inc. ;
 Denso Corp. , Japan’s biggest auto-parts maker; and  Honda Motor
Co. ’s American Honda Motor Co.  
 Garmin, based in the Cayman Islands, is the largest maker
of navigation devices in the U.S., and Toyota is the world’s
largest automaker.  
 Encyclopaedia Britannica is the oldest continuously
published reference work in the English language and is now
primarily a digital publisher. It is a unit of closely held
Encyclopaedia Britannica Holding SA, based in Luxembourg and
controlled by  Jacob E. Safra .  
 The case is Encyclopaedia Britannica Inc. v. Alpine
Electronics of America Inc., 2009-1544 and 2009-1545, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court
cases are Encyclopaedia Britannica Inc. v. Alpine Electronics of
America, 06cv578; and Encyclopaedia Britannica v. Magellan
Navigation Inc., 07cv787, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Texas (Austin).  
 General Mills Gets Patent on Method of Trans Fat Reduction  
 General Mills Co. , the Minneapolis-based maker of Betty
Crocker, Jolly Green Giant and Yoplait food products, received a
U.S. patent on a technique of creating a baking ingredient low
in a form of fat associated with coronary heart disease.  
 Patent 7,736,684, which was issued June 15, is for a
substance that contains less than 40 percent trans fat, and
about 25 percent of compounds known as cyclodexctrins. These are
made of sugar molecules chemically bound to the fat.  
 High levels of trans fats are associated with high blood
cholesterol levels that can lead to heart disease. One potential
solution to the high cholesterol problem is “the treatment of
the foodstuffs themselves with cyclodextrins rather than
treatment of the consumer,” according to the patent  
 Such substances can be more viscous and harder than fats
not bound to the sugar compound. Food items made with this
substance will have textures and “mouth feel” previously
provided by higher levels of the trans fats.  
 The food products company applied for the patent in June
2005, with the assistance of  Dale A. Bjorkman  of  Kagan Binder
PLLC  of Stillwater, Minnesota and in-house patent counsel John
A. O’Toole.  
 General Mills is part of the  Healthy Weight Foundation  that
told first lady Michelle Obama May 17 that its members would
collectively cut 1 trillion calories from their products by in
2012 and 1.5 trillion calories from them by the end of 2015.  
 Michelle Obama, is campaigning to cut childhood obesity.  
 Campbell Soup Co. ,  Kraft Foods Inc. ,  Kellogg Co. , and
 PepsiCo Inc.  are also members of the foundation.  
 They said they would do this by providing lower-calorie
options, changing recipes or reducing portion sizes, according
to a statement from the group, which includes 80 of the largest
U.S.  food  and  beverage  manufacturers.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Scripps Sues miBook for Infringing TV Program Copyrights  
 Scripps Networks LLC  sued the former head of a licensee
company for copyright infringement.  
 The suit relates to programming Scripps licensed to Photoco
Inc. to be used on an electronic reading device known as miBook.  
 According to the complaint filed June 18 in federal court
in Columbus, Ohio, the licensed content would be used to make
interactive home and cooking books. Scripps was to receive
royalties on all sales of interactive titles displaying its
marks and using their content, the company said in its
pleadings.  
 Scripps, of Knoxville, Tennessee, delivered more than 1,000
full length episodes to Photoco with licensing terms barring
assignment to any other entity without written permission,
according to the complaint.  
 The content included programs for do-it-yourself home
repair, such as “Weekend Handyman,” “Sweat Equity,” “Build
a Deck,” and “Cool Tools.” Other programs had either a food
or a home-décor orientation, such as “30 Minute Meals,”
“Cooking Thin,” “Design on a Dime,” and Decorating Cents.”  
 Scripps says the copyrights were infringed by Bruce Teicher
of Chagrin Falls, Ohio, the former head of Photoco. Solon, Ohio-
based  miBook LLC  is a co-defendant.  
 Photoco quit paying royalties in the second quarter of
2008, and Scripps said it hasn’t received further communication
from the company since then.  
 MiBook operates a website that displays the Scripps marks
and indicates it’s a media partner, according to court papers.
The company is selling Scripps content for miBook through its
website and through such retailers as  Best Buy Co.  without
authorization, Scripps says.  
 Scripps asked the court to order the defendants to quit
using any of its content or marks, and that all copies of
infringing products or promotional materials be surrendered for
destruction. The company also asked for recall of all miBook
products bearing its marks or containing its content.  
 Additionally, Scripps requested damages of $2 million for
each counterfeited mark, together with all profits defendants
realized from their alleged infringement. The company asked for
attorney fees, litigation costs, and money damages, with the
damages to be tripled.  
 Scripps is represented by  Brian J. Downey ,  Nicolette R.
Hudson  and  Samantha M. Quimby  of  Frost Brown Todd LLC  of
Cincinnati.  
 The case is Scripps Networks LLC v. miBook LLC, 2:10-cv-
00568-JLG-TPK, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
(Columbus).  
 Summit Sues Jacket Sellers Who Claim ‘Twilight’ Film Affiliation  
 Summit Entertainment LLC, maker of the “Twilight” series
of vampire movies, sued a clothing manufacturer and two
retailers for copyright infringement.  
 The suit stems from Summit’s use of a  blue cargo jacket
worn by the character “Bella ” in the “Twilight” films, which
are based on a series of novels by Stephanie Meyer. “Eclipse,”
the most recent film in the series, is set to open June 30.  
 In the complaint filed June 11 in federal court in Los
Angeles, Summit said it discovered in May 2009 that Metropark
USA Inc., of Los Angles and Pittsburgh-based Modcloth Inc. were
selling jackets under the “Twilight” trademark without
authorization. They were also using images of the character
Bella on their websites without permission, Summit said in court
papers.  
 The film company sent the two retailers cease-and-desist
letters to no avail, according to court papers. Instead, the two
retailers continued to sell the “Bella jacket” and Metropark
even attached a hangtag bearing the “Twilight” trademark and
an image of Bella to the jacket, according to court papers.  
 Summit said it then discovered that B.B. Dakota of Costa
Mesa, California, was distributing the jackets and selling them
through its website, using the Twilight trademarks without
authorization. After it sent B.B. Dakota a cease-and-desist
letter in May 2010, Summit says it received a response from
counsel for the company saying the matter was being investigated
and a response would be forthcoming.  
 After receiving no additional response, Summit filed suit.
The company said it has licensed “Twilight” marks to third
parties to sell on clothing and other products.  Nordstrom Inc. ’s
website features three pages of licensed  “Twilight” products ,
mainly t-shirts and makeup. Some licensed  “Twilight” items  are
available from CafePress Inc., a print-on-demand company based
in San Mateo, California.  
 Summit said it’s damaged by the actions of the three
companies it’s suing. Its marks are harmed by their unauthorized
use, and their use of the “Bella” image infringes its
copyrights, according to court papers.  
 The film company asked the court to bar further
infringement, and for attorney fees and litigation costs. It
also seeks destruction of all Bella jackets and promotional
materials, together with an award of money damages, together
with the profits the defendants received from their allegedly
infringing activities.  
 Summit asked that the damages be tripled and that it be
awarded extra damages to punish the three clothing companies for
their actions.  
 The film company is represented by  Jill M. Pietrini  and
 Paul A. Bost  of Los Angeles-based  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP .  
 The case is Summit Entertainment LLC v. B.B. Dakota Inc.,
2:10-cv-04328-GAF-RZ, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 Documentary Filmmakers Seek DMCA Anti-Circumvention Exemption  
 The International Documentary Association, a trade group of
documentary filmmakers, has asked the U.S. Copyright Office for
an exemption to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, The Hill
Washington news  reported .  
 They want to be able to copy content from commercial DVDs
to make legal use of the content for the films they make,
according to The Hill.  
 The filmmakers say that if they can’t copy content from
DVDs they’ll have to download it from the Internet or record
video from television, and that the quality of content obtained
that way may not meet broadcast standards, The Hill reported.  
 The group applied for an exception in October 2009, and
some of its members are delaying release of their documentaries
until the status of their application is clarified, according to
The Hill.  
 Chinese Content Owners Want Fees from Internet Cafe Viewers  
 The Chinese Movie Copyright Association is seeking to
charge Internet cafes whose customers view online movies,
Information Week  reported .  
 Many of the customers of Internet cafes, who pay an hourly
rate, use computers to play games and watch movies and
television programs that are often pirated, according to
Information Week.  
 China’s Internet cafe industry, which generates $12 billion
in annual sales, contends it’s unfair to punish the cafes for
customers’ actions, Information Week reported.  
 Microsoft Corp.  has sued some of China’s Internet cafes
over their use of pirated software, according to Information
week.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Conde Nast’s Vogue Objects to ‘Fashion’s Night Out’ Charity Show  
 Conde Nast ’s Vogue Magazine has threatened to sue a
Victoria, British Columbia, charity fashion show for trademark
infringement, the Vancouver Sun newspaper  reported .  
 The magazine objects to the name of the event, “Victoria
Fashion’s Night Out,” according to the Sun.  
 Vogue  puts on “ Fashion’s Night Out”  in New York City, and
plans to expand the event to other cities, the newspaper
reported.  
 Organizers, who got the letter the day before the event,
were trying to change the name of the show to “Victoria’s
Fashion Night,” according to the Sun.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 South Dakota High Court to Hear Bear Country Trade Secrets Claim  
 The South Dakota Supreme Court has said it will review a
lower-court’s decision to keep an animal-park tourist
attraction’s financial data from the public, the Rapid City
Journal  reported .  
 Media groups seek to open court records that a circuit
court judge closed after lawyers for parties in a dispute over
 Bear Country U.S.A.  claimed financial business information was a
trade secret, the newspaper reported.  
 The news organizations argued that Bear Country in the
South Dakota Black Hills is sufficiently different from other
tourist attractions in the area that financial disclosures in
the course of the trial were unlikely to give others a
competitive advantage, according to the Rapid City Journal.  
 That media groups said in a filing that courtrooms “were
neither design for private trials nor intended to promote
secrecy,” according to the newspaper.  
 IP Moves  
 K&L Gates Hires IP Litigator Shane Brun from San Francisco Firm  
 K&L Gates LLP  hired Shane Brun for its IP practice, the
Pittsburgh-based firm said in a  statement .  
 Brun , a litigator, previously was a partner at San
Francisco’s  Morrison & Foerster LLP .  
 He has represented clients whose technologies have included
plasma display, optical alignment, inspection systems,
microlithography, consumer electronics, chips and semiconductor
equipment.  
 He has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Arkansas, and a law degree from the University of California
Hastings College of Law.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        