-- MTA Panel Clears Financial Adviser for Swaps After Renegotiating Contract
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-06-21T16:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/mta-panel-approves-new-jersey-swaps-adviser-after-negotiating-lower-fees.html

          
          
             The New York Metropolitan
Transportation Authority’s finance committee approved a three-
year contract for a New Jersey-based derivatives adviser after
the firm agreed to lower its fees.  
 The nation’s largest transit agency last month delayed
hiring  Swap Financial Group  to manage its $4.3 billion interest-
rate swap portfolio when a member of the financial panel called
the firm’s hourly fees of up to $600 an hour “usurious.”  
 South Orange, New Jersey-based Swap Financial lowered its
monthly retainer to $4,500 in the first contract year from
$5,000 and will charge from $200 to $450 an hour for services
related to new transactions. The MTA, which on an average
weekday carries  8.5 million people  on its buses, subways and
trains, faces a $378 million budget deficit.  
 “We’re not anticipating any new derivative transactions,”
said MTA Chief Financial Officer  Robert Foran .  
 Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates. Interest-rate
swaps, one of the most common types of derivatives, are
agreements to exchange periodic interest payments with a
counterparty such as a bank or insurance company. Frequently,
they involve trading fixed- for floating-rate payments.  
 The MTA, like thousands of state and municipal governments
around the U.S. in the last decade, used interest-rate swaps to
lower borrowing costs.  
 Typically, a municipality would issue floating-rate bonds
and make a fixed-rate payment to a bank which would then pay the
municipality a floating rate, meant to offset the local
government’s interest payments.  
 Failed Strategy  
 The strategy failed during the credit crisis after interest
rates on floating-rate debt issued by municipalities soared when
companies that guaranteed the bonds lost their top credit
ratings. Swap payments from banks didn’t match the higher rates.  
 States and local governments have paid billions of dollars
in fees to cancel swaps.  
 Swap Financial is one of two firms that are replacing
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  under a three year contract. The MTA
last month approved Wayne, New Jersey-based Lamont Financial
Services Corp. as a “strategic financial” adviser.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        