-- Aabar Investments Considers Delisting Shares From Abu Dhabi Stock Market
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-06-21T13:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/aabar-investments-considers-delisting-shares-from-abu-dhabi-stock-market.html

          
          
             Aabar Investments PJSC  may consider
plans to delist its shares from the Abu Dhabi stock market as
the largest shareholder in  Daimler AG  reviews refinancing plans
and investment opportunities.  
 Aabar’s board will meet on June 24 to consider calling a
shareholders’ meeting to convert it into a private joint-stock
company and cancel the listing of shares on the Abu Dhabi
Securities Exchange, the company said in a  statement  to the
bourse today. It didn’t give a reason for the plan.  
 “Aabar has some longer term strategic goals that just don’t
go well with a company that reports on a quarterly basis,” said
 Akram Annous , deputy fund manager at Al Mal Capital PSC.
“Minority shareholders seem to want dividends, while the
majority shareholder wants to grow an investment portfolio.
These are not exactly aligned interests.”  
 International Petroleum Investment Co., the Abu Dhabi
government-owned investor, holds a 64.3 percent stake in Aabar,
according to Bloomberg data. Aabar posted a first-quarter profit
of  1.58 billion dirhams  ($430 million) on derivatives and
foreign exchange gains, after reporting a loss of 1 billion
dirhams a year earlier.  
 Aabar shares  rose 1.9 percent to close at 1.64 dirhams in
Abu Dhabi today before the announcement. The stock has lost 21
percent this year, giving the company a market capitalization of
6.6 billion dirhams.  
 Bonds, Loans  
 “Normally, reasons for any company to delist would include
management considering stock being unjustifiably undervalued, or
a company in distress and thus breaching listing rules,” said
 Ali Khan , head of cash-equity trading at Dubai-based Arqaam
Capital Ltd. “The latter isn’t the case here,” and today’s
announcement “will beg the question who’s next” to delist
shares, he said.  
 Aabar last month raised $800 million in loans to finance
corporate purposes. It issued 1.5 billion dirhams of convertible
debt to International Petroleum Investment in May.  
 Aabar paid $2.7 billion in 2009 for a 9.1 percent stake in
Daimler, the world’s second-biggest luxury carmaker. The fund
said in April that it dropped a plan to take over  Arabtec
Holding PJSC , the U.A.E.’s biggest construction company, for
$1.74 billion after Dubai government’s support of Dubai World
improved the builder’s prospects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        