-- Abhisit Shutout of Rivals on Thai Political Revamp May Doom Reconciliation
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-06-21T18:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/abhisit-shutout-of-rivals-on-thai-political-revamp-may-doom-reconciliation.html

          
          
             Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s efforts to reconcile the country are drawing
criticism from opponents who say the process leaves them out and
won’t lead to concrete changes.  
 A month after an army assault ended 69 days of anti-
government protests, Abhisit has appointed at least four
committees that will study constitutional changes and
investigate violence that left 89 people dead.  
 No one on the 19-member panel to study the constitution
represents the protesters’ views and the man charged with
leading the reconciliation effort is  Anand Panyarachun , a 77-
year-old two-time appointed premier who first took power after a
1991 coup.  
 “Abhisit’s plan excludes the opposition totally,”
 Chaturon Chaiseng , a Cabinet member under ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  who spoke at the protests, said by phone. “The
people he picked mostly supported the coup and the present
constitution, which is the fundamental problem.”  
 Rival groups with different visions for governing Thailand
have battled on the streets since the army ousted Thaksin in
2006. Failure to reconcile those interests may lead to a repeat
of violence that has deterred investors, said Paul Chambers, a
senior research fellow at the University of Heidelberg in
Germany.  
 “It’s hard to believe there is going to be some genuine
move toward any real constitutional changes,” said Chambers,
who has published research on Thai politics for the past decade.
“If the plan turns out to be mere fluff, those upcountry will
get angrier.”  
 Cheap Stocks  
 The instability has made Thai stocks the third-cheapest in
Asia after Pakistan and South Korea, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Thailand’s  SET index  has risen 9.7 percent this
year, against a 14 percent decline over the previous two years,
as investors took advantage of bargains.  
 Vietnam, which drew one-fifth as much foreign investment
than Thailand in 2006, attracted more in each of the past two
years, according to the Manila-based  Asian Development Bank .  
 The political turmoil has “weighed on investment and
perception of risk in Thailand,” said  Supavud Saicheua ,
managing director of Bangkok-based  Phatra Securities Pcl ,
Thailand’s second-biggest brokerage.  
 Thaksin, who fled a two-year jail sentence for abuse of
power in 2008, is calling for the reinstatement of the 1997
constitution under which he won office. He lured the poor in the
country’s northeast with improved health care and cheap loans,
and his allies mobilized that support in the latest rallies
against Abhisit.  
 National Panel  
 Abhisit announced on June 18 that Anand, who was appointed
prime minister by the military in 1991 and again by the monarch
after bloody street protests the following year, will lead a
forthcoming national reform panel. The process will outlive the
government, which has 18 months left in its term, Abhisit said.  
 “I told the Thai people that it’s time we reconcile,
drawing our hearts as one for reform,” the prime minister told
foreign investors on June 18 in Nonthaburi outside Bangkok. “I
will do my best to arrange for all voices and all ideas to be
heard.”  
 Abhisit’s plan has five main points that are “equally
important,” he said. They are amending the constitution,
investigating the protest violence, protecting the monarchy,
regulating the media and addressing economic disparities.  
 Red Shirts  
 The pro-Thaksin red shirted protesters, hailing mostly from
poorer parts of  Bangkok  and the agrarian northeast, call for a
return to the rules in place before he was ousted. Their yellow-
shirted rivals, composed of more well-to-do royalists in Bangkok
and from the south, mostly prefer the post-coup constitution,
which empowers appointed bodies at the expense of elected
politicians.  
 Under a clause in the post-coup constitution, a party can
be disbanded and its executive board banned from office for five
years if one member is found guilty of a crime. Since the coup,
courts have disbanded four political parties, including the two
composed of Thaksin’s allies that won the past two elections.  
 In April, Abhisit, 45, came under the system’s spotlight as
well when the Election Commission, a Bangkok-based independent
regulator, filed two cases contending that the party should be
disbanded for accepting an illegal donation and for making
campaign posters that were 10 centimeters  narrower  than
regulations allow.  
 Court Verdict  
 The dissolution case against Abhisit’s Democrats is an
“obstacle” to changing the constitution because neither his
party nor the opposition will act on the matter until the court
gives a verdict, said Chaturon, one of 220 mostly pro-Thaksin
lawmakers serving five-year political bans.  
 Disbanding the Democrats “would lead to another election
sooner,” said Kanin Boonsuwan, a law lecturer at Bangkok’s
Chulalongkorn University who helped write the 1997 constitution.
“On the other hand, if the party isn’t disbanded, there will be
more political chaos.”  
 The panel of 19 academics reviewing the constitution
includes four original drafters. Three others, including the
chairman, served in the  junta-appointed legislature . Another
member, Banjerd Singkaneti, drew a rebuttal from the Israeli
Embassy in 2006 when he was quoted in the Bangkok Post saying
that Thaksin was worse than Hitler.  
 “It’s a very worrying sign when they ask the guys who
wrote a bad constitution to study ways to reform it,” said
 Noppadon Pattama , a former foreign minister and spokesman for
Thaksin.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Abhisit Vejjajiva, Thailand's prime minister, seen here in Bangkok earlier this year, is drawing criticism for his efforts to reconcile the country. Photographer: Dario Pignatelli/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
