-- Abitibi, Bashas', US Concrete, Penn Traffic, Edscha, Gems TV: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-21T11:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/abitibi-bashas-us-concrete-penn-traffic-edscha-gems-tv-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest
newsprint maker in North America, for a second time is trying to
sell a shuttered paper mill in Lufkin, Texas.  
 The bankruptcy court approved the plant’s sale in October
2009 for $20.5 million. The buyer, CIT Partners LLC, never
completed the acquisition, and the contract was terminated.  
 The plant is situated on a tract of almost 900 acres. The
plant includes paper machines. Abitibi said it would make the
machines “inoperable” before the sale, thus making the
machinery worth its value as scrap.  
 Operations at the plant were suspended in late 2003 and
permanently closed in late 2007.  
 With no buyer under contract, Abitibi is asking the
bankruptcy court to approve sale procedures in which bids
initially would be due July 28. The auction would occur on Aug.
2, with the sale-approval hearing on Aug. 4. The bankruptcy
court will hold a June 30 hearing to decide on adopting the
proposed auction procedures.  
 The hearing for approval of the Abitibi’s disclosure
statement is scheduled for July 7. Once disclosure materials are
found to pass muster, creditors may vote on the reorganization
plan. For details on the plan, click here for the May 25
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper, and lumber. Bowater also
makes bleached kraft pulp and lumber. The Montreal-based company
began reorganizing with 24 pulp and paper mills plus 30 wood-
product plants. Revenue in 2008 was $6.8 billion. In Chapter 11
petitions filed in April 2009, the combined AbitibiBowater
companies listed assets of $9.9 billion and debt totaling $8.8
billion as of Sept. 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Judge Puts Limits on Actions by Rangers Partnership  
 The general partner of the  Texas Rangers  professional
baseball club, which is the target of an involuntary Chapter 11
petition, was prohibited by the bankruptcy judge on June 18 from
using, selling or leasing property outside of the ordinary
course of business without express approval from the court.  
 Ordinarily, in an involuntary case, a company can use its
property without restriction before it’s officially declared
bankrupt.  Michael Lynn , the U.S. bankruptcy judge in Fort Worth,
said in the order that he will explain his action in a
forthcoming opinion that could decide whether the Rangers have a
legitimate prepackaged reorganization plan that can be approved
at a July 9 confirmation hearing.  
 The holders of $144.4 million of the $525 million in
secured debt against the team’s owners filed involuntary Chapter
11 petitions on May 28 against the partnerships that are the
Rangers’ limited and general partners. The secured lenders’
collateral includes the limited and general partnership
interests in the team.  
 At a hearing last week, Lynn talked about whether there
should be a chief restructuring officer appointed if the
involuntary petitions against the general and limited partners
are granted and they join the team in Chapter 11.  
 Lynn directed the parties at last week’s hearing to argue
over whether the team’s current owners or the lenders are
entitled to exercise ownership rights, including support for or
opposition to the reorganization plan. In the forthcoming
decision, Lynn also will rule on whether the Rangers’ plan
adversely affects any creditor or equity holder. If no one’s
rights are impaired, the plan could be approved without a vote
of creditors. Lynn will also rule on whether the disclosure
statement is adequate.  
 If everything passes muster, a confirmation hearing is
tentatively scheduled for July 9 where Lynn could approve the
plan and authorize selling the team in a $575 million
transaction to a group including President Nolan Ryan.  
 The team disclosed last week that the lenders should
receive a total of $256 million from the sale toward their $525
million in claims. Only $75 million will come directly from the
team because the lenders’ claims and liens against the team are
limited to that amount. The remainder will come from the
security interests the lenders hold in the general and limited
partnership interests in the Rangers.  
 Among the lenders who filed the involuntary petition,
Monarch Master Funding Ltd. has $119.8 million of the debt. The
remainder is held by funds affiliated with Kingsland Capital
Management, Sankaty Advisors LLC and Stonehill Capital
Management LLC.  
 For details on the plan and disclosure statement that the
Rangers amended last week, click here for the June 18 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. For details on the original version of the
plan and sale, click here for the May 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 The team filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 to complete the
sale to the Ryan group since the lenders wouldn’t consent. The
Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972. The team
defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009. This
writer’s brother is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders.  
 The partnership that owns the team, Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners, said in the petition assets and debt are both less
than $500 million.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Bashas’ Revises Plan, Hopes for July 22 Confirmation  
 Supermarket operator  Bashas’ Inc.  was unable to arrange
outside financing for the Chapter 11 plan that unsecured
creditors voted to approve. Bashas’ nonetheless scheduled a July
22 confirmation hearing because it modified the plan last week
so the reorganization can go ahead without outside financing.  
 Like the previous version that Bashas’ was unable to
confirm, the new plan promises to pay all creditors in full, so
existing shareholders can retain their equity.  
 Although Bashas’ contends the changes are not adverse to
any creditor, affiliates of Prudential Life Insurance Co. of
America disagree. As noteholders, they argue that creditors are
entitled to vote again and predict the company will fail a
second time three years from now when $150 million in debt comes
due under the revised plan.  
 The revised plan increases the interest rate for secured
lenders, accelerates the payment of principal, and provides the
remaining debt will be paid on the third anniversary of
confirmation. Payments to unsecured creditors likewise are
accelerated with final payment in three years. Bashas’ admitted
that the creditors’ committee and noteholders aren’t yet in
agreement on the revised plan.  
 While the changes are “facially appealing,” Newark, New
Jersey-based Prudential contends the modifications increase the
possibility of a second failure by making more debt due sooner.  
 Bashas’ believes it can handle accelerated payments because
the business has become more profitable than projected.  
 The bankruptcy judge in Phoenix approved the explanatory
disclosure statement and originally scheduled confirmation for
April 6.  
 Under the original plan, jointly proposed with the
creditors’ committee, unsecured creditors would have received 10
percent when the plan became effective and 10 percent annually
for five years. The remainder would have been paid on the fifth
anniversary of plan confirmation.  
 The disclosure statement said the claims of unsecured trade
suppliers and other unsecured creditors totaled more than $47
million.  
 For secured bank lenders owed $110 million and secured
noteholders owed $87 million, the original plan had
alternatives, both entailing full payment. If they were to
accept the plan, full payment would come with interest in five
years. If they voted against the plan, full payment with
interest would come in 10 years.  
 With 158 grocery stores in Arizona when the reorganization
began, Chandler, Arizona-based Bashas’ now has 134 locations. It
filed under Chapter 11 last July in Phoenix, before the deadline
ran out for filing the preference suit against the lenders.  
 The case is In re Bashas’ Inc., 09-16050, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  
 Luby’s Wins Auction for Fuddruckers at $63.45 Million  
 Luby’s Inc. , the operator of 96 restaurants, mostly in
Texas, won the auction for the  Fuddruckers  stores and franchise
business owned by Magic Brands LLC.  
 The winning bid by Austin, Texas-based Luby’s was valued by
Magic Brands and the creditors’ committee at $63.5 million. A
statement by Magic Brands said the sale “could” result in full
payment for unsecured creditors. For other Bloomberg coverage,
click here.  
 The hearing for approval of the sale will take place
tomorrow in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware. At the auction
June 17, the opening bid of $40 million came from Travistock
Group.  
 After closing stores, Austin-based Magic Brands has 62
company-owned Fuddruckers locations operating in 11 states. It
also owns the  Koo Koo Roo  restaurant brand, which has three
sites in California. The petition said assets are less than $10
million while debt is less than $50 million.  
 The Koo Koo Roo restaurants were in bankruptcy before.
Owned by Prandium Inc., they were sold to Magic Brands through
Chapter 11 in 2004. The 135 Fuddruckers stores in 32 states
owned by franchisees aren’t in the bankruptcy.  
 The case is In re Magic Brands LLC, 10-11310, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Summerlin Investors May force GGP into Arbitration  
 Representatives of investors in Hughes Corp. filed papers
in bankruptcy court last week attempting to force  General Growth
Properties Inc.  into an arbitration to determine how much they
are owed from the sale of the business in 1996.  
 Hughes Corp., some of whose investors include heirs of the
late Howard Hughes, owned a master planned community outside Las
Vegas named Summerlin. The project covers 22,500 acres and
eventually may have a population exceeding 200,000.  
 General Growth, through a predecessor, acquired Hughes
Corp. under an agreement that provided for paying the purchase
price over 14 years. For the last payment at the end of 2009,
the Hughes investors were to be paid about half of the fair
market value of the remaining assets, plus other items such as
excess cash flow.  
 If there were disagreement over the final payment, the 1996
agreement calls for the amount to be determined by a panel of
independent appraisers.  
 The Hughes investors say General Growth hasn’t responded to
requests to begin the arbitration. Since General Growth is
paying all creditors in full, the Hughes investors they should
be entitled to the benefit of their bargain by having the
bankruptcy court compel General Growth to arbitrate as the
agreement provides.  
 July 22 has been scheduled as the date for a hearing where
the bankruptcy judge in New York will decide if General Growth
should be compelled to arbitrate.  
 The General Growth Chapter 11 reorganization is nearing
conclusion. In May, the bankruptcy judge picked a group
including  Brookfield Asset Management Inc.  to be the lead bidder
at auction to decide who provides the most advantageous equity-
purchase and financing commitments to underlay the
reorganization plan paying all creditors of the holding company
in full. The property-owning subsidiaries have already confirmed
their own plans paying their creditors in full.  
 Other investors had the right to submit competing financing
proposals by June 2. General Growth must pick the best offer by
July 2. The hearing for approval of a disclosure statement will
occur July 30, with the confirmation hearing for approval of the
plan to take place Sept. 30.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008. The
company owns or manages more than 200 shopping-mall properties.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Lehman to Sell Interest in India Private Equity Fund  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  has an agreement to sell its
interest in a private equity fund named New Silk Route PE Asia
Fund LP for $441,000. The net asset value of Lehman’s limited
partnership interest in the fund was $17.6 million at the end of
2009.  
 The proposed buyer is Berkeley Investment Ltd. Although
Lehman doesn’t intend to hold a formal auction, other bids
should be submitted by July 2, court papers say. The hearing for
approval of the sale is scheduled for July 14.  
 Lehman has a commitment to fund its limited partnership
interest up to $125 million. Lehman funded $28 million before
bankruptcy and since them failed to make $48 million in capital
calls. When Lehman sells the limited partnership interest, the
managers of the fund will withdraw their claims against Lehman
for the unpaid capital calls and interest.  
 Lehman was authorized by the bankruptcy court last week to
engage  Sotheby’s  to sell the corporate art collection at
auction. The sale is expected to bring more than $10 million.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  
 LifePoint Cleared to Buy Sumner Regional Health  
 Sumner Regional Health Systems , the nonprofit operator of
four acute-care hospital serving 11 counties in Tennessee, filed
a Chapter 11 petition on April 30 in Nashville and was the
recipient of a favorable decision from the bankruptcy judge on
June 18 turning down an objection to the sale of the facility to
 LifePoint Hospitals Inc.  for $154.1 million.  
 Sumner County opposed the sale. The bankruptcy judge wrote
an opinion explaining why the county’s sale of the hospital in
1994 bestowed no power to block a sale now.  
 An order formally approving the sale is awaiting signature
by the bankruptcy judge.  
 Sumner, based in Gallatin, Tennessee, listed book assets of
$212.7 million and liabilities totaling $180.7 million. Sumner’s
flagship facility is the 155-bed Sumner Regional. Debt includes
$162 million in two secured tax-exempt revenue bonds issued in
2007 and 2008. The bonds were issued as part of an expansion
program.  
 LifePoint has 48 hospitals in 17 states.  
 The case is In re Sumner Regional Health Systems, 10-04766,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Tennessee (Nashville).  
 U.S. Concrete Will Have No Official Equity Committee  
 U.S. Concrete Inc . won’t have an equity committee. At a
June 18 hearing, the bankruptcy judge in Delaware denied a
motion to appoint an official shareholders’ representative.  
 Shareholders previously announced their opposition to the
company’s prepackaged reorganization plan scheduled for a three-
day confirmation hearing to begin July 23 and continue on July
28 and 29. The judge approved the explanatory disclosure
statement on June 4.  
 U.S. Concrete is one of the 10 largest producers of ready-
mixed concrete in the U.S. It negotiated the plan with creditors
before the Chapter 11 filing on April 21. The plan reduces debt
by $285 million through conversion of 8.325 percent subordinated
notes into the new equity.  
 Shareholders are in opposition because they believe they
are entitled to more than warrants for 15 percent of the stock.
For details on the plan, click here for the April 30 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 In practical terms, denying the shareholders their own
committee means equity holders must pay the cost of opposing the
plan. Were they to have an official committee, the company would
pay for the shareholders’ professionals.  
 The Chapter 11 petition listed assets of $389 million and
debt of $399 million. Liabilities include $40 million on a pre-
bankruptcy secured credit facility in which JPMorgan Chase Bank
NA serves as agent. There is another $17.9 million on undrawn
letters of credit. U.S. Concrete’s balance sheet on Dec. 31
listed assets of $392.4 million and liabilities totaling $402.5
million. It has 125 fixed and 11 portable plants serving markets
in California, New Jersey, Texas and Michigan.  
 The case is In re U.S. Concrete Inc., 10-11407, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Penn Traffic Settles with Price Chopper Over Breakup  
 Penn Traffic Co.  has now settled with a second suitor
jilted when the former supermarket operator decided to sell the
business  Tops Markets LLC .  
 Penn Traffic made an agreement in December to sell 22
stores to Price Chopper Operating Co. for $54 million. When Tops
made an offer to buy all the stores at a higher price and assume
large claims in the process, Penn Traffic dropped the Price
Chopper agreement.  
 In January, one day after Penn Traffic was authorized to
sell the business to Tops, Price Chopper sued in bankruptcy
court to recover a $1.6 million breakup fee when its offer for
22 stores was bested by Tops.  
 Schenectady, New York-based Price Chopper agreed to settle
by accepting $115,000. The settlement is tentatively scheduled
for approval in the bankruptcy court on June 25.  
 The judge approved a settlement where Penn Traffic is
paying Hilco Merchant Resources LLC $50,000 in to resolve a
dispute over a $300,000 breakup fee resulting from termination
of an agreement to liquidate stores before the advent of the
Tops sale.  
 Tops purchased almost all of Penn Traffic’s stores as a
going concern by paying $85 million cash. The sale was
structured so Penn Traffic avoided a $72 million claim for
pension plan termination and a $27 million claim by the
principal supplier.  
 Penn Traffic filed under Chapter 11 again in November for
the express purpose of selling the business. The petition listed
assets of $150 million against debt totaling $137 million. Based
in Syracuse, New York, Penn Traffic was in Chapter 11 twice
before. Debt at the outset of the newest bankruptcy included
$63.2 million owing to secured creditors, including $41.8
million to  General Electric Capital Corp.  on a senior secured
facility and $10 million on a supplemental real estate credit
with Kimco Capital Corp. serving as agent.  
 Penn Traffic operated stores Pennsylvania, upstate New
York, Vermont and New Hampshire using the names BiLo, P&C and
Quality.  
 The case is In re Penn Traffic Co., 09-14078, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Judgment Creditor Opposes Chapter 15 for ABC Learning  
 A.B.C. Learning Centres Ltd. , an Australia-based operator
of childcare centers, won’t have its Chapter 15 petition granted
without overcoming objection from RCS Capital Development LLC,
the winner of a $47 million verdict from state court jury in
Arizona in May.  
 A.B.C. filed the Chapter 15 petition later in May to stop
collection on the judgment. RCS contends in papers filed on June
17 that A.B.C. isn’t entitled to Chapter 15 protection because
the proceedings in Australia aren’t court supervised.  
 When A.B.C. filed the Chapter 15 petition in May, the
company was the subject of a voluntary administration in
Australia. Later, creditors voted and changed the proceedings to
a voluntary liquidation. RCS argues that in Australia a
voluntary liquidation isn’t court-supervised. To be more
precise, RCS says there is no court involvement unless creditors
request it.  
 The bankruptcy court will hold a hearing on June 24 to
decide if A.B.C. is entitled to Chapter 15 protection.  
 A.B.C. had 1,045 childcare centers in Australia when it
began administration proceedings in Australia in November 2008.
The company is also the subject a receivership proceeding. It
had operations in the U.K., U.S., and New Zealand.  
 The RCS suit was for breach of development contracts for
locations in the U.S.  
 Chapter 15 isn’t a reorganization like Chapter 11 or a
liquidation like Chapter 7. If A.B.C. prevails, the U.S. court
will assist the Australian proceedings by stopping lawsuits and
creditor actions in the U.S. and facilitating the collection of
any assets in the U.S. Prevailing in Chapter 15 will compel
creditors in the U.S. to fight their disputes in Australia,
which also would govern distributions to creditors.  
 The case is In re A.B.C. Learning Centres Ltd., 10-11711,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Carlyle’s Edscha Receives Exclusivity Until August 6  
 Auto parts maker Edscha North America Inc. sought and
received a 60-day extension of the exclusive right to propose a
Chapter 11 plan. The new deadline is Aug. 6. Edscha ceased
operating in June 2009 and filed under Chapter 11 in October.
The company said it won’t be feasible to propose a plan until a
sale of assets in Mexico concludes. The sale was approved by the
judge in April.  
 The U.S. company is liable on a $628 million guarantee of
the parent’s bank debt. The Chapter 11 filing came more than
eight months after the parent  Edscha AG  began its own insolvency
proceedings in Germany. The companies are ultimately owned by
Carlyle Group. The U.S. company listed assets of $6.4 million
against debt totaling $672 million, including $629 million in
secured claims.  
 The case is Edscha North America Inc., 09-39055, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 Bonus Program Approved for Gems TV Top Executives  
 Gems TV (USA) Ltd. , a television retailer of gemstone
jewelry products, received court authority last week to adopt a
bonus program making the top two officers eligible to share
$50,000 if a Chapter 11 plan is confirmed by Aug. 15. If
confirmation doesn’t occur before Oct. 15, there would be no
bonus, except under a separate program giving the two executives
2 percent of asset sale proceeds exceeding $14.5 million. If the
sale brings $19.5 million, the bonus pool would be $130,000.  
 Reno, Nevada-based Gems TV shut down the business before
filing under Chapter 11 on April 5. The petition said assets are
less than $50 million while debt is expected to exceed $100
million.  
 The case is In re Gems TV (USA) Ltd., 10-11158, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Daily Podcast  
 WaMu, Extended Stay, Texas Rangers, Chemtura: Audio  
 Washington Mutual Inc .,  Extended Stay Inc ., the  Texas
Rangers  professional baseball club and  Chemtura Corp.  are the
bankruptcy cases covered in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Downgrades  
 Anadarko Now Junk over Part Ownership in Gulf Well  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp . lost investment-grade status on
June 18 when Moody’s Investors Service lowered the corporate
credit one notch to Ba1, the highest junk grade.  
 The action was based on what Moody’s called Anadarko’s
“potential 25% share of the cleanup costs and the associated
financial liabilities and fines” resulting from an oil well
blowout in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Moody’s said The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko has $178
million of insurance to cover costs resulting from part
ownership in the well.  
 Moody’s noted that Anadarko has $707 million of debt
maturities in 2011, although none this year.  
 Geokinetics, Seismic Data Provider, Lowered to B-  
 Geokinetics Holdings Inc. , the world’s second-largest
provider of seismic data, was demoted by one click on June 18 to
a B- corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s.  
 S&P said that holders of the senior secured debt, now with
a B rating, should realize a recovery of as much as 50 percent
in the event of default.  
 Geokinetics is based in Houston. Net income for common
shareholders in the first quarter was $4 million on revenue of
$144 million. For 2009, revenue of $511 million resulted in a
$22.4 million net loss for common shareholders.  
 Bank Failures  
 Reno Bank Becomes Year’s 83rd Failure  
 Nevada Security Bank was taken over by regulators on June
18 and became the 83rd U.S. bank to fail this year. The bank had
$480 million in deposits and is estimated to cost the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. $81 million.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Last year, there were 140 bank failures, five times more
than 2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when
179 institutions were taken over by regulators.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Supreme Court Rules for Trustees on Property Exemptions  
 The U.S. Supreme Court came down on the side of bankruptcy
trustees in an opinion on June 17 that looks beyond the
governing rule of bankruptcy procedure and in some circumstances
can give the trustee an unlimited time for objection to an
individual’s claimed property exemptions.  
 The bankrupt in Chapter 7 listed kitchen equipment she used
in her business as having a value of $10,718, the maximum amount
of total exemptions to which she was entitled. The bankruptcy
trustee didn’t object to the exemption within the time period
prescribed by Bankruptcy Rule 4003.  
 Later, the trustee decided that the property was actually
worth $17,000. He sought to sell the property, giving the
bankrupt $10,718 and keeping the excess for the bankrupt estate.  
 The bankruptcy judge, eventually upheld by the U.S. Court
of Appeals in Philadelphia, refused to allow the trustee to sell
the property, saying his objection to the exemption came too
late. The bankruptcy judge ruled that the bankrupt was entitled
to keep all the equipment even if it was worth more than the
exemptions allowed. Two other circuit courts reached the
opposite conclusion, so the Supreme Court resolved the split by
reversing the 3rd Circuit in Philadelphia.  
 In a 6-3 opinion, the court in effect disregarded the time
limitation in the bankruptcy rule and looked to the Bankruptcy
Code itself. The majority opinion, by Justice  Clarence Thomas ,
said that the pivotal statutory language, “property claimed as
exempt,” is “clear.” Thomas said that the estimated $10,718
value must be confined to “its proper role” of “aiding the
trustee in administering the estate.”  
 Thomas distinguished a 1992 Supreme Court opinion, Taylor
v. Freeland & Kronz, because the bankrupt in the earlier case
listed the value of the property as “unknown.” Thomas in
substance said that Taylor remains good law and allows the
bankrupt to keep property if the trustee doesn’t object within
the time prescribed in Rule 4003 and the value is listed in
bankruptcy schedules as “unknown.”  
 Thomas provided an escape hatch for bankrupts who must
retain all of the claimed exempt property. To start the clock on
the trustee’s time for objecting to the exemption, he said that
the bankruptcy schedules should list the value of the property
as “full fair market value” or “100 percent of fair market
value.”  
 Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  wrote a dissent, joined by
Chief Justice  John G. Roberts  and Justice  Stephen G. Breyer . The
dissenters took the majority to task for putting “no time limit
constraints” on a bankruptcy trustee when it comes to objecting
to exemptions. They also say the ruling “drastically reduces
Rule 4003’s governance” and “exposes debtors to protracted
uncertainty concerning their right to retain exempt property.”  
 Before the Supreme Court opinion, the courts of appeal were
evenly split on how the issue should be decided. The 11th
Circuit agreed with the 3rd Circuit as did the Bankruptcy
Appellate Panel from the 6th Circuit. The 8th and 9th Circuits
reached the conclusion approved by the Supreme Court.  
 The case is Schwab v. Reilly, 08-538, U.S. Supreme Court.  
 Current Residence Determines Chapter 15 Eligibility  
 In deciding eligibility for Chapter 15, the court must look
to the bankrupt’s residence when the Chapter 15 petition is
filed, according to a May 27 ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New Orleans.  
 The case involved an involuntary bankruptcy begun in Israel
in 1997 against an Israeli citizen. The individual moved
permanently to the U.S. later in 1997 and is now a legal
permanent resident seeking U.S. citizenship.  
 In 2006 the Israeli bankruptcy receiver filed a petition in
Texas under Chapter 15, asking that the proceedings in Israel be
deemed a “foreign main proceeding.” The next year, the
bankruptcy judge denied the Chapter 15 petition, and the 5th
Circuit in New Orleans affirmed.  
 Eligibility for Chapter 15 turns on where the bankrupt has
its “center of main interests.” So-called COMI is presumed to
be the “habitual residence” in the case of an individual.  
 The 5th Circuit examined the statute and decided that the
individual’s place of residence at the time of the filing of the
Chapter 15 petition governs eligibility. Consequently, the
appeals court ruled that Israel could not be recognized as the
place of the “foreign main proceeding.”  
 The circuit court also ruled that Israel wasn’t even
eligible as a “foreign non-main proceeding” because the
individual “has engaged in almost no economic activity” in
Israel since he left in 1997.  
 The court said the result “likely” would be different if
the Chapter 15 petition were filed “immediately after the
party’s arrival in the U.S.”  
 The case is Lavie v. Ran (In re Ran), U.S. 5th Circuit
Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        