-- Acergy Buys Subsea 7 for $2.5 Billion to Expand Seabed Engineering, Fleet
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-06-21T15:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/acergy-agrees-to-acquire-subsea-7-in-2-5-billion-stock-swap-transaction.html

          
          
             Acergy SA , a U.K. provider of oil
services, agreed to buy Subsea 7 Inc. for about 15.8 billion
kroner ($2.5 billion) in shares to create a “global leader” in
seabed engineering and construction.  
 Acergy agreed to pay 1.065 shares, or 107.1 kroner based on
June 18’s closing price, for every Subsea stock, a 3 percent
premium, the companies said today. The combination is based on a
ratio of 54 percent to Acergy and 46 percent to Subsea 7 owners.  
 “This is the third round of talks we’ve had, after the
first two collapsed for various reasons,” Subsea 7 Chairman
 Kristian Siem  said in an interview in Oslo. “We reinitiated the
process a few months ago and finally reached an agreement
yesterday.”  
 The companies agreed to combine as governments around the
world are re-examining deepwater exploration regulations after
the BP Plc Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Oil service companies and
rig operators have also been combining after rental rates
declined because of the global recession.  
 “It will probably be very well received by the market as
it creates a much bigger, more diversified company, which is
important following the accident in the U.S. for instance,”
said  Frederik Lunde , an analyst at Carnegie ASA who rates both
companies “outperform.” “It’s very easy to make a case for
major synergies here, both with regards to costs and the fleet
usage is likely to gain.”  
 Shares Jump  
 Acergy shares  jumped  9.6 percent to 110.3 kroner and Subsea
rose 9 percent to 113.3 kroner in Oslo. At today’s closing
price, the transaction values Subsea at 17.4 billion kroner.  
 The companies expect annual synergies of “at least” $100
million and the combined entity will have an orders backlog of
$5.3 billion, 12,000 employees and a fleet of 43 vessels. The
deal is expected to close at the end of this year or in the
first quarter 2011.  
 “We’ve all the time felt that this is an industrial
development that is right, most notably due to the fact that our
clients have become bigger through mergers,” Siem said. “They
go into deepwater projects and the result is that subsea field
developments become big contracts in the billion dollar category
and if you’re a small company there’s a disconnect between the
size of the contracts and the size of our company.”  
 Acergy said in April it was examining opportunities to
expand operations in the Gulf of Mexico, Australia, West Africa
and Brazil. Subsea, with more than 5,000 employees, operates in
Africa, Asia Pacific, Brazil, North American and the North Sea.  
 The company will be called Subsea 7 and headed by Acergy
Chief Executive Officer  Jean Cahuzac  with Siem as chairman.  Mel Fitzgerald , the CEO of Subsea who is nearing retirement, will
serve as a consultant after the merger and sit on the board of
the new company, Siem said.  
 “This combination is an exciting opportunity for our
shareholders, our clients and our people,” Acergy Chairman
 Peter Mason  said in the statement. “The combined entity will
have a stronger balance sheet, enabling efficiencies of scale
and capital deployment.”  
 The board of both companies unanimously agreed to recommend
the merger to their shareholders.  
 Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and DnB NOR ASA acted as
advisers to Subsea.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
 Marianne Stigset  at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        