-- As Chinese Wages Rise, Machines Replace Migrant Workers
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-06-22T11:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/machines-replace-migrants-at-nissan-and-foxconn-as-chinese-wages-increase.html

          
          
             New minimum wage laws, a looser yuan
and worker strikes like those affecting  Honda Motor Co.  and
Toyota Motor Corp. are raising costs at plants in China’s Pearl
River Delta, leading to increased automation of assembly lines.  
 Foxconn Technology Group,  Nissan Motor Co. ’s Chinese
venture and  VTech Holdings Ltd.  said they are investing in
factory equipment to reduce their reliance on labor. Wages in
the region called the world’s factory floor increased 17 percent
in the past six months, according to a survey by the government-
backed  Hong Kong Trade Development Council.   
 Factory owners in China face declining profit margins from
a rising yuan as the government drops a two-year policy that
curbed the currency’s gain. Labor costs will probably bloat to
30 percent of  gross domestic product  in the next decade from 15
percent now, Morgan Stanley estimated this month. Higher wages
in urban areas may cost companies about $1.5 trillion by 2015,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 “Factories need to think seriously about how they produce
more with less,” said Ian Spaulding, Hong Kong-based managing
director at  INFACT Global Partners , which advises plant owners
on China work practices. “Factories need to begin to enhance
their productivity so that they are in a position to remain
competitive.”  
 ‘Improve Efficiency’  
 Sales per employee at companies on the  Shanghai Composite
Index  are one third of companies on the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 VTech Holdings , a Hong Kong-based maker of cordless phones
for  AT&T Inc. , last month raised wages by about 20 percent in
China, where it employs almost 20,000 people, Chief Financial
Officer  Shereen Tong  said. The increase, which came after the
local government raised the minimum wage, may reduce net income
by 5 percent, a Credit Suisse report said last week.  
 The company expects its headcount to increase this year as
sales rise, though it will use more machinery on its assembly
line to curb the growth of its workforce, she said.  
 “We are trying to increase automation and ensure our
processes will rely on fewer workers,” Tong said. “For
products that need to be manufactured in high volumes,
automation will help improve efficiency.”  
 5 Billion-Yuan Plant  
 VTech plans to install more surface-mount technology
machines, costing more than HK$1 million ($128,500) each, that
connect electronic components to circuit boards, Tong said. It
also will ask engineers to design machines for bolting and
putting on screws, she said.  
 Nissan, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said it wants to
boost productivity as costs increase. Its venture with  Dongfeng
Motor Group Co.  makes the Teana sedan and Tiida hatchback in
China and sold 756,000 vehicles last year.  
 The venture is building a 5 billion-yuan ($732 million)
plant in Guangzhou that will be more automated, Nissan spokesman
 Mitsuru Yonekawa  said. The factory is scheduled to open in 2012.  
 “The automation rate in China is on the rise, as it’s
still lower than at our domestic factories,” Yonekawa said.  
 The venture also owns Zhengzhou Nissan Automobile Co.,
which makes sport-utility vehicles. It spent about 1 billion
yuan adding a second production line with the latest equipment
at its Zhengzhou factory.  
 Passing on Costs  
 “We need to boost productivity in China,” Chief Operating
Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga  said. “Just because labor costs are
higher in China, we won’t be leaving.”  
 Foxconn, the world’s biggest contract manufacturer of
electronics, said this month it will double base salaries in
China after at least 10 employees committed suicide this year.  
 More automation and improved labor efficiency will help
offset those higher costs, with the company needing two to three
months to assess the cost of the wage increases, Chairman  Terry Gou  said June 8. Its handset unit,  Foxconn International
Holdings Ltd. , will pass the higher costs on to clients “as
much as possible,” Chief Executive Officer  Samuel Chin  said
this month.  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities, including the
manufacturing hub Shenzhen, raised minimum wages this year to
help companies recruit workers and to boost domestic consumption,
the city government said this month.  
 Toyota, the world’s biggest automaker, said today it halted
production at its car plant in Guangzhou, China, after a
supplier was hit by a strike. The carmaker has suffered at least
three strikes in China this month after workers at Honda won
wage increases.  
 ‘Lot of Unfairness’  
 China’s central bank said June 19 it will allow increased
“flexibility” for the yuan, abandoning a peg to the dollar
that was adopted during the global financial crisis to shield
exporters.  
 “The wage increases are leading many manufacturers to turn
to their clients to negotiate price increases,” said  Edward Leung , chief economist at the Hong Kong council. “China’s cost
advantages are being eroded.”  
 Ju Teng International Holdings Ltd. , a Taiwanese maker of
casings used in Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc. laptops,
awarded annual pay raises of between 10 percent and 20 percent
in recent years, and this year’s increases may be “a few
percentage points more,” said  Raymond Tsui , chief financial
officer.  
 “The question comes down to whether the price for the end-
product ought to be increased,” Tsui said, adding that the
company hadn’t reached a conclusion.  
 Heavy Burden  
 Workers say the pay increases are necessary to help keep
pace with the rising cost of living in the world’s most populous
nation. Inflation accelerated to an annual pace of 3.1 percent
in May, the biggest increase in 19 months. Property prices in
May jumped 12.4 percent across 70 cities from a year earlier,
the government said June 10.  
 “We carry a very heavy financial burden,” said Yang Li,
40, who works at the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. plant in
Zhongshan, where employees went on strike June 9 and returned
June 15 pending the outcome of pay negotiations.  
 Honda agreed last month to raise pay 24 percent for workers
at a parts plant in Foshan after a strike shut down all four of
its China car factories. Another Foshan parts supplier was shut
June 7 to June 10 by a walkout.  
 “There’s a lot of unfairness going on,” Yang said. “We
hope that this will have an impact on other workers across
China.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An employee works on the assembly line at Hon Hai Group's Foxconn plant in Shenzhen. Foxconn Technology Group said it is investing in factory equipment to reduce its reliance on labor. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about changes to China's currency policy.
     China’s yuan gained the most in five years yesterday after the central bank pledged on June 19 to make the currency more flexible. Schlossberg also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Workers leave the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory after finishing their shift in Zhongshan last Friday. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Worker strikes, such as this one at at Honda Motor Co. in Zhongshan, are raising costs at factories in China’s Pearl River Delta. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
