-- Adidas Increases Forecast of Record Soccer Revenue on World Cup Sales Boom
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-06-21T15:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/adidas-raises-forecast-for-soccer-sales-as-sale-of-world-cup-jerseys-soars.html

          
          
             Adidas AG , the world’s second-
largest sporting goods maker, increased a forecast for record
soccer-related revenue this year after sales of World Cup team
jerseys more than doubled compared with the 2006 tournament.  
 Soccer sales will be at least 1.5 billion euros ($1.85
billion) this year, Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said
today at a press conference at the company’s Herzogenaurach
headquarters. That would beat the record 1.3 billion euros from
2008, when the last European soccer championship was played.  
 Adidas is sponsoring 12 teams at the monthlong World Cup,
which is being played until July 11 in South Africa, as well as
the tournament itself. The company is vying for leadership in
the world’s most popular sport with larger rival  Nike Inc., 
which outfits 10 nations under its own and the Umbro brand.  
 “In terms of sales, market share and visibility, Adidas is
and will remain the leading football brand,” Hainer said. The
company has a global market share of 34 percent, more than any
other maker of soccer products, the CEO said, citing figures
collected by market researcher NPD Group.  
 Adidas has sold 1 million jerseys for each of the German,
Mexican, Argentinean and South African teams and estimates total
sales of at least 6.5 million jerseys, more than double the 3
million it sold when the World Cup was last played in 2006. A
Germany jersey costs 69.95 euros in outlets of Intersport, the
country’s largest sport retailer.  
 Jabulani Balls  
 Adidas also expects to sell more than 13 million Jabulani
match balls, which cost as much as 119.95 euros in Germany.  
 “We are well on track to reach our annual forecast,”
Hainer said. Total revenue in 2010 will rise at a “mid-single-
digit” pace, the company said last month. Figures for the
second quarter “won’t disappoint,” the CEO said.  
 Global sales of soccer products reached $10.8 billion in
2008 and may surpass that mark this year, according to Renaud
Vaschalde, a Paris-based sport industry analyst at NPD Group.  
 Adidas  spends  $125 million a year on sponsorship deals with
governing body FIFA and its six top teams, according to German
sports marketing consultant SPORT+MARKT. Nike spends $75 million
a year for the right to sell the game-related gear of five
leading teams, the same organization estimates.  
 Adidas became a World Cup outfitter in 1954, when founder
 Adi Dassler  supplied the first screw-in-stud soccer shoes to the
German team, which went on to win the tournament.  
 Adidas expects “slightly positive effects” from a rising
yuan as only 20 percent of manufacturing costs are related to
the Chinese currency and sales in China are close to 1 billion
euros, Hainer also said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. The yuan rose the most since a July 2005
revaluation and forward contracts jumped after China’s central
bank ended a two-year peg before a Group of 20 summit this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        