-- Aegon Rises on Report Insurer Preparing to Sell U.K. Life, Pensions Unit
-- Martijn van der Starre
-- 2010-06-21T15:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/aegon-rises-on-report-insurer-preparing-to-sell-u-k-life-pensions-unit.html

          
          
             Aegon NV , the owner of U.S. insurer
 Transamerica Corp. , rose in Amsterdam trading after a newspaper
reported that the company is preparing to sell its U.K. life and
pensions business.  
 Aegon gained 15.1 cents, or 3.1 percent, to 5.10 euros,
valuing the company, based in The Hague, at 8.9 billion euros
($11 billion). The shares have advanced about 12 percent this
year, compared with a 0.7 percent drop in the 34-member  Dow
Jones STOXX Insurance 600 Index .  
 The insurer is preparing to sell its British life and
pensions business, including Scottish Equitable, for 1.5 billion
pounds ($2.2 billion), the  Mail on Sunday  reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information. The company doesn’t
comment on rumors, The Hague-based Aegon spokesman  Dick Schiethart  said.  
 “If Aegon is able to divest its U.K. activities, the
proceeds can be used for further repayment of the Dutch
government injections,”  Maarten Altena , an Amsterdam-based
analyst at SNS Securities, wrote in a note to investors. Altena
has a “buy” recommendation on Aegon.  
 Aegon, which got 3 billion euros in aid from the Dutch
government in 2008 and repaid one-third of the money in
November, is scheduled to hold a two-day analyst and investor
conference in London, starting tomorrow. The company will
provide an update on plans to leave the British market at the
meeting, the Mail on Sunday said, citing a company spokeswoman
it didn’t name.  
 Expansion in Asia  
 European insurers including Axa SA and Prudential Plc are
seeking to free up capital reserves used to back policies in
slower-growing markets like the U.K. to fund growth in Asia,
where margins are wider. Paris-based Axa, Europe’s second-
biggest insurer, said on June 14 it’s in talks to sell part of
its U.K. life insurance unit to  Clive Cowdery ’s Resolution Ltd.
for 2.75 billion pounds.  
 Rumors about Aegon “may have found their origins in Axa’s
announcement,”  Dirk Peeters , a Brussels-based analyst at KBC
Securities, wrote in an investor note. “Selling a business that
doesn’t earn its cost of allocated capital also makes a lot of
sense, certainly if the money is to be reallocated to the Asian
activities, where  ING Groep NV  will be selling” or holding an
initial public offering in its business by 2013, said Peeters,
who rates Aegon “accumulate.”  
 Sale ‘Unlikely’  
 Aegon’s U.K. business, based in Edinburgh, has 53.6 billion
pounds of assets under management, more than 2 million customers
and 4,900 staff, according to its  website .  
 A sale of the U.K. life unit is “unlikely” because the
reported price is lower than what the management would probably
be willing to sell it for, said  Thomas Nagtegaal , an Amsterdam-
based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc with a
“hold” recommendation on Aegon. There is also a lack of
potential buyers, Nagtegaal said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        