-- Aeroflot Improves Grooming, Cuisine to Shed Soviet-Era Image
-- Will Daley
-- 2010-06-22T14:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/aeroflot-targets-cuisine-attendants-grooming-to-remake-soviet-era-image.html

          
          
             OAO Aeroflot , Russia’s biggest
airline, is retraining flight attendants, hiring stylists and
updating its menu regularly to attract more passengers and
distance itself from its Soviet-era image.  
 “Aeroflot still breeds this misconception which is rooted
in the Soviet era when everyone thought that Aeroflot equals bad
quality,” Chief Executive Officer  Vitaly Savelyev  said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “Now it’s a
totally different company, and in terms of on-board service we
are not a step behind world leaders in the segment.”  
 Aeroflot alternates its menu every four months and has
offered items from oat and pumpernickel rolls to braised short
ribs and smoked salmon. Last year, the company sent 50 flight
attendants to  Mil-Com Aerospace Group  in Singapore for training.
Eight of those cabin-crew members now serve as trainers for
Aeroflot workers with the goal of instructing the entire staff
of more than 2,000 attendants.  
 “It goes without saying that Asian companies, including
Singapore Airlines, feature top service,” said Savelyev, 56.
“We consider them to be a benchmark for our work.”  
 Boeing, Airbus Fleet  
 Aeroflot was founded in the 1920s and was the world’s
largest airline during the Soviet era, flying only Soviet-built
aircraft. The  airline’s  fleet today consists mostly of Boeing
Co. and Airbus SAS aircraft. The Moscow-based company continues
to fight a Western media image of surly flight attendants and
ragged aircraft, analysts said.  
 Aeroflot, which tripled net income to $86 million last
year, said last month that it carried 834,200 passengers in
March, an increase of 38 percent from a year earlier. The load
factor, or proportion of seats filled, rose 14.4 percentage
points to 75 percent in the month, the carrier said.  
 Foreign customers choosing between  Deutsche Lufthansa AG 
and Aeroflot would tend to choose Lufthansa, said  Elena Sakhnova , an analyst with VTB Capital in Moscow. She considers
the negative perception unfair.  
 “Aeroflot itself has very good quality of service,” said
Sakhnova, who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “As a
frequent-flier traveler, I can say that business class of
Aeroflot to Europe is definitely the best in Europe.”  
 Food, Smiles  
 Service has improved substantially since the collapse of
the Soviet Union almost 20 years ago, when cabin crews spoke few
languages other than Russian, offered mediocre food and rarely
smiled at passengers, said  Alex Kazbegi , a Moscow-based  analyst 
with Renaissance Capital Financial.  
 Kazbegi said he now prefers Aeroflot’s business class to
British Airways Plc and Lufthansa.  
 “Business-class service and the seats in Aeroflot are much
better, especially on the European routes,” he said.  
 Before training Aeroflot attendants, Mil-Com instructors
flew as observers on Aeroflot routes, where they found a lack of
communication between flight attendants and passengers, Savelyev
said.  
 “They were not too attentive,” he said. “We are
rectifying this.”  
 Aeroflot retained stylists to advise male and female
attendants on grooming and appearance, Savelyev said. They
offered tips on makeup, skin care and hairstyles, he said.  
 “This does cost a lot of money,” the CEO said. “But we
do believe this investment will pay back.”  
 The average plane in Aeroflot’s fleet is three to four
years old, Savelyev said. The company plans to implement cell-
phone check-ins by the end of the year and has an automated
telephone-response system that answers queries in several
languages.  
 “A name is something that you inherit from your parents,”
he said. “And we would like to make this name really bright.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Vitaly Saveliev, chief executive officer of OAO Aeroflot  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Vitaly Saveliev, CEO of Aeroflot, stands for a portrait in New York, on Monday. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Vitaly Saveliev, CEO of Aeroflot, stands for a portrait in New York, on Monday. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
