-- Affymax Shares Plunge After Trial Raises Heart Safety Concern for Medicine
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-06-21T21:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/affymax-shares-plunge-on-experimental-anemia-drug-s-heart-safety-concern.html

          
          
             Affymax Inc.  fell 69 percent, the
most ever in Nasdaq trading, after the company released results
showing greater heart risks among some kidney patients taking
its investigational anemia drug Hematide than among users of
 Amgen Inc. ’s Aranesp.  
 Cardiovascular problems are “a major concern” for the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration,  Aaron Reames , a Wachovia
analyst, wrote today in a note to investors. “There is a good
possibility that another trial is required.”  
 The data may delay the Palo Alto, California-based
company’s bid to win regulatory approval for its first marketed
product and challenge Amgen in treating anemia in kidney
patients, said  Arlene Morris , the company’s chief executive
officer. The results also may prompt U.S. regulators to require
additional studies, Reames said.  
 “We need time to reconsider our regulatory strategy,”
Morris said today in an interview. “The key issue is just the
uncertainty right now, not being able to tell people what we’re
going to do and when we’re going to do it.”  
 Affymax  fell  $15.83 to $7.18, at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  
 Study Results  
 In the results released today, 22 percent of non-dialysis
patients taking Hematide had a cardiovascular complication,
compared with 17 percent of those taking the Amgen drug. The
biggest difference was in the portion of patients who died of a
heart-related problem -- 8.8 percent among the Hematide users
compared with 6.7 percent of those taking Aranesp.  
 In a separate study of dialysis patients, heart-related
complications struck 23 percent of Hematide users and 24 percent
of patients taking another Amgen drug, Epogen, said  Anne-Marie Duliege , Affymax’s chief medical officer.  
 The dialysis market is about three times larger than the
non-dialysis market, Morris said.  
 “Our data are promising in the dialysis area so we think
there’s a nice fit with the dialysis market,” Morris said.  
 The results are good for Amgen, wrote  Geoffrey Meacham , an
analyst for JPMorgan, in a note today to investors. Hematide was
considered a major competitor to Amgen’s anemia drugs, and
today’s data make it less of a threat, Meacham wrote.  
 Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, California, rose $1.32, or
2.4 percent, to $56.52, also in Nasdaq trading.  
 Amgen’s View  
 It’s too early to say how the results may affect sales of
Aranesp, Amgen spokeswoman  Emma Hurley  said today in an
interview. Aranesp generated  sales  of $2.7 billion in 2009.  
 Affymax is developing Hematide with Osaka-based Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. Takeda can terminate the collaboration with
six months written notice or in the event of “certain specified
clinical development events or failures,” according to
Affymax’s annual report for 2009.  
 Takeda’s “collaboration with Affymax is strong and we
remain committed to continue developing Hematide,” said
Josephine Zammuto, a U.S. spokeswoman for Takeda, in a telephone
interview today.  
 The drug was as effective as Epogen or Aranesp in four
studies released by Affymax and Takeda. The average follow-up
for patients in all four trials was 1.3 years. Hematide was
given once every four weeks; both Amgen drugs require more
frequent dosing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        