-- Lagarde Saving Europe Proves Being First Isn't What's Electable
-- Mark Deen
-- 2010-06-21T22:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/lagarde-saving-europe-proves-being-first-isn-t-what-gets-elected-in-france.html

          
          
             Christine Lagarde , France’s finance
minister, was at her Normandy weekend home on Saturday, May 8,
juggling calls from President  Nicolas Sarkozy , German finance
chief  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the
Frenchman atop the International Monetary Fund, Bloomberg
Markets reports in its August issue.  
 The euro was plunging, the Euro Stoxx 50 index had dropped
11 percent since May 1 and concern was rising that Greece and
other southern European nations would default on their debt.
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , in a Friday
conference call with Group of Seven officials, had been clear:
Investors wanted action.  
 On Sunday, the finance ministers of the 27  European Union 
nations gathered at the EU’s Brussels headquarters, where it was
Lagarde, according to a person who was there, who shepherded a
broad agreement to reinforce the finances of the EU, with its
half-billion people and combined gross domestic product of $15
trillion.  
 At 3 a.m. Brussels time on Monday, as Asian markets began
trading, the EU announced a rescue package valued at 750 billion
euros or, at the exchange rate that day, almost $1 trillion.  
 “The only thing the markets understand is money,” Lagarde,
54, said in an interview 10 days later. “We had to get real,
which meant get big. If you don’t have a big number on the
board, they’ll think you are really just a bunch of amateurs.”  
 The $1 trillion weekend was the next step in the struggle
to revamp Europe’s economy -- and perhaps save the single
currency -- by shoring up debt markets, slashing budget deficits
and overhauling a banking system reeling both from the current
crisis and the 2008 credit squeeze.  
 Self Control  
 The challenge now is for Germany and France, the pillars of
the 16-nation  euro zone , to show they have control of their own
budgets by following through on tens of billions of euros in
promised spending cuts and tax increases.  
 Chancellor  Angela Merkel  plans to chop 81.6 billion euros
from Germany’s  budget deficit  in the next four years. Sarkozy
has yet to detail a complete savings plan for France.  
 The May 10 agreement created a fund that can make direct
loans to any member of the euro club in need. Commitments
include 259 billion euros in guarantees from France and Germany
and another 250 billion euros in possible loans from the IMF.  
 The European Central Bank for the first time said it would
begin purchasing euro-zone government bonds. As of June 21, it
had bought debt worth 51 billion euros.  
 Investors Not Convinced  
 The rescue package didn’t convince investors that the risk
of sovereign-debt default had ended. Stocks worldwide continued
to fall. As of yesterday, markets had lost $2 trillion for the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The euro remained
near its four-year low.  
 “The crisis is far from over,”  George Soros , the
billionaire investor, told a finance conference in Vienna on
June 10. “Indeed, we have just entered Act II of the drama.”  
 Lagarde, after dozens of meetings on Europe’s panic, has
emerged as a calm presence amid the uproar.  
 “She’s a woman who is respected by everybody, including in
the Anglo-Saxon world and in Germany,” says  Stephane Richard ,
chief executive officer of  France Telecom SA , who worked as
chief of staff in Lagarde’s finance department for two years
until June 2009. “And the French like her because she represents
them well.”  
 Lagarde says if she and her colleagues had failed to
demonstrate that Europe, united, would support its weakest
members, the situation would have put the euro under severe
stress.  
 Eye of the Storm  
 The 12-hour talks in Brussels, including backroom
discussions Lagarde held with leaders of Spain and Germany and
a midnight conference call of G-7 finance ministers and central
bankers, felt like being in the eye of a tornado, Lagarde
recalls.  
 “You don’t feel the strength of the winds,” she says. “You
just have to resolve it.”  
 She is speaking in her office in an 18th-century mansion
located steps from France’s  National Assembly . She’s silver-
haired, 6 feet (183 centimeters) tall and -- unlike most French
officials -- as comfortable speaking in English as in French.
The room has 15-foot ceilings and gold-painted moldings around
windows that look past a formal garden to the River Seine.  
 Lagarde has a second office at Bercy, a massive modern
block built for the  Finance Ministry  in 1986. She sometimes
travels between the two in a small, gray powerboat, past Notre
Dame Cathedral and the Musee du Louvre.  
 First Woman  
 Appointed by Sarkozy in 2007, Lagarde is the first and only
woman finance chief in the G-7 -- the U.S., Canada, Japan and
the biggest European nations. It’s a position she’s accustomed
to: From 1999 to 2005, Lagarde was the first female chairman of
Chicago-based  Baker & McKenzie LLP , the world’s fifth biggest
law firm by revenue last year.  
 “She’s truly open to the rest of the world in a way that’s
exceptional,” Richard says.  
 Lagarde’s ability to bridge disparate power blocs is
crucial for Europe as the global financial crisis stretches into
a fourth year, says Louis Giscard d’Estaing, a lawmaker for the
ruling  Union for a Popular Movement  and son of former French
president  Valery Giscard  d’Estaing.  
 “In Europe, among her peers, and in global forums such as
the G-20, she’s the right person at the right time,” he says.  
 With the value of the euro dropping precipitously -- it
fell 14 percent to $1.23 per euro this year through yesterday --
the priority for members of the euro zone is to cast aside past
differences and coordinate their response.  
 Merkel’s Cure  
 Merkel insists that Europe’s financial woes can’t be cured
until the entire region curtails its spending and raises taxes
to move budgets closer to the EU target: deficits that are no
more than 3 percent of gross domestic product. She set the
example, announcing in early June that Germany would adopt an
austerity package that includes up to 15,000 public-sector job
cuts and a financial transactions tax.  
 The French around the same time imposed a three-year
spending freeze and pledged to reduce France’s deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2013. France’s debt load of
77.6 percent of GDP last year was the fourth largest in the
currency union, after Italy, Greece and Belgium, according to
European Commission data. As of mid-June, it was still less than
that of the U.S., which was 85 percent for 2009.  
 The commission predicts that France will have a deficit of
8 percent of GDP this year, the fifth largest among the euro
countries.  
 G-2 of Europe  
 “People talk about the U.S. and China being the G-2,” says
 Jean-Francois Cope , head of the parliamentary group of Sarkozy’s
UMP. “Well, France and Germany are the G-2 of Europe. Germany
has made great strides in terms of its budget in recent years.
France hasn’t. Now is the time to show we understand rigor as we
set out the spending plans for 2011 to 2013 in a very explicit
way.”  
 It was in this spirit that Sarkozy’s government on June 16
said it would raise the minimum retirement age to 62 from 60 and
the top income tax rate to 41 percent. Even before the plan was
announced, the Force Ouvriere union held protests, saying any
change would be unfair and would fail to make allowances for the
hardships faced by manual laborers.  
 Investors are demanding that Sarkozy’s economic team live
up to its promises. The premium on France’s  10-year government 
bonds over similar German bonds doubled in the first eight days
of June to 55.6 basis points. It dropped back to 34 points
yesterday, though it remains higher than its average for the
past year.  
 “They really need to deliver,” says Gilles Moec, an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “They need to be much
bolder than they have been so far. If it stays rhetoric,
it won’t do.”  
 Stable, Crippled  
 Lagarde says she’s in favor of both cutting deficits and
driving growth.  
 “We can be stable forever and crippled forever as well,”
she says. “We need to work on all engines -- which means
exports, investment and consumption.”  
 France Telecom’s Richard says Lagarde herself hasn’t been
assertive enough.  
 “She doesn’t use all of the assets--and the image she has--
to weigh in a bit more on political debates in France on certain
subjects, taxation, for example,” he says.  
 Sacrifice is proving a hard sell all over Europe. In
Greece, where the public debt stands at 115 percent of GDP --
it’s 78.7 percent EU-wide -- workers have filled the streets
protesting an austerity plan that would, among other things,
boost the retirement age to 65 starting in 2013.  
 Spain’s Struggle  
 In Spain, where unemployment is about 20 percent, the
Socialist government led by Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  passed spending cuts on May 27 by just one vote. Spain
lost its top grade from Fitch Ratings the following day. In mid-
June, Spain’s public-sector unions were planning a general
strike to protest the measures.  
 As she wrestles with Europe’s sovereign-debt emergency,
Lagarde is also a leader in the effort to deal with the region’s
financial institutions, which are newly threatened as Greece and
other countries teeter on the edge of default. Banks in Germany
and France alone have a combined exposure of $124 billion to
Greece and $777 billion more to Ireland, Portugal and Spain,
according to an estimate by the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank
for International Settlements.  
 Lagarde wants to clamp down on bankers’ bonuses, limit
conflicts of interest at rating companies, and move derivatives
trading from the over-the-counter market to exchanges.  
 Derivatives are securities whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies or commodities.  
 G-20 in 2011  
 As France prepares to take the helm of the G-20 in January,
Lagarde is pressing the U.S.’s Geithner to tweak plans to raise
capital requirements for banks under the aegis of the Basel
 Committee on Banking Supervision , which is deliberating on new,
more stringent bank regulations. Lagarde has told Geithner that
France wants any new capital requirements timed so that they
don’t choke off growth in Europe, where companies rely more on
bank financing than do their U.S. counterparts.  
 Sarkozy, meanwhile, is also pressing for the EU to impose
new rules on hedge funds. Those based in Europe would need a
seal of approval from a regional regulator. Others would require
individual registration in each European country they wish to
operate in. Geithner wrote to Lagarde in April opposing the
plan, saying it risks deterring U.S. funds from entering the
European market.  
 At home, even opponents of Sarkozy’s business-friendly UMP
government acknowledge Lagarde’s effectiveness.  
 Luck for France  
 “It’s been great luck for France -- and for Europe -- to
have her in that job right now,” says  Jean-Pierre Balligand , a
Socialist lawmaker who sits on the Finance Committee of the
National Assembly. “In a crisis, Europe is isolated, and she has
proved able to overcome that. It’s because she doesn’t have that
immodest side that the French sometimes have, the idea that we
know better.”  
 Lagarde was born Christine Lallouette on Jan. 1, 1956, in
Paris and later moved to Le Havre, a city of about 180,000 on
France’s Atlantic coast. Her father, an English professor, died
when she was a teenager. Her mother, who taught Latin and Greek,
and her grandmother took care of the household, including
Lagarde’s three younger brothers.  
 An avid swimmer, young Christine was selected for the
French national synchronized-swim team when she was 15 and
competed internationally for two years. She still swims several
times a week and goes scuba diving in the Mediterranean with her
partner, a Corsican businessman named Xavier Giocanti, who lives
in Marseille.  
 Bethesda High School  
 She has two sons from a previous marriage, now ages 22 and
24.  
 At 17, Lagarde attended a year of high school as an
exchange student at Holton Arms, a private girls school in
Bethesda, Maryland. She was already interested in politics, she
says, and, in 1974, landed an internship in nearby Washington
with the staff of  William Cohen , a Republican congressman from
Maine. He needed her to answer letters from his French-speaking
constituents.  
 Cohen later became a senator and served as President  Bill Clinton ’s secretary of defense from 1997 to 2001.  
 Lagarde returned to France to study law at the University
of Paris, Nanterre, and later earned master’s degrees in English
and labor law. In 1981, at age 25, she joined Baker & McKenzie’s
Paris office, launching a legal career focused on employment law
and mergers and acquisitions.  
 Baker & McKenzie was the highest-grossing law firm in the
U.S. in 2009, with $2.1 billion in revenue, according to
American Lawyer magazine.  
 Madame Chairman  
 In 1987, Lagarde became partner and, eight years later, was
selected as one of two European representatives on the firm’s
seven-member executive committee. In 1999, at 43, she was
elected by the law firm’s partners as chairman.  
 “The big surprise was that Baker & McKenzie chose not just
a woman, but a French one,” says  Denise Broussal , the Paris
office’s managing director from 2004 to 2008, who worked with
Lagarde for more than a decade.  
 “Christine gave tremendous visibility to Baker & McKenzie,
which we didn’t have before,” Broussal says. “It was good for
business. To a certain extent, it’s what she’s doing for France
now.”  
 As a lawyer, Lagarde was known for her stamina; she never
seemed to need much food or sleep, Broussal says. She was also a
master negotiator in complicated cases.  
 Destabilizes Opposite Party  
 “She destabilizes the opposite party,” Broussal says. “If
someone is being very aggressive, she just stays very calm, very
polite, and then she’ll get her way in the end.”  
 Lagarde moved to Chicago when she took over the law firm.
She traveled extensively among Baker & McKenzie’s global
offices, staying whenever she could in hotels with swimming
pools to get her morning exercise.  
 In 2005, Lagarde got a call from then-Prime Minister
 Dominique de Villepin  asking her to join the French government.
He gave her one hour to make up her mind. She accepted, and
boarded a plane for Paris that day, she recalls.  
 As trade minister from 2005 to April 2007, she pressed
France’s case that the strengthening euro was suffocating the
region’s exporters. After one month as agriculture minister in
May that year, she was named to the finance post in a cabinet
shuffle that moved her predecessor,  Jean-Louis Borloo , to the
environment ministry.  
 Lagarde is one of 13 women, including the ministers of
higher education, justice and health, in Sarkozy’s 40-member
cabinet.  
 ‘Marie Antoinette’  
 Lagarde isn’t elected, and her transition to the political
spotlight was somewhat rocky. Early on, she was pilloried in the
press for saying she’d found the French less interested in work
when she returned from living in the U.S.  
 “They were more interested in chatting about their
holidays, about their long weekends,” she told the Sunday Times
of London in September 2007. “Doing nothing was very much the
mantra, and work was disregarded.”  
 Lagarde attributed the attitude to the effects of the 35-
hour-workweek rules that took hold in 2000. Since then, Sarkozy
and Lagarde have eased limits on overtime work in France.  
 In 2007, as oil prices surged, Lagarde suggested that
people get around on bicycles. Critics led by Socialist lawmaker
 Francois Hollande  labeled her “ Marie Antoinette ,” the queen
famous for saying the starving masses should eat brioche if they
didn’t have bread.  
 2012 Election  
 With investor scrutiny of public debt rising and with
Germany demanding balanced budgets, it’s up to Lagarde to press
her boss to go further faster, even if it hurts politically. She
and Sarkozy, who faces an election in 2012, have promised to
pare France’s budget shortfall to 6 percent of GDP next year
from 8 percent in 2010.  
 The retirement age and income tax increases announced in
June would only make up a fraction of the deficit.  
 When Lagarde visits the U.S., she’s more visible than a
typical French minister, helped by her fluency in English and
her understanding of U.S. business and culture. And her U.S.
sojourns haven’t been all about economic gloom.  
 In April 2009, she showed up on the Comedy Central TV
channel’s Daily Show, a satirical send-up of the news hosted by
 Jon Stewart . In a dark suit and white shirt, she walked onto the
set carrying a large red handbag and cheerfully responded while
Stewart asked questions about her role in solving the globe’s
financial woes, including whether she had jurisdiction to fire
U.S. bankers.  
 She translated the phrase “catastrophic economic downturn”
into French for him: recession economique catastrophique.  
 ‘That’s Beautiful’  
 “That’s beautiful,” Stewart said. “If this depression were
happening in French, I don’t think we’d be nearly as panicked
about it.”  
 As their chat wound down, Lagarde opened her bag and pulled
out black berets, which the two donned while Stewart jumped
around shouting, “Vive La France!”  
 Lagarde and her G-7 peers formally meet several times a
year. In February, Canada hosted the group in Iqaluit, a town
near the Arctic Circle where the average winter temperature is
minus 30 degrees Celsius (minus 22 degrees Fahrenheit). Six
ministers wore their new Canada Goose-brand down parkas; Lagarde
wore a long mink coat.  
 She stayed after the meeting to go dog sledding with her
Inuit hosts.  
 The finance minister finds that, as a woman in the worlds
of law and finance, she can move the discussion along.  
 Women and Men  
 “In negotiations, I think women tend to intimidate men
because, you know, we are not exactly the same,” she says. “But
I am not a threat, and I don’t have a huge ego. I think I can
help broker deals and reach consensus.”  
 That job has become more important as economic differences
among the euro-zone countries threaten to drive the members of
the currency union apart. For Lagarde, it’s a question of
political will.  
 “It’s a turning point now,” she says. “The most difficult
component is to decide how our economic policies are going to
converge -- not coordinate, but converge.”  
 The basic issue is one that European leaders have struggled
with ever since French Foreign Minister  Robert Schuman  proposed
that European states form a “supranational” organization in
1950: At what point does cooperation between countries go so far
that elected national governments lose control of their
destinies? As Lagarde and her counterparts struggle to resolve
the crisis, those national divisions are more stark than ever.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Kassenaar  in New York at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net ;  Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     France's finance minister Christine Lagarde speaks on her mobile phone as she arrives for the European Union finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Lagarde's Wish List
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
