-- Agility Is `Fugitive' in Overbilling Case on Military Supplies, U.S. Says
-- David Beasley
-- 2010-06-21T23:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/agility-is-fugitive-evading-trial-in-overbilling-case-prosecutors-say.html

          
          
             Agility , the Middle East’s largest
storage and logistics company, is a “fugitive from American
justice” that is trying to evade trial on charges of
overbilling on military supplies, U.S. prosecutors said.  
 Agility, formerly known as Public Warehousing Co., was
indicted in November on allegations it overcharged the U.S.
government on a multibillion dollar contract to supply food for
troops in Kuwait and Iraq. The Kuwait-based company said April
28 it was negotiating with the U.S. Justice Department on a
possible settlement of the case.  
 Prosecutors said in a filing today in Atlanta federal court
that Agility has “retreated to the safe haven of Kuwait” and
contends it isn’t subject to U.S. laws or courts. They urged the
judge not to even consider Agility’s motion to nullify the
indictment on the grounds that it wasn’t properly served.  
 Agility “boasts repeatedly in the media that it wishes to
vindicate its reputation in this court by fully litigating this
case, yet it remains a fugitive, trying to litigate its claims
in the court of public opinion, while attempting to evade this
court of law,” prosecutors wrote.  
 Agility adopted a company procedure that only one person
could accept service of the indictment and that person was
located outside the U.S., the government said in Monday’s
filing.  
 Harry Frazier, a spokesman for the company, said it
welcomes the court’s review and an eventual ruling on the
matter.  
 “The question currently before the federal court in
Atlanta is whether the Justice Department complied with U.S.
law,” Frazier said in an e-mailed statement. “The Department’s
filing today substitutes rhetoric for legal analysis and
provides no justification for its decision to ignore
longstanding U.S. law on proper service of process.”  
 Patrick Crosby , spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Atlanta, declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Beasley  at  dbeasley4@yahoo.com .  
          
          


  


        