-- Malaysia Forecasts 2010 Growth in Exports, Investment as Economy Recovers
-- Manirajan Ramasamy
-- 2010-06-21T10:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/malaysia-forecasts-2010-growth-in-exports-investment-as-economy-recovers.html

          
          
             Malaysia plans to boost exports and
investment in 2010 as Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy
recovers from last year’s global slump and Prime Minister  Najib Razak  pledges measures to help the nation compete with rivals.  
 The government is raising its target for manufacturing
investment approvals to 40 billion ringgit ($13 billion) this
year from 27.5 billion ringgit, Trade Minister  Mustapa Mohamed 
told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. That would boost total
approvals for manufacturing and services by 20 percent to 85.8
billion ringgit in 2010.  Exports  may grow 6 percent to 7 percent
this year, after plunging 16.6 percent in 2009, he said.  
 The nation needs to boost private investments by an average
annual 12.8 percent, or 115 billion ringgit, between 2011 and
2015 to achieve developed nation status by 2020, Najib said June
10. Malaysia’s growth momentum has slowed over the past decade
amid mounting competition from China, India and Indonesia, the
government said in its 10th Malaysia Plan released this month.  
 “We were able to position Malaysia for renewed growth at
the end of 2009 and going into 2010 through an aggressive agenda
of liberalizations in the service sector, which was the largest
contributor to 2009 gross domestic product,” Mustapa said. “A
renewed effort in pursuing additional free-trade agreements and
expanding our competitive trade outreach” will also support the
economy, he said.  
 Malaysia will engage new free-trade agreement partners,
particularly in emerging markets and West Asia, according to the
trade ministry’s annual report released by Mustapa today.  
 Affirmative Action  
 Najib has pledged to revamp the country’s 39-year-old race-
based affirmative action policies that benefited the ethnic-
Malay majority, and trim state subsidies for fuel and food
items. The aim is to make the measures “market-friendly, merit-
based, transparent and needs-based,” he said in the five-year
Malaysia Plan. He has also allowed more foreign banks to operate
in the country.  
 The government plans to cut red tape for approvals, improve
infrastructure including broadband services, and empower the
 Malaysian Industrial Development Authority  to negotiate directly
with investors, the trade ministry said in today’s report.  
 “The government will do its part to further improve the
country’s physical and soft infrastructure,” Mustapa said in
the report. “In turn, businesses must invest in research and
development, undertake effective marketing and branding
strategies and adopt industry best practices.”  
 Coca-Cola  
 The government approved 7.1 billion ringgit in factory
investments in the first four months of 2010, Mustapa said.
Coca-Cola Co., the world’s largest soft-drinks maker, said in
March it plans to spend 1 billion ringgit on a bottling plant in
Malaysia, creating as many as 800 jobs.  
 Approvals for investment in the services industry are
targeted to jump 18 percent to 45.8 billion ringgit this year,
the trade ministry’s report showed. Total approvals for
manufacturing and services projects fell 36.8 percent in 2009.  
 Private investment has dropped from an average of about 25
percent of GDP in the 1990s to 10 percent in the past decade,
according to the 10th Malaysia Plan report. With less than a
third of manufacturing investments last year coming from
domestic businesses, the government is prodding state-linked
companies and local business people to invest more at home.  
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , Malaysia’s state oil company, will
reduce overseas drilling ventures and focus on boosting recovery
from existing local wells, the Star newspaper reported on June
5, citing Chief Executive Officer  Shamsul Azhar Abbas .  
 The country’s trade and investment targets won’t be
affected by the appreciation of its currency, Mustapa said. The
ringgit has climbed 11 percent against the dollar in the past
year, the biggest gainer in Asia after Indonesia.  
 The ringgit is “going up according to market
development,” he said. “There is nothing unusual.”  
 While there will be “some challenges” emerging from
Europe and the U.S., “all this will be compensated more by
Asian countries like China and India,” he added.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        