-- Altria Options Show Traders Wager on Drop Before Court Decision on Damages
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-21T13:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/altria-options-show-traders-wager-on-drop-before-court-decision-on-damages.html

          
          
             Options  traders boosted bearish bets
on Altria Group Inc. to a  five-year high  before the U.S. Supreme
Court decides whether to hear appeals of a ruling that shielded
cigarette makers from paying billions of dollars in damages.  
 The ratio of outstanding puts to sell Altria stock  compared
with  calls jumped to 1.71-to-1 on June 18, the highest level
since January 2005. Justices are expected to say this month if
they will hear appeals of a ruling that kept the U.S. from
collecting as much as $280 billion of past profits in a fraud
suit. The Justice Department sued the industry for $280 billion
in 1999, alleging tobacco companies deceived the public.  
 “The options activity and the stock performance certainly
indicate a negative sentiment,” said  Thilo Wrede , a New York-
based  analyst  with Credit Suisse Group AG, who holds a
“neutral” rating on Altria. “It’s possible that at the end of
month, we might get that headline that a $280 billion lawsuit
has reopened. That’s not going to be good news for the industry,
and Altria is 50 percent of the industry.”  
 Investors are buying hedges after Altria rallied 37 percent
since March 2009, speculating the Supreme Court may reopen the
decision, said Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.  The shares  slumped 7.7
percent to $20.02 since reaching a 21-month high May 17.
Ownership of the July $20 puts increased the most this month,
followed by July $19 puts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Granting a Review  
 Justices are scheduled to discuss whether to hear the Obama
administration’s appeal at a private conference on June 24, and
may announce a decision in a list of orders on June 28. Tobacco
companies are also appealing the ruling, trying to prevent the
government from using racketeering laws against them.  
 The Supreme Court is “more likely than not” to grant a
review, and should that happen, “capital markets will be
considerably more concerned with litigation,” wrote Morgan
Stanley analyst  David Adelman , the top-ranked tobacco industry
analyst in Institutional Investor’s 2009 survey, on June 8.  
 Bill Phelps , a spokesman for Richmond, Virginia-based
Altria, declined to comment on the options trading.  
 Open Interest  
 Open interest for Altria’s July $20 puts has surged 190-
fold this month to 72,505 contracts, or almost a fifth of the
total number of puts. The number of July $19 puts has jumped
298-fold to 58,204 contracts during the same period. Put options
give the right to sell a stock at a set price and date, while
calls grant the right to buy.  
 “We’ve seen a tremendous amount of put activity in Altria
ahead of the court decision,” said  Michael Khouw , an options
trader at Cantor Fitzgerald in New York.  
 Total open interest  for all Altria puts rose 73 percent
this month to 383,975 contracts as of the June 18 expiration for
U.S. options, the highest level since December 2008 and 71
percent more than the 224,706 total outstanding calls.  
 Put trading volume  surged to a three-year high of 80,183
contracts on June 10. That helped lift average put volume over
the past two weeks to 27,454 contracts a day, or five times the
average during the preceding six months.  
 “That means that there’s concern,” said  Patrick Mortimer ,
director of options trading at Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in
New Hope, Pennsylvania. “It’s unusual options volume. People
are definitely lining up for protection.”  
 Selling Shares  
 Fifth Third Asset Management Inc., which oversees $19
billion including about 850,000  Altria shares , started cutting
its Altria holdings this month after Wall Street analysts said
the Supreme Court decision may send the shares lower, Cleveland-
based fund manager  Ted Moore  said.  
 Altria, the maker of Marlboro and Virginia Slims
cigarettes, got  96 percent  of its revenue from tobacco products
last year. The Marlboro brand increased its U.S. market share by
0.3 percentage point to a record 42.7 percent last quarter,
Altria said April 21. Its overall cigarette market share slipped
0.7 point to 50.2 percent.  
 Although the Supreme Court agrees to hear most appeals by
the federal government, the justices rejected an almost
identical U.S. petition in 2005.  
 The government aims to revive its bid to recoup billions of
dollars in past industry profits, arguing that judges can order
the return of “ill-gotten gains” under the 1970 U.S. Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO.  
 Decision, Appeals  
 A federal appeals court in Washington said in a 2-1 ruling
in 2005 that the government couldn’t use RICO to seek past
profits. The appeals court reaffirmed that ruling last year.  
 The appeals court also upheld a trial judge’s ruling that
cigarette makers conspired to defraud the public about the
dangers of smoking. The ruling could open companies to
continuing judicial oversight and impose more stringent limits
than the 2009 law that let the Food and Drug Administration
regulate tobacco.  
 Companies have filed five Supreme Court appeals, including
separate petitions by Philip Morris and Altria.  Reynolds
American Inc. ’s R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,  Lorillard Inc.  and
British American Tobacco Plc’s British American Tobacco
(Investments) Ltd. are also seeking high-court review.  
 “People are looking to hedge themselves because the ruling
would have important implications for the industry,” said
 Frederic Ruffy , senior options strategist at  WhatsTrading.com , a
New York-based provider of options-market analysis. “The focus
is on the July $19 and $20 puts because if shares fall below
current levels these contracts move from out-of-the-money to in-
the-money, which gives investors a lot of bang for their buck.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        