-- AMP Says China A-Shares May Benefit as Yuan Gain Reduces Pressure on Rates
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-21T05:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/amp-says-china-a-shares-may-benefit-as-yuan-gain-reduces-pressure-on-rates.html

          
          
             AMP Capital Investors Ltd., an
Australian fund manager with more than $90 billion of assets,
said it may buy more yuan-denominated equities in China after
the country flagged an end to the currency’s peg to the dollar.  
 The policy shift may relieve pressure on the Chinese
government to step up measures to control  economic growth , said
 Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital. The fund
manager may also buy more commodity shares because a stronger
yuan will boost Chinese demand for raw materials, Naeimi said,
declining to name specific stocks.  
 “We might consider increasing our exposure to Chinese
equities,” said Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at AMP
Capital Investors. “What was holding the Chinese market back
was the tightening cycle. The yuan appreciation shows the
Chinese authorities’ confidence in the global recovery and it
will help them reduce the pace of tightening.”  
 The People’s Bank of China pledged on June 19 to make the
yuan more flexible, while ruling out a one-time revaluation of
the currency that’s been held at about 6.83 yuan per dollar
since mid-2008. An appreciation in the currency will help curb
inflation and bolster purchasing power in the world’s fastest-
growing major  economy , according to reports from China
International Capital Corp. and Societe Generale SA.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, has tumbled 22 percent this year, the
fourth-largest decline of major benchmark indexes tracked by
Bloomberg, as the government introduced measures to curb
property prices. Stocks on the gauge trade at 5 times  estimated
earnings , compared to 24 times at the start of 2010.  
 Attractive Valuations  
 “Chinese equities and the market have fallen quite
substantially,” said Naeimi. “From a valuation point of view,
the market is quite attractive now.”  
 Investors outside China can own yuan-denominated stocks and
bonds through the country’s qualified foreign institutional
investor, or QFII, program. AMP has approval to invest up to
$200 million, according to China Securities Regulatory
Commission data released on June 10.  
 “Commodity stocks reflecting more confidence in China’s
growth trajectory,” are most attractive, Naeimi said. The
country’s announcement on the yuan policy “shows their
confidence in growth, and Chinese buying power will increase,
which will have a positive implication for commodities.”  
 Yuan’s Appreciation  
 China’s yuan gained the most in 18 months today following
the central bank’s unshackling of its peg to the dollar. It
climbed 0.2 percent to 6.8127 per dollar at 1:11 p.m. in Hong
Kong, the biggest gain since Dec. 30, 2008, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trading System.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index gained 2.4 percent to 2,574.32
at 1:20 p.m. local time, set for the largest gain since June 9.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies’ so-
called H-shares rose 3.8 percent to 12,067.16, the biggest
increase among major indexes in the Asia Pacific region.  
 The yuan may advance 0.4 percent this week, according to
the median estimate of six analysts who gave forecasts.  
 “The impact will be limited as the currency market will
remain under government control and it is not going to be
completely liberalized,” said  Hisakazu Amano , who helps oversee
about $18 billion at T&D Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “If the
policy changes drastically, the market will price in the changes
and the impact will be significant. But the change is what
market players have expected, so this doesn’t change my
investment strategies.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        