-- Anadarko Asks Court to Cancel Drill Rig Contract Over U.S. Ban
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-21T19:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/anadarko-asks-court-to-cancel-drill-rig-contract-from-noble-over-u-s-ban.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  asked a
court to cancel its contract leasing an offshore oil rig from
Noble Corp., claiming a U.S. six-month ban on deepwater drilling
triggered a “force majeure,” or act of God, provision.  
 The U.S. moratorium, announced May 27, followed the April
explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf
of Mexico and subsequent oil spill. As a result of the ban, the
U.S. ordered Anadarko to stop using the drilling vessel, the
Noble Amos Runner, in the Gulf of Mexico, the company said in
court filings June 18.  
 Anadarko notified  Noble  that these restrictions made it
impossible to continue operating the rig in the Gulf. This
allowed Anadarko to declare force majeure, or an event beyond
its control, and cancel the contract and payments for the lease,
the company said.  
 Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko sued Noble in federal court
in Houston June 18, asking for a declaratory judgment, after the
rig-leasing company said the ban didn’t block Anadarko from
redeploying the vessel elsewhere.  
 “A condition of force majeure has occurred within the
meaning of the contract by reason of rules and regulations of
any government authority,” Anadarko said in court papers. The
company asked for a finding that the contract was “lawfully
terminated as of June 19.”  
 War, Epidemics, Blockades  
 A force majeure provision under the contract with Noble
would include war, certain strikes, quarantines, epidemics,
blockades and rules or regulations imposed by governmental
authorities that would make continuation of operations
impossible, Anadarko said in court papers.  
 This provision in the contract would require Anadarko to
pay a force majeure rate for up to a maximum of 15 consecutive
days, after which no day rate was payable, Anadarko said.  
 Noble doesn’t view the ban as a force majeure, the company
said in a June 4 statement.  
 “Anadarko is not prevented from using the unit on a
variety of activities permissible under the contract,” Noble
said.  John Breed , a spokesman for Noble, declined to comment.  
 “The contract with Noble is specifically for the Gulf of
Mexico, and in adherence with the government’s deep-water
drilling moratorium we are managing our business appropriately
during this force majeure event,”  John Christiansen , an
Anadarko spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 The Noble Amos Runner, a semisubmersible rig capable of
drilling in water up to 8,000 feet deep, leases for roughly
$440,000 a day, according to the company’s web site. The rig is
under contract to Anadarko in the Gulf of Mexico until March
2011, according to the Web site.  
 The lawsuit is Anadarko Petroleum Corp. v. Noble Drilling
(U.S.) LLC, 4:10-cv-02185, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        