-- Anadarko May Use Arbitration to Resolve BP Oil-Spill Dispute
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-06-21T21:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/anadarko-may-use-non-public-arbitration-process-to-resolve-bp-oil-dispute.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  may resolve
a dispute with  BP Plc  over who should pay for the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history through a private proceeding not
accessible to the public.  
 BP says Anadarko, as a partner with a 25 percent stake in
the leaking Gulf of Mexico well, should pay its share of the
costs associated with the disaster. Anadarko said June 18 that
BP should pay the full tab because of the reckless way it
drilled the well. In a statement, the smaller company, based in
The Woodlands, Texas, said BP’s decisions on the well “likely
represent gross negligence or willful misconduct.”  
 The partnership agreement on the well includes a provision
that requires the companies to resolve disputes involving more
than $500,000 through a binding arbitration process, according
to a regulatory filing today from Anadarko.  
 “On the face of it, it would seem that this would be
headed toward arbitration, not litigation,” said Jeff
Rensberger, a professor of law who specializes in civil
litigation at the South Texas College of Law in Houston.
“Generally before an arbitrator, you get a judgment quicker and
it is less expensive to do.”  
 John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, declined to
answer questions about the agreement. “We are assessing our
contractual remedies,” he said in an e-mail.  
 Robert Wine , a BP spokesman, declined to comment on
potential legal or arbitration proceedings.  
 Different Conclusion  
 Since the partnership agreement appears to require
arbitration instead of resolving the dispute through litigation,
the issue may reach a different conclusion from other ongoing
investigations, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said today in a note to
clients.  
 “The context and arbitrators involved in the arbitration
process likely would be different than those involved with the
ongoing investigations, so that process could lead to a
different conclusion than that from any ongoing
investigations,” said JPMorgan, which has an “overweight”
rating on Anadarko shares.  
 As much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day is pouring from the
well, according to a government estimate. The leak was triggered
by an April 20 explosion on a drilling rig leased to BP by
Transocean Ltd. Spill costs may climb to as much as $50.8
billion if the well is capped at the end of August, according to
a June 16 research note from ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based policy analysis firm.  
 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which is 70 percent-owned by
Japan’s second-biggest trading house,  Mitsui & Co. , has a 10
percent stake in the well. BP owns 65 percent.  
 Notice of Dispute  
 Once a notice of dispute is delivered, each party is to
appoint within 10 days a management representative who can
settle the dispute, according to the agreement filed today by
Anadarko. If the representatives are unable to resolve the
dispute after an allotted period, either party can initiate
arbitration proceedings.  
 Each side will choose an arbitrator, and those arbitrators
will select the last member of their three-member panel, or ask
the  American Arbitration Association  to appoint the third
member.  
 “The panel shall actively manage the proceedings so as to
make the proceedings expeditious, economical, and less
burdensome and adversarial than litigation,” the parties state
in the agreement. The process is confidential.  
 Confidential Process  
 “Probably both of them would be happy to have this a
little bit out of the limelight, as opposed to yet another high-
profile, bad publicity moment for them,” said Rensberger, the
law professor. Rensberger said it’s also possible that BP and
Anadarko could reach a settlement.  
 The agreement calls for the panel to issue a final decision
in writing within 60 days of the end of arbitration hearing
presentations, or a longer period as agreed to by the parties.
Either side can ask the panel to modify the award.  
 The agreement requires court-approval of the award.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said in a June 18
statement that his company expects other parties that may have
responsibility for costs and liabilities to meet their
obligations.  
 BP said the co-owners of the well have also filed documents
with the U.S. government certifying that each would be “jointly
and severally liable” along with any other responsible parties
for oil-spill removal costs and damages in accordance with the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990.  
 Preventable Disaster  
 Anadarko CEO  Jim Hackett  said in a June 18 statement that
evidence shows the Gulf disaster was preventable and the result
of BP’s “reckless decisions and actions.” The company said BP
is responsible for the cost of damages in such a situation.  
 Anadarko rose 88 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $43.45 at 4:15
p.m. in New York trading. BP’s American depositary receipts
dropped $1.43, or 4.5 percent, $30.33.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The site of the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Smoke billows from controlled burns of oil on the surface of the water near the site of the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill on June 19, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Smoke billows from controlled burns of oil on the surface of the water near the site of the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill on June 19, 2010. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
