-- Anadarko Bonds Fall After Moody's Cuts Rating to Below Investment Grade
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-06-21T20:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/anadarko-bonds-fall-after-moody-s-cuts-rating-to-below-investment-grade.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  bonds fell
the most since June 9 after the company’s credit rating was cut
last week one step to Ba1, below investment quality, by Moody’s
Investors Service.  
 Anadarko’s 5.95 percent securities due in 2016 declined 2.7
cents to 88.1 cents on the dollar to yield 8.45 percent, or 6.42
percentage points more than similar-maturity Treasuries as of
4:15 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The notes traded as high as 111.29 cents on April 22, two days
after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill began with an explosion on
the Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 workers.  
 Anadarko owns 25 percent of the  BP Plc  well that is the
spewing oil. Anadarko’s bonds have dropped as some investors,
because of mandates or other restrictions, aren’t allowed to own
debt rated below investment grade or may only hold a limited
portion of junk-rated assets, forcing them to sell the notes,
said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc.  
 “I think the credit markets have downgraded all of the
spill companies by several notches,” Levington, who is based in
New York, said today in a telephone interview. “The rating
agencies are trying to catch up with what the markets have
already done.”  
 The downgrade “reflects the considerable uncertainty
around” the company’s share of cleanup costs and financial
liabilities and fines, Moody’s wrote June 18 in a statement.
“The spill will negatively impact Anadarko’s credit profile
over the medium term, reflecting BP’s continued inability to
stop the leak, the increasing revisions in the magnitude of the
spill, and mounting claims.”  
 High-yield, or junk, rated debt is graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 The downgrade “is very disappointing and surprising in
light of Anadarko’s limited role as a non-operating investor in
the Macondo well,”  Robert Gwin , chief financial officer of The
Woodlands, Texas-based company, said June 18 in a  statement .
“We will take whatever steps are appropriate to protect our
stakeholders and will work diligently to regain our investment
grade status with Moody’s.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        