-- Marfrig Bond Rally Defies S&P as Traders Bet U.S. Purchase Will Fuel Sales
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-06-21T21:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/marfrig-bond-rally-defies-s-p-as-traders-bet-u-s-purchase-will-fuel-sales.html

          
          
             Bond traders are giving Marfrig
Alimentos SA a vote of confidence even as credit rating
companies say they may downgrade Latin America’s second-largest
beef producer following a $1.3 billion  acquisition  in the U.S.  
 Yields on Marfrig’s 9.5 percent bonds due in 2020 have
dropped 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage point, to a seven-
week low of 9.87 percent since the Sao Paulo-based company
agreed to buy Keystone Foods LLC, a U.S. meat processor that
supplies  McDonald’s Corp.  and  Campbell Soup Co.  on June 14,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The decline tops the
average 16-basis-point drop on Brazilian corporate dollar debt,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index.   
 The bonds are rallying as speculation the purchase will
bolster the company’s  profit margins  outweighs concerns raised
by Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service that the
acquisition may saddle the company with too much  debt . Marfrig
said the purchase may help it almost triple net sales this year
to 27.8 billion reais ($15.8 billion).  
 “It’s a good deal,”  Bevan Rosenbloom , an emerging-market
debt strategist with RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut, said in a June 17 telephone interview. “The
company is drastically changing its business profile” and its
bonds are undervalued, he said.  
 Marfrig plans to finance the acquisition by selling 2.5
billion reais of bonds that will convert into shares after five
years. The bonds will pay an interest rate equal to the
country’s 10.1 percent  overnight interbank lending rate  plus 1
percentage point.  
 Marfrig’s Growth  
 Keystone, based in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, would
be Marfrig’s 39th acquisition in three years. The takeovers,
including the purchase of Cargill Inc.’s Brazilian poultry and
pork business for $705 million, more than quadrupled  revenue  to
9.6 billion reais last year from 2.1 billion in 2006, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The deal makes strategic sense, given that Marfrig wants
to diversify to consumer products and food service,” said
 Marcelo Menusso , a corporate bond analyst for Deutsche Bank AG
in New York. “The 10 percent yield is not bad.”  
 Moody’s questioned whether Marfrig has the capacity to cope
with the “fast pace” of growth. The acquisition is likely to
“stretch” its balance sheet, Moody’s analysts wrote June 16.
Moody’s put the company’s  B1 rating  on review for possible
downgrade, matching the move that S&P made that day with its B+
ranking. Both ratings are four levels below investment grade.  
 Bond Accounting  
 Moody’s and S&P said they’re still figuring out if the
convertible bonds will be counted as debt or equity.  
 “We have to understand the financial implication of the
acquisition,”  Reginaldo Takara , an S&P analyst in Sao Paulo,
said in a telephone interview. “In principal, if the indenture
is considered as debt, then we will see a more leveraged profile
initially.”  
 Moody’s will keep the company at B1 should it determine the
securities are equity, Ricardo Kovacs, a senior analyst at
Moody’s in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. A Marfrig
spokesman declined to comment.  
 Net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will decline to 3.1 times by the end of this year
from 4 in the first quarter, Marfrig said in a presentation to
analysts after announcing the acquisition. The average ratio for
companies in Brazil’s  Bovespa benchmark stock index  is 1.4,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Stock Drops  
 Marfrig’s bonds outperformed its stock last week because
the additional shares from the convertible bonds may dilute
earnings.  
 The  stock  lost 1.5 percent since June 14, compared with a
1.4 percent gain in the Bovespa. The price on the 9.5 percent
bonds due in 2020 climbed to 97.27 on June 18 from 95.73 on June
14. Marfrig issued the bonds on April 29 at a price of 98.43.  
 Elsewhere in Brazil’s credit markets, the yield premium on
the country’s dollar government bonds over U.S. Treasuries
narrowed four basis points today to 219, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI+ index. The gap’s declined 32 basis points from a nine-
month high of 251 on June 8.  
 The cost of protecting the debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps fell 2 basis points today
to 126, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Real Gains  
 The real strengthened 0.1 percent to 1.7712 per dollar
today, trimming its loss this year to 1.5 percent. The yield on
Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in January, the most
active in Sao Paulo trading, fell two basis points to 11.29
percent.  
 Marfrig’s 9.625 percent bonds due in 2016 outperformed
those issued by competitors  JBS SA , the world’s biggest beef
producer, and Minerva SA, Brazil’s fourth-largest meat producer,
last week. Yields on Marfrig’s bonds dropped 25 basis points
since June 14 to 9.92 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. JBS’s 10.5 percent bonds due in 2016 yielded 8.8
percent on June 18, down from 8.86 on June 14. Minerva’s 9.5
percent notes maturing 2017 declined six basis points to 9.97
percent.  
 Marfrig’s 2016 bond yields are still up 156 basis points
from a record low of 8.07 percent on March 18.  
 “The market hasn’t appreciated the real value,” RBS’s
Rosenbloom said. “This company has a track record. Every
acquisition they made has created value and brought synergy.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        