-- Australia, China Sign Trade Pacts Worth $8.8 Billion as Xi Jinping Visits
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-21T07:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/australia-china-sign-trade-pacts-worth-8-8-billion-as-xi-jinping-visits.html

          
          
             Australia and China signed new
accords worth more than A$10 billion ($8.8 billion), expanding
their energy and resources trade ties, Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
said during a six-day visit by Vice President  Xi Jinping .  
 “Our relationship stretches back a long time, but we have
a strong future as well,” Rudd told an audience of 600 people
at the Australia-China Economic and Trade Cooperation Forum in
Canberra after holding talks with Xi, a likely successor to
President  Hu Jintao .  
 China is Australia’s largest trading partner, with annual
two-way commerce worth A$85.1 billion in 2009, up 15.1 percent
from a year earlier during the worst global downturn in 75 years,
and comprising almost 17 percent of Australia’s total trade,
according to the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade  website .
Iron ore for China’s steel mills makes up half of the exports.  
 The accords include an engineering and procurement
agreement between  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.  and China Gezhouba
Group Co. announced by the iron ore miner earlier today and a
$1.2 billion agreement between Karara Mining Ltd. and China
Development Bank Corp. for rail and port construction in Oakajee,
Western Australia.  
 The development bank also reached an agreement with Aquila
Resources Ltd. to expand coal and iron ore projects in the
Pilbara in Western Australia. The accords include  Telstra Corp. ,
Australia’s largest phone company, becoming the preferred
supplier to ZTE Corp. and an $8 billion coal project near Bowen
in Queensland state that Rudd said will create A$4 billion in
exports every year for 25 years.  
 Broader Ties  
 “China still needs Australia,” said Chunlai Chen, a senior
lecturer at Canberra-based Australian National University’s
Crawford School of Economics and Government. Xi “is potentially
very important -- maybe in the next two years he will be number
one in China,” he added. “This visit was about providing
reassurance, a guarantee, as part of a long-term strategy.”  
 The agreements were signed as Rudd fights for voter support
for his proposed 40 percent levy on resource “super profits.”
The levy, set to take effect from 2012 if Rudd wins a national
election due by April, is opposed by companies such as  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group  that say it will limit
investment and job growth.  
 Beyond Mining  
 “Our economic relationship with China is becoming so much
more than just trade in resources,” Trade Minister  Simon Crean 
said today. “The upwards trajectory shows no signs of slowing
and this year two-way trade may well exceed A$100 billion.”  
 Xi’s visit follows tension after China rejected Rudd’s
criticism of the secretive handling of industrial espionage
charges in March against four Rio executives, including
Australian iron ore official  Stern Hu , who received sentences of
between seven and 14 years.  
 Rudd said at the time China “missed an opportunity” to be
transparent and give companies more confidence by trying parts
of the case behind closed doors. “The Australian side should
respect the result and should stop such irresponsible remarks,”
China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said March 30.  
 The two countries have “different societies, different
systems as well as some differences of view,” Australian
Foreign Minister  Stephen Smith  told the forum in Canberra that
included  Chen Yuan , chairman of China Development Bank, and  Fu Chengyu , president of Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore
energy explorer.  
 “Australia is committed to managing these in a
straightforward and constructive way,” Smith said. The two
countries established diplomatic ties in 1972.  
 Trade Talks  
 Australia is yet to sign a free trade pact with China,
after the countries agreed in April 2005 to begin negotiations
under former Prime Minister  John Howard .  
 New Zealand clinched a free trade deal in 2008 and China
has since overtaken the U.S. and Japan to become New Zealand’s
second-largest trading partner behind Australia.  
 The next round of Australia’s trade talks is scheduled to
be held in Beijing before the end of this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping in Canberra  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping speaks during the Australia China Trade and Economic Forum lunch at Parliament House, in Canberra, Australia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping speaks during the Australia China Trade and Economic Forum lunch at Parliament House, in Canberra, Australia. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping and Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd attend the Australia China Trade and Economic Forum lunch at Parliament House, in Canberra, Australia. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
