-- Australian, N.Z. Stocks: Aquila, Alinta, BHP, David Jones, Sigma, Telstra
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-21T06:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/australian-n-z-stocks-alinta-bhp-lihir-kingsgate-origin-telstra.html

          
          
             Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  rose
1.3 percent to 4,612.60 at the close of trading in Sydney. New
Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  gained 0.7 percent to 3,068.25 in
Wellington.  
 The following were among the most active shares in the
market today. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company
names.  
 Aquila Resources Ltd.  (AQA AU) jumped 3.9 percent to A$9.42.
The exploration company said it made an initial agreement with
China Development Bank Corp. to develop its iron-ore and
steelmaking-coal projects.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU) gained 2 percent to A$39.91
after China signaled an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the
dollar. Also, the world’s largest mining company may bid for 
Alinta Energy Ltd. ’s (AEJ AU) Port Hedland and Newman power
stations while  Origin Energy Ltd.  (ORG AU) is interested in the
company’s gas and electricity retail operations, the Australian
Financial Review reported in its Street Talk column. Alinta
Energy jumped 4.6 percent to 4.6 Australian cents. Origin Energy
gained 0.7 percent to A$15.95.  
 David Jones Ltd.  (DJS AU) declined 0.5 percent to A$4.47.
Credit Suisse Group AG cut David Jones to “underperform” from
“outperform” and reduced the target price to A$4.50 from
A$5.30 after Chief Executive Officer  Mark McInnes  resigned and
apologized for “unbecoming” behavior toward a female colleague.
Credit Suisse analyst  Grant Saligari  said reputational risk and
team instability were reasons for the downgrade of Australia’s
second-largest department store chain.  
 Kingsgate Consolidated Ltd.  (KCN AU) advanced 2.8 percent
to A$10.79. The company may raise as much as $600 million from
the initial public offering of its Akara Mining unit in Thailand,
the Australian Financial Review reported. The proceeds will be
used to fund expansion outside of Thailand, the newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information.  
 Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  (SIP AU) declined 4.8 percent to
50 Australian cents. The Australian drugmaker that posted a
record loss last month appointed Brian Jamieson as a new
chairman, and said it miss its full-year profit forecast.  
 Telstra Corp.  (TLS AU) jumped 3.4 percent to A$3.34.
Australia’s Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  has struck an A$11 billion
($9.5 billion) deal with Telstra, removing a lingering obstacle
to the creation of the government’s national broadband network.
State-owned NBN Co., building a national network to provide
high-speed Internet access, will be able to use Telstra’s
infrastructure, Rudd said yesterday. Broadband and voice
customers will switch to NBN Co. if the agreement is completed.
Telstra’s stock soared 9.2 percent to NZ$4.15 in New Zealand
trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        