-- Autographed Stephen Strasburg Rookie Card Surpasses $30,000 Bid on EBay
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-06-21T20:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/autographed-stephen-strasburg-rookie-card-surpasses-30-000-bid-on-ebay.html

          
          
             Stephen Strasburg  baseball cards
remain as hot as the rookie pitcher’s statistics.  
 A 2010 Strasburg rookie trading card -- the only one of its
kind -- is being sold on  EBay Inc .’s auction website, with  the
bidding  currently at $30,726. The auction, which has drawn 87
bids, ends June 28.  
 The top bid is almost double the $16,403 spent on an EBay
purchase of a different one-of-a-kind  Topps Co . Strasburg card
in May.  
 “It’s autographed, and that’s the big difference between
this card and the other one that was sold recently,”  Warren Friss , general manager of Topps Sports & Entertainment, said in
a telephone interview.  
 The red-bordered autographed card, part of the Topps Bowman
series, was discovered by a Melbourne, Florida, collector when
he purchased a jumbo box of 2010 Bowman cards, the seller said
on the Ebay listing.  
 The two cards are the only “one-of-one” Strasburg cards
in the Bowman brand, which specializes in rookie cards. Some
other one-of-a-kind Strasburg cards will be made available in
other Topps brands, Friss said.  
 Strasburg, 21, on June 18 set a major-league record with 32
strikeouts in his first three appearances for the Washington
Nationals, surpassing the 1971 mark set by J.R. Richards (21
strikeouts).  
 Strasburg Debut  
 Strasburg struck out 14 batters without a walk in his June
8 major-league debut against the Pittsburgh Pirates. The No. 1
draft pick in baseball’s 2009 first-year player draft out of San
Diego State University, he signed a contract with the Nationals
for a record $15 million.  
 Topps has an exclusive trading-card agreement with
Strasburg, who will autograph cards and make appearances on
behalf of the New York-based company. Friss, who declined to
comment on the financial details of the accord, said card sales
have been “very strong” this season.  
 “The big thing in trading cards is getting that rookie
card of a special guy like  Mickey Mantle ,  Albert Pujols  or  Cal Ripken ,” Friss said. “When people look at who the next great
superstar is and want to get their rookie card, it definitely
drives a lot of enthusiasm.”  
 Closely held Topps is also in the first year of an
exclusive agreement as Major League Baseball’s official trading-
card seller, adding potential value to the Strasburg card, Friss
said.  
 “I don’t think there’s any limit on what a special card
like this could be worth,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        