-- Fed Says Review Finds `Deficient' Pay Practices at Many Banks
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-06-21T20:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bank-pay-practices-deficient-in-curbing-excessive-risk-taking-fed-says.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve said a review of
pay practices found many big banks to be “deficient” in
curbing the excessive risk-taking that helped fuel the financial
crisis.  
 Banks must do a better job of identifying employees who can
expose the company to “material risk,” the Fed said today in a
statement in Washington with three other U.S. regulators. The
agencies will follow up on the “specific areas that were found
to be deficient at many firms.”  
 By issuing compensation guidelines updated from a Fed
proposal in October, regulators aim to overhaul incentives that
could pose a risk to the financial system. The central bank,
which oversees companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
 Citigroup Inc. , didn’t identify any firms today.  
 While many large banks have already made some changes,
“more work clearly needs to be done,” Fed Governor  Daniel K. Tarullo , who is coordinating the efforts, said in the statement.
The central bank “expects firms to make material progress this
year on the matters identified,” said Tarullo, appointed by
President  Barack Obama  in January 2009.  
 The Fed said it gave its analysis to the banks last month
and listed “areas requiring prompt attention.” Companies are
submitting plans to the central bank to address “outstanding
issues to ensure that incentive compensation plans do not
encourage excessive risk-taking,” the Fed said.  
 Pressing Banks  
 A recurring theme in the regulators’ review is a “warning
against one-size-fits-all structures” for pay, said  Mark Poerio , a Washington-based compensation attorney with Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP. The Fed is emphasizing a
“principles-based approach” and pressing banks to set up
incentives in a way that doesn’t encourage imprudent risk-
taking, he said.  
 The Fed review said a “substantial portion” of incentive
pay for senior executives at large banks should be deferred more
than a year, with payment dependent on the company’s and
individual’s performance. Still, deferred pay might not be
enough if the executives can expose the company to long-term
risks, the Fed said.  
 Banks therefore should use a variety of methods in awarding
incentive compensation, including adjusting the links between
pay and risk-taking, according to the central bank.  
 “Flawed incentive compensation practices” were a factor
in the financial crisis, as banks “too often rewarded employees
for increasing the organization’s revenue or short-term profit
without adequate recognition of the risks the employees’
activities posed to the organization,” according to the Fed’s
statement.  
 Next Stage  
 The Fed also said incentive-pay programs should be backed
by “strong corporate governance, including active and effective
oversight by the organization’s board of directors.” In the
next stage of reviews, regulators will compare compensation
practices at big banks in business lines such as mortgage
origination, the Fed said.  
 Some Wall Street banks have taken steps to rein in pay in
response to government scrutiny and public outrage over bonuses.  
 Goldman Sachs said in December that year-end bonuses for 30
executives, including Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein ,
will be in restricted stock they can’t sell for five years. The
New York-based bank, facing a fraud lawsuit from the SEC, has
been criticized by lawmakers including House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  for allocating more than $16
billion to pay employees after receiving a bailout by taxpayers.  
 Morgan Stanley Chairman  John Mack , who also held the CEO
title last year, declined to take a bonus for the third straight
year, citing “this unprecedented environment.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        