-- Bank Stock Hotness Leaves Behind a Ho-Hum Market: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-06-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bank-stock-hotness-leaves-behind-a-ho-hum-market-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             Without attracting much notice,
 regional bank stocks  are having a banner year.  
 They are up 28 percent through June 18, ranking among the
best of the 154 industry groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. This hot performance was achieved in a cool market: The
S&P 500 as a whole is close to unchanged for the year.  
 Small and mid-sized banks tend to have fewer derivative-
securities risks than money-center banks do. Many of the
regional banks avoided the stupidity of no-documentation loans
and the treacherous waters of subprime lending.  
 The regional banks I like now aren’t exactly household
names. They include  Bank of Hawaii Corp.  in Honolulu; First of
Long Island Corp. in Glen Head, New York; and  Republic Bancorp
Inc.  in Louisville, Kentucky.  
 Should you consider investing in bank stocks even after
they have had a big move this year? In a word, yes. Financial
stocks fell so hard in 2008 that even after a substantial bounce
in 2009 and 2010, many remain moderately priced.  
 The big question isn’t whether regional bank stocks are
still cheap. Clearly, many are. The real issue is whether the
banks can restore their profits to a decent level.  
 Last week I studied the data for 238 publicly traded U.S.
banks, using the Bloomberg database. Profitability measures for
most still looked feeble, even though the Federal Reserve has
been giving banks a hand by keeping  short-term interest rates 
unusually low.  
 Rich Spread  
 Banks make most of their profits by lending money at a
higher rate than they pay to borrow it. The spread, of course,
is banks’ life blood. By keeping rates low for an extended
period, the Fed is making sure that banks don’t have to pay much
to borrow.  
 And yet, as of the end of their latest fiscal years, banks
on average earned only 0.48 percent on their assets. As a young
man, I was taught that a 1 percent return on assets was good for
a bank. Only 38 banks in my survey did that well.  
 Likewise, I learned that a 15 percent return on equity is a
good figure for any business, bank or nonbank. Only 18 of the
238 banks could muster that much. The median return on equity
was 4.3 percent.  
 Luckily, conditions are improving. It seems to me that the
banks are making real progress, albeit from a low point. In the
past, the early stages of economic recoveries have been good
times to invest in  bank stocks .  
 Banks I Like  
 Let’s examine a trio of regional banks that I like. None of
them has fully participated in this year’s bank-stock rally.
Indeed, two of them have barely budged. I think that is more a
function of analyst neglect than lack of merit.  
 Bank of Hawaii  mainly serves its home state, and has the
benefits and drawbacks associated with an economy dependent on
tourism. The bank places lots of automated-teller machines in
McDonald’s restaurants, something I’m surprised we don’t see
more of here on the mainland U.S.  
 Through 2008, Bank of Hawaii showed  earnings  per share
increases eight years in a row. In 2009 earnings fell to $3 a
share from $3.99 a year earlier; analysts expect a rebound to
about $3.28 this year. Non-performing loans are 0.8 percent of
all loans, putting the institution in the top 10th of all U.S.
banks in this regard.  
 As a sweetener, it has a  dividend  yield of 3.7 percent.  
 Record Earnings  
 First of Long Island  has an even lower percentage of non-
performing loans, at 0.5 percent. The company marched through
the recession with no downturn in earnings, and analysts expect
it to post record earnings of $2.30 a share this year, up 25
percent from last year. The bank’s dividend yield is decent, at
about 3 percent.  
 Republic Bancorp  operates mainly in Kentucky, and also does
business in Indiana, Ohio and Florida. It has shown exceptional
growth and profitability in the past, but has drawn fire from
critics.  
 In 2009 the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. issued a cease
and desist  order  telling the bank to stop charging what it said
were excessive rates on tax-refund loans. Republic was the
fourth-largest issuer of such loans nationwide at the time,
according to a Bloomberg News story.  
 Some critics have complained that Republic gets too much of
its revenue from overdraft charges.  
 I don’t necessarily deny these criticisms, although the
bank does, in part. My judgment is that Republic will earn
decent profits even after ending the disputed practices. Last
year it reported about a 1 percent return on assets and 25
percent growth in net income.  
 That was no fluke. Republic has achieved profit growth that
good or better several times in the past decade. This year
analysts expect a 41 percent jump in  profits  to a record $2.85 a
share.  
 Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this week’s column, personally or for
clients.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        