-- Banks Must Keep Stake in Safest Loans in House Plan
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-06-21T19:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/banks-must-keep-stake-in-safest-loans-in-house-plan.html

          
          
             Mortgage lenders would have to keep
a financial stake in even the safest loans they offer under a
U.S. House plan to amend legislation that would curb risk-taking
by financial firms.  
 Representative  Barney Frank , who is leading the House-
Senate talks to reconcile the two versions of the bill, today
proposed removing the exemption of these loans as part of a
package of changes released by his office.  
 The  Senate version  of the financial-overhaul bill included
an exemption for fixed-rate loans that require proof of a
borrower’s income, have a term of 30 years or less, don’t allow
deferring payment of the loan principal and have other qualities
that shield them from default. The House and Senate versions of
the bill require lenders and originators to retain 5 percent of
the credit risk on loans they securitize.  
 The mortgage industry supports the Senate language, saying
it would “create greater incentives for good lending without
making safe mortgage products more expensive,”  John A. Courson ,
the president of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said in a
June 15 letter to members of the Senate and House conference
committee.  
 CDO Rules  
 The House proposal also would require federal regulators to
study and then establish risk-retention guidelines for
collateralized debt obligations -- the securities at the center
of a Securities and Exchange Commission suit against  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc .  
 Goldman Sachs created and sold CDOs linked to subprime
mortgages in early 2007, as the U.S. housing market faltered,
without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities and bet against the vehicles, the SEC said
in April. Billionaire  John Paulson’s  firm earned $1 billion on
the trade and wasn’t accused of wrongdoing. The SEC also sued
 Fabrice Tourre , a Goldman Sachs vice president who helped create
the CDOs, known as Abacus.  
 Frank’s proposal also would require the Treasury secretary
to take $3 billion from the $700 billion bank rescue plan and
direct it to the secretary of Housing and Urban Development to
use in accordance with a 1975 housing assistance law. That law
created a standby authority for the HUD secretary to create an
emergency program to make loans, advances and emergency mortgage
relief payments to homeowners in order to defray mortgage
expenses.  
 Black Caucus  
 The  Congressional Black Caucus  fought for the funding when
the House considered the bill in December. The provision brought
support from members of the CBC, a coalition that made up the
votes necessary for House Democrats to pass the legislation.  
 Frank’s amendment also proposes redirecting $1 billion of
Troubled Asset Relief Program funds to the Neighborhood
Stabilization Program established in July 2008. The money would
provide grants to states, local governments and nonprofit
organizations for the purchase and redevelopment of abandoned
and foreclosed homes, an idea championed by Representative
 Maxine Waters , a California Democrat and senior CBC member.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        