-- BASF, Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, Infineon: German Equity Market Preview
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-06-21T06:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/basf-commerzbank-deutsche-bank-infineon-german-equity-market-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Germany. Stock
symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the
previous close.  
 The benchmark DAX Index slipped 0.1 percent to 6,216.98 in
Frankfurt trading on June 18.  
 BASF SE  (BAS GY): The world’s biggest chemicals maker has
completed a final analysis of Cognis GmbH and will agree on June
22 to buy the specialty-chemical maker for about 3.2 billion
euros ($4 billion), Financial Times Deutschland reported, citing
people familiar with the transaction. The stock fell 0.7 percent
to 46.22 euros.  
 Commerzbank AG  (CBK GY):  Markus Beumer , management board
member at Germany’s second-biggest lender, said there is
pressure on German banks to give out loans at reduced interest
rates even as credit volumes remain low, Financial Times
Deutschland reported. The shares added 2 percent to 6.13 euros.  
 Deutsche Bank AG  (DBK GY): Sal. Oppenheim Jr. & Cie., the
wealth manager acquired by Germany’s biggest bank, forecast a
return to profit “in two to three years” after posting a net
loss of 1.2 billion euros ($1.49 billion) last year,
WirtschaftsWoche reported, without saying where it got the
information. The shares added 0.2 percent to 50.43 euros.  
 Infineon Technologies AG  (IFX GY): The company could spend
as much as 2.5 billion euros on acquisitions, Financial Times
Deutschland reported, citing Chief Financial Officer  Marco Schroeter .  
 Acquisitions of a “certain size” make sense and the
company has no concrete plans, Schroeter told the newspaper in
an interview. The CFO declined to comment on reports that the
company is considering selling its wireless-chip operations. The
stock gained 0.5 percent to 5.24 euros.  
 United Internet AG  (UTDI GY): The German Internet service
provider plans to sell a new tablet computer in July to
challenge Apple Inc.’s iPad, WirtschaftsWoche reported, citing
unidentified people close to Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Dommermuth . The stock was unchanged at 9.89 euros.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        