-- Bass Brothers Targeted for Lawsuit in Vegas Resort's Reorganization Plan
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bass-brothers-targeted-for-suit-under-lake-las-vegas-reorganization-plan.html

          
          
             A Las Vegas-area development won
court approval of a bankruptcy exit plan that raises money for
creditors in part with plans to sue the company’s former
investors, including billionaire brothers  Sid  and  Lee Bass .  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Linda B. Riegle  said yesterday in Las
Vegas that she would sign an order approving the reorganization
plan for Lake Las Vegas Resort LLC once minor legal issues have
been resolved later this week.  
 The company, which is building a 3,600-acre residential and
commercial project 20 miles east of Las Vegas, expects to leave
bankruptcy court protection “within weeks,” spokeswoman Sandra
Sternberg said yesterday in an interview.  
 “Were glad to have reached this point and we’re gratified
with the hard work of the various stakeholders,” Sternberg
said.  
 Under the plan, lower-ranking creditors will pursue a
lawsuit against the former owners of Lake Las Vegas, arguing
that the $460 million they took out of the project left it
insolvent. Any money they win would be split with the lenders,
who include  Credit Suisse Group AG .  
 Those lenders loaned Lake Las Vegas at least $560 million.
That money was used to pay the development’s former owners,
including Sid and Lee Bass.  
 The lower-ranking creditors agreed not to pursue claims
against the lenders for arranging the loan.  
 Bill Reimann , a spokesman for Sid Bass, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment yesterday. The Bass brothers
and the other investors have denied wrongdoing, according to
court records filed by the company.  
 Lake, Golf Courses  
 Lake Las Vegas Resort was to contain 29 neighborhoods, two
luxury resorts, a man-made lake and three golf courses.  
 Under the plan, the company will have access to $29 million
in financing to keep operating and a separate $10 million loan
to finish a water-pumping station.  
 The company filed for bankruptcy last year, saying it had
debt of as much as $1 billion and $500 million in assets.  
 The case is In re Lake at Las Vegas Joint Venture LLC, 08-
17814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Las Vegas at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        