-- Berezovsky Wins $52.6 Million Court Ruling on Loan
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-21T17:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/berezovsky-wins-52-6-million-ruling-in-london-over-loan-to-ex-employee.html

          
          
             Boris Berezovsky , the Russian
billionaire with U.K. political asylum, won a $52.6 million
judgment against a former employee who defaulted on a loan for
an oil-trading business.  
 Ruslan Fomichev, his business partner Vasily Peganov, and
their trading company Anstead Holdings Inc. must repay $47
million plus interest on a 2003 loan from North Shore Inc., an
offshore entity set up by Berezovsky, Judge  Guy Newey  ruled
today in London’s High Court.  
 The dispute arose after nearly half of the loaned money was
frozen by Swiss authorities as part of a probe into embezzlement
claims against Berezovsky related to the Russian carrier  OAO
Aeroflot (AFLT) , according to court documents. Fomichev claimed the
contract could be avoided because Berezovsky failed to warn him
that the money could be frozen if it were deposited in
 Switzerland . Newey disagreed.  
 “A contract cannot be rescinded for misrepresentation”
unless the borrower “was induced to enter into the contract by
the misrepresentation,” Newey said in the 86-page judgment.
“North Shore’s claims against Mr. Fomichev and Mr. Peganov
succeed.”  
 Michael Swainston, a lawyer for Fomichev and Peganov with
the firm Brick Court Chambers in London, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  
 Berezovsky said in an e-mailed statement he was “pleased”
with the judgment, adding the “debt has been owed to North
Shore for a number of years now.”  
 Fomichev worked for Berezovsky in various capacities from
about 1995 to 2008, court papers show. His trading business had
revenue of as much as $150 million in 2002, the year before the
loan was made, according to court papers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        