-- Boeing Plans to Expand Defense Systems, Energy Services in Saudi Arabia
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-06-21T12:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/boeing-plans-to-expand-defense-systems-energy-services-in-saudi-arabia.html

          
          
             Boeing Co.  wants to expand in Saudi
Arabia by supporting defense systems, energy services and
training needed by the world’s largest oil supplier.  
 “We are here to support the kingdom’s defensive needs in
the long run,” Kenneth Combs, the president of Boeing Middle
East, said in an interview today. “We are getting involved with
other commercial business to expand what Boeing is doing.”  
 U.S. companies, including Boeing and  General Electric Co. ,
are trying to boost their presence in Saudi Arabia as the Saudi
government spends $400 billion over five years to build
infrastructure, increase energy production and train its
citizens. In May, General Electric won a contract worth almost
$300 million from  Saudi Electricity Co .  
 Boeing began providing the kingdom with military systems in
1978, when Saudi Arabia bought its first F-15 fighter jets. Now,
the company employs about 200 people in the country and has “a
very good presence on the military side,” Combs said.  
 Saudi Arabia’s efforts to diversify its economy away from
oil and to develop solar power are providing opportunities. The
kingdom wants solar power to meet as much as 10 percent of its
demand by 2020,  Ahmad Al-Khowaiter , Saudi Aramco’s director of
new business evaluation, said in May.  
 “Solar energy is going to be a big deal here,” Combs
said. “We build some of the highest efficiency solar panels
anywhere in the world.”  
 Boeing is also working with a local partner on a research
project that will develop nano-technologies associated with
plastics. These may be used in Boeing planes in the future,
Combs said. “We are in at the ground floor, working with Saudi
universities,” he said.  
 U.S.-Saudi Ties  
 King Abdullah opened the  King Abdullah University of
Science and Technology  in September. The university, staffed
largely with foreign academics, aims to produce world-class
scientists and engineers.  
 Boeing executives attended in April the U.S.-Saudi Business
Opportunities Forum in Chicago, which was aimed at developing
business between the two countries. The kingdom sent a
delegation of 200 government and business leaders, including Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi  and Finance Minister  Ibrahim al-Assaf .  
 Saudi imports from the U.S. were 14.2 percent of the total
in 2009, down from 19.7 percent in 2000, according to data from
 Banque Saudi Fransi . Imports from China represented 11.4 percent
of the total, up from 4.1 percent in 2000.  
 Francisco Sanchez, the under-secretary for international
trade at the  U.S. Department of Commerce , visited Riyadh this
month to promote U.S. investment in the kingdom. Bilateral trade
between the two countries was $67.3 billion in 2008, according
to data provided on the website of the  U.S.-Saudi Arabian
Business Council .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        