-- Bovespa Advances With Real as China's Yuan Signal Bolsters Export Outlook
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-06-21T20:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bovespa-stock-index-futures-gain-as-yuan-signal-bolsters-export-outlook.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose to
a five-week high after China’s signal that the yuan will
strengthen spurred confidence that demand for exports will
increase.  
 Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron ore producer whose
biggest export market is China, surged the most in three weeks.
 Fibria Celulose SA , the world’s largest pulp maker, jumped 1.7
percent. Gains were limited by declines for retailers, including
 Lojas Renner SA , on concern more expensive Chinese imports may
hurt sales.  
 “The commodity sector is really benefiting today,” said
 Eduardo Roche , who helps manage about $389 million at Banco
Modal SA in Rio de Janeiro. “The initial impact is positive
with commodities rallying because a stronger Chinese currency
could boost demand.”  
 The Bovespa added 0.6 percent to 64,829.03, the highest
level since May 12. The gauge fell on June 18 as a decline in
commodities prices dragged down producers. The  BM&FBovespa Small
Cap index  rose 0.3 percent to 1,152.95. Brazil’s real rose 0.2
percent to 1.7688 per dollar.  
 Copper, oil and corn advanced on speculation demand for raw
materials will increase. The People’s Bank of China said a
stronger currency will help curb inflation in the world’s third-
largest economy and shift investment toward service industries
from export-manufacturing. China is Brazil’s biggest export
market.  
 Higher Imports  
 “From a direct impact, as most of the region relies
strongly on commodity exports, with some economies like Brazil
having China as its main export destination, a higher CNY should
mean over time higher imports into China,” wrote  Tony Volpon ,
Latin America strategist for Nomura Securities in New York,
referring to the yuan’s revaluation.  
 Vale gained 2.9 percent to 41.85 reais.  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA , the oil company controlled by Billionaire Eike
Batista, jumped 4.3 percent to 17.86 reais as crude advanced to
a six-week high.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA , Brazil’s third-
biggest steelmaker, jumped 1.3 percent to 27.21 reais. Fibria
rose 1.7 percent to 30.20 reais.  
 Exports comprise 11.3 percent of Brazil’s gross domestic
product and commodities constitute 40.5 percent of exports,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a report.  
 ‘Growth Rate’  
 “Brazil is the country with the highest exposure to
commodities” of emerging-market stocks, wrote JPMorgan
strategists in a note to clients dated June 15. “In 2010, the
growth rate of exports to China is outpacing the rate of total
export growth.”  
 China’s central bank said on June 19 it will allow greater
currency “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out “large
changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent
“excessive” moves.  
 Lojas Renner, Brazil’s biggest publicly traded clothing
retailer, fell 1.1 percent to 47 reais.  Cia. Hering , another
clothing retailer, fell 1.8 percent to 45.16 reais.  
 The economic growth outlook for Brazil is improving. For
the 14th straight week, analysts increased their forecast for
growth, according to the survey of about 100 economist published
today. The economy will grow 7.06 percent this year, up from a
week-earlier forecast of 6.99 percent, the survey showed.  
 Randon SA Implementos e Participacoes, a Brazilian maker of
specialty vehicles and auto parts, rose 4 percent to 9.95 reais
after making a record sale.  
 Randon agreed to sell 1,150 Hopper railcars to MRC Solucoes
em Logistica Ferroviaria Vnte-Al Ltda, according to a regulatory
filing June 18 after markets closed. The sale will boost
Randon’s share in that market to 30 percent from 18 percent, and
may lead the company to revise its sales guidance upward,
according to Banco Santander SA.  
 “With this announcement, we indeed see a recovery of
Brazil’s railcar market,” analysts including  Daniel Gewehr 
wrote in a note to clients. Santander reiterated its
recommendation to buy the shares.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        