-- BP Leads Companies Seeking $20 Billion as Cost of Interest Crimps Lending
-- Patricia Kuo
-- 2010-06-21T10:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bp-leads-companies-seeking-20-billion-as-cost-of-interest-crimps-lending.html

          
          
             BP Plc , seeking at least $5 billion
to fund damages from the worst-ever oil spill, is among European
companies borrowing more than $20 billion as rising interest
costs crimp lending.  
 Banks have made $112 billion of loans to European issuers
this year compared with $127 billion in the same period in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate banks say they
pay for three-month dollar loans, or the London interbank
offered rate, has risen to 0.538 percent from 0.353 at the
beginning of May. The dollar Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’
reluctance to lend, tripled to 32.8 basis points.  
 “With banks’ funding cost rising, banks will need to
transfer some of the increase to borrowers although it won’t be
easy,” said  Romolo Rossi , Milan-based head of syndicated loans
at Mediobanca SpA, Italy’s biggest listed investment bank.
“It’s not sustainable for banks to keep on lending at the
current pricing.”  
 BP, seeking to cover costs estimated by Standard Chartered
Plc to reach $40 billion, may pay borrowing costs double rates
it got in the past.  
 The London-based company paid an average 1 percent yield on
$20.6 billion of floating-rate debt in 2009, according to its
earnings report. ConocoPhillips, a Houston-based oil company
with similar ratings to BP’s, last year signed six-year loans at
an interest margin of 1.75 percentage points over benchmarks,
for all-in yield of 2.29 percentage points at current Libor
rates. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Growth to Halve  
 European banks are forecast to halve loan growth to 3
percent over the next two years from 7.5 percent since 2001,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts wrote in a June 9 report.
Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. and Grifols SA, maker of blood-
plasma products, are among companies in Western Europe marketing
more than $20 billion of loans, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “Logically, if the cost of borrowing is going up, then the
marginal investment opportunity for corporates will be less
compelling,” Bank of America analysts led by London-based  Derek De Vries  said.  
 Grifols, based in Barcelona, is raising $4.2 billion from
Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura Holdings Inc., Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, BNP Paribas SA, HSBC Holdings Plc and Morgan
Stanley to finance its takeover of U.S. blood-plasma therapies
maker Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp.  
 News Corp., which made a 7.8 billion-pound ($11.6 billion)
offer for British Sky Broadcasting Plc, the U.K.’s largest pay-
TV provider, said June 15 it plans to raise about $4 billion in
debt to fund the purchase.  
 Dana Petroleum Plc, a U.K. oil and gas explorer, got $900
million of loans from Royal Bank of Canada to finance the
purchase of Suncor Energy Inc. assets, its largest acquisition
to date, it said June 14.  
 Grifols, News Corp. and Dana haven’t disclosed their loan
costs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        