-- BP's Dudley Signals U.S. to Stay Cornerstone of Its Business
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-06-21T10:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bp-s-robert-dudley-signals-u-s-to-stay-cornerstone-of-its-business.html

          
          
             Robert Dudley , BP Plc’s new man in
charge of cleaning up the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, signaled the
company will keep U.S. assets while it sells other interests to
help cover costs related to the disaster.  
 While a BP team is identifying U.S. assets to guarantee a
$20 billion fund demanded by the Obama administration for
victims of the spill, Dudley said oil properties sold will be
“geographically separated” from BP strongholds. The company
will soon appoint advisers for the asset review, he said in an
interview in BP’s Washington offices.  
 With the pressure and criticism mounting on BP Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , Dudley was appointed two weeks
ago to take charge of the cleanup of the worst oil spill in U.S.
history. He’s tasked to regain the confidence of regulators,
 investors  and politicians in the U.S., which provided about 33
percent of BP’s first-quarter exploration and production
profits. Dudley will eventually move to Washington.  
 For  BP  to “remain strong and viable in the U.S., it has a
great deal of work to do,” Dudley said. A U.S. backlash against
BP puts at risk a business built through $100 billion of
acquisitions, an operation representing about 26 percent of the
company’s global oil and gas production.  
 BP is reviewing its holdings for potential asset sales,
Dudley said. The company plans to initially raise $10 billion.
Properties to be considered include those not large enough to
justify being held by an oil company the size of BP.  
 “We are going to have to sharpen the portfolio to pace
ourselves for what has happened in the U.S.,” he said.  
 BP Banned?  
 U.S. Representative Bart Stupak, who chairs a congressional
subcommittee investigating the April 20 rig explosion that
killed 11 workers and started the oil leak, suggested last week
the history of disasters and fatalities at BP facilities could
justify banning the London-based company from doing business in
the U.S.  
 On June 18, BP was accused by its partner in the damaged
well, Anadarko Petroleum Corp., of “reckless decisions and
actions.” BP rejected the allegations.  
 Dudley, 54, BP’s managing director for the Americas and
Asia, was born in New York and grew up in Mississippi, part of
the Gulf Coast region suffering from the environmental and
economic damage of the gushing oil well.  
 He’s spent about 30 years in the oil industry, including a
stint as CEO of BP’s Russian joint venture, TNK-BP from 2003.
That job ended after disputes with Russian partners led to
Dudley fleeing Russia in 2008, citing “sustained harassment”
amid court battles and labor and tax inspections.  
 Dudley’s new role has led to speculation he may be in line
to succeed Hayward after BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg ’s
mention of a switch between Dudley and Hayward in the Gulf in a
June 18 television interview.  
 Stormy Sailing  
 Hayward has been criticized for public relations gaffes
since the spill and was attacked again for attending a U.K.
yacht race on June 19 around the Isle of Wight.  
 “I think we can all conclude that Tony Hayward is not
going to have a second career in PR consulting,” White House
Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  told ABC news.  
 Dudley said that BP’s CEO, who is to remain in overall
command, has shown strong leadership “from the very beginning”
of the disaster. A BP spokesman said Hayward’s sailboat racing
was “a private matter.”  
 The deal Hayward and Svanberg negotiated with President
Barack Obama at the White House on June 16 was a first step in
BP’s rebuilding strategy.  
 The company agreed to create a $20 billion account with an
independent administrator to reassure Obama and claimants that
BP would face its responsibilities for damages, while at the
same time “giving more comfort to our shareholders about the
nature and timing of those obligations,” Chief Financial
Officer  Byron Grote  said at the time.  
 Partner Accuses  
 As BP makes progress at capturing more oil from the damaged
well, it faces accusations on other fronts about the rig
explosion.  
 “BP’s behavior and actions likely represent gross
negligence or willful misconduct and thus affect the obligations
of the parties under the gross operating agreement,” said  Jim Hackett , chairman and CEO of Anadarko, a 25 percent owner of the
stricken well.  
 Anadarko, whose $8.2 billion of revenue last year is 3.4
percent of BP’s, will have a greater difficulty paying billions
in claims and fines.  
 “Anadarko hit a major bump that’s completely going to
change the course of this company no matter what they do,” said
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  
 BP said it “strongly disagrees” with Anadarko. Hayward
said in a statement that Anadarko’s allegations will “neither
distract the company’s focus on stopping the leak, nor alter our
commitment to restore the Gulf coast.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Empty beach chairs line the sand as oil washes ashore in Orange Beach, Alabama. Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward is drawing criticism from U.S. officials after attending a yacht race off the south coast of England, at a time when fishing in the Gulf of Mexico is curtailed because of BP’s oil leak. Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, left, Robert Dudley, managing director of BP Plc, center, and Lamar McKay, chairman and president of BP America Inc., listen to BP Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg speak at the White House. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
