-- BP to Pay Extra $500 Million in Annual Interest to Sell $10 Billion Bonds
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-06-21T15:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bp-to-pay-extra-500-million-in-annual-interest-to-sell-10-billion-bonds.html

          
          
             BP Plc  would face an extra $500
million a year in interest costs to raise $10 billion in the
bond market as it seeks to ensure it has enough cash to cope
with the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The average yield on  BP’s bonds  has surged to 539 basis
points, or 5.39 percentage points, more than benchmark rates,
from 41 basis points before the Gulf of Mexico oil rig explosion
on April 20, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. BP, the target of more than 230 lawsuits, is talking to
banks about doing its first bond issue since March, according to
people familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
before a deal is agreed.  
 BP said today that the cost of its response to the oil
spill has risen to $2 billion, or $33 million a day, including
containing the leak, drilling relief wells and paying claims.
The London-based company may offer an initial $10 billion of
notes as soon as this week as part of a $50 billion fundraising
including loans and asset sales, the Sunday Times reported,
without saying where it got the information.  
 “BP doesn’t want to do a million of funding here and a
million of funding there,” said  Simon Ballard , senior credit
strategist at RBC Capital Markets in London. “It needs to do a
large-size transaction to show that it’s being aggressive in
facing up to its responsibilities.”  
 ‘Strong Cash Position’  
 A BP spokesman, who declined to be identified, wouldn’t
comment when contacted today.  Andrew Gowers , the company’s head
of communications in London, said yesterday that BP needs “to
have an unusually strong cash position.”  
 BP is also seeking at least $5 billion in loans to meet
compensation payments and has asked lenders for proposals on
one-year credit lines, according to bankers approached by the
company. It’s arranging the transactions individually with
banks, said the people, who declined to be identified. These
loans are in addition to BP’s $10.5 billion of undrawn lines.
The company paid an average 1 percent interest on $20.6 billion
of floating-rate bank debt in dollars last year, according to
its 2009 annual report.  
 BP isn’t planning a bond sale and will instead rely on
extending these bank credit lines, Reuters reported today,
citing people familiar with the situation that it didn’t name.
The company has sufficient cash to cover most of the clean-up
costs of the oil slick, Reuters reported one of the people as
saying.  
 Rating Cuts  
 Bank funds may give BP additional flexibility if bond
markets become too expensive after credit-rating downgrades by
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings last week. BP had
its senior unsecured credit rating lowered three levels to A2
from Aa2 by Moody’s on June 18, three days after Fitch cut the
company six levels to BBB from AA.  
 “Any large bond deal would be problematic for BP as it’s
impossible to assess their potential liabilities,”  Gary Jenkins 
wrote in a note to clients. “Indeed, it wouldn’t shock me if
the banks asked for security for any large loans.”  
 BP has lost  47 percent of its value since April 20 and its
shares dropped 2.2 percent to 349.55 pence in London trading
today. The cost of insuring the company’s debt for five years
using credit-default swaps rose 6.5 basis points to 478.5, after
reaching a record-high closing price of 583 on June 16,
according to CMA DataVision.  
 Credit-swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A drop signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality. A basis point on a
contract protecting 10 million euros ($12.4 million) of debt for
five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Extra Interest  
 The calculation of BP’s extra interest costs is based on 15
bonds mostly denominated in dollars with maturities ranging from
about 14 months to nine years, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  
 A “jumbo” bond issue from BP “will make for fascinating
pricing discussions, given the highly uncertain scale of BP’s
liabilities, and hence its credit quality,”  Charles Stephens , a
debt markets specialist at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in
London, wrote in a note.  
 BP has a total  $23.8 billion  outstanding in bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The total average yield
on its debt rose to an average 7 percent last week, from 2.34
percent on April 19, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  
 BP, which is the worst oil investment this year on Wall
Street, is still finding its backers in the City of London,
according to so-called  money flow data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors piled more money behind “buy” trades than “sell”
trades in London since the rig explosion, the data show.  
 “It’s a company that still has a lot of solid investor
liquidity behind it,” said Ballard. “And there’s still a
belief that BP is a long-term growing concern rather than a
company which is going to trigger a default.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Boom is deployed to contain oil in Perdido Bay in Orange Beach, Alabama. Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Dougie Youngson, an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd., talks about BP Plc's share price and the outlook for upcoming bond sales.
     Youngson, speaking in London, also discusses possible asset sales and Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward's handling of the crisis. He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
