-- Brazil Local Bonds Lure Foreign Pension, Wealth Funds With Rates Above 10%
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-06-21T17:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/brazil-local-bonds-lure-foreign-pension-wealth-funds-with-rates-above-10-.html

          
          
             International pension and sovereign
wealth funds are increasing demand for local Brazilian
government bonds, lured by interest rates above 10 percent and a
stable economy, Deputy Treasury Secretary  Paulo Valle  said.  
 Foreign investors hold 8.7 percent of Brazil’s domestic
debt, compared with almost zero in 2006, Valle said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. Investors from
European and Asian nations such as South Korea and China are
showing more interest, he said.  
 Demand has grown since Brazil earned an investment grade
rating from Moody’s Investors Service in September, putting it
one level above junk at all three major ratings companies, and
the economy expanded an annual 9 percent in the first quarter.
Brazil’s fixed-rate notes due in 2021 yield 12.4 percent versus
7.95 percent on similar-maturity bonds from Colombia, also rated
BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. Hungarian debt rated BBB- due in 2023
yield 7.53 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Before the investment grade, we had more emerging-market
investors,” Valle said. “Now we have much more diversification
in terms of the type of investors -- the long-term investors --
and in terms of the origin: we have more participation of Asian
and European investors, sovereign funds.”  
 Vale said the government doesn’t have a target on how much
of its debt should be held by international investors.  
 Debt Structure  
 “Our idea is not to increase too much the participation of
the foreign investors, but they have a very important role in
the structure of the debt,” he said. “With the participation
of foreign investors, we’ve developed this yield curve
and we have more liquidity. And now it is helping stimulate the
domestic investors to extend the maturities of their debts.”  
 In 2002, 80 percent of Brazil’s bonds were floating-rate
notes or denominated in foreign currency. Now more than 60
percent of the debt is in fixed-rate bonds and inflation-linked
notes, Valle said. Floating-rate notes account for 33 percent of
the debt while foreign-currency securities make up 6 percent, he
said. The government plans to keep reducing the amount of
floating-rate debt.  
 Local investors’ preference for shorter maturities and their
concerns that inflation will accelerate have prompted the
government to sell longer-dated bonds at higher yields than
other countries, said  Pablo Cisilino , who manages $12.5 billion
in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in
New York.  
 The central bank raised the benchmark overnight Selic rate
for a second straight meeting in June, lifting it by 0.75
percentage point to 10.25 percent to help stem inflation after
the economy expanded at its fastest pace in 15 years.  
 “You can’t find any country that has as high real rates as
Brazil,” Cisilino said. “Brazil really stands out.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        