-- BTA Bank of Kazakhstan to Restructure Client Debts as It Increases Lending
-- Nariman Gizitdinov
-- 2010-06-21T11:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/bta-bank-of-kazakhstan-to-restructure-client-debts-as-it-increases-lending.html

          
          
             BTA Bank, Kazakhstan’s third-largest
lender by assets, plans to restructure customer debts and
transfer bad loans to a subsidiary as it tries to increase
lending after the country’s worst financial crisis in a decade.  
 While BTA has $350 million available to lend, there are few
qualified borrowers, Chairman  Arman Dunayev  said in a June 17
interview in Almaty, Kazakhstan’s financial capital.  
 “There are only customers overloaded with loans on the
market, and to issue new loans the bank must restructure their
debt,” said Dunayev, who is also deputy head of the National
Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna, which manages the state’s 75.1
percent stake in BTA. “One of the main tasks of BTA is to
intensify lending.”  
 BTA Bank was Kazakhstan’s biggest lender before it
collapsed last year. Alliance Bank and Temirbank, a BTA unit,
also defaulted last year and all three are now controlled by
state-owned Samruk-Kazyna. Central Asia’s biggest energy
producer tapped $10 billion from its  oil fund  to support banks
and companies after credit markets froze and the nation’s
property bubble burst.  
 BTA isn’t alone in having money to lend, with Kazakh banks
having $12 billion of “free liquidity,” Dunayev said.  
 Restructuring debts may help increase lending because the
high cost of borrowing has made some projects unprofitable, said
 Milena Ivanova-Venturini , head of research for Central Asia at
the Almaty unit of Moscow-based Renaissance Capital.  
 “If interest rates are lowered and maturities extended,
then loans will become easier to service,” she said by e-mail.
“The move should help increase demand for new loans from the
same customers.”  
 Bad Loans  
 BTA also plans to sell bad mortgages to its BTA Ipoteka
unit, which will seek to “improve” the loans and package them
into securities for sale to investors, Denayev said. Other banks
may also sell bad loans to Ipoteka, which raised $200 million by
pledging home loans as collateral in 2007, he said.  
 Selling problematic mortgages to Ipoteka “would allow BTA
to focus more on its corporate portfolio, leaving the mortgage
company to work on the mortgages,” said  Jason Hurwitz , director
of financial market research at Almaty-based Visor Capital. “I
would say that such a transaction could be value-accretive.”  
 Kazakh banks will face weak asset quality, unreliable
funding conditions and low capitalization for at least two more
years, Standard & Poor’s said April 19. The government is likely
to restrict corporate withdrawals to keep banks liquid and allow
them to recover,  Ekaterina Trofimova , a Paris-based S&P bank
rating director, said in May.  
 “The period of rehabilitation in the Kazakh banking system
has started,” Dunayev said. “How mild it will be depends on
Samruk-Kazyna, which is the main source of liquidity for
banks.”  
 Samruk-Kazyna Role  
 Samruk-Kazyna was created in October 2008 by combining two
state holding companies: Samruk, which managed government stakes
in companies, and Kazyna, which focused on economic development.
The fund and its units employ 260,000 people, or 1.6 percent of
the population, and has more than $71 billion in assets, equal
to 52 percent of gross domestic product, the fund said June 7.  
 In addition to controlling BTA, Alliance Bank and
Temirbank, Samruk-Kazyna took stakes last year in
Kazkommertsbank and Halyk Savings Bank, now the country’s two
biggest lenders by assets.  
 “I hope Samruk-Kazyna won’t play any role in banking
system after as much as five years, except being a major
depositor,” Dunayev said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        