-- California Senate Budget Plan Calls for Oil-Production Tax, Prisoner Shift
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-06-21T21:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/california-senate-budget-plan-calls-for-oil-production-tax-prisoner-shift.html

          
          
             California  would move some of its
prisoners to county jails and increase the share of welfare
payments made by the counties under a  proposal  by Senate
Democrats to plug the state’s $19.1 billion budget deficit.  
 The funding for those services would come from sources
including $1.2 billion annually from a levy on oil production in
the state and $1.75 billion saved by delaying corporate tax
breaks. Both of those revenue streams would go to the counties.
The Senate Democrats introduced their initial budget plan, which
called for the higher taxes, last month.  
 “We’re going to ask the counties to do more and provide
them with the resources to carry out those functions,” Senate
President  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from Sacramento, said in
a press conference.  
 The nation’s largest state by population is supposed to
have its budget in place by the start of its new fiscal year on
July 1, a deadline it has met 10 times in the past three
decades.  
 California legislators are considering two additional
budget-balancing proposals. Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  is
calling for $12.4 billion in spending cuts including eliminating
the state’s main welfare program and reducing home health-care
services.  
 ‘Serious Debate’  
 “We’re open to restructuring government and will have a
serious debate about the proposal, but increasing taxes and
discouraging private sector growth would be a mistake,”  Aaron McLear , a spokesman for the governor, said today.  
 Democrats in the Assembly have their own plan, which
includes selling $8.9 billion in bonds backed by future
unclaimed redemptions from the state’s bottle recycling program.  
 The bond issue may violate a 2004 ballot measure that
prohibits borrowing to balance a budget, California Attorney
General  Jerry Brown  said in a June 17 letter to Schwarzenegger.  
 Assembly Speaker  John Perez  said in a statement the same
day that the recycling bond could be structured in a way that
makes it legal.  
 Steinberg said at today’s press conference that he and
fellow legislators would meet this week to discuss how to
reconcile the Democratic budget proposals. He said he didn’t
support the governor’s proposed budget cuts.  
 ‘No Money’  
 “The governor’s plan is the harshest form of
realignment,” Steinberg said. “By eliminating CalWORKS, child
care, in-home services, you are saying to the local level, ‘You
take care of the people in need and there’s no money for you.’”  
 California State Treasurer  Bill Lockyer , a Democrat who
attended the press conference, complimented the legislators on
their proposal.  
 “Seventy-five percent of the state budget is money that
comes to the state and is recycled to local agencies,” Lockyer
said. “We don’t need to do that. Political accountability and
greater efficiency rests with local agencies.”  
 California’s fifteen largest counties face deficits of $2.2
billion for the coming fiscal year, according to the California
State Association of Counties. Association officials are
reviewing the Senate Democrats’ proposal and said in a press
release that it is “the beginning of an important and long
overdue discussion.”  
 County executives are focusing on whether the shift in
services to the counties is paid for by recurring revenue
sources, Erin Treadwell, communications coordinator for the
association, said in a telephone interview.  
 Assembly Republican leader  Martin Garrick  of Carlsbad said
the Senate Democrats’ proposal would increase taxes and delay
job creation.  
 “Senate Democrats’ so-called reforms are just another ploy
to continue to raise taxes on hard-working Californians and grow
the size of government,” Garrick said in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        