-- Cameron Betting on Prosperity From Austerity; Obama Delays
-- Rich Miller
-- 2010-06-22T13:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/cameron-bets-on-prosperity-from-austerity-while-obama-pushes-more-stimulus.html

          
          
             World leaders from the U.K.’s  David Cameron  to  Naoto Kan  of Japan are betting they can deliver
fiscal austerity without derailing economic prosperity. History
suggests they may be right.  
 Governments have proven they can spur expansion by focusing
their belt-tightening on spending cuts rather than tax
increases, according to studies by Harvard University professor
 Alberto Alesina  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists  Kevin Daly  and  Ben Broadbent .  
 “There have been mountains of evidence in which cutting
government spending has been associated with increases in
growth, but people still don’t quite get it,” Alesina said in
an interview. He made a presentation to European finance chiefs
on the topic during their April meeting in Madrid.  
 Such a strategy in the past has also “resulted in
significant bond and equity-market outperformance,” according
to an April 14 Goldman Sachs report.  
 Some investors are cool to the idea so far, and even
President  Barack Obama  is pressing for more stimulus, not less,
in the U.S. as he prepares to meet Cameron, Kan and other Group
of 20 counterparts at a summit in Toronto June 26-27.  
 “We must be flexible in adjusting the pace of
consolidation and learn from the consequential mistakes of the
past, when stimulus was too quickly withdrawn and resulted in
renewed economic hardships and recession,” Obama wrote in a
June 16 letter to G-20 leaders.  
 Global Recovery  
 The focus on fiscal policy at the summit will be sharper
after China relaxed a two-year peg to the dollar, limiting the
likelihood the yuan will be debated at the talks and signaling
the global recovery is gaining strength.  
 “They’ve made their move, which effectively takes it off
the G-20 agenda,” said  Nicholas Lardy , a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.  
 While the  MSCI World Index  has risen about 8 percent since
June 7, it is still about 10 percent below the April 15 year-to-
date high, partly because it isn’t clear yet that spending
reductions won’t restrain expansion.  
 “We think it is prudent to remain underweight European
sovereign risk and to wait for evidence that countries with
stressed debt dynamics can deliver on fiscal consolidation
without undermining growth in their economies,”  Andrew Balls ,
head of European portfolio management in London for Newport
Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote
in a research report.  
 Accelerating Demand  
 The key is an emphasis on cutting spending rather than
raising taxes, said Goldman Sachs economists Broadbent and Daly
in London. Lower spending means consumers and companies don’t
fear higher taxes, so demand accelerates. A smaller public
sector also helps reduce borrowing costs and makes economies
more competitive as fewer government workers lighten labor
expenses.  
 In a study of 44 large fiscal adjustments in 24 advanced
economies since 1975, Broadbent and Daly discovered that
reducing expenditures by 1 percentage point a year boosted
average annual growth by 0.6 percentage point. Raising the ratio
of taxes to GDP by the same margin cut growth by an average 0.9
percentage point.  
 The equity markets of the countries that sliced spending
beat those of other advanced nations by 64 percent during a
three-year period, and their bond yields fell by more than if
budget adjustments had been driven by tax hikes, according to
the report.  
 ‘Rigorous Approach’  
 “A rigorous approach from governments gives investors much
more confidence that policy-setting is meant to be serious,”
said  Franz Wenzel , a strategist at AXA Investment Managers in
Paris, which oversees the equivalent of more than $600 billion.
“That is what supports risky assets in general and equities in
particular.”  
 Stock prices also may be bolstered by loose monetary policy
as central banks offset the tighter budget stance by keeping
interest rates at record lows.  
 Policy makers will take account of fiscal tightening in
deciding when to raise rates, said  Simon Hayes , an economist at
Barclays Capital in London. Barclays now predicts the Federal
Reserve will increase its benchmark rate from  near zero  in April
2011 instead of September this year, as the investment bank
previously forecast, and the European Central Bank will lift its
key rate from  1 percent  in June next year rather than March.  
 Hayes last month pushed back his prediction for an increase
in the U.K.’s  0.5 percent rate  to February from August.  
 Fiscal Consolidation  
 “I know there are those who worry that too rapid a fiscal
consolidation will endanger recovery,” Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  said in a June 16 speech. “If prospects for growth
were to weaken, the outlook for inflation would probably be
lower and monetary policy could then respond.”  
 Too much delay in restoring order to budgets will
ultimately spark a market “crisis, which impacts heavily on the
economy,” ECB Executive Board member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  said
in a June 18 speech in Brussels. “A timely fiscal adjustment
which puts debt dynamics back onto a sustainable path entails a
stronger growth over time.”  
 At a June 5 meeting in South Korea, G-20 finance ministers
threw out a commitment to keep injecting stimulus into their
economies after spending $5 trillion to combat the economic
slump. Splitting over how soon the reversal should begin, they
settled on a pledge to pursue “growth-friendly” consolidation.  
 Bondholder Revolt  
 The shift comes as investors punish profligate economies
from Ireland to Greece, forcing European governments to create a
750 billion-euro ($924 billion) safety net.  
 The  premium  investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds
over benchmark German bunds has widened 433 basis points since
January 1 to 672 basis points on June 21. The so-called  yield
spread  between Irish and German 10-year bonds widened 125 basis
points to 270 basis points.  
 The International Monetary Fund estimates the G-20’s
average debt burden will reach 110 percent of gross domestic
product by 2015, a 37 percentage-point increase from its pre-
credit-crisis level. The average budget deficit was 7.5 percent
last year compared with 0.9 percent in 2007, according to the
Washington-based lender.  
 European countries are leading the way in cutting back.
Ireland raised a sales tax in 2008, introduced an income levy
and reduced public workers’ pay. Greek lawmakers in May approved
wage cuts for public workers, a three-year freeze on pensions
and a second increase this year in sales taxes.  
 Ahead of Target  
 The spending reductions are the main reason Greece is ahead
of its target to reduce the budget deficit for this year to 8.1
percent of gross domestic product from  13.6 percent , Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  said in a July 20 radio interview on
“Bloomberg on the Economy” with Tom Keene.  
 Germany’s cabinet this month backed budget cuts worth more
than 80 billion euros through 2014. Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said she expects to have a “hard time” at the G-20 summit as
other leaders press her to focus on economic growth. They will
tell her “Germany saves too much,” she said June 11, adding
she’ll respond that “there is no alternative” to cutting the
deficit.  
 European policy makers aren’t alone in starting to don hair
shirts. Prime Minister Kan’s administration today released a
fiscal plan that includes pledges to cap spending for three
years, reduce bond sales and overhaul the tax system. A Japanese
government advisory panel today advocated higher taxes on
consumption and high-income earners.  
 Australia, India  
 Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  has pledged to bring Australia’s
budget into surplus in 2012-13, three years ahead of forecast,
by keeping a 2 percent cap on spending growth. Indian Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government won parliamentary approval
in April for a series of tax increases.  
 Advanced economies need to retrench because issuing more
debt will “crowd out” private-sector activity and threaten
their credit ratings and long-term health,  Thomas Byrne , a
senior vice president at Moody’s Investors Service in Singapore,
said in an interview.  
 When the Group of Seven returned their budgets to near-
balance in the mid-1990s, expansion averaged a “reasonable”
2.85 percent,  Ian Richards , an equity strategist in London at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a May 27 report.
Ireland in the 1980s and Sweden and Canada in the following
decade corrected fiscal imbalances and their economies expanded.  
 ‘Robust’ Growth  
 “The global economy can grow at a robust rate, even as
global fiscal consolidation gains momentum,” Richards said.  
 The shift to parsimony has nevertheless spooked financial
markets concerned that simultaneous tightening will return the
world to recession. The euro has fallen about 14 percent against
the dollar this year, in part because of speculation the euro
area’s economic rebound will stall as governments cut spending
to tackle the debt crisis.  
 “Global growth expectations have ‘double-dipped’ and
positioning is much more defensive,”  Michael Hartnett , chief
global-equities strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
in New York, said in a June 15 report.  
 It is “utter folly” for the G-20 to be considering
retrenchment with unemployment so high, Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  wrote in his  blog June 6 . The U.S., U.K. and Japan also
aren’t “facing any pressure from the markets for immediate
cuts,” he said.  
 With the U.S. jobless rate at  9.7 percent  last month, Obama
is urging Congress to act on measures to boost lending and give
tax breaks to small businesses to encourage employment.  
 Focus on Jobs  
 “We worked exceptionally hard to restore growth; we cannot
let it falter or lose strength now,” Obama wrote in his June 16
letter.  
 There are already signs that the loss of stimulus packs a
punch. French car sales fell 12 percent in May, ending a 12-
month surge in demand for smaller vehicles, after the government
began phasing out incentives. U.S. housing starts tumbled 10
percent in May following the expiration of a home-buyers’ tax
credit the previous month, according to the Commerce Department.
The drop was the steepest since March 2009.  
 “The impact of concerted fiscal tightening over many
economies will be to lower global growth meaningfully,” said
 George Magnus , senior economic adviser at UBS AG in London. “I
don’t buy the idea that you shouldn’t be frightened of fiscal
retrenchment.”  
 U.K. Test Case  
 The U.K., home to the G-20’s biggest budget shortfall, may
be a test case. Cameron’s government today introduced an
emergency budget aimed at tackling a deficit that reached 11
percent of GDP in the last fiscal year. Spending reductions
accounted for 77 percent of the cutbacks proposed by Chancellor
 George Osborne , who said it was a “false choice” to say policy
makers must pick between dealing with debt and going for growth.  
 “If the U.K. budget is well received by investors and
voters, that will have a profound effect on the debate
elsewhere,” said  Tim Adams , a former U.S. Treasury
undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey Group, a
Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company. “If the
U.S. is smart, it will be paying close attention to what
happens.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. prime minister David Cameron  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. prime minister David Cameron speaks during a press briefing at the EU Commission headquarters, in Brussels. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. prime minister David Cameron speaks during a press briefing at the EU Commission headquarters, in Brussels. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Luke Templeman of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the U.K.'s emergency budget. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
