-- Cameron Boosts Nuclear Power Incentives With Fees for Carbon Emissions
-- Catherine Airlie
-- 2010-06-22T15:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/cameron-boosts-nuclear-power-incentives-with-fees-for-carbon-emissions.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
in an effort to boost the use of nuclear power, plans to
penalize polluters with a fee tied to carbon-dioxide emissions.  
 Cameron proposes a CO2 charge triggered when the price of
European Union permits falls below a set level. That would raise
costs for generating electricity from coal and natural gas,
which are more-immediately economical than atomic reactors. The
U.K. will propose tax shifts to “support the carbon price”
later in 2010, the government said in a budget presented today.  
 “It’s a way of trying to subsidize nuclear, collecting
that subsidy from all electricity consumers,” said  Trevor Sikorski , director of carbon markets and environmental products
research in London at Barclays Capital. Coal-burning utilities
would be the hardest hit and “would pass the costs straight
through to consumers,” he said.  
 U.K. utilities already pay for emission allowances under
Europe’s cap-and-trade program, started in 2005 to discourage
fossil fuels. Cameron, who took office last month, is reacting
to the 47 percent decline in the price of  permits  during the
past two years as the recession cut industrial production. That
undermined incentives for cleaner energy at a time when Britain
needs an 80 percent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2050.  
 Cameron intends to promote nuclear reactors, which emit
almost no CO2 and cost as much as $5.8 billion to build, without
direct subsidies. The nation’s newest atomic plant, Sizewell B,
was approved in 1987 and began generating in 1995.  
 ‘More Certainty’  
 “The Government will publish proposals to reform the
climate change levy in order to provide more certainty and
support to the carbon price,” according to the budget published
on the  Treasury’s web site . Changes in the current change levy,
now assessed on all energy consumers regardless of their CO2
emissions, would be included in next year’s finance bill, the
document said.  
 “There is a place for nuclear as long as there is no
subsidy,” Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said in a June 16
speech at the Nuclear Industry Forum conference in London. “The
view is that we can have a carbon floor price, so then if the
European Union trading scheme is below that, then a
supplementary charge will bring it up to that floor.”  
 Electricite de France SA, with 15 reactors in the U.K.,
stands to benefit. The Paris-based company has lobbied for a
carbon floor since it bought British Energy in 2009. EDF and
partner Centrica Plc  plan to build  four 1,600-megawatt reactors
at Sizewell and Hinkley Point in England over the next 15 years.  
 “A floor price for carbon was an important part of the
future investment framework,”  Vincent de Rivaz , chief executive
officer for EDF’s U.K. operations, said in a May 12 statement.  
 Supporting Nuclear  
 Utilities need about 80 pounds ($118.50) a megawatt-hour to
justify new reactors, compared with today’s price of 43 pounds
for U.K. power, according to research by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “It’s not obvious that someone could build a
merchant nuclear plant without some kind of support,” said  Iain Turner , a utilities analyst at RBS in London.  
 While EU allowances for December are up 25 percent this
year to 15.47 euros ($19) a ton as of 3:10 p.m. in London, they
are below the 100 euros needed to encourage utilities to build
energy facilities that don’t produce greenhouse gases,  according 
to  David King , chief U.K. scientist until 2007.  
 The same  December carbon contract  rose as high as 33.55
euros a ton in April 2006 and neared 30 euros again in the
summer of 2008 before the recession sapped demand for power and
pulled down permit prices.  
 The Conservatives haven’t said what the carbon floor should
be. The level may be 35 pounds, the Sunday Times  reported last
month  without saying where it got the information.  
 Clash Over CO2  
 RWE AG, Britain’s third-biggest generator, opposes the
carbon floor. The company, which uses coal, gas and oil to fuel
its British plants, and partner E.ON AG, Germany’s largest
utility, own Horizon Nuclear Power. It plans to build 6,000-
megawatts of nuclear capacity by 2025 at its Wylfa site in Wales
and Oldbury, southwest England.  
 The U.K. policy on carbon costs “is not necessarily the
best solution,”  Volker Beckers , CEO of RWE Npower, said in a
May 20 e-mailed statement. “There are a number of possibilities
that need to be examined.” He didn’t specify the other options.  
 U.K. utilities and factories will lobby intensely over the
carbon price, Tim Warham, London-based assistant director at
Deloitte LLP, said in a May 14 interview. Calculating the level
will be “fraught with difficulties,” he said.  
 ‘Difficult Issue’  
 “It’s a difficult issue to get right,”  Ian Marchant , CEO
of  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc , said on May 19 conference
call on May 19. The Perth-based company, working with Bilbao,
Spain-based  Iberdrola SA , plans to build a new reactor in
Cumbria, England and supports a higher CO2 price.  
 U.K. utilities need to  spend  200 billion pounds over the
next decade to replace plants and infrastructure, according to
U.K. regulator Ofgem.  
 Teollisuuden Voima Oyj  and Areva SA are building the
world’s largest reactor in Finland. The plant has been delayed
by four years until 2013, according to a TVO estimate this
month, and Areva said costs are over the originally estimated 3
billion euros.  
 The risks in building reactors are “so big and significant
that if they go wrong, even the biggest utilities could be
financially damaged beyond repair,”  Peter Atherton , a London-
based analyst for Citigroup Inc., said in a May 13 report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The U.K.’s newest atomic plant, Sizewell B, was approved in 1987 and began generating in 1995. Photographer: Si Barber/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
