-- Canada Stocks Rise as China Currency Move Lifts Copper, Oil; Barrick Falls
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-06-21T21:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/canada-stocks-decline-erasing-gain-barrick-gold-research-in-motion-fall.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose as industrial
metals producers gained after China signaled it will relax its
currency policy, offsetting a decline in gold producers as the
precious metal fell from a record.  
 Teck Resources Ltd., the country’s largest base-metals
producer, led the advance as industrial metal prices climbed.
Barrick Gold Corp., the biggest producer of bullion, fell 2.5
percent. Research In Motion Ltd. dropped 2.9 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reiterated its “sell” rating on the
BlackBerry smartphone maker citing competition from Google
Inc.’s Android. Biovail Corp. jumped 14 percent after agreeing
to merge with Valeant Pharmaceuticals International of the U.S.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 8.49 points,
or 0.1 percent, to 11,936.08 at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto, after
rising as much as 1.3 percent earlier.  
 Stocks rallied in the morning after the People’s Bank of
China said it will end a two-year currency peg adopted during
the global financial crisis to protect exporters, a sign policy
makers expect the world economy to strengthen. China, the
world’s largest copper consumer and second-biggest user of oil
after the U.S., signaled the change before the G-20 summit in
Toronto on June 26 to 27.  
 “The stock market continues to do well but gold is a huge
part of the Canadian market,” said  Terry Shaunessy , president
of Shaunessy Investment Counsel in Calgary, which manages about
C$150 million ($146 million). “The market will track off of
what happens to bullion. You would expect the stocks to drop off
a little with gold.”  
 Strengthening U.S. Dollar  
 Gold fell the most in a month, as a strengthening U.S.
dollar reduced demand for the precious metal as an alternative
investment.  
 Barrick Gold lost 2.5 percent to C$45.86. Goldcorp Inc.,
Canada’s second-biggest gold-mining company, decreased 2.5
percent to C$45.35.  
 Copper rose the most in a week while nickel, aluminum,
zinc, lead and tin gained on the London Metal Exchange after the
People’s Bank of China indicated it will abandon the peg of 6.83
yuan to the dollar.  
 Teck Resources gained 3.6 percent to C$36.67.  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. , Canada’s second-largest copper producer,
increased 4.4 percent to $64.59.  HudBay Minerals Inc.  rose 7.9
percent to C$12.65. The copper and zinc producer named  David Garofalo  as president and chief executive officer.  
 ‘More Downside’  
 “A weaker U.S. dollar against the Chinese currency means
stimulus for” commodities such as oil and metals that are
priced in the American currency, said  Danielle Park , who helps
manage C$200 million ($191 million) as a money manager at
Venable Park Investment Counsel Inc. in Barrie, Ontario. “It’s
not a macro-economic bullish story. Commodities have more
downside because world demand is weak.”  
 Research In Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry phone, fell
2.9 percent to C$60.31.  
 “We see even higher risks building into the second fiscal
quarter,” Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a note to investors
today. “In North America, our retail checks pointed to
noticeably slower sell-through momentum, as Android devices are
now the top sellers at Verizon, Sprint and TMobile.”  
 Biovail, Canada’s largest publicly traded drugmaker, rose
the most in the S&P/TSX, climbing 14 percent to C$17.02. Its
merger with Valeant will create a company with annual sales of
$1.75 billion. The transaction will add to per-share earnings
for shareholders of both companies within 12 months after the
deal closes, Biovail and Valeant said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        