-- Canada Dollar Falls as Europe Concern Damps Appeal of Growth-Linked Assets
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-21T20:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/canada-s-dollar-touches-five-week-high-on-china-s-yuan-move-g20-meeting.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar depreciated after
Fitch Ratings cut BNP Paribas SA’s credit rating, spurring
concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has further to run and
weakening the appeal of growth-linked assets.  
 Canada’s dollar, known as the loonie, earlier touched the
strongest level in five weeks against its U.S. counterpart after
China said it may allow the yuan to move higher, encouraging
confidence in the global economic recovery. It pared gains as
stocks retreated and crude oil fell from the day’s highs. Canada
hosts meetings that begin June 25 of Group of Eight and Group of
20 countries.  
 “There’s skittishness on some of the euro headlines,”
 Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG said by phone from
Stamford, Connecticut. “It’s still an environment where there’s
a tendency for people to jump more on bad news than good.”  
 The Canadian currency fell 0.2 percent to C$1.0234 at 4:21
p.m. in Toronto after earlier advancing as much as 0.8 percent
to C$1.0139 per U.S. dollar, the strongest level since May 13.
One Canadian dollar buys 97.71 U.S. cents.  
 Crude oil traded at $77.54 per barrel after earlier gaining
as much as 2.3 percent to $78.92, the highest in six weeks. Gold
also rose to a record and copper surged after China said two
days ago it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to
the country’s two-year-old policy of fixing the currency at
about 6.83 per U.S. dollar. The move would make commodities
priced in other currencies less expensive for the nation’s
consumers.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.4 percent, after an
earlier gain of 1.2 percent.  
 ‘Positive For Commodities’  
 “It’s positive for the Canadian dollar in the same way
that it’s positive for commodities,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada’s third-largest bank,
said by phone from Toronto, referring to the China move. “A
stronger exchange rate will be more beneficial for domestic
demand because it allows the Chinese to consume more goods for
the same pricing, so that’s good for raw materials.”  
 BNP Paribas’s long-term rating was reduced one step to AA-,
the fourth-highest investment grade, from AA, Fitch said today
in a statement, adding that the outlook is “stable.”  
 Canada’s  currency on June 18 capped its first back-to-back
weekly gains since April amid a rise in crude oil and as
investors increased bets that the Bank of Canada will raise
borrowing costs as the global economic recovery strengthens.  
 Canada’s six-month overnight index swap rate, which mark
what traders expect the central bank’s policy rate will average
over that period, advanced to 0.8720 percent today, the highest
since December 2008.  
 Bank of Canada  
 The Bank of Canada on June 1 became the first Group of
Seven central bank to raise  interest rates  since July 2008,
increasing its target lending rate by a quarter-percentage point
from a record low to 0.5 percent.  
 Government bonds were little changed. The yield on the 10-
year was 3.34 percent, with the 3.5 percent security due in June
2020 rising 2 cents to C$101.54.  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who will host a
meeting of G-20 leaders this week, said China’s plan for a more
flexible currency may help sustain a global recovery that is
fragile, and benefit Canada by easing pressure on its currency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        