-- Canada's Financial System Facing Greater Risks From Fiscal Strains: BOC
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-21T14:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/canada-s-financial-system-facing-greater-risks-from-fiscal-strains-boc.html

          
          
             Canada’s financial system faces a
higher level of risk because of global strains, including
concerns that countries are taking on too much debt and an
unbalanced economic recovery, the country’s central bank said.  
 Three of  five  major risks have increased since December,
while one was unchanged and one decreased, the Bank of Canada
said today from Ottawa in its Financial System Review. The higher
risks come despite signs of a recovery in the country’s economy
and the little impact felt by local banks so far from concerns
about high debt levels abroad, the report said.  
 “Worldwide fiscal strains have the potential to cause
tensions in interbank funding markets, to derail the global
economic recovery, or to trigger a disorderly resolution of
global imbalances,” the Ottawa-based central bank said in a
report by the Governing Council, which also sets interest rates.  
 Canada will host a meeting of Group of 20 leaders in Toronto
this weekend aimed at promoting financial regulations to prevent
another global credit crisis and reviving economic growth while
paring back government deficits. Bank of Canada Governor Mark
Carney has said the global recovery is at risk unless policy
makers set new rules to make the financial system more resilient
to the failure of individual institutions and to swings in the
economic cycle.  
 The report pointed to “the risk that key elements of the
reform agenda will be diluted, either because of complacency as
economic and financial conditions improve or because of fears
that reforms could harm a still-fragile recovery.”  
 Canadian financial institutions are at greater risk of
finding it harder to access short-term capital, the report said.
Difficulties could come from strains related to global economic
“imbalances” and currency volatility, as well as concerns the
global economic recovery could stall, leading to a lower
willingness of other banks to take risks, today’s report said.  
 The risk of Canadian institutions having too little capital
has decreased since December, and the risk from high levels of
consumer debt was little changed, the report said. The growth of
household debt is still an “important source of risk,” the bank
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        