-- Carlyle-Backed Booz Allen Hamilton Files to Raise $300 Million in U.S. IPO
-- Jason Kelly
-- 2010-06-21T21:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/carlyle-backed-booz-allen-hamilton-files-to-raise-300-million-in-u-s-ipo.html

          
          
             Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp.,
the consulting firm taken private less than two years ago by
Carlyle Group, is planning an initial public offering to raise
as much as $300 million.  
 The company will use the proceeds of the stock sale to pay
debt, Booz Allen said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The McLean, Virginia-based firm, which
paid its owners a $650 million dividend in December, declined to
say how many shares it will offer.  
 “Investors may be receptive to invest in a consulting
company,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-
based Harris Private Bank, which manages $55 billion. “I
wouldn’t call it a big financial risk. Worst case is they just
don’t grow because the economic backdrop is weak.”  
 The Booz Allen filing follows those of KKR & Co.-owned
retailer  Toys ‘R’ Us Inc.  and Blackstone Group LP’s Nielsen
Holdings BV, the television-ratings tracker, earlier this year.
Private-equity firms are seeking IPOs for the healthiest
companies they own to pare debt and reap profits for their
investors.  
 Carlyle, which is based in Washington and has $90.5 billion
in assets, doesn’t plan to sell any shares as part of the
offering, according to a person familiar with the offering, who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.  
 The firm, the world’s second-biggest private-equity company
behind New York-based Blackstone, bought Booz Allen’s U.S.
government-consulting business in 2008 for $2.54 billion.  
 Booz Allen’s revenue rose 18 percent to $5.12 billion in
fiscal year ended March 31, according to the filing. The company
reported net income of $25.4 million, without providing a year-
earlier figure.  
 Morgan Stanley, Barclays Capital, BofA Merrill Lynch and
Credit Suisse Securities are leading the offering. Stifel,
Nicolaus & Co., BB&T Capital Markets, Lazard Capital Markets and
Raymond James & Associates are co-managers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        