-- CBOE Files to License Pulse Workstation to Access Markets to Member Firms
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-06-21T16:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/cboe-files-to-license-pulse-workstation-to-access-markets-to-member-firms.html

          
          
             CBOE Holdings Inc. , which completed
an initial public offering last week, took a step toward
improving the trading technology it offers member firms by
filing to grant licenses to a workstation for accessing markets.  
 The Pulse platform will enable brokers to buy and sell on
the Chicago Board Options Exchange and elsewhere, including
stock markets, according to a proposal sent to the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Pulse was developed by Signal Trading
Systems LLC, a company set up by the CBOE and Great Neck, New
York-based FlexTrade Systems Inc. Licenses to use the
workstation will be available to CBOE’s members and some of
their customers.  
 Pulse gives CBOE the ability to speed up the introduction
of innovations it suspects will boost its market share, reducing
reliance on outside vendors. Signal Trading was formed to help
the newly public CBOE close a technology gap with New York-based
 International Securities Exchange Holdings Inc.  and brokers who
offer their own computer platforms.  
 “It could become a necessity for options traders if
certain order types or functionality could only be accessed
through the CBOE’s new platform,” said  Kevin McPartland , senior
analyst at Tabb Group LLC in New York. “But since they’re
probably getting the majority of their order flow from third-
party platforms, this could jeopardize some of that, especially
in an options landscape that’s so competitive right now.”  
 3.6 Billion Contracts  
 Competition is increasing as eight options markets battle
for business where only five existed in 2003. CBOE, which
operates the largest venue for the contracts with 32.4 percent
of  total volume , plans to start trading on a second, electronic
exchange later this year. The expansion has occurred as options
trading increased almost fivefold over the past decade, to 3.6
billion contracts in 2009 from 727 million in 2000.  
 The purpose of Signal Trading Systems “is to develop and
market a multi-asset front-end order entry system, known as
‘Pulse,’ with particular emphasis on options trading,” CBOE
said in a regulatory filing on May 27. The exchange operator and
FlexTrade, a technology services provider, each own 50 percent
of the company and CBOE is the managing member, according to the
filing. CBOE spokeswoman  Gail Osten  declined to comment.  
 Rivalry With ISE  
 The Pulse workstation is similar to a system  International
Securities Exchange  introduced in 2006. About 100 of ISE’s 188
electronic members that aren’t market makers use the platform,
double the number four years ago, according to  Jeanine Hightower , head of options business development at the New York-
based market. ISE is owned by Eurex in Frankfurt and is the
second-largest single options venue.  NYSE Euronext  and Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. each operate two options exchanges whose combined
share of trading is bigger than ISE’s.  
 Large and small brokers use ISE’s PrecISE platform,
Hightower said. The system, which includes more than 20 order
types available on the ISE, was built by the exchange instead of
developed by a technology vendor to speed up the integration and
availability of new types of orders.  
 “The benefit is we can roll out order types and tools we
introduce at the exchange immediately to member firms,”
Hightower said. “Some platforms from brokers or vendors could
take months to introduce those changes.” CBOE’s development of
Pulse “seems like a strong endorsement of what we’ve been doing
since 2006,” she said.  
 Alternative Markets  
 The CBOE and CBOE Stock Exchange will automatically receive
options and equity orders entered on the Pulse system. Customers
can override the default settings and route to alternate
markets, CBOE said in its rule proposal. The ISE’s system also
executes orders on ISE first. The stock component of combination
orders on ISE is sent to BNY ConvergEx Group LLC in New York.  
 Firms can trade options and equities through dozens of
platforms such as REDIPlus operated by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.;
UBS AG’s Pinpoint system; Portware LLC; Investment Technology
Group Inc. and offerings from vendors. Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News, also offers systems to trade the products.  
 Signal Trading will get a “portion” of the fees collected
by the CBOE for use of the Pulse system, the exchange said in
its rule filing. CBOE will conduct all the marketing for the
product. FlexTrade’s will provide software and systems
technology and maintain the platform, the exchange said.  
 The exchange plans to charge users a $350 monthly fee per
workstation for the first 10 system and $100 for each additional
platform a company adopts, the same as what the ISE charges
firms. CBOE will also charge a 10-cent fee per contract for
routing orders to other markets.  
 Firms will be able to use Pulse to send orders for
commodity futures and options to venues that trade those
products, CBOE said. Customers may also be able to send “other
non-security products” to exchanges, it said. Signal Trading
Systems may also enter businesses beyond the Pulse workstation,
including the “provision of other technology services to
brokers-dealers,” the exchange said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        