-- Celesio, Medco Form European Venture to Expand Into New Markets, Cut Costs
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-21T07:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/celesio-and-medco-form-european-joint-venture-to-reduce-costs-grow-abroad.html

          
          
             Medco Health Solutions Inc.  and
 Celesio AG  agreed to combine operations in Europe to expand into
new markets and cut health-care costs.  
 Medco, the largest U.S. pharmacy benefits manager, and
Celesio of Germany, Europe’s biggest publicly traded drug
wholesaler, will pool some of their operations into an
Amsterdam-based 50-50 joint venture called Medco Celesio BV, the
companies said in a joint statement today.  
 Medco of Franklin Lakes, New Jersey has boosted revenue by
pushing into personalized medical care and cutting health costs
with mail-order generic medicines. Celesio, based in Stuttgart,
Germany, is exploring new business models in Europe, such as
online medical services in the U.K. and supplying drugs directly
to patients’ homes.  
 Celesio  rose  42 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 19.72 euros at
9:16 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The company made five
acquisitions last year and last week agreed to a drug-
distribution venture in the Netherlands with Phoenix Group.  
 “It’s positive” for Celesio,  Silke Stegemann , an analyst
for Unicredit Markets and Investment Bank in Munich, said in a
telephone interview. “Last week we already saw a joint venture
in the Netherlands with Phoenix to build that business. It’s
another good strategic step.”  
 Medco  fell  2.4 percent to $60.05 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading on Friday. The stock has dropped 6 percent
this year.  
 The 50-50 joint venture announced today is “designed to
help patients with chronic or complex conditions,” the
companies said. It will start operating in Germany this year and
eventually extend to as many as 29 European countries, the
statement said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Marthe Fourcade  at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net 
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        