-- Medco Expands in Europe With Celesio Drug Deal Aimed at Chronic Diseases
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-21T20:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/celesio-medco-establish-european-venture-aimed-at-enhancing-clinical-care.html

          
          
             Medco Health Solutions Inc. 
partnered with the German drug distributor  Celesio AG  to provide
medicines for chronic diseases and expand in Europe.  
 Medco, the largest U.S. pharmacy benefits manager by
revenue, entered into a 50-50 joint venture with Celesio,
Europe’s biggest publicly traded drug wholesaler, to form Medco
Celesio BV. It will be based in Amsterdam, the companies said in
a statement today.  
 With the agreement, Medco expands European operations to 29
countries, from three, Chief Executive Officer  David Snow  said
in a telephone interview. The Franklin Lakes, New Jersey,
company won $4.3 billion in net new sales in 2010 after showing
it could cut client costs through patient counseling and
personalized-medicine approaches. Now, those strategies will be
implemented in Celesio’s operations through the venture.  
 Patients who don’t follow doctors’ instructions add $350
billion a year in the U.S. to annual health costs, and $300
billion in Europe, Snow said. Medco counsels as many as 32
million patients with chronic ailments, such as asthma and
diabetes, on how to comply with prescriptions, he said.  
 “Nonadherence by patients is a very big problem in Europe,
just as it is in the U.S.,” said Snow, who is also chairman.
“In the U.S., we know 65 percent of patients stop doing what
the doctor told them to do within 12 months of treatment.”  
 Even with the Celesio deal that one analyst called “a
positive step,” Medco  fell  $1.36, or 2.3 percent to $58.69 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading today.
The stock has  fallen  8.2 percent this year.  
 Looking for Acquisition  
 The decline in Medco doesn’t reflect on the Celesio deal;
it shows a desire among investors for Medco to do a “big,
accretive domestic acquisition a la what Express Scripts did
with NetRx, said  Arthur Henderson , an analyst with Jefferies &
Co. in Nashville, Tennessee.  
 “While this deal makes long-term sense and is indeed a
positive step, I think some investors view it as a nonevent,”
he said.  
 Medco stock rose almost 6 percent when it looked like  CVS
Caremark Corp. ’s PBM customers would no longer be able to fill
prescriptions at  Walgreens Co.  pharmacies. After CVS and
Walgreens settled the 11-day dispute June 18, Medco stock
dropped $1.46 or 2.4 percent that day and continued to drop
today.  
 Celesio, based in Stuttgart, Germany,  rose  12 cents to
close at 19.35 euros in Frankfurt trading.  
 European Spending  
 “We can significantly reduce overall medical spending in
Europe,” Snow said during a Webcast today. “We know that’s a
big promise, but we have the resources to deliver, and now,
through our joint venture, we have the vehicle to get the job
done.”  
 Medco Celesio is “designed to help patients with chronic
or complex conditions,” the companies said. It will start
operating in Germany this year and eventually extend to the
other European countries, according to the statement.  
 The joint venture will help patients create a personalized
health plan and will deliver medicines through mail-order or
specialty pharmacies, Celesio CEO  Fritz Oesterle  said in the
webcast.  
 There will be “fair cost-sharing” between the companies,
though no exchange of shares or money paid, a Celesio spokesman,
 Rainer Berghausen , said in a telephone interview. The companies
expect earnings, before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, in the “lower double-digit million-euro area” in
about five years, Berghausen said.  
 Acquisition History  
 Medco announced two acquisitions and one joint venture in
the 12 months before today, including the purchase of a
consulting-services company, DNA Direct Inc., and the pending
buyout of a German E-commerce operator, shop-apotheke.com.  
 Snow said his company will look for other joint ventures
and will consider expanding Medco Celesio if it is successful.
He said Medco is still on the lookout for strategic
acquisitions, given its cash flow and debt capacity. He wouldn’t
give the amount set aside for such acquisitions.  
 Celesio made five acquisitions last year, and last week
agreed to a drug-distribution venture, in the Netherlands, with
Phoenix Group.  
 “It’s positive” for Celesio,  Silke Stegemann , an analyst
for Unicredit Markets & Investment Bank, in Munich, said in a
telephone interview. “Last week we already saw a joint venture
in the Netherlands with Phoenix to build that business. It’s
another good strategic step.”  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net 
 Pat Wechsler  in New York 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        