-- Central Banks Show Euro Losing Reserve Status as Loonie Gains
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-06-22T14:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/central-banks-show-euro-losing-reserve-currency-status-with-loonie-gaining.html

          
          
             The Australian and Canadian dollars
are becoming reserve currencies for central bankers seeking
alternatives to deteriorating government credit quality in
Europe, the U.S. and Japan.  
 “They’ll gain an increasing place in reserves because of
diversification,” European Central Bank governing council
member  Christian Noyer  said in a June 16 interview with
Bloomberg News in Paris.  
 Russia  may add the Australian and Canadian dollars to its
international reserves for the first time after fluctuations in
the U.S. currency and euro,  Alexei Ulyukayev , the first deputy
chairman of the nation’s central bank, said in an interview in
Moscow on June 15. The International Monetary Fund may add the
Aussie and loonie to a basket of currencies it uses in
transactions, strategists at UBS AG, the world’s second-largest
foreign-exchange trader, predict.  
 Reserve managers are joining private-sector investors
including Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, in boosting allocations to nations
with improving economies and the ability to reduce budget
deficits after the European Union was forced to commit almost $1
trillion to prevent a sovereign default by Greece.  
 The failure to coordinate fiscal policy among the 16
nations making up the euro increases the risk a country may
leave the currency union, according to  Andrew Balls , head of
European portfolio management at Pimco, and  Jim Rogers , chairman
of Rogers Holdings.  
 ‘Possible Exit’  
 “The range of possible outcomes includes the preservation
of the current euro-zone, albeit as a weaker entity unless
urgent progress is made on a deeper fiscal union, or one or more
euro-zone members restructuring their debt and also the possible
exit of a current member country,” Balls wrote in a research
report dated June 14.  
 Japan’s debt is approaching 205 percent of gross domestic
product, the highest among the 31 members of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD said on May
26. The U.S.  budget deficit  is forecast to reach a record $1.6
trillion this fiscal year, according to the White House, and the
Congressional Budget Office said in January that  total debt  will
reach 60 percent of GDP by the end of the year, the highest
level since 1952.  
 ‘All Impaired’  
 “If you just laid the numbers out without identifying
them, it’s hard to make the case that Europe, the United States
or Japan should be part of reserve portfolios,” said  Steven Englander , head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in New York. “They are all impaired over the longer term
perspective.”  
 Greece’s borrowing costs have doubled to 9.4 percent for
10-year notes since October, while yields on Portuguese debt
rose as high as 6.3 percent last month, the most since the euro
began trading in 1999. On June 18, the interest rate investors
demand to hold Spanish debt rose as high as 5 percent, the most
since July 2008. Last month the EU announced a 750 billion-euro
($921 billion) rescue mechanism to stabilize the market.  
 For reserve managers, the euro-area sovereign debt market
has essentially shrunk to 20 percent of its previous size, with
primarily German debt meeting central bank standards, said  Alan Ruskin , head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Stamford Connecticut.  
 Euro Assets Shrinking  
 “The shrinkage in high-quality euro assets that reserve
managers can buy does significant damage to euro pretensions to
be the largest reserve currency,” Ruskin said. “It puts a
ceiling on how large a share the euro can gain as a reserve
currency.”  
 Australia’s net debt will peak at 6.1 percent, less than a
10th of the average expected for major advanced economies,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said May 11 while announcing the nation’s
budget. Canada’s budget gap will decline from 4.8 percent in
2009 to 1.6 percent in 2011 according to the median forecast of
eight economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 On April 6, Canada’s dollar was worth more than the U.S.
currency for the first time since July 2008. On April 12,
Australia’s dollar traded as high as 93.69 U.S. cents, the
closest it had been to parity with the U.S. dollar since
reaching 94.06 U.S. cents in November. Canada’s currency
strengthened to C$1.0212 at 10:45 a.m. in New York from C$1.0243
yesterday. Australia’s dollar bought 87.79 U.S. cents from 87.65
cents.  
 Introduced in 1999 to replace the currencies of France,
Germany, Italy and eight other nations, the euro’s share of
 global reserves  climbed to 27.4 percent at the end of 2009 from
18 percent a decade earlier. The dollar accounted for 62.1
percent of the $4.6 trillion in reserves for which the IMF has
data.  
 ‘Manifestly Inadequate’  
 The euro’s appeal began to falter in December after EU
officials said Greek economic statistics are “manifestly
inadequate” in a draft document prepared for the region’s
finance ministers. By the end of May, the currency had fallen
for six-straight months, the longest slump since its creation.  
 It traded at a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7, and 10
days later BNP Paribas SA said it may weaken to 97 U.S. cents by
the third quarter of 2011.  
 “Debasing what has been a strong currency and making it
weaker and weaker is in the end going to destroy the euro,”
Rogers said in a June 16 interview. It will take 10 to 15 years
for the euro to disappear, Rogers said, adding that in the
interim he’s bought the currency because pessimism towards
Europe has beaten it down too much.  
 ‘Picture of Stability’  
 Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised the
benchmark interest rate  six times  in the seven meetings through
May 4, the most-aggressive series of increases among Group of 20
policy makers. The loonie is appreciating at the fastest rate in
two months after the  Bank of Canada  began raising rates on June
1 with a 0.25 percentage point increase.  
 “The growth outlook is stronger in these places, the
fiscal outlook is stronger in these places and they should be
safe havens from a diversification standpoint,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research in New York at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “They’re a clear picture of stability once
that risk aversion move is out of the way.”  
 EU gross domestic product is forecast to grow 1.4 percent
in 2011, according to the median forecast of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey, Australia’s central bank raised its growth
forecast for 2011 in May to 3.75 percent from 3.5 percent three
months earlier. The Canadian economy will grow 3 percent in
2011, according to the median prediction of 14 economists in a
separate Bloomberg survey.  
 Smaller Markets  
 The downside for central banks is that the Australian and
Canadian bond markets aren’t as big or liquid as those in Europe
or the U.S.  
 “I don’t think they’ll become major currencies used for
global trade or that they can be part of the core of the
international monetary system because they are too small,” the
ECB’s Noyer said in the interview.  
 The C$380 billion ($371 billion) Canadian government debt
market is less than one-tenth the size of the U.S.’s $5.7
trillion in notes and bonds, while Australia’s A$137 billion
($120 billion) outstanding is about one-third the size of
Canada’s.  
 “There’s not enough liquidity and not enough bonds out
there so they could never become a core part of a central bank’s
holding,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York.  
 Sweden’s Riksbank  
 That hasn’t stopped some central banks from adding the
currencies. Sweden’s Riksbank currently invests 5 percent of its
328 billion kronor ($42 billion) reserves in the Aussie and the
loonie each, to supplement its 50 percent allocation to the euro
and 20 percent in the greenback, said  Ann Falken , head of the
central bank’s investment division. The central bank is not
allowed to speculate on the exchange rates themselves, Falken
said in a June 16 interview from Stockholm.  
 Russia’s central bank has added the Canadian dollar to its
reserve portfolio and may add the Australian currency, according
to Ulyukayev.  
 “Adding the Australian dollar is being discussed,” he
said. “There are pros and cons. We have added the Canadian
dollar but haven’t yet begun operations” in the currency,
Ulyukayev said.  
 U.S. dollars account for 47 percent of Russia’s reserves,
while euros make up 41 percent, British pounds 10 percent and
Japanese yen 2 percent, Ulyukyaev said in November. The central
bank has reduced dollars from 50 percent in 2006, when euros
accounted for 40 percent and the remaining 10 percent was in yen
and pounds. Russia’s  international reserves , the world’s third
biggest, reached $458.2 billion on June 4.  
 ‘Liquid Enough’  
 If central bankers were to determine that the commodity
currencies were “liquid enough” to add to reserves, that could
lead to “a substantial rise in underlying demand for the Aussie
dollar and Canadian,” said  Sean Callow , a currency strategist
at Westpac Banking, during a June 16 interview from Sydney on
Bloomberg Television’s “Global Connection.”  
 The Washington-based IMF will review the current basket of
currencies of Special Drawing Rights, or SDRs, at the end of the
year, a process that occurs every five years. There’s at least a
50 percent chance that the Australian and Canadian dollars will
be added, said  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , global head of currency
strategy at UBS in Singapore.  
 “Because they will become more prominent over time, the
IMF may decide the composition of SDRs has become too narrow and
these two would be the best new currencies to add to the
basket,” Mohi-uddin said. “It doesn’t matter what the
proportion is or even if it was a small proportion. It will
increase their status further.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     On April 12, Australia’s dollar traded as high as 93.69 U.S. cents, the closest it had been to parity with the U.S. dollar since trading 94.06 U.S. cents in November. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Christian Noyer of the ECB  
                       
                         
                           Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg 
                         
                         European Central Bank governing council member Christian Noyer attends a Forum in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     European Central Bank governing council member Christian Noyer attends a Forum in Tokyo. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
