-- Chinese Turbine Makers Face `Tough Situation' After Goldwind Shares Slump
-- Stuart Biggs
-- 2010-06-21T08:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/chinese-turbine-makers-face-tough-situation-after-goldwind-shares-slump.html

          
          
             Investors’ interest in Chinese wind-
energy companies may be slowing after  Xinjiang Goldwind Science
& Technology Co. , China’s second-largest wind turbine maker,
shelved a share sale in Hong Kong, analysts said.  
 Goldwind  shares  declined as much as 9.4 percent in Shenzhen
before recovering to close 1 percent lower at 18.84 yuan. The
stock slumped by the daily limit of 10 percent on June 18, the
first trading day after the company canceled a plan to raise as
much as HK$9.09 billion ($1.2 billion) in Hong Kong for domestic
and foreign expansion, citing poor market conditions.  
 Global investment in wind power eased during the economic
slump in the U.S. and Europe, lowering the prices paid for wind
farms, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Turbine makers
are most at risk of a slowdown as overcapacity narrows margins,
said Justin Wu, an analyst for the research group.  
 “It’s a tough situation to be a wind turbine manufacturer
anywhere in the world right now, including in China,” Wu said
in a telephone interview from his office in Beijing. “They’re
in a highly competitive situation, with high price competition
and their margins are very thin.”  
 Goldwind, based in Urumqi city in Xinjiang province, had
planned to sell 395.3 million new shares, equal to a 15 percent
stake, at between HK$19.80 and HK$23 apiece, it said June 6.
About 40 percent of the proceeds would be spent on building
plants and 24 percent on overseas expansion, the company said.  
 Foreign Trading  
 Chinese renewable energy companies like to list or sell
shares on overseas bourses because it gives them international
credibility to boost exports, Wu said.  
 Chinese solar panel makers including  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. , Suntech Power Holdings Co. and  Trina Solar Ltd.  are
listed in New York.  
 Renewable-energy stocks have fallen worldwide after the
failure of United Nations climate talks in December to produce a
treaty to fight global warming and promote clean power.  The
WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index , an 88-member
benchmark, has declined about 20 percent in 2010.  
 Investors may be concerned that China’s domestic demand for
wind energy may also be slowing, Honda Wei, a Shanghai-based
machinery and alternative energy analyst at KGI Asia Ltd., said
in an e-mail. Annual installations may decline to as low as 10
gigawatts between this year and 2012 from 13.8 gigawatts in
2009, he said.  
 Canceled Offers  
 Goldwind isn’t the only company to shelve its listing
plans. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  is down 4.4 percent this
year. Swire Properties Ltd. delayed a plan to sell shares in
Hong Kong on May 6, its parent said at the time.  Strikeforce
Mining & Resources Plc  delayed taking orders for its Hong Kong
IPO until equity markets have stabilized, a person with
knowledge of the decision said in May.  
 China Tian Yuan Mining Ltd., the largest privately owned
iron ore producer in the northern province of Hebei, delayed a
Hong Kong IPO last month, two people with knowledge of the
decision said on May 7.  
 The average price paid for wind farms worldwide declined to
1.66 million euros ($2.1 million) per megawatt from a peak of
1.75 million euros in mid-2008, New Energy Finance estimates.  
 China Longyuan Power Group Corp., the nation’s biggest
wind-power producer, raised a net $2.2 billion through an
initial public offering in Hong Kong in December. The shares
have declined 12 percent since the listing.  
 Chinese wind turbine manufacturer Sinovel Wind Co. said in
March it plans to raise 3.5 billion yuan in an initial public
offering on the Shanghai Stock Exchange.  
 “Given that there’s a large pipeline of wind-related IPOs
planned for China and for Hong Kong, we’re not sure how much
investor appetite there is for wind companies,” Wu said. “The
first couple may be very successful, but how much money can you
really put into it?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Workers paint and assemble parts of wind turbines in Yumen, China. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
