-- China Rare Earth Limits Said to Be Targeted by U.S.
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-06-22T07:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/china-s-restrictions-on-rare-earth-exports-are-said-to-be-targeted-by-u-s-.html

          
          
             China’s restrictions on the export
of rare earths used in the manufacture of cell phones and radar
are being targeted by the U.S. Trade Representative for a
potential trade case, according to industry representatives.  
 The U.S. has asked business groups and unions to provide
evidence that China is hoarding these elements for a case that
may be filed at the World Trade Organization, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks were
confidential.  
 China controls 97 percent of production of the materials,
known as rare earth elements, giving it “market power” over
the U.S., the Government Accountability Office said in a  report 
in April. China restricts exports of the elements through
quotas and export taxes of as much as 25 percent, the GAO said.  
 “The export restraints can artificially lower China’s
domestic prices for the raw materials due to significant
domestic oversupply,” the U.S. trade office said in its annual
report on overseas trade barriers in March.  
 Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, declined to comment. China’s Ministry
of Commerce didn’t immediately reply to a faxed request today
for comment.  
 Environmental Protection  
 China restricts the mining and export of rare earths to
protect the environment and minimize pollution, Liu Aisheng,
director of the Chinese Society of Rare Earths, said today in a
telephone interview from Beijing. The society is composed of
Chinese academics who study the industry.  
 “It’s pointless for the U.S. government to complain to
the WTO about China’s restrictions,” Liu said. “Chinese
policy is unlikely to lead to severe supply shortages given
that China will continue to export and other countries will
also catch up in production as long as there’s demand.”  
 U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  and Commerce Secretary
 Gary Locke  are scheduled to testify about China at the Senate
Finance Committee tomorrow, following growing criticism from
lawmakers that China’s trade policies discriminate against
American producers.  
 “If Congress is concerned about enforcement of trade
rules, then WTO cases demonstrate the approach we have been
talking about,”  John Frisbie , president of the U.S.-China
Business Council, said in an interview. Frisbie said he didn’t
know if the U.S. would file a WTO case.  
 G-20 Summit  
 The U.S. trade office put together a trade complaint
against China over credit-card processing in March, and has yet
to file it. Chinese President  Hu Jintao  is set to meet with
President  Barack Obama  and other world leaders at the Group of
20 meeting in Toronto on June 26-27.  
 Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metallic
elements, including lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and europium.
The U.S. was self-sufficient in these materials until the mid-
1980s, when lower labor and regulatory costs helped China’s
climb to dominance, the U.S. Geological Survey  said in a report .  
 The elements are used in radar, high-powered magnets, mini
hard-drives in laptop computers, catalytic converters for
vehicles, electric-car batteries and wind turbines.  
 A rare-earth mine in the U.S., in Mountain Pass,
California, shut down most operations in 2002.  Molycorp Inc. ,
which owns the mine, plans to reopen it this year, the company
said in a prospectus yesterday.  
 ‘New Equilibrium’  
 “China’s rare earths deposits are big, but it’s not the
only country that has deposits,” the Chinese Society of Rare
Earths’s Liu said. “Gradually, supply and demand will reach a
new equilibrium.”  
 Global consumption of rare-earth elements “is projected
to steadily increase due to continuing growth in existing
applications and increased innovation and development of new
end uses,” Molycorp said in a  regulatory filing .  
 The European Union released a  report  this month saying
that supplies of raw materials such as rare earths, while
“essential for the EU economy,” are “increasingly under
pressure.”  
 The U.S. and EU filed a joint complaint last year against
Chinese curbs on the export of raw materials such as magnesium,
coke and zinc used in making steel and other goods.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Annealed neodymium iron boron magnets sit in a barrel prior to being crushed into powder at Neo Material Technologies Inc.'s Magnequench Tianjin Co. factory in China. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
