-- China Yuan `Knee-Jerk' May Not Lead to Higher Commodity Imports, Zhu Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T02:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/china-yuan-knee-jerk-may-not-lead-to-higher-commodity-imports-zhu-says.html

          
          
             China’s signal of an end to the
yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may not necessarily lead to
higher imports of bulk commodities, said  Judy Zhu , analyst at
Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. Zhu made her comments in
an interview from Shanghai today. The comments are her personal
opinions, she added.  
 “People’s knee-jerk reaction is always a yuan
appreciation will lead to more imports of bulk commodities, but
our analysis of empirical data showed there’s no firm causal
relation between the two. China’s yuan has appreciated by more
than 20 percent since 2005, but it’s hard to quantify how much
of the gains in commodities imports was because of the yuan and
how much of that was a result of an expanding economy. So a
yuan appreciation will be long and gradual process and its
impact on commodity imports will depend on whether there’s
effective real demand from the economy or short-term
speculation.”  
 “In theory, yuan appreciation should benefit China’s
importers of bulk commodities like soybeans, cotton, copper and
various mining products including iron ore and other metal ores
as these commodities, priced in the dollar, will be cheaper.
However, the real mechanism is not that simple. China’s demand
for commodities is influenced by multiple factors, including
real demand from the downstream and stockpiling, on speculative
and non-speculative activities. We expect speculative buying to
increase on cheaper prices, if the appreciation is realized,
but buying based on real demand will not immediately be
encouraged by the appreciation as the downstream consumers are
key to decide when to buy in alignment with their order
books.”  
 “The appreciation will support commodities prices in
dollar terms in global markets as China will be able to accept
higher prices in the dollar terms. Given China’s big share of
demand, e.g. around 30 percent for metals including copper,
around 70 percent of seaborne iron ore trade, such support
should not be overlooked.”  
 “The magnitude of appreciation, or how much the yuan will
appreciate, is important. As we expect small and gradual
appreciation -- depreciation from time to time is also possible
during this period -- its influence on China’s commodities
imports will only be felt over a long period of time.”  
 -- Feiwen Rong . Editors: Richard Dobson, Matthew Oakley.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        