-- Chinese Banks Favored by Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse on Yuan Outlook
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-21T07:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/china-bank-property-stocks-raised-at-morgan-stanley-on-inflation-outlook.html

          
          
             Chinese banks may be among the best
bets for investors after the government relaxed the yuan’s peg
against the dollar, according to Morgan Stanley and Credit
Suisse Group AG.  
 Banks were upgraded to “overweight” from “equal-weight”
while property shares were rated “underweight,” Morgan Stanley
analysts led by  Jerry Lou  said in a report, while Credit Suisse
Group AG analysts  Vincent Chan  and  Peggy Chan  said they favored
banks and cement stocks most at current valuations. The
brokerages were joined by BNP Paribas and AMP Capital Investors
Ltd. in turning more positive on Chinese equities.  
 The  MSCI China Index , tracking mostly Hong Kong-traded H
shares, jumped 3.5 percent as of 3:25 p.m. in the city, set for
the biggest gain since July 20, after the People’s Bank of China
two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the
dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters.
Financial shares including banks and developers were the biggest
contributors to gains.  
 “What was holding the Chinese market back was the
tightening cycle,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist
at AMP Capital Investors, an Australian asset manager with more
than $90 billion of assets. “The yuan appreciation shows the
Chinese authorities’ confidence in the global recovery and it
will help them reduce the pace of tightening.”  
 AMP may buy more yuan-denominated equities in China, Naeimi
said. Chinese stocks were raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at BNP Paribas, which predicted a 36 percent rally
and reversed a yearlong call to favor Indian stocks instead.  
 Yuan Gains  
 The yuan advanced 0.36 percent to 6.802 per dollar, the
biggest gain since Oct. 7, 2008, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trading System. The 12-month non-deliverable yuan
forward rose 1.4 percent to 6.6209 per dollar, implying traders
are betting on a 2.7 percent appreciation.  
 Morgan Stanley boosted its allocations in Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and  Bank of China Ltd.  to add beta,
a measure of risk, in their portfolios, according to the report.  
 “We view resumption of RMB revaluation as a bullish
catalyst for H shares,” the analysts said, using an acronym for
the renminbi, which is another name for China’s currency. “RMB
appreciation in the second half of 2010 will help regulators to
manage imported inflation and reduce the need for further
tightening,” they wrote in the report.  
 Portfolio Stocks  
 The brokerage added  China Resources Land Ltd. , Guangzhou
R&F Properties Co.,  KWG Property Holding Ltd.  and China Vanke Co.
to its model portfolio, after having maintained a “zero
weight” in real estate since Aug. 31. Air China Ltd. and  China
Southern Airlines Co.  were also added at the expense of toll-
road operators including Jiangsu Expressway Co. as carriers are
a “prime beneficiary” of a yuan appreciation given their
“heavy” dollar-denominated fuel costs.  
 China’s  Se Shang Property Index  rose 3.8 percent today,
while the broader Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.9 percent.
The real-estate measure has plunged 26 percent this year, the
worst performer among the Shanghai Composite’s five industry
groups, as the government raised banks’ reserve requirements,
set a lower lending target for 2010 and introduced curbs on home
purchases.  
 Chinese banks will be “winners by default” from an
appreciation in the nation’s currency given that the value of
their yuan-denominated profits will increase in dollar terms,
Credit Suisse said. Other industries that may benefit from an
“earnings translation” effect include insurance, consumer
goods and telecommunications companies, according a report by
the brokerage.  
 Macroeconomic Policy  
 Still, the brokerage’s chief regional economist  Dong Tao 
said the central bank’s move doesn’t signal a shift in the
nation’s macroeconomic policy, with the yuan set to resume a
“crawling peg” against the dollar.  
 “The move is purely aimed at calming the voice from the
rest of the world, and one should not read it as a new direction
in China’s macro policy,” Tao wrote in a separate report.
“Policy makers are still cautious about global and China’s
growth prospects.”  
 The yuan is likely to strengthen 2 percent against the
dollar by the end of 2010 and gain between 4 percent and 5
percent over the next 12 months, he said.  
 Essence Securities, ranked second for strategy research by
New Fortune magazine last year, said China’s pledge to increase
the flexibility of its exchange rate won’t reverse the trend of
the stock market. The brokerage remains “cautious” on shares
given shrinking liquidity, slowing economic and corporate
earnings growth and fundraising pressures.  
 ‘Dovish Tone’  
 BNP Paribas is more sanguine, saying that the risk of a
“hard landing” in the nation’s economy and a “more dovish
tone” on inflation from policy makers means monetary policy may
be eased.  
 The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  will probably jump to
15,800 in the next 12 months, BNP analysts led by  Clive McDonnell  forecast in a report today. They upgraded China for
the first time since they lowered the market’s rating on June 4,
2009.  
 “Once China eases monetary policy, we expect  A shares  to
be the clear winners as they are most sensitive to domestic
liquidity and are the biggest underperformer in the emerging
universe,” the BNP analysts wrote. For foreign investors that
may not have access to the yuan-denominated stock market,
investors can buy insurance stocks as well as Hong Kong-traded
commodity shares, they advised.  
 Share Limits  
 China restricts overseas investors to buying so-called B
shares that trade in U.S. dollars in Shanghai and Hong Kong
dollars in Shenzhen. Yuan-denominated or A-shares are limited to
Chinese citizens and approved overseas investors under the so-
called QFII program, whose combined quota is $30 billion.  
 CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said today the performance of H
shares will lead that of yuan-denominated stocks. While they
remain cautious on A shares, they upgraded airlines to
“overweight” from “neutral” and lowered so-called non-
cyclical transportation shares to “neutral” from
“overweight,” CLSA analysts  Francis Cheung  and  Manop Sangiambut  wrote in a report.  
 “Expectations for renminbi appreciation had diminished
lately but renewed interest could spark a near-term rally in the
MSCI China as valuation is attractive,” the analysts wrote.
“The latest move reflects China’s confidence in the economy,
employment and consumer.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        