-- Chinese Exporters Unable to Take Big Yuan Gains, Newspaper Editorials Say
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T03:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/chinese-exporters-unable-to-take-big-yuan-gains-newspaper-editorials-say.html

          
          
             China’s exporters are unable to
withstand large fluctuations in the yuan, Chinese newspapers
including the China Securities Journal and China Daily wrote
today after the central bank pledged greater flexibility for the
currency.  
 External demand remains “uncertain,” and shipments may
fall in the second half because of the European debt crisis, the
 China Securities Journal , the nation’s largest financial
newspaper, wrote in an editorial. Large yuan gains against the
dollar combined with the European crisis would create a “double
whammy” for exports, it wrote.  
 China’s central bank said June 19 that it will push forward
reform on the yuan’s exchange rate, signaling an end to the
currency’s peg to the dollar. The  People’s Bank of China  ruled
out a one-time revaluation of the currency, held at about 6.83
yuan per dollar since mid-2008. A stronger yuan will benefit
exporters more than hurt them, the central bank said in a
statement yesterday.  
 China’s exports gained 48.5 percent last month from a year
earlier, the biggest gain in six years, excluding annual
distortions in January and February caused by the Lunar New Year
holiday. The possible effects of the European debt crisis
shouldn’t be overlooked because of better-than-expected export
data for May, the China Securities Journal wrote.  
 Weak global demand and rising labor costs will increase the
difficulty Chinese exporters have in dealing with yuan
appreciation, the  China Daily  wrote in an editorial. The central
bank’s decision to increase the flexibility of the currency sent
a “clear signal” that China can no longer wait to shift away
from an export-dependent economy, the Beijing-based English-
language newspaper wrote.  
 The yuan’s 0.5 percent daily trading band will be
maintained, and the currency isn’t far from a level of
equilibrium, the central bank said.  
 Greater flexibility in the exchange rate doesn’t equate to
appreciation, the  People’s Daily  newspaper reported today.  
 -- Yang Huiwen  in Shanghai. Editors:  John Liu ,  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yang Huiwen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7048 or
 hyang66@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        