-- China Southern, Chinese Airlines Jump as Central Bank to Loosen Yuan Peg
-- Wing-Gar Cheng
-- 2010-06-21T09:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/china-southern-airlines-jump-as-possible-rise-in-yuan-to-ease-debt-burden.html

          
          
             China Southern Airlines Co., the
nation’s biggest carrier, jumped the most in three weeks in Hong
Kong trading after the central bank signaled that it will loosen
the yuan’s peg against the dollar.  
 China Eastern Airlines Corp.  and Air China Ltd. also gained
as a stronger yuan would ease dollar-denominated fuel bills and
overseas debts gathered from buying Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.
planes. The People’s Bank of China said June 19 it will make the
yuan, which has been pegged at about 6.83 per dollar since mid-
2008, more flexible.  
 “This is very positive news for the airlines,” said  Kenny Tang , a Hong Kong-based stock analyst at Redford Assets
Management Ltd. “It will cut their debt-servicing costs and
boost profit.”  
 China Southern rose 6.5 percent, the most since May 27, to
HK$3.75. China Eastern, the nation’s second-biggest carrier,
gained 6.9 percent to HK$3.74 and Air China rose 6 percent to
HK$8.49. Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., which owns a stake in Air
China, climbed 1.9 percent to HK$16.16. The benchmark Hang Seng
Index advanced 3.1 percent.  
 China Eastern would get the biggest profit boost from yuan
appreciation among the country’s three largest carriers,
Citigroup Inc. said in April. China Southern would gain most in
absolute terms as it has the largest debt and fleet, Citigroup
analyst  Ally Ma  said. Air China would benefit the least as it
has the highest proportion of overseas sales, Ma said.  
 Yuan gains “will help reduce the burden” of overseas
debts,  Luo Zhuping , China Eastern’s board secretary, said
yesterday. Foreign-currency debt accounts for about 60 percent
of the Shanghai-based carrier’s total debt, he said.  
 Hainan Plan  
 In Shanghai trading, China Eastern gained 5.6 percent, Air
China rose 6.4 percent and China Southern climbed 8.2 percent.  
 Hainan Airlines Co. , the nation’s fourth biggest listed
carrier, jumped 9.9 percent. China’s National Development and
Reform Commission approved a plan to make Hainan province an
international tourism destination, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today, without citing anyone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        