-- Citigroup's Pandit Sees `Path Out' for Europe After `Credible' Aid Package
-- Ryan Chilcote
-- 2010-06-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/citigroup-s-pandit-sees-path-out-for-europe-after-credible-aid-package.html

          
          
             The European Union’s emergency aid
package for the region’s most indebted nations shows that
governments are committed to the euro and resolving the
sovereign-debt crisis,  Citigroup Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  said.  
 The European Central Bank and countries sharing the
currency “have done a very good job, putting forward a very
credible, substantial package in the face of adversity,” Pandit
told Bloomberg Television in an interview at the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum June 19. While more steps are
needed, “I do believe there is a path out of this.”  
 European governments last month pledged almost $1 trillion
of emergency loans and guarantees to allay investor concerns
that countries including Greece won’t be able to repay debts and
that the region’s monetary union may break apart. The EU and the
International Monetary Fund also offered Greece 110 billion
euros ($137 billion) of loans to help the country avoid default.  
 Last week, the euro rose the most against the U.S. dollar
since May 2009 as an easing in concern over Europe’s debt crisis
spurred traders to end bets against the shared currency. The
euro has lost 13 percent against the dollar this year.  
 Pandit said he was “very optimistic” about the region
resolving problems, even though governments still need to tackle
fiscal deficits, reduce debt and help some smaller banks raise
capital. Citigroup received a $45 billion government bailout
during the global credit crisis in 2008.  
 ‘Euro Is Here to Stay’  
 “If all of it happens, as we expect it to happen over
time, I think we are going to look at this as another one of
these issues that we’ve put behind us,” he said. “We believe
the euro is here to stay.”  
 EU leaders agreed last week to disclose how banks perform
in stress tests, seeking to show investors that the financial
system can withstand shocks. When the U.S. conducted similar
evaluations on financial institutions more than a year ago,
publishing results helped bolster firms, Pandit said.  
 “There were some questions early on, but after the stress
tests were done it really did create a lot more confidence in
the banking system,” he said.  
 New York-based Citigroup has done a “pretty good job” of
improving its financial strength by selling assets and accruing
reserves and liquidity, he said. In December, Citigroup repaid
$20 billion in bailout funds, and the government is now selling
its remaining stake in the lender.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        