-- CNN Drops AP Service to Focus on Own Newsgathering
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-21T20:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/cnn-will-drop-associated-press-service-to-focus-on-internal-newsgathering.html

          
          
             Time Warner Inc. ’s CNN, the 24-hour
cable news network, stopped using the Associated Press service
and materials to focus on its internal newsgathering efforts.  
 Starting today, CNN’s newsgathering will be the primary
source of content across all platforms and services, CNN
Worldwide President  Jim Walton  said today in an internal memo to
staff. The memo was confirmed by CNN spokesman  Nigel Pritchard .  
 “We are taking an important next step in the content-
ownership process we began in 2007 to more fully leverage CNN’s
global newsgathering investments,” Walton wrote.  
 The move lets CNN invest more into its own operation and
helps it differentiate from competition, Walton said. CNN
started the efforts to own all of its content in 2007, and
created a wire service offering articles and videos.  
 The cable channel also struck a deal with  Thomson Reuters
Corp. ’s wire service to supplement breaking news coverage,
according to the memo. CNN is returning to Reuters after
dropping the service in August 2007, following a price increase.  
 AP, a New York-based nonprofit cooperative that supplies
articles, photos and videos from around the world to paying
members, confirmed it was unable to reach a deal with CNN.  
 “It is unfortunate that CNN’s viewers will no longer have
access to the breaking news and worldwide reporting resources of
the Associated Press, the gold standard in journalism,” the AP
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 CNN’s licensing agreement with the AP was set to expire
June 30, and negotiations had been going on for some time,
Pritchard said.  
 Falling Ratings  
 CNN has been coping with declining ratings in prime time
following the 2008 U.S. presidential election and amid
competition with News Corp.’s Fox News Channel. CNN has also
discussed partnerships with other news outlets, Time Warner
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bewkes  said on the company’s May 5
earnings conference call. New York-based  Time Warner  doesn’t
break out CNN’s financial performance.  
 As part of the new model, CNN is expanding the “CNN
Wires” team and creating positions on desks and in bureaus to
get information on TV more quickly, Walton said. It’s also
starting “CNN Share,” which will create an alert system for
breaking news and compile editorial content and share it across
the website, mobile and TV.  
 Time Warner fell 42 cents to $32.54 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading.  The shares have gained 12
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        