-- China Coal Mine Blast Kills at Least 46 in Deadliest Accident This Year
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T06:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/coal-mine-explosion-in-henan-traps-at-least-58-miners-safety-bureau-says.html

          
          
             A coal mine explosion has killed at
least 46 workers in China’s central province of Henan, making
the accident the deadliest this year.  
 Twenty-six miners have been rescued from the pit at
Pingdingshan city, the official Xinhua News Agency  said  today.
Preliminary checks showed 72 workers were in the mine when the
accident occurred this morning, it said.  
 China has the world’s worst coal-mine safety record, with
an average of about seven deaths each day in accidents last year.
That compares with 18 deaths for the entire year in the U.S. The
worst Chinese coal-mine disaster in two years in November killed
more than 100 after an explosion in the northeastern province of
Heilongjiang. In March, a coal mine flood in the northern Shanxi
province trapped 153 workers, killing 38.  
 The blast in Henan province occurred at 1:40 a.m. local
time after an explosives cache went off, the State
Administration of Work Safety  said  in a statement on its website
earlier. At least 58 miners were trapped, it said.  
 Two rescue teams are working in the shaft, the
administration said. The mine recently expanded capacity by 50
percent to 90,000 metric tons a year, it said. Calls to the
local safety bureau in Pingdingshan weren’t immediately answered.  
 Deaths from coal-mine accidents in China increased in the
first quarter to 592 from 509 fatalities a year earlier, even as
the government merged small operations and shut unlicensed
producers, the China Daily reported on May 20, citing Huang Yi,
spokesman for the State Administration of Work Safety.  
 Separately, Shanghai-listed  Pingdingshan Tianan Coal Mining
Co.  said in a June 18 statement that a blast at one of its coal
mines killed five workers and left three missing.  
 -- Xiao Yu  and  Chua Baizhen . Editors:  John Viljoen ,  Ang Bee Lin .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News Staff of this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        