-- Santos Picks Echeverry as Finance Chief, Tasks Him With Cutting Budget Gap
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-06-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/colombia-s-santos-names-echeverry-as-finance-chief-to-help-balance-budget.html

          
          
             Colombian President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  named  Juan Carlos Echeverry  as finance minister
and charged him with eliminating the country’s budget deficit
and increasing growth.  
 Santos, who won the June 20 presidential election by a 40-
point margin, worked alongside Echeverry when both were in the
cabinet of President  Andres Pastrana , who served from 1998 to
2002. The two helped lift Colombia out of its deepest recession
since the 1930s.  
 “Echeverry is a name with a very strong reputation who is
well aware of the fiscal challenge ahead,” said  Alberto Ramos ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. “He has
the right diagnosis to fix the problems.”  
 Echeverry, 47, also will preside over the central bank’s
board. He replaces Finance Minister  Oscar Ivan Zuluaga , who
stands down Aug. 7 when President  Alvaro Uribe  leaves office.  
 The new post “is an immense commitment,” Echeverry told
reporters in Bogota late yesterday.  
 An economist with a doctorate from New York University who
is president of Econcept, a consulting firm, Echeverry faces the
task of fortifying an economy that lags behind most of Latin
America while preventing a re-ignition of inflationary pressure.
Santos served as Uribe’s defense minister and has promised that
by 2014 he will eliminate the budget gap from the 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product expected this year. He pledges to boost
annual economic growth to as much as 6 percent in two years.  
 The government forecasts economic growth of 3 percent this
year, while the International Monetary Fund predicts expansion
of 2.25 percent in 2010, the slowest in South America after
Venezuela, which is still in recession. Colombia will report
first-quarter GDP on June 24.  
 Peso Gains  
 Colombia’s peso gained 0.9 percent yesterday to 1,893.03
per U.S. dollar, while the IGBC Index declined 0.2 percent to
12,472.26 while the Colcap Index fell 0.4 percent to 1,466.78.
Markets closed before Echeverry’s nomination was announced.  
 As part of efforts to reduce the deficit, Echeverry plans
to create a sovereign wealth fund using royalties from oil and
coal sales, dividends from state oil company Ecopetrol SA and
tax revenue, he said in a June 10 interview.  
 “Echeverry needs to create the fund as soon as possible,”
Jimenez said. “That way he will take pressure off the peso and
put out one of the fires that’s hurting exporters and damaging
growth.”  
 The peso rose 8 percent against the dollar this year, the
best performer of the 172 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
rally in the peso has caused exporters to cut jobs as they get
fewer pesos for goods sold abroad.  
 Colombia’s unemployment rate, at 12.4 percent in April, is
the highest in South America.  
 Santos also plans to eliminate some tax exemptions and pull
millions of informal workers into the system, boosting tax
revenue and reducing unemployment, Echeverry has said.  
 “One violin does not make an orchestra so he has to
convince congress to pass all the reforms,” Ramos said. “But
he will be sworn in with a significant amount of political
capital.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        