-- Commodities Climb to Five-Week High on Bets Demand to Climb as Yuan Gains
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-21T20:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/commodities-climb-to-five-week-high-on-bets-demand-to-climb-as-yuan-gains.html

          
          
             Commodity prices climbed to a five-
week high after China, the world’s third-biggest economy, eased
its currency peg to the dollar, spurring bets that global demand
for energy, industrial metals and crops will increase.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose
0.3 percent to 263.69 in New York. Earlier, the gauge jumped to
267.02, the highest level since May 12. Sugar, livestock and
copper led the rally.  
 China’s yuan rose the most since a July 2005 revaluation
after the country’s central bank ended a two-year peg, adopted
during the global financial crisis to protect exporters. The
 MSCI World Index  of equities climbed for the 10th straight
session on bets that the global economy will expand.  
 A stronger yuan “is going to make our raw commodities like
grains and meats more attractive to Asian buyers,” said  Dennis Smith , a senior account executive at Archer Financial Services
Inc. in Chicago. “It’s expected to be a positive thing for
global growth.”  
 Sugar surged 3.8 percent, the most since June 8, and copper
climbed 2 percent. Cattle futures had the biggest gain in seven
weeks, and hogs rose to a five-week high.  
 The CRB index has advanced 3.5 percent this month. The
gauge is down 7 percent this year amid Europe’s sovereign-debt
woes.  
 Ending the currency peg will help curb inflation and shift
investment toward service industries from exports and
manufacturing, the People’s Bank of China said. The country is
the world’s biggest consumer of copper, soybeans, pork and
cotton and the second-largest user of corn and sugar.  
 Boosting Personal Income  
 “The policy decision that China made over the weekend is
an indirect way of increasing people’s income,” said Nicholas
Johnson, a commodity portfolio manager at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co. “Demand for
commodities will rise as their purchasing power will increase.”  
 The World Bank said last week that a stronger currency
would help China cool inflation, which accelerated to a 19-month
high in May.  
 “It looks like we’re going to have global growth,” which
is “very positive for commodities,” said  Michael K. Smith , the
president of T&K Futures & Options in Port St. Lucie, Florida.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        