-- Cook a Hamburger, Blow Up Your Polluted Town: TV Review
-- Dave Shiflett
-- 2010-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/cook-a-hamburger-and-blow-up-your-polluted-fracking-town-tv.html

          
          
             When tap water burns, it’s probably
time to admit there’s a problem.  
 Yet not everyone agrees, which is one of the more
disturbing messages of “ Gasland ,” an  HBO  documentary about
pollution caused by the expanding search for “clean” natural
gas in the U.S.  
 The film, which airs tonight at 9 p.m. New York time, won a
special jury prize at this year’s  Sundance Film Festival . It was
made by Josh Fox, who may go down in history as the Paul Revere
of fracking -- short for hydraulic fracturing, the process by
which natural gas is extracted.  
 The story he tells is alarming, educational and sometimes
funny.  
 Fox became suspicious when energy companies offered him and
his neighbors near the New York-Pennsylvania border boatloads of
money to drill for natural gas on their properties in the
Delaware River Basin. Fox turned down $100,000 after
investigating the situation and finding it fraught with danger.  
 He traces the problem to the  Dick Cheney -backed Energy
Policy Act of 2005, which exempted fracking from the Safe
Drinking Water Act and other environmental regulations.  
 This unleashed a massive gas grope, according to the film,
that has resulted in 450,000 gas wells in 34 states. Fracking
fluids, which help release gas deposits trapped in rocks,
contain neurotoxins and carcinogens. Fox says trillions of
gallons of contaminated water have been produced by the process
and largely left to seep back into the earth or evaporate.  
 Fire Water  
 When Fox heads West, he finds a new type of firewater.  
 In rural Colorado several residents turn on their kitchen
faucets and light the water afire. The roaring flames make you
wonder if they might be able to fuel their cars with their gas-
contaminated tap water.  
 In Colorado and Wyoming, residents in drilling areas
complain of persistent headaches, loss of smell and taste and
having to buy their drinking water from Wal-Mart.  
 Despite the ominous implications, Fox manages to maintain
his sense of humor. During a trip through Wyoming’s Jonah Gas
Field he leaves his car (wearing a gas mask) and plays “This
Land is Your Land” on his banjo, a poignant choice since he’s
on public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management
that’s been leased out for exploration.  
 Hairless Animals  
 In DISH, Texas -- the town was renamed after the satellite
company in exchange for getting free TV service for 10 years --
the air is so polluted by natural-gas exploration that it may be
flammable. Mayor  Calvin Tillman  muses that “some guy is going
to be cooking his hamburger one day and blow up the town.”  
 The Marcellus Shale Field, which stretches from New York to
West Virginia, is called the “Saudi Arabia of natural gas.”
It’s also the country’s largest unfiltered watershed, supplying
16.5 million people with drinking water.  
 John Hanger , the head of Pennsylvania’s Department of
Environmental Protection, downplays pollution dangers. Yet when
Fox offers him a drink of water from a town where animals have
begun losing their hair, he declines.  
 In Congress, Fox finds lobbyists and energy executives
trying to derail a bill that would regulate some of the
chemicals used in fracking. U.S. Representative  Dan Boren , a
Democrat from Oklahoma, accuses critics of “searching for a
problem that does not exist.”  
 That might surprise some folks in Pennsylvania and West
Virginia, where gas-well explosions caused extensive damage
earlier last month. Toxic chemicals spewed into the air for 16
hours in Pennsylvania, which has halted construction of 70 wells
pending environmental review.  
 Maybe Boren would change his perspective if he took a sip
of some high-octane water.  
 Stars: ***  

 

What the Stars Mean:

****          Excellent
***           Good
**            Average
*             Poor
(No stars)    Worthless
 
 (Dave Shiflett is a critic for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this story:
Dave Shiflett at  dshifl@aol.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Flaming tap water in "Gasland." The documentary warns that air and water pollution caused by drilling has resulted in chronic health problems, and even flaming tap water in areas near drilling sites. Source: HBO via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Josh Fox plays his banjo near a natural gas drilling site in Wyoming in "Gasland." The documentary airs on HBO, June 21 at 9 p.m. New York time. Source: HBO via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
