-- Copper, Oil, Gold Climb as Commodities Gain on China Move to Let Yuan Rise
-- Glenys Sim
-- 2010-06-21T04:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/copper-oil-gold-rise-as-commodities-gain-on-china-move-to-let-yuan-rise.html

          
          
             Copper, oil and corn paced an
advance in commodities on speculation demand for raw materials
will increase after China, the world’s third-largest economy,
signaled an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar.  
 Oil jumped to a six-week high, gold climbed to within 0.1
percent of its record, and copper advanced for the first time in
four days, after China said it may allow the yuan to move higher,
making commodities priced in other currencies less expensive for
Chinese consumers. China is the world’s largest user of copper
and the second-largest energy consumer.  
 “It comes down to whether they will have more fundamental
reasons to buy more commodities,” said  Geoff Clear , head of
Asia commodities at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“It’s certainly a lot cheaper with relation to the yuan so it’s
not a harmful thing. From an infrastructure buildup perspective,
a stronger yuan will probably help them pay for it.”  
 Commodity prices measured by the  Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index  of 19 commodities have fallen 7.2 percent this year on
concern that Europe’s fiscal crisis, which began in Greece, will
hamper global growth. Concerns that Chinese demand may slow
after the government took steps to curb lending sent soybeans,
zinc and lead tumbling this year.  
 The  dollar  fell to a one-month low against a six- currency
basket after the People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will
allow greater “flexibility” in its currency, signaling it
would abandon the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the
global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank yesterday
ruled out “large changes” in the exchange rate and said it
will prevent “excessive” moves.  
 Limited Gains  
 Gains may be limited because the yuan has strengthened 16.5
percent against the euro this year, eroding earnings for Chinese
exporters in the European Union, the nation’s largest market. A
survey of economists showed the yuan’s appreciation against the
dollar may be limited to 1.9 percent.  
 “It could potentially be harmful to exports but they’re
still very competitive on the global stage,” Clear said from
Singapore today. “If it was one big 20 percent revaluation, it
will be quite a snag, but I think it’s going to be a gradual
thing and the market will adjust.”  
 The currency will climb to 6.7 per dollar by Dec. 31,
according to the median estimate of 14 analysts interviewed
after the People’s Bank of China statement.  
 Copper, used in construction and automobiles, jumped as
much as 1.8 percent to $6,548.5 a metric ton, and crude rallied
1.4 percent to $78.27 a barrel. Soybeans gained as much as 1.2
percent and corn added as much as 1.4 percent.  
 China Demand  
 “We expect speculative buying to increase on cheaper
prices, if the appreciation is realized,” said Standard
Chartered Bank analyst  Judy Zhu . “But buying based on real
demand will not immediately be encouraged by the appreciation as
the downstream consumers are key to decide when to buy in
alignment with their order books.”  
 Zinc rose for the first day in four, by as much as 3.6
percent to $1,793 a ton, and lead climbed as much as 2 percent
to $1,780 a ton. Both metals are the worst performers on the
London Metal Exchange this year.  
 “People’s knee-jerk reaction is always a yuan appreciation
will lead to more imports of bulk commodities, but our analysis
of empirical data showed there’s no firm causal relation between
the two,” Zhu said.  “A yuan appreciation will be long and
gradual process and its impact on commodity imports will depend
on whether there’s effective real demand from the economy or
short-term speculation.”  
 -- Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  Ravil Shirodkar .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        