-- Corn Gains to Three-Month High on Midwest Rainfall, China Yuan Speculation
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-06-21T11:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/corn-advances-to-three-month-high-on-midwest-rains-yuan-speculation.html

          
          
             Corn futures rose to the highest
price in more than three months on rain in the U.S. Midwest that
threatened to curb yields and on speculation a stronger yuan
will boost Chinese imports.  
 December-delivery corn gained as much as 1.6 percent to
$3.8675 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest
price for the most-active contract since March 5. The grain was
at $3.865 at 12:57 p.m. Paris time. Soybeans and wheat climbed.  
 Scattered showers and thunderstorms were forecast in parts
of the Midwest, the biggest U.S. producing region, in the 10
days after June 18 and flooding may result, forecaster Telvent
DTN Inc. said last week. China’s central bank said June 19 it
will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the
currency’s two-year peg to the dollar.  
 A stronger Chinese currency would “dampen the cost of
imports and help the People’s Bank of China to manage
inflationary pressures,”  Peter McGuire , managing director at
CWA Global Markets Pty, said by phone from Sydney. “China has
an insatiable appetite for all soft commodities.”  
 Soybeans for November delivery added 1.6 percent to $9.45 a
bushel, the sixth increase in seven sessions. Prices are gaining
on potential supply disruptions due to weather in the U.S., the
largest grower and exporter of the oilseed and corn, and in
parts of China, McGuire said.  
 Rains, Flooding  
 Nineteen of 26 traders and analysts surveyed from Chicago
to Tokyo on June 18 said corn will rise, and 18 of 25 said
soybeans will gain, as heavy rains and flooding threaten to
limit yields in the U.S., after a week of hot weather.  
 Northeast China will have another round of hot, dry weather
this week, after some cooler conditions over the weekend, DTN
said on June 18.  
 China, the largest soybean consumer and buyer, is forecast
to account for 56 percent of  global imports  of the oilseed this
year, while the U.S. is estimated to supply 46 percent of
shipments, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  
 “Corn crops in China’s Yellow River region remain too dry,
cutting production potentials,” Commonwealth Bank of Australia
said in a report published today.  
 China, the second-largest corn consumer, is  forecast  to
become a net importer of the grain for the first time in 14
years this year, according to USDA data. The country may buy
more than 1 million metric tons in the next 18 months,  Thomas Dorr , president of the U.S. Grains Council said June 16. That
would more than double the amount bought from the U.S. since
April.  
 Wheat for September delivery gained 1.3 percent to $4.84 a
bushel in Chicago. Milling wheat for November delivery traded on
NYSE Liffe in Paris added 0.2 percent to 142 euros ($176) a
metric ton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        