-- Corn Products Will Buy Akzo's National Starch for $1.3 Billion to Expand
-- Shruti Date Singh
-- 2010-06-21T20:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/corn-products-to-acquire-national-starch-from-akzo-nobel-for-1-3-billion.html

          
          
             Corn Products International Inc. , a
U.S. corn refiner and maker of sweeteners, agreed to acquire
 Akzo Nobel NV ’s National Starch unit for $1.3 billion in cash to
add products and customers globally.  
 The purchase of National Starch, which makes biscuit and
cake ingredients, will create $50 million in savings,
Westchester, Illinois-based Corn Products said today in a
statement. The transaction is expected to close in the third
quarter.  The shares  fell the most in more than 15 months.  
 The company plans to finance the transaction through cash,
debt and new equity. A majority of the deal will be financed
through debt, Chief Financial Officer  Cheryl Beebe  said during a
conference call with analysts.  
 “There is going to be new debt and there is going to be
new equity,”  Ian Horowitz , an analyst for Rafferty Capital
Markets Inc. in New York, said in an interview. “It’s going to
change everyone’s math around. It’s not a comment on the
acquisition as much as it is trying to figure out what the new
company looks like.”  
 Corn Products  fell $2.95, or 8.5 percent, to $31.90 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
decline since March 2, 2009.  The shares  have increased 9.1
percent this year.  
 A drop in shares one day isn’t indicative of long-term
shareholder value, Beebe said.  
 ‘Growth Rate’  
 “It’s one of the best strategic fits that one could hope
and imagine for and accelerates the growth rate both top-line
and bottom-line,” Beebe said.  
 The acquisition will expand Corn Products’ portfolio of
products and reduce its reliance on sweeteners such as high-
fructose corn syrup, which has received criticism from health
advocates. The deal will expand Corn Products’ global footprint
in Europe, Asia and the Pacific Rim.  
 “We wanted a strategy to grow our business and we wanted
to broaden our ingredient portfolio and expand our geographic
scope,” Chief Executive Officer  Ilene Gordon  said today in a
telephone interview. “National Starch met all those needs.”  
 The company may use a $1.35 billion bridge loan to finance
its acquisition. JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to finance the 364-
day senior bridge facility that pays an interest rate 2.25
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
Corn Products said today in a regulatory filing.  
 Combined Sales  
 Adding the starch business will increase Corn Products’
annual sales to $5 billion, Gordon said. That compares with 2009
revenue of $3.67 billion. The company may consider closing
plants in regions where growth is challenging, Gordon said.  
 Bunge Ltd. terminated an agreement in 2008 to purchase Corn
Products after the corn processor withdrew support for the all-
stock deal as the offer value shrank amid the global financial
crisis.  
 The divestiture of National Starch allows Amsterdam-based
Akzo, which earmarked the business for disposal when it  bought 
Imperial Chemical Industries in 2008, to focus on paint
production. The price excludes $100 million in pension and
employee benefit liabilities that it will take over from the
Dutch paint maker, Akzo Nobel spokesman  Tim van der Zanden  said
in a telephone interview.  
 “The divestment was expected and the price is good,” KBC
Securities analyst  Wim Hoste  said today. “Akzo is in a pretty
comfortable position. There’s clearly room for acquisitions and
the balance sheet has become even more solid.”  
 Akzo Rises  
 Akzo  rose  2.1 percent to 46 euros in Amsterdam trading, the
highest closing price since April 29, valuing the business at
10.7 billion euros ($13.2 billion).  
 Akzo , the world’s biggest maker of paints, sold National
Starch’s adhesives and electronic-materials units to German
detergent maker Henkel AG for about 2.7 billion pounds ($4
billion) at the time of the Imperial Chemical transaction.  
 Akzo’s starch businesses had sales of $1.2 billion last
year. National Starch, based in Bridgewater, New Jersey,
reported earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of 78 million euros in the period.  
 National Starch was challenged in its paper segment because
of the recession, Gordon said. Its products are used in tissues,
towels and newsprint, according to the company’s  website .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Akzo Nobel NV logo. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
