-- Corporate Bond Risk Falls to Six-Week Low in Europe, Default Swaps Show
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-06-21T09:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/corporate-bond-risk-falls-to-six-week-low-in-europe-default-swaps-show.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on European corporate bonds fell to the lowest level in almost
six weeks as investors bet a loosening of China’s currency peg
will bolster sales for Europe’s exporters.  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped
for a ninth day, falling 23.5 basis points to 496.5, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices at 10 a.m. in London. The
contracts are down from 628.5 basis points June 8.  
 Stocks also surged and commodities gained after the
People’s Bank of China said June 19 it will end a two-year
dollar peg adopted during the global financial crisis to protect
its exporters. China’s central bank yesterday reaffirmed it
would maintain the yuan’s 0.5 percent daily trading band and
said greater flexibility would help cut the trade surplus and
reduce the reliance on exports as a driver of growth.  
 “The immediate impact of a currency revaluation will be
that Chinese importers will buy foreign goods and services at
lower prices,” said  Tim Brunne , a Munich-based credit
strategist at UniCredit SpA. “This is beneficial for exporters
in Europe and elsewhere.”  
 The Chinese central bank made its announcement a week before
leaders from the Group of 20 nations meet in Toronto to discuss
items ranging from the global response to the European
sovereign-debt crisis to increasing the influence of developing
countries in the International Monetary Fund.  
 ‘Constructive Step’  
 President Barack Obama, in a statement, called China’s
decision a “constructive step.” U.S. lawmakers said the move
was insufficient because it didn’t indicate the timing or amount
of adjustment.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 5 basis points to 112,
JPMorgan prices show. The cost of protecting bank bonds from
default also fell, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25
banks and insurers down 3.5 at 142.5 and the subordinated index
5 lower at 217.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($12.5 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        