-- French World Cup Team's Strike Leads Bank, Burger Chain to Drop Soccer Ads
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-06-21T16:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/credit-agricole-scraps-french-soccer-ads-after-team-players-go-on-strike.html

          
          
             Credit Agricole SA  and hamburger
chain Quick suspended advertising campaigns featuring the French
national soccer squad after a bust-up between a player and the
coach at the World Cup prompted team members to go on strike.  
 The French team, world champions in 1998 and runners-up at
the last World Cup four years ago, are on the verge of
elimination in the first round after a draw against Uruguay and
a 2-0 loss to Mexico.  
 Striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent home over the weekend after
newspaper L’Equipe reported insults he’d flung at coach  Raymond Domenech  at half-time during the Mexico match. The rest of the
team refused to train yesterday in protest. The affair has
dominated news coverage in France. President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and a host of former team
members have criticized the players’ behaviour.  
 “Looking at the situation, Credit Agricole decided to
suspend its current  ad campaign ,” the bank said in a statement
today. A spokeswoman for the Paris-based bank said the situation
was “disappointing.” She declined to be named.  
 Quick Restaurants SA, owned by buyout fund CDC Capital
Investissements, suspended a poster and television ad campaign
featuring Anelka for its Giant Max burgers. “After Saturday’s
events, we spoke to Anelka’s agents and we all agreed it was
best for both sides that we withdrew the campaign,” said Quick
spokeswoman Valerie Raynal.  
 To qualify, France must beat South Africa in its final
match tomorrow, and hope that Uruguay beats Mexico in the other
group match, with the margin of victory in both games adding up
to at least four goals. London-based William Hill has 8-1 odds
against France qualifying. The team resumed training today.  
 Sponsorship Risk  
 “It’s all part of the risk you take on when you sponsor a
team,” said Renaud Vaschalde, a Paris-based industry analyst at
market researcher NPD Group. “Football is not just a sport but
a game, with all the resulting elements of chance and luck and
ups and downs.”  
 Nike Inc. , the world’s largest maker of athletic shoes,
next year will replace  Adidas AG  as the French national team’s
shirt supplier, having agreed in 2007 to a 42.7 million euro
($52 million) contract running from 2011 through 2018.  
 Nike could pay even more if France performs well at the
2014 and 2018 World Cups. Nike didn’t respond to request for
comment today.  
 Not all is lost for Nike, Vaschalde said. “This is a
seven-year contract, and it’s normal that over the course of
seven years a team has its ups and downs,” he said.  
 “The latest development is hurting the French team’s
reputation,” Adidas CEO  Herbert Hainer  said today at a press
conference in Herzogenaurach, where the company is based.  
 TV Rights  
 Societe Television Francaise 1 , the French TV channel which
has spent 87 million euros on exclusive rights and another 6
million to 7 million euros on production, may take a hit of 40
million euros if the team is eliminated, La Tribune reported
today, without citing anyone.  
 TF1 didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. In an
interview with Le Parisien newspaper today, TF1 Chief Executive
 Nonce Paolini  said “the absence of the French team in the
second round would deny us extra revenue, but we had planned for
this scenario.”  
 Lagarde, the finance minister, said on a LCI television
talk show last night that she was “dismayed” by the events
surrounding the team, but that it wouldn’t have an impact on the
French economy.  
 “There might be an impact on some sectors, but we tried to
measure the effect of the World Cup win in 1998 and we
couldn’t,” she said. “Football is not the only thing in life,
even if it feels that way sometimes.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee and Rachel Brookes report on the French players' strike following Nicolas Anelka’s expulsion for insulting coach Raymond Domenech at halftime of the 2-0 loss to Mexico.
     Credit Agricole SA, France’s largest bank by branches, ended its advertisement campaign featuring members of the national soccer team amid the group’s mutinous behavior and as the team’s World Cup fate hung in the balance. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
