-- CVS, Medco Oppose Postal Cuts, Citing Drug Delays, Higher Costs
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-06-21T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/cvs-medco-fight-u-s-postal-cuts-on-delayed-drug-deliveries-higher-costs.html

          
          
             CVS Caremark Corp . and  Medco Health
Solutions Inc.  are opposing the U.S. Postal Service’s plan to
end Saturday delivery, saying the move would delay needed
medicines and may boost mail-order drug prices.  
 The pharmacy-benefits management companies, which shipped
more than 150 million drug orders last year, have joined
publishers of small newspapers to challenge the Postal Service
and its plan to cut service to save about $3 billion a year.  
 “Eliminating Saturday delivery would create difficulties
for many individuals and could be dangerous for patients who
need their medications on time,”  Ken Czarnecki , CVS senior vice
president of mail pharmacy operations, says in testimony for a
 Postal Regulatory Commission   hearing  today in Chicago.  
 Postmaster General  John Potter , facing projected deficits
of $7 billion this year and $250 billion by 2020, is seeking
support from business for budget cuts including the first change
in delivery schedules since six-day service began in 1863. The
Postal Service lost $1.6 billion in its recent quarter as
customers continued to use the Internet in place of letters,
print publications and monthly bills that arrive by mail.  
 CVS, the largest U.S. provider of prescription drugs,
shipped more than 50 million orders in 2009, most by mail. CVS,
based in Woonsocket, Rhode Island, probably would turn to
private-delivery companies to get drugs to customers on Saturday
if mail delivery is ended, at an estimated annual cost of $50
million, according to Czarnecki.  
 “Mail-order pharmacies and other merchants will have no
choice but to shift these costs to patients,” Czarnecki says in
his testimony. “Added costs not only impact patients’ pockets,
but will also place significant fiscal strain on our health care
system.”  
 103 Million Prescriptions  
 Medco, based in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, dispensed 103
million prescriptions through the mail in 2009, spokeswoman
Melissa Mackey said. Medco’s mail-order business is expanding,
with a 5.8 percent rise in shipped prescriptions in the first
quarter, according to a U.S. regulatory filing.  
 Cutting Saturday delivery would delay about 300,000 orders,
the company has said.  
 Potter’s plan has drawn opposition from mail-order
prescription providers led by the Washington-based
 Pharmaceutical Care Management Association , a neutral stance
from  Netflix Inc. , which ships or receives 4 million DVDs daily,
and support from magazine publisher  Time Warner Inc.   
 “Nobody’s for eliminating Saturday, and I think that would
include the Postal Service” said Art Sackler, executive
director of the Washington-based  National Postal Policy Council ,
representing 29 companies that are among the  biggest mail
customers . “There are those who would consider it a necessary
evil on the way to trying to right the Postal Service’s
financial ship.”  
 Post Office Boxes  
 The council, whose members include  AT&T Inc. , the largest
U.S. phone company and  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S.
lender, hasn’t taken a position because its members are split.  
 Community newspapers that distribute copies by mail are
among those most concerned, as are “a lot of industries that
depend on remittances and cash flow,” Sackler said.  
 Post offices would remain open on Saturday under the plan.
After meeting customers, Potter also tweaked his proposal to
continue delivery to mail boxes inside post office branches.
Companies that get payments by mail rely on boxes. Restoring the
service sliced $500 million from projected savings.  
 Potter, 54, is fighting to hold on to as much mail volume
as possible after the recession hastened the trend toward
customers paying bills, ordering products and communicating with
businesses online instead of by mail.  
 Paper to Electronic  
 “Once a transaction moves from hard copy to electronic, it
stays that way,” Potter said in a May 11 interview at
Bloomberg’s Washington office. “We have to just face the
reality of the situation. That’s why we put together the plan
going out to 2020.”  
 Labor unions, led by the  American Postal Workers Union  and
 National Association of Letter Carriers , say that reducing
service would be self-defeating.  
 “You’re not long for this world in terms of competing if
you’re going to make your bottom line by making cuts,” postal
workers union President  William Burrus  said in an interview. The
union would lose about 2,000 jobs, or 1 percent of its members,
if mail isn’t delivered on Saturdays, he said.  
 Potter won support from Time Warner, which mails out more
than 20 magazines including Time, Sports Illustrated and People.
The postmaster said he explained “the economics and they
quickly came around” during a meeting with Time Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Ann S. Moore .  
 ‘Healthy Postal Service’  
 “We need a healthy Postal Service,” John O’Brien, vice
president of distribution and regulatory at the company’s Time
Inc. periodical division, said in an interview last month.  
 Resisting the cut may result in higher rates for business
mail, said William Olson, legal counsel for the Association of
Priority Mail Users, whose members include defense contractor
 Northrop Grumman Corp.   
 Potter isn’t making specific promises to hold down rates if
businesses back the end of Saturday service after the meetings,
according to spokeswoman  Gerry McKiernan .  “There was no direct
linkage between five-day and rates,” McKiernan said.  
 Bank of America is the only bank to weigh in as an
“intervener” in the Postal Regulatory Commission’s review,
reserving the right to submit comments without taking a
position, according to a filing on April 21.  
 Spokeswoman Kelli Cishek said by e-mail that the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank is “a heavy user of both first-class
and standard mail.”  
 Economist, Magazines  
 Weekly magazines such as the Economist depend on Friday and
Saturday mail delivery to get publications to subscribers during
the weekend, said  Gene Del Polito , president of the Association
of Postal Commerce, which represents mail customers such as
publishers Conde Nast Publications Inc. and the Newsletter and
Electronic Publishers Association.  
 “The last thing they want is to have it arrive Monday
morning” when subscribers are “back at work and their minds
are on other things,” Del Polito said.  
 The London-based Economist has begun testing delivery by
newspaper carriers in Washington’s suburbs. Dayna De Simone, a
spokeswoman for the Economist, declined to comment.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, publishes
Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets magazines.  
 “We understand the decisions enterprises make to be
competitive and support the U.S. Postal Service’s efforts to
remain viable,” Bloomberg Businessweek spokesman  Carl Fischer 
said in an e-mail.  
 Mail-order catalog companies “feel as if they could
accommodate” five-day delivery, said Del Polito, whose
Arlington, Virginia-based group represents retailers including
L.L. Bean Inc. and the  American Catalog Mailers Association .  
 While Netflix Inc. is “obviously a big customer of the
Postal Service,” it isn’t taking a position on Saturday
delivery, said spokesman  Steve Swasey . The Los Gatos,
California-based company is expanding its service of movies
streamed over the Internet.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mail Carrier  
                       
                         
                           Justin Sullivan/Getty Images 
                         
                         The Post Office may end Saturday delivery. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Post Office may end Saturday delivery. Photographer: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
