-- Democrats of 2004 Brand Obama Worst President: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-06-21T01:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/democrats-of-2004-brand-obama-worst-president-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             As we approach another general
election, it will be interesting to see how the economic
performance of Democrats is judged. If voters borrow the
preferred method of  John Kerry  and other Democrats from 2004,
 Barack Obama  will be revealed to be among the worst presidents
in history.  
 During the 2004 election, Democrats constantly reminded
voters that  George W. Bush  was the first president in decades to
oversee a net loss of jobs.  
 The drumbeat was incessant. “This administration is the
first since  Herbert Hoover ’s to actually lose jobs on its watch
-- 1.8 million jobs,” Kerry said at a campaign stop. His
campaign chairman,  Jeanne Shaheen , said Bush deserved “the
first-ever ‘Herbert Hoover Award’ for having the worst jobs
record since the Great Depression.”  
 The Hoover analogy was a stretch, as some recognized even
back then. The watchdog election site factcheck.org  wrote ,
“Comparing the Bush economy to Hoover’s Great Depression is
just silly, and implying that tax cuts are not contributing to
job growth deserves an ‘F’ in freshman economics.”  
 As an adviser to the Bush re-election campaign, I regularly
rebutted the Hoover charge when I appeared on television to
debate Kerry supporters in 2004. Here’s what I said then, and
still say now: While some presidents arrive in Washington during
boom times, others come during busts, and those often are the
ones elected precisely because voters hope that they will change
economic policies.  
 Jobless Recovery  
 Bush arrived just as the  last recession  was beginning -- a
bit of timing that Obama can relate to. Though that recession
was brief, the subsequent jobless recovery did little to
strengthen Bush’s record as he entered his reelection year.  
 Obama, of course, is just 17 months into his presidency,
and more than two years from facing the voters personally. But
with a big midterm congressional election upcoming, let’s see
how Obama would fare if Kerry-like tactics were used on him.  
 The answer: not well. Whether the measurement is job
creation, unemployment or growth of gross domestic product, the
economy has been worse under Obama than it was under Bush.  
 First, job creation. According to  data  from the U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics, the U.S. shed 2.3 million jobs since
February 2009, Obama’s first full month in office. Going back to
World War II, that is by far the worst record for any president
in his first 17 months, outpacing the job destruction
experienced in the early Bush years by more than 800,000 jobs.  
 Campaign Fodder  
 For Obama, there is an even worse way to play the data,
which might just become fodder for a political ad: From November
2008, the month he was elected, until now, the economy has shed
an astonishing 4.4 million jobs. That’s worse than Hoover.  
 Sure, you can blame the first few months of that period on
lame-duck President Bush. But perhaps companies accelerated
their shedding of jobs because they were bracing for higher tax
rates, increased union power and costly environmental taxes
under Obama.  
 Other measurements are only slightly kinder to Obama. The
two-percentage-point increase in  unemployment rate  during his
presidency, to 9.7 percent from 7.7 percent, is the third-worst
since World War II.  Dwight Eisenhower  and  Gerald Ford  saw bigger
increases.  
 GDP growth under Obama, an abysmal 3 percentage points so
far, is the fourth-worst in the postwar period. Eisenhower, Ford
and  Ronald Reagan  all began their terms with worse GDP growth.  
 But hey, it was Kerry and the Democrats who made job
creation the be-all and end-all measurement of a presidency, and
by that standard, Obama is dredging a new low. It’s probably a
good bet that Democrats who became so enamored of Hoover’s name
in 2004 won’t be mentioning it much this year.  
 Republicans should be willing to drop it too -- so long as
some economic adviser to Kerry-Edwards ‘04 admits the campaign
was wrong to bring up Herbert Hoover in the first place.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        