-- Dendreon Option Traders Bet on 25% Drop in Two Months (Correct)
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-06-22T16:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/dendreon-options-traders-boost-bet-on-25-retreat-of-shares-in-two-months.html

          
          
             (Corrects name of analyst in fourth paragraph)  
 Options traders are boosting bets
that Dendreon Corp. shares will lose almost a quarter of their
value in the next two months as the maker of the first prostate
cancer vaccine faces possible delays of its only product.  
 Trading of bearish Dendreon options rose to more than
19,500 contracts, double the four-week average, and investors
bought new positions betting that the shares will fall to $29 by
August. The stock fell $1.72, or 4.5 percent, to $36.83 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  
 Dendreon is the first company to win approval for a cancer
treatment to train a patient’s own immune system to attack
malignant cells. The Seattle-based company is producing the drug
on its own instead of teaming up with a large pharmaceutical
company, and executives have said they will be ready to meet
demand by the middle of next year. Investors aren’t so sure.  
 “We remain cautious on potential commercialization
hurdles,” said Joel Sendek, an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets, in a note to clients on May 25. “We decrease our U.S.
Provenge sales estimates through 2Q11 to account for a slower
launch trajectory.”  
 Today’s most-active contracts were the August $29 puts,
which accounted for about 35 percent of today’s trading in calls
giving the right to buy the shares. A retreat to that level,
which Dendreon hasn’t closed below since February, would be a 25
percent loss from the prior close.  
 Today’s volume for the August $29 puts was 6,863, or almost
triple the number of existing contracts before today and 14
times the open interest level from a week ago.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        