-- Deutsche Bank's Miras, Barber Said to Exit Firm for Nomura, Morgan Stanley
-- Zachary R. Mider
-- 2010-06-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/deutsche-bank-canada-head-thomas-barber-said-to-leave-for-nomura-holdings.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG’s  Thomas Barber  and
 Eduardo Miras  left for rivals, said people familiar with the
matter, bringing to six the number of senior natural resources
bankers in the Americas who have departed the firm this year.  
 Barber, chairman of  Deutsche Bank’s  Canadian securities
unit in Toronto, is going to  Nomura Holdings Inc. , said a person
briefed on the matter. Miras, a managing director based in
Brazil, is joining Morgan Stanley, another person said.  
 Morgan Stanley and Nomura are hiring from Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, which leads financial firms in advising on oil
and gas deals this year. Morgan Stanley’s other hires this year
include natural resources bankers  Michael Johnson  and  Jonathan Cox , said people with knowledge of the hires, and Nomura’s
include  Michael Hill  and  James DeNaut .  
 Deutsche Bank spokesman  John Gallagher  confirmed the
departures and said he couldn’t comment further. Nomura
spokesman  Peter Truell  said he couldn’t comment, as did  Mary Claire Delaney  of Morgan Stanley.  
 Barber joined Deutsche Bank in 2005, advising clients in
the metals and mining and energy industries such as Petro-Canada
in its sale to Suncor Energy Inc. last year. He was previously
head of the Canadian unit of Credit Suisse First Boston in
Toronto and at Morgan Stanley.  
 Adding Bankers  
 Nomura plans to have about 100 bankers in the U.S. by the
end of 2010, compared with about 65 now,  Glenn Schiffman ,
Nomura’s head of Americas investment banking, told Bloomberg
News in an interview last week. “We are in the early stages of
creating a full-scale investment bank in the U.S.,” said
Schiffman, 40, a former banker at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
who helped manage the sale of Lehman’s assets to Nomura and led
the integration of the businesses in Asia.  
 Nomura said last week that it hired Deutsche Bank’s  Mark Epley  as co-head of the unit that advises buyout firms.  
 The exits come amid a shift in leadership at Deutsche
Bank’s corporate and investment bank, the company’s biggest
 money-maker .  Anshu Jain , co-head of that business since 2004,
was named last week to be its sole leader, assuming
responsibility for the corporate finance and transaction-banking
units on July 1 from  Michael Cohrs , who plans to retire.  
 Deutsche Bank has hired at least two managing directors in
its natural resources group in the Americas this year, adding
 Curtis Launer  from Sagent Advisors Inc. to advise midstream
energy companies, and  Tim Kisling  from UBS AG to run mergers and
acquisitions in the power, utility and midstream energy
industries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        