-- Heathrow Landlord May Become Fund Manager to Attract Investors, Chief Says
-- Chris Bourke
-- 2010-06-21T12:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/heathrow-landlord-may-become-fund-manager-to-attract-investors-chief-says.html

          
          
             Ian Coull , the chief executive
officer of  Segro Plc , made two of the best-timed property
transactions of the last three years: the sale of the company’s
U.S. unit at the peak of the market and the purchase of its
biggest U.K. rival at the bottom.  
 The deals helped make Segro the U.K.’s largest owner of
warehouses and business parks, though they failed to stop a 1.7
billion-pound ($2.5 billion) drop in the value of its assets.
Segro may now start packaging the assets into funds with
investors, rather than owning them outright, Coull said in an
interview. That would let it share the risk of falling values
while keeping part of any income generated by the real estate.  
 “We need to find a way of retaining an interest in assets
so we get the future value out of them,” Coull, 60, said at
Segro’s offices in London’s West End. “Co-invested funds seem a
natural vehicle.”  
 Coull had planned to enter fund management about four years
ago, following a strategy successfully adopted by U.S.-based
 ProLogis , Europe’s biggest warehouse owner. The U.K. recession
forced him to delay the move until April, when Segro purchased
50 percent of a fund with  Aviva Plc , the U.K.’s second-largest
insurer.  
 By then, Segro had carried out two transactions that
transformed the company. In August 2009, just as the commercial
property market bottomed out, Coull completed the acquisition of
Brixton Plc, Segro’s biggest U.K. competitor. He had sold
Segro’s U.S. unit for $2.9 billion just before the global credit
crisis began in 2007.  
 Tapping Investors  
 “I’m not sure where we would have been without that
sale,” Coull said. Segro was still forced to tap investors for
742 million pounds in two share sales last year as the debt-
fueled industry grappled with slumping values. The second, which
raised 242 million pounds, funded the Brixton purchase.  
 “I never want to miss an opportunity to do a deal,” Coull
said.  
 Segro now owns about 5.1 million square meters (55 million
square feet) of industrial real estate, according to its
 website . The buildings include about 20 percent of the warehouse
space near Heathrow airport, as well as factories and offices in
large suburban estates, Coull said. About 72 percent of them are
in the U.K., with the rest in continental Europe.  
 Mars Inc., the chocolate bar maker, and Telefonica O2, the
phone operator, are among the biggest tenants in the U.K.,
according to Segro’s latest annual report.  
 More Control, Fees  
 As a fund manager, Segro may be able to control more
buildings using less capital, while still retaining a stake in
their future profits, said  Steve Bramley-Jackson , a London-based
analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG . The company could also earn
performance fees from managing the assets.  
 Having off-balance-sheet funds may make it harder for
investors to assess the business, according to  Robert Duncan , a
real estate analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 “There’s much greater scope for there to be something in
the company that you’re not aware of,” said Duncan, who rates
Segro “neutral.”  
 Segro’s purchase of a 50 percent stake in the Airport
Property Partnership, which owns 3.5 million square feet of
buildings, provided a route into fund management with a major
partner, Coull said. The company plans to sell 240 million
pounds of its own assets into the fund, he said.  
 ProLogis, Segro’s biggest competitor in Europe, controls
about $11.7 billion of properties in the region that it owns
directly or manages in funds with other investment partners.  
 ‘Lot of Equity’  
 “There’s a lot of equity out there looking for real estate
opportunities,” Bramley-Jackson said. “It’s not a bad point in
the cycle to try and tap into that.”  
 The last three years proved that such a strategy doesn’t
always work well in a recession, according to Coull.  
 “You have to keep doing more and more development on the
balance sheet in order to keep the dividends flowing,” he said.
“We’re trying to find a model that’s maybe a bit more robust in
the downturns.”  
 Segro is trying to increase its market value at a time when
industrial properties are appreciating more slowly than other
types of commercial real estate. Their average values rose by
9.4 percent in the 12 months through May, compared with gains of
10.9 percent for offices and 17 percent for shops, according to
Investment Property Databank Ltd.  
 Weakest Outlook  
 The outlook for warehouses and business parks over the next
four years is also the weakest, according to  Real Estate
Forecasting Ltd . The research company expects that rents will
rise by an average of 0.4 percent each year, while property
values will increase by an annual 2.3 percent through 2014.  
 That’s not deterring investors.  Goodman Group , an
Australia-based industrial landlord, and  CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc . created a joint venture that will invest $1.1 billion in
European property over the next three years, according to a
statement June 11. Legal & General Group Plc, the London-based
insurer, raised 80 million pounds last week for an industrial
fund.  
 Segro’s biggest challenge will be finding tenants for the
14 percent of its properties that are empty, partly as a result
of the  Brixton  purchase, Coull said. A year ago, the vacancy
rate was 11.3 percent.  
 Coull regards the resulting vacancy rates as “unacceptably
high.” Still, he’s confident the empty buildings will fuel
Segro’s earnings growth over the next three years as more
tenants are found and existing ones take more space.  
 Segro’s longer-term profit may come from further afield.
The company has been looking at potential projects in the Middle
East, where it has no interests, Coull said.  
 “We’ve met a lot of people there who could be our
partners,” he said. “That’s certainly on our agenda.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in London at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        