-- ECB Seeks European Union Fiscal Monitor, Quasi-Automatic Deficit Penalties
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-06-21T08:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/ecb-seeks-european-union-fiscal-monitor-quasi-automatic-deficit-penalties.html

          
          
             The European Central Bank called for
an independent budget-monitoring agency and “quasi-automatic”
sanctions on high-deficit countries as ways of preventing a
repeat of the Greece-fueled debt crisis.  
 Scolding euro-region governments for failing to police each
other, the ECB also said central European Union authorities need
more power to intervene in tax and spending decisions,
especially in countries with weak finances.  
 “A credible application of sanctions has been a problem of
the existing policy framework so far, and remedying this
situation represents a considerable challenge,” the Frankfurt-
based central bank said in a  June 17 memo  on its website.  
 European leaders plan to outline the strengthened
enforcement system by October, shocked into overhauling
management of the $11 trillion economy by the debt crisis that
led to speculation the euro might break apart.  
 In the memo, which echoes many proposals under discussion
by EU finance ministers, the ECB ruled out expulsion from the
euro region as the ultimate penalty “because the very existence
of this option would put the viability of the common currency
into question and would thus not be seen as credible.”  
 Instead, it seeks a staggered set of sanctions, ranging
from “procedural” steps such as more intrusive monitoring of
national budgets to the suspension of voting rights on euro-
region decisions and financial penalties.  
 To take politics out of the process, national budgets would
be screened by an independent unit of the Brussels-based
 European Commission . Countries with weaker finances or
competitiveness handicaps identified by ECB indicators would
face the toughest scrutiny.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        