-- Lehman's Fuld Asked Barclays Three Times to Buy Firm
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-06-22T04:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/lehman-trial-for-barclays-windfall-resumes-as-marsal-is-first-to-testify.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc  had at least three
calls from former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Chairman  Richard Fuld  asking if it wanted to buy the faltering investment bank in
the falling markets of 2008, Barclays’s president said.  
 “The markets were depressed and what was important to us
was the price in the context of the turmoil in the financial
markets,”  Robert Diamond , who runs Barclays’s corporate and
investment banking operations, told U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge
 James Peck  yesterday in a nonjury trial in Manhattan.  
 “Bear Stearns had been rescued at a price low relative to
trading prices for securities firms,” Diamond said. “The
single most important thing for Barclays was the right value of
the deal that would be capital accretive.”  
 Diamond was the second witness yesterday in the trial over
Lehman’s claim that the London-based bank should pay it as much
as $11 billion for an allegedly undisclosed “windfall” on the
defunct brokerage. The deal was approved by Peck and closed a
week after Lehman’s Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy, the biggest in
U.S. history.  
 Diamond was asked several times by Lehman lawyer  Robert Gaffey  if it was “a given” within Barclays that the bank would
only buy Lehman’s brokerage at a “distressed price,” and had
said so to  Timothy Geithner , former president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.  
 When Diamond asked to be allowed to give a fuller answer,
Peck told him, “You’re being evasive.”  
 “We were clearly at distressed prices,” Diamond said.
“The markets were in free fall.”  
 ‘Yes’ or ‘No’  
 Gaffey asked Diamond repeatedly to answer “yes” or
“no” to questions. When Diamond answered without doing so,
Peck said, “This is a witness that needs to be kept on a very
tight leash.”  
 Lehman, which wants money to pay off creditors, has accused
the U.K.’s third-biggest bank of promising bonuses to former
Lehman executives to get an undisclosed discount on the deal.
The brokerage’s trustee,  James Giddens , has said changes were
secretly inserted in the sale contract without notice to him or
Lehman’s lawyers. He wants $6.7 billion from Barclays to pay
hedge funds and other institutional clients of Lehman.  
 Gaffey asked Diamond if he or any member of his team had
“taken steps” to disclose to the court that Barclays would
make a gain on its purchase.  
 Public Conference Call  
 Barclays held a highly public conference call in London
discussing the gain, which it also announced in a press release,
Diamond said.  
 Gaffey asked whether Diamond was aware that a press release
wasn’t a disclosure to a U.S. bankruptcy court. Diamond said he
wasn’t familiar with the rules of the court, though he was sure
all “proper” disclosures were made by Barclays’s lawyers.  
 “Did you or any member of your team take steps to tell the
court that the deal had been ‘de-risked?’ Gaffey asked.  
 “I’m sure we would never have done that because we didn’t
believe it had been de-risked,” Diamond said. Later, Diamond
said, “We were the only ones to bid on this deal because no one
else would take a risk.”  
 As Barclays tried to close the deal, it got into a dispute
with Lehman’s main clearing bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co., over
$7 billion in assets sought by Barclays as part of the brokerage
purchase.  
 Varley, Dimon  
 Gaffey cited a letter to Diamond and Barclays Group Chief
Executive  John Varley  from JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer
 James Dimon , saying the court was misinformed about the Barclays
deal.  
 “Did you or any member of your team take steps to make
sure that this court was not misled about the amount of assets
that you took out of” Lehman? Gaffey asked.  
 Diamond said he would look into whether Barclays had
reviewed its accounting for the deal.  
 “We knew these accusations to be untrue,” he said.
Referring to JPMorgan, he said, “This is the bank that took
$7 billion out of a custodial account.”  
 Earlier yesterday, Lehman Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  testified that he and the defunct firm’s board understood
that the sale of its brokerage unit to Barclays wouldn’t result
in a profit for the British bank.  
 “The liabilities would be covered by the value of the
assets being exchanged,” Marsal told Gaffey , in describing the
understanding that he and Lehman’s board had of the terms of the
transaction.  
 Barclays Results  
 Marsal said he became aware that the brokerage sale didn’t
match that description he was given early in 2009, when he saw
from Barclays’s financial results that the bank had profited
from the deal.  
 “There was a substantial built-in gain from the
transaction that suggested the net assets received were greater
than the liabilities assumed,” Marsal said. He said he received
about 20 calls from creditors asking about the gain that
Barclays had reported in a press release.  
 David Boies , a lawyer for Barclays, presented a document
drawn up in October 2008 by Marsal’s firm, Alvarez & Marsal LLC,
referring to a $5 billion discount negotiated on the deal.
Marsal said he had assumed the market value of the securities
Barclays acquired in the transaction had dropped, not affecting
the purchase as a “wash.”  
 Boies asked whether Marsal was aware at the time that
Barclays had said publicly it expected to make a gain on the
deal.  
 ‘No Knowledge’  
 “I had no knowledge of that,” Marsal said.  
 When Boies displayed a series of e-mails and documents
detailing a gain for Barclays to a team at Marsal’s firm or to
Marsal himself, the Lehman CEO said he either hadn’t seen a
particular e-mail, hadn’t focused on it, or had been confused by
it.  
 Crucial to Lehman’s case against Barclays is its allegation
that the bank’s gain was taken in “secret” and discovered long
after the closing, justifying the reopening of a sale contract
that would normally be considered final in bankruptcy court.  
 Lehman’s lawyers are beginning to wrap up their case after
more than two weeks of testimony by former Lehman executives,
advisers and Barclays officials. Today,  Varley  is scheduled to
testify.  
 The U.K. bank’s lawyers have tried to show when questioning
Lehman’s witnesses that all the key facts of the deal were known
by the main players. They are scheduled to present Barclays’s
side of the story starting Aug. 23. Barclays, which announced a
gain on its purchase on Sept. 17, 2008, has said it owes Lehman
nothing and wants $3 billion that is being withheld by the
trustee.  
 Lawyers, Advisers, Managers  
 Lehman spent $794 million on lawyers, advisers and managers
in 19 months through April, with $277.4 million going to
Marsal’s restructuring firm. Marsal has said he will spend five
years selling assets to pay unsecured creditors as little as
14.7 cents on the dollar. Any proceeds from litigation would add
to the payout.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and James W. Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Diamond, president of Barclays, seen here in April, spoke to U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge James Peck on Monday in a nonjury trial in Manhattan. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
