-- Telkom South Africa May Sell Loss-Making Multi-Links in Nigeria, CEO Says
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-06-21T10:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/telkom-south-africa-may-sell-loss-making-multi-links-in-nigeria-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Telkom South Africa Ltd. , Africa’s
largest fixed-line phone company, may sell all or part of
Multi-Links Telecommunications Ltd. in Nigeria after losses at
the division.  
 Action on Nigeria is “urgent,” Chief Executive Officer
 Reuben September  said on a conference call today. The unit’s
loss before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization almost
tripled to 659 million rand ($88 million) for the 12 months
through March and it wrote off 5.6 billion rand for goodwill
and assets.  
 “Multi-Links was supposed to be a breath of life for
Telkom, but it is increasingly becoming a liability,”  Spiwe Chireka , an  analyst  at Frost & Sullivan, said in a note today.
“A turnaround strategy is critical. We do not however think
that pulling out of Nigeria completely is advisable, as the
market still presents a great deal of growth opportunity if
it is properly addressed.”  
 Multi-Links uses code division multiple access technology,
or CDMA. It is a newer technology than GSM protocols used by
the larger, established operators in the country such as Zain,
now controlled by India’s Bharti Airtel Ltd., and  MTN Group
Ltd.  CDMA has 10 percent penetration in Nigeria and never
achieved the “critical mass” of 25 percent it needed,
September said.  
 Faster Transmission  
 CDMA allows multiple signals to use a single transmission
channel and can deliver higher data transmission speeds. Most
CDMA operators in Nigeria are startups that engaged in an
“unfortunate” price war while rolling out the technology,
September said. In hindsight, Telkom should not have paid $410
million to  acquire  Multi-Links, he said.  
 “Clearly if were to take that decision today we would
certainly not go into CDMA,” September said. Disposing of the
business or turning it around is “complicated” by the
dynamics of the CDMA market, September said. Partnerships with
non-CDMA operators will be explored as an option, he said.  
 Multi-Links voice subscribers increased 19 percent to 2.21
million during the year, while average revenue per user for
voice fell to $6 from $12 excluding non-revenue-generating
subscribers.  
 The  company  has been approached by other operators, and a
strategy to manage its exposure to Nigeria may be completed
within the next 6 to 12 months, September said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        