-- Telkom South Africa Says Full-Year Profit Declines as Voice Traffic Drops
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-06-21T07:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/telkom-south-africa-says-full-year-profit-declines-as-voice-traffic-drops.html

          
          
             Telkom South Africa Ltd. , Africa’s
largest fixed-line phone company, said fiscal full-year profit
fell because of increased competition from mobile operators and
lower price increases.  
 Earnings per share excluding one-time items dropped 12
percent to 425.2 cents a share in the year through March, the
Pretoria-based company said in a statement today. The earnings
measure excludes a profit from the sale of its 50 percent stake
in Vodacom Group Ltd. and 5.2 billion rand ($698 million) write-
down on its Nigerian unit.  
 Low tariff increases, greater competition in its South
African home market and Nigeria, coupled with high, ageing
handset stocks and above-inflation wage increases cut margins,
Telkom’s outgoing Chief Executive Officer  Reuben September  said
in a statement today. Voice traffic volumes fell 9.3 percent.  
 Telkom is shifting into mobile-phone services and focusing
on data as customers switch from fixed-line phone calls. Telkom
last year completed the $410 million acquisition of  Multi-Links
Telecommunications Ltd.  to expand its business beyond South
Africa and into Nigeria, where economic and competitive
conditions last year “were tough,” Telkom said.  
 The company’s  stock  rose 1.40 rand, or 3.8 percent, to
38.30 rand as of 9:10 a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a
market value of 20 billion rand.  
 On June 4, Telkom said September would step down when his
contract expires at the end of November, becoming the third CEO
to quit in seven years. His  departure  also follows that of Naas
Fourie, head of strategy,  Thami Msimango , head of international
operations,  Marius Mostert , executive for network provisioning
and Stafford Augustine, head of procurement, this year.  
 Governance Probe  
 Telkom, 39.7 percent owned by the South African government,
has had three chairmen since March 2003. The  Sunday Times 
reported yesterday that auditing firm KPMG will investigate
corporate governance at the company. Telkom did not respond to
an e-mailed request for comment.  
 Telkom has ordered 2,000 base stations as part of its five-
year program to create a mobile network to compete and retain
clients from moving services to Vodacom and MTN Group Ltd.,
Africa’s largest mobile operator, the company said. It will
spend 6 billion rand on the program it says to “defend” and
grow its business in South Africa.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        