-- Emerging Market Stocks Soar on Yuan Signal, Extend Longest Rally Since '05
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-21T21:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/emerging-equities-gain-most-in-three-weeks-as-china-unshackles-yuan-rate.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for a
10th day, the longest rally since September 2005, and currencies
gained after China’s signal the yuan will strengthen spurred
confidence in the global economy.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 2.6 percent, the
biggest gain in almost seven weeks, to 978.59 by 5 p.m. in New
York. Developing-nation bonds climbed, sending the extra yield
investors demand to own the debt over U.S. Treasuries down 7
basis points to 3.04 percentage points, the  lowest level  in five
weeks, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index  jumped 2.9 percent and the
yuan climbed the most since July 2005 against the dollar after
the People’s Bank of China said a stronger currency will help
curb inflation in the world’s third-largest economy and shift
investment toward service industries from export-manufacturing.
South Korea’s won appreciated 2.6 percent against the greenback,
leading Asian currencies higher on speculation a gain in the
yuan will boost demand for the region’s exports.  
 “The move appears to reflect increased confidence that the
Chinese and world economies are growing in a stable and
sustainable fashion,” UBS AG strategists including  Bhanu Baweja 
in London wrote in a research report. “China’s leadership would
not have taken this step unless they were confident about
economic and financial stability.”  
 Bovespa  
 Benchmark equity indexes in most major emerging market open
for trading advanced and the MSCI emerging closed at the highest
level in seven weeks. Industrial companies led gains on optimism
for increased sales to China, while Russia’s Micex jumped 2.8
percent as oil prices increased above $78 a barrel in New York
to the highest level in six weeks.  
 Russia’s  OAO Lukoil , the country’s second-biggest oil
producer, added 2.3 percent, and mining company  OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel  gained 4 percent.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  advanced to a five-week high
and the real rose for a fifth day after China’s signal that the
yuan will strengthen spurred confidence that demand for exports
will increase.  Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron ore producer
whose biggest export market is China, surged the most since May
27.  
 The yuan advanced 0.43 percent to 6.7969 per dollar, the
biggest gain since July 21, 2005, according to Bloomberg data.
China’s central bank said on June 19 it will allow greater
currency “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out “large
changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent
“excessive” moves.  
 ‘Greater Confidence’  
 China’s announcement “signals greater confidence in the
outlook, less risk of trade tensions with the U.S. or Europe, an
additional means to help control inflation and it should help
rebalance the economy,” said  Shane Oliver , the Sydney-based
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors. “This is
a good move for China.”  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a peg to the
dollar was scrapped in July 2005 and replaced by a managed float
against a basket of currencies including the euro.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in a statement that
China’s announcement is a “constructive step.”  
 “This is absolutely in the best interests of China,”  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman for China equities and commodities at
JPMorgan, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Airlines are
beneficiaries of a gain in the yuan because it reduces the
burden of their foreign-currency debt, Ulrich said.  
 ‘Overweight’  
 China Southern Airlines Co. , the nation’s largest carrier
by fleet size, advanced 8.2 percent in Shanghai. Air China Ltd.,
the largest international carrier, rose 6 percent in Hong Kong.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. gained 2.6
percent and  China Vanke Co.  rose 3.8 percent. Morgan Stanley
upgraded the nation’s banks and developers to “overweight,”
saying yuan appreciation in the second half will help regulators
manage inflation and reduce the need for further tightening.  
 The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of Chinese shares
traded in Hong Kong rose 4.4 percent, the biggest gain among
world equity indexes, to 12,134.42. The gauge will probably
advance to 15,800 in the next 12 months, spurred by easing
monetary policy, BNP Paribas analysts led by  Clive McDonnell 
said in a report today.  
 Rating Increase  
 Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite index  rose 0.4 percent, the
rupiah strengthened 1 percent against the dollar and the extra
yield on the country’s foreign-currency bonds over Treasuries
dropped 20 basis points to 2.24 percentage points. Indonesia’s
credit rating outlook was raised to positive from stable by
Moody’s Investors Service, three months after Standard & Poor’s
raised the country’s credit rating to a 12-year high.  
 “The core of Indonesia’s growth story is driven by a large
domestic market that is appropriately managed by a well-tested
economic policy framework,”  Aninda Mitra , Moody’s vice-
president and its lead sovereign analyst for Indonesia, said in
a statement.  
 In east European markets, the  Ukrainian Equities Index  rose
4.4 percent and Romania’s BET Index advanced 2 percent. The BUX
Index in Hungary climbed 2.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .
 Chua Kong Ho  at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        