-- Emerson Electric Facing July Deadline to Sweeten Chloride Bid, Trump ABB
-- Will Daley
-- 2010-06-21T14:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/emerson-electric-facing-july-deadline-to-sweeten-chloride-bid-trump-abb.html

          
          
             Emerson Electric Co. , whose bid for
power-equipment maker Chloride Group Plc was topped by ABB Ltd.,
faces a likely July deadline for deciding whether to sweeten an
offer for the company it’s been trying to buy since 2008.  
 That’s the timetable for a renewed offer according to the
U.K.’s merger  regulator . Chloride investors have signaled that
they expect a new bid by sending the  stock  up 6.8 percent more
than the 325 pence a share for which ABB agreed to buy the
London-based maker of gear that protects against power outages.  
 “The market is behaving as if it expects another bid or
that this isn’t over yet,” said  Eli Lustgarten , an analyst with
Longbow Securities in Independence, Ohio, who recommends buying
Emerson stock.  
 Emerson Chief Executive Officer  David Farr , 55, is weighing
whether to top Zurich-based ABB’s 864 million-pound ($1.3
billion) offer after proposing 275 pence, or 723 million pounds,
on April 26. When ABB agreed to buy Chloride on June 8, Emerson
said it was reviewing its next step and declined today to
comment further.  
 Farr said in April that acquiring Chloride would help
Emerson compete with Schneider Electric SA and Eaton Corp. in
the market for uninterruptible power-supply gear. Emerson
completed the purchase of Avocent Corp., a maker of information-
technology management products, for $1.2 billion last year.  
 Setting the Deadline  
 Under U.K. takeover panel guidelines, Farr would typically
have to make a move 10 days before Chloride shareholders vote on
ABB’s bid. Chloride has tentatively set the vote for July 16.
Once Chloride confirms a date, the panel will set a deadline for
St. Louis-based Emerson to present a formal bid.  
 “What the panel would ideally want is for Emerson to
clarify this sufficiently ahead of the shareholder meeting,”
said  Robert Adam , a partner with Baker & McKenzie in London who
worked at the takeover panel for two years.  
 ABB is progressing “according to plan,”  Wolfram Eberhardt , a spokesman, said in an e-mail. Representatives of
Chloride and the U.K. takeover panel declined to comment.  
 If Emerson argues it doesn’t have sufficient time to
prepare a counterbid before the shareholder meeting, the panel
may set a deadline that falls after investors vote, yet before a
judge’s final approval, according to Adam.  
 Emerson, a maker of power-control equipment and garbage
disposals, gained $1 to $48.47 at 10:15 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. ABB rose 67 centimes to 21.40 Swiss
francs in Zurich trading while Chloride declined 2.4 pence to
347 pence in London.  
 Chloride first rebuffed Emerson when it approached the U.K.
company in 2008 with an offer of 255 pence a share, again when
Emerson raised its bid to 270 pence and most recently in April.  
 While Emerson has the cash flow to raise its bid, the
company must make sure the acquisition strengthens profit, said
 Matt McCormick , a portfolio manager for Bahl & Gaynor Inc. The
Cincinnati-based firm held 1.2 million Emerson  shares  as of
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “We are somewhat agnostic on if they do it,” McCormick
said. “But if they do do it, it better be accretive to earnings
and not dilutive to the stock.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        