-- EPA Backs Reinstating Superfund `Polluter Pays' Tax That Lapsed in 1995
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-06-21T18:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/epa-backs-reinstating-superfund-polluter-pays-tax-that-lapsed-in-1995.html

          
          
             The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency told Congress it backs reinstating the lapsed Superfund
“polluter pays” tax used for cleaning up abandoned hazardous-
waste sites.  
 The tax would provide a predictable source of funding and
lift the burden of cleanup costs from taxpayers, said Lois
Gibbs, executive director of the  Center for Health, Environment
and Justice , a group formed after the 1978 discovery of the Love
Canal toxic-waste dump in Niagara Falls, New York.  
 The Superfund tax on oil and chemical companies lapsed in
1995. Since then Congress has appropriated about $1.2 billion a
year for hazardous-waste cleanups. About $3 billion a year is
needed, said Gibbs, whose group is based in Washington.  
 Reinstatement of the levy also would “increase the pace of
Superfund cleanup,” the EPA said today in a statement. The
agency sent a letter to lawmakers about the provision. The
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee has scheduled a
hearing for tomorrow on the Superfund program.  
 Reinstating the tax would force companies with no
responsibility for waste sites to pay, according to the American
Chemistry Council, an industry trade group.  
 “Since the taxes expired in 1995, responsible parties have
continued paying for the cleanup of Superfund sites and continue
to reimburse EPA for all of its cleanup costs,” the Arlington,
Virginia-based group said in a statement. “America’s chemical
makers and others targeted by the Superfund tax have paid for
site remediation several times over.”  
 International Attention  
 Love Canal  drew international attention when it was
discovered that thousands of tons of toxic waste had been buried
beneath the neighborhood by Hooker Chemical Co. The government
relocated more than 800 families and paid them for their homes.
That led Congress to pass a 1980 law that allows the EPA to
recover cleanup costs from responsible parties.  
 “Superfund is something that really needs its own revenue
stream,” said Gibbs, a former Love Canal resident. “It should
come from those who created the mess, not taxpayers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr.  in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        