-- Merkel `Regrets' Israeli Move to Block Development Minister's Gaza Entry
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-06-21T15:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/merkel-regrets-israeli-move-to-block-development-minister-s-gaza-entry.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel  expressed
“regret” at Israel’s decision not to allow a German government
minister into the Gaza Strip to visit a development project,
while welcoming Israeli moves to ease its Gaza blockade.  
 German Development Minister  Dirk Niebel  said yesterday that
the Israeli government made a “big diplomatic mistake” by
denying him entry into Gaza to visit a sewage-treatment plant.  
 The decision came at the last minute as talks were under
way to allow him entry, Niebel told the  Leipziger Volkszeitung 
newspaper in an interview confirmed by his office. “Time is
running out for Israel” to establish a peace accord with the
Palestinians, he said in the interview.  
 The spat is in “no way an additional burden” on the two
countries’ relations, German government spokesman  Christoph Steegmans  told reporters today in Berlin. “The chancellor
expects that Minister Niebel will be able to make the visit at a
later point,” Steegmans said.  
 While Israel has allowed such high-level officials as
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon and European Union
foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton into Gaza, “we can’t
allow every minister and politician in, and we’ve made this
clear enough so no one should act surprised by our policy,”
Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor  said by phone.  
 “Every time we let somebody into Gaza, Hamas uses their
presence to manipulate public opinion and to present it as a
sign of recognition by the international community,” he said.  
 Niebel was on a trip to Israel as the government in
Jerusalem agreed to ease its three-year-old blockade on the Gaza
Strip. Israel will allow all food items and a wider range of
building supplies into the Hamas-ruled territory while banning
materials that have military use, it said yesterday.  
 Merkel sees the decision as a “an important step
forward,” Steegmans said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        