-- Tullett, Merrill, RBS, Total, Pfizer, Vivendi, Qatari Diar in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-21T10:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/merrill-rbg-chevron-pfizer-vivendi-total-qatari-diar-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Tullett Prebon Plc , the inter-dealer
broker, lost a lawsuit accusing competitor  BGC Partners Inc.  of
a hiring raid on 77 of its partners that cost the U.K. firm $387
million in market value.  
 U.S. District Judge Stanley Chesler in Newark, New Jersey
ruled June 18 that Tullett had failed to include its allegedly
victimized U.S. units in the lawsuit and said the firm lacked a
stake in the matter that would allow it to pursue the case.  
 “Tullett U.K. is, at bottom, a shareholder of the affected
subsidiaries,” Chesler said, adding that the firm failed to
show it “meets the basic standing requirement that a plaintiff
may seek to vindicate only its own rights, not those of a third
party.”  
 Tullett, a London-based firm that matches securities trades
between banks, sued New York’s BGC Partners in October,
complaining that BGC’s hiring of brokers from two units of
Tullett in the U.S. had diminished its market value.  
 Tullett said in its complaint it had sustained a $387
million loss in its market value from August when hiring raid
began through the end of the year. The company’s shares fell 28
percent during the period.  
 “BGC has shown no sign that it is willing to stop its
unlawful activity,” according to the complaint. Only a court
order directing BGC to end its “systematic destruction of
Tullett Prebon’s subsidiaries” would put an end to its attempts
to put Tullett Prebon “out of business.”  
 Tullett disagreed with the court’s decision and is
considering its options, firm spokesman Nigel Szembel in London
said in an e-mail.  
 “Judge Chesler’s opinion, which does not reach the merits
of Tullett’s claims, was in part based on the pendency of a
Finra arbitration brought by Tullett’s subsidiaries against BGC
subsidiaries,” Szembel said. The case before the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority is unaffected by the decision, and
will go to trial soon, he said.  
 BGC spokesman Robert Hubbell declined to comment.  
 The case is Tullett Prebon Plc v. BGC Partners Inc.,
09cv5365, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 Florida Family Awarded $2.5 Million Over Defective Drywall  
 A Florida couple suffered $2.5 million in damages as a
result of defective drywall from China, a Florida jury found
June 18, helping to set a standard for trials throughout the
U.S.  
 In the first jury trial in the U.S. over defective drywall,
a state court panel in Miami deliberated more than a day before
finding closely held Banner Supply Co. 55 percent responsible
for damage done to the home of Armin and Lisa Seifart. The jury
found a company not included in the lawsuit, Germany’s Knauf
Group, 35 percent liable.  
 Plaintiffs had sought $4.3 million for loss of enjoyment of
their home and other damages.  
 “It sets a precedent to the extent that we were able to
see what a jury thinks about this case,” said Ervin Gonzalez,
attorney for the Seifarts.  
 USG Corp.  and Knauf are among about 1,000 defendants that
may face claims they distributed defective drywall manufactured
in China. As many as 40,000 plaintiffs may bring claims, U.S.
District Judge Eldon Fallon of New Orleans, who is overseeing
federal drywall lawsuits nationwide, said last month.  
 The cases, part of coordinated litigation over allegedly
defective drywall, are intended as a bellwether to help
determine property damage issues in other cases against
manufacturers. More than 2,100 people in the U.S. have sued in
federal court claiming damages from drywall made in China.  
 The Seifarts bought their home in February 2008. After less
than a year they learned their problems with appliances and a
sulfur smell originated with the drywall.  
 Banner countered that the Seifarts should be reimbursed for
the cost of repairs only, urging the jury not to make an award
for loss of enjoyment or the reduction of the value to the home.  
 “We are a bit disappointed and we will weigh all of our
rights, including our appellate rights,” Banner’s attorney,
Todd Ehrenreich said after the verdict.  
 AstraZeneca to Pay $103 Million to Settle Drug-Pricing Suit  
 AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker, will
pay $103 million to settle claims it overcharged for some
medicines in the U.S., court records show.  
 AstraZeneca’s  accord will end claims by third-party payers
who paid some of their insured’s Medicare for the Zoladex or
Pulmicort Respules products and other consumers and third-party
payers who paid cash or a co-payment for the drugs outside of
Medicare. Massachusetts plaintiffs will receive $13 million,
while those outside the state will get $90 million, according to
papers filed June 18 in federal court in Boston.  
 Consumers will receive 11 percent of the settlement while
the rest will go to insurers, according to a statement by  Hagens
Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP , the law firm that brought suit. The
proposed settlement of the  class-action suit  requires court
approval to become final. AstraZeneca, which denied wrongdoing,
said the settlement was in the company’s best interest.  
 “AstraZeneca has competed responsibly with respect to
pricing and marketing of our medicines, and we firmly believe
that we have acted at all times in accordance with the law,”
Tony Jewell, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 Lawyers for the plaintiffs will be paid one-third of the
settlement funds, according to court records.  
 The plaintiffs accused the company of illegally seeking to
boost market share by selling medicines to physicians at steep
discounts to the published average wholesale price that
consumers, pension funds and others paid, while secretly
encouraging doctors to claim full reimbursement from insurers.  
 The case is In Re Pharmaceutical Industry Average
Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL No. 1456 or 01-cv-12257, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 A.R. Capital Founder Sentenced to 37 Months in Prison  
 A.R. Capital Group Inc.’s Alan Fishman, a car-service
driver before he launched the hedge fund, was sentenced to 37
months in prison for his role in stealing from investors,
federal prosecutors in New York said.  
 Fishman, 50, and Daniel Ledven, 38, a principal at the
firm, pleaded guilty in March to one count each of conspiring to
commit securities fraud, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York
said June 18 in a statement. Ledven was sentenced to 57 months
in prison, according to the statement.  
 A.R. Capital raised about $20 million from individual
investors in its purported hedge fund between 2003 and September
2006, claiming the money would be invested in international real
estate companies and used for leveraged trading, prosecutors
said. About $18 million of the money was wired to bank accounts
in the Ukraine, prosecutors said.  
 Domenico Savatta, a lawyer for Fishman, and Henry Putzel, a
lawyer representing Ledven, didn’t return calls to their offices
after regular business hours.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ledven, 09-1088, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  
 Merrill Wins Dismissal of Chunilal’s U.K. Lawsuit Over Bonus  
 Merrill Lynch & Co.  won dismissal of a lawsuit over a
reduced bonus filed by its former head of Asia-Pacific
investment banking, Damian Chunilal.  
 The dispute shouldn’t be heard in the U.K. because “there
is no good arguable case that the breach relied on in fact
occurred within the jurisdiction,” Judge Michael Burton said.  
 Chunilal, who was fired from Merrill in November 2008, less
than two months after the bank agreed to be taken over by  Bank
of America Corp. , said his bonus was reduced to 20 percent of
the year-earlier level. He sued the firm in London in October
for breach of contract.  
 Merrill sought the dismissal, saying English courts didn’t
have jurisdiction over the matter. Chunilal, who worked for the
bank for 19 years, relocated to Hong Kong from London in 2004.
He was paid a bonus of $2.3 million in his last year, compared
with $11.7 million in 2007 and $13.9 million in 2006, according
court papers.  
 Chunilal’s lawyer, Robin Knowles, didn’t respond to a
request for comment on the ruling. Chunilal didn’t respond to an
e-mail.  
 Knowles argued the decision to pay the reduced bonus was
made in London by the head of human resources for investment
banking, and that Chunilal’s first contract with Merrill was
governed under English law, while the second contract,
negotiated in New York, didn’t specify.  
 The case is Damian Chunilal v. Merrill Lynch International
Inc., case no. 2009-1354, High Court of Justice (London).  
 Ex-RBG Chairman Rastogi Ordered to Pay $44 Million  
 Former RBG Resources Plc Chairman Virendra Rastogi, who is
serving a 9 1/2-year jail sentence for a trans-Atlantic fraud,
was ordered to pay 30 million pounds ($44 million) to compensate
victims.  
 Rastogi, 42, defrauded  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other banks
that provided the now-defunct metals trading company, also known
as Allied Deals Plc, with cash backed by worthless assets. The
company obtained loans used to gamble on the metal exchange, for
personal gain or to pay back other loans, the  U.K. Serious Fraud
Office  said June 18 in a statement.  
 RBG Resources owed more than $420 million when it went into
liquidation in 2002, the SFO said. The ex-chairman gained more
than 1 billion pounds from the fraud and used some of the money
to buy a flat in London’s Mayfair neighborhood, now worth 5
million pounds. The order strips Rastogi of the last of his
assets, the office said.  
 “The defendant is a very intelligent and able man” who,
for much of his adult life, “has had absolutely no regard for
truth or honesty,” Judge James Wadsworth said in his order,
according to the SFO. “The defendant accepts that the whole of
his business success was based on deceit.”  
 Antony Brown, Rastogi’s lawyer, said his client
“absolutely does not have 30 million pounds” and is
considering whether to appeal the order.  
 Rastogi was sentenced to prison in 2008 for the fraud,
which expanded from New York to London in 1996. It eventually
grew to involve more than 200 RBG-related companies across six
jurisdictions, many of which didn’t conduct any metals trading.  
 Total, Chevron Found Guilty in U.K. Buncefield Fuel Depot Fire  
 A U.K. court found  Total SA  and Chevron Corp. guilty of
failing to prevent the Buncefield fire in a fuel depot in north
London in 2005, according to the Health and Safety Executive.  
 “When the largest fire in peacetime Europe tore through
the Buncefield site on that Sunday morning in December 2005,
these companies had failed to protect workers, members of the
public and the environment,” the HSE said June 18 in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Hertfordshire Oil Storage Ltd., operator of the depot, is a
venture between Paris-based Total, which holds 60 percent in the
company, and San Ramon, California-based Chevron.  
 “We understand the decision made by the jury,” Claire
Elliot, a U.K.-based Total spokeswoman, said by phone. “We
deeply regret the events at Buncefield and would like to
apologize to all those affected by the incident.”  
 British Pipeline Agency Ltd. and TAV Engineering Ltd. were
among companies that also were found guilty or pleaded guilty to
various charges related to the fire.  
 The  Buncefield  oil depot is about 25 miles north of London
and supplies jet fuel by pipeline to Heathrow, Europe’s busiest
airport.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Pfizer Faces Trials in 200 Suits Over Hormone-Drugs  
 Pfizer Inc.  faces a Texas trial over its hormone-
replacement drugs after a judge overseeing lawsuits related to
the medicines sent 200 cases back to their home courts.  
 A judge in Galveston, Texas, set a May 2011 trial date for
Karen Zahn’s claims against Pfizer’s Wyeth unit. Zahn says in
her suit that the Prempro menopause drug helped cause her breast
cancer. It’s one of the first of more than 8,000 lawsuits over
the medicine consolidated in federal court in Arkansas to be
returned for trial, plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  
 U.S. District Judge William Wilson in Little Rock,
Arkansas, is supervising pretrial proceedings in the cases
against Wyeth and  Pharmacia & Upjohn , another Pfizer unit. He
returned the 200 cases to their courts in March and told lawyers
to get another 400 ready to go back later this year.  
 “Pfizer is now going to have to gear up and hire lawyers
all over the country to try these cases,” said Carl Tobias, a
professor at the  University of Richmond  law school who teaches
classes on mass-tort law. “That makes things more expensive and
may provide some incentive to settle.”  
 Officials of New York-based Pfizer said that while Wilson
has sent back some cases, he refused plaintiffs’ requests to
send back all the suits at one time.  
 “No decision has been made about how many additional cases
will be remanded or when,” Pfizer spokesman Chris Loder said in
an e-mailed statement. It also isn’t clear how many of the
remanded cases will go to trial, he said.  
 Loder refused to comment on whether Pfizer will seek to
settle the remaining Prempro cases before Wilson. The company
faces at least 8,000 Prempro claims, Wyeth officials said in a
2009 regulatory filing.  
 “Pfizer will continue to vigorously defend its hormone
therapy medicines,” he said in a statement. “We do not comment
on the number of cases pending, nor do we comment on our legal
strategy.”  
 The case is In Re Prempro Products, 03-cv-15070, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  
 For more, click here.  
 Browner Says BP Claims Probably Will Surpass $20 Billion  
 The $20 billion that  BP Plc  will set aside for claims from
the worst oil spill in U.S. history probably won’t be all the
company ultimately must pay, President Barack Obama’s senior
energy and environment adviser said.  
 “It is likely that the number will be higher,” Carol
Browner said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations with Judy Woodruff,” that aired this weekend.  
 BP agreed with Obama on June 16 to set up a $20 billion
compensation fund for victims of the environmental and economic
disaster caused by the explosion of its well in the Gulf of
Mexico. BP and the administration are struggling to stop the
flow of as much as 60,000 barrels of oil daily from the well.  
 BP should be able to contain as much as 90 percent of the
gushing crude in coming days or weeks, Obama said in a June 15
address televised from the Oval Office.  
 “We have pushed them very hard to improve that plan that
will get us to up to 90 percent of it captured while the relief
wells are being dug,” Browner said June 18. BP is working to
complete relief wells by August that the company says provide
the only prospect of completely plugging the leak.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Vivendi Investors Ask Court to Order Company, Messier to Repay  
 Vivendi SA  investors asked a Paris court to order former
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Marie Messier and six other former
executives, as well as the company, to repay them money lost
during a $77 billion acquisition spree.  
 Vivendi isn’t a defendant and has participated in the trial
claiming it was also a victim of the acquisition campaign that
preceded Messier’s 2002 ouster. The company’s lawyer said June
18 that its goal was to “aid in a manifestation of the truth”
of the Messier era and said it should pay no damages.  
 Vivendi joined the case “so that we might at last turn the
page, so that we can focus on what Vivendi does now,” company
lawyer Herve Pisani said.  
 Shareholder lawyer Frederik-Karel Canoy asked the court to
“set a precedent,” estimating the loss at 160 euros ($198) per
share and seeking 10 euros a share in prejudice. He told the
court Vivendi should join in paying. An award would tell
shareholders “if we can stay in France or do we have to go to
the U.S.”  
 French investors joined a class action in New York, where
the jury in January cleared Messier and former Chief Financial
Officer Guillaume Hannezo of wrongdoing while finding the
company liable for misleading investors. Vivendi has appealed
and set aside 550 million euros for any potential award.  
 Prince Charles’s Design Protest Not ‘Fatal,’ Qatari Diar Said  
 The real-estate investment arm of Qatar’s sovereign-wealth
fund considered ignoring opposition from Prince Charles over its
plan for a London luxury apartment complex, saying the heir to
England’s throne had failed to stop other developments he didn’t
like.  
 Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. executive John Ward
said in an April 2009 internal e-mail that London had approved
other developers’ designs for the  Shard  skyscraper -- which will
be the city’s tallest -- and the  One New Change  office complex
near St. Paul’s Cathedral, over the prince’s objections to their
modern appearances, according to documents revealed at a court
hearing this week in London.  
 The Prince of Wales’s “track record on public
pronouncements on building design is not always one-way
traffic,” Ward said in the e-mail. “His public views are not
always fatal.”  
 Qatari Diar withdrew its site plan application for the
landmark  Chelsea Barracks  in June 2009, claiming it would likely
be rejected. Its U.K. developer, CPC Group Ltd., sued claiming
that Qatari Diar was obliged to submit the plan or pay costs.
The developer argues the plan could have been approved and was
wrongfully abandoned to appease Prince Charles.  
 The breach-of-contract case went to trial last month, with
CPC, controlled by real-estate entrepreneur Christian Candy,
seeking 81 million pounds ($120 million) it says it would have
received if the complex had been built.  
 Qatari Diar spokeswoman Georgiana Gibbs declined to comment
when reached by phone June 18.  
 The case is CPC Group Ltd. v. Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Company, 4260/09, High Court of Justice, Chancery
Division (London).  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        