-- Terrorism-Support Ban Upheld by U.S. High Court in Free-Speech Challenge
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-21T19:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/terrorism-support-ban-upheld-by-u-s-high-court-in-free-speech-challenge.html

          
          
             A divided  U.S. Supreme Court  upheld
a federal criminal law that bans support to designated terrorist
organizations, rejecting a free-speech challenge by groups that
say they have peaceful aims.  
 The court ruled 6-3 that the law can be applied to
organizations and U.S. citizens looking to teach nonviolent
methods of conflict resolution to Turkey’s Kurdistan Workers’
Party and Sri Lanka’s Tamil Tigers. The U.S. has designated both
foreign groups, known respectively as the PKK and the LTTE, as
terrorist organizations.  
 “The PKK and LTTE are deadly groups,” Chief Justice  John Roberts   wrote  for the majority. “It is not difficult to
conclude as Congress did that the taint of such violent
activities is so great that working in coordination with or at
the command of the PKK and LTTE serves to legitimize and further
their terrorist means.”  
 A federal appeals court had said that some parts of the
law, which bars “material support” to terrorist groups,
couldn’t constitutionally be applied to six groups and two U.S.
citizens. The government says it has successfully used the law,
enacted in 1996 and modified by the 2001 Patriot Act, to obtain
criminal convictions.  
 In dissent, Justice  Stephen Breyer  said the majority had
“failed to insist on specific evidence, rather than general
assertions” from the government about the need for the law.  
 “Ultimately, it deprives the individuals before us of the
protection that the First Amendment demands,” Breyer wrote.  
 Divided Court  
 The case largely -- though not completely -- divided the
court along ideological lines. Justice  John Paul Stevens , often
the leader of the court’s liberal wing, joined Roberts and
Justices  Antonin Scalia ,  Anthony Kennedy ,  Clarence Thomas  and
 Samuel Alito  in the majority. Justices  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and
 Sonia Sotomayor  signed Breyer’s dissenting opinion.  
 The ruling is a victory for President  Barack Obama ’s
administration and U.S. Solicitor General  Elena Kagan , who
argued the case for the government. Kagan has since been
nominated by Obama to the Supreme Court.  
 The decision drew criticism from former President  Jimmy Carter , who said the material-support law threatens the work of
the Carter Center, a group he established to promote human
rights and mediate international conflicts.  
 “We are disappointed that the Supreme Court has upheld a
law that inhibits the work of human rights and conflict
resolution groups,” Carter said in a statement distributed by
the American Civil Liberties Union.  
 Constitutional Challenge  
 The Los Angeles-based Humanitarian Law Project and other
groups and individuals challenged an earlier version of the
statute in 1998. They said the law prevented them from
exercising speech rights guaranteed by the Constitution.  
 They also contended that some provisions -- making it a
crime to provide “training,” “expert advice or assistance”
or “service” to a terrorist organization -- were so vague they
violated the Constitution’s Fifth Amendment, which guarantees
due process under the law. Other provisions bar providing
“expert” scientific or technical advice and “personnel” to
terrorist groups.  
 The groups said in court papers that they want to teach
ways of using “international law and other nonviolent means to
advance human rights.”  
 Roberts said even that kind of assistance could
legitimately be seen as supporting terrorism. He voiced concern
that the groups might teach terrorists how to petition the
United Nations and other international bodies for financial
assistance.  
 “Money is fungible,” Roberts wrote. “Congress logically
concluded that money a terrorist group such as the PKK obtains
using the techniques plaintiffs propose to teach could be
redirected to funding the group’s violent activities.”  
 The cases are Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project, 08-1498,
and Humanitarian Law Project v. Holder, 09-89.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        