-- Eurotunnel to Bid for High-Speed Rail Link as U.K. Government Seeks Offers
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-06-21T17:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/eurotunnel-to-bid-for-high-speed-rail-link-as-u-k-government-seeks-offers.html

          
          
             Groupe Eurotunnel SA , operator of
the Channel Tunnel rail route between England and France, said
it may bid for 68 miles (109 kilometers) of track connecting the
link with London as the British government seeks a buyer.  
 Eurotunnel, whose biggest shareholder is  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. ’s infrastructure fund, could make an approach as part
of a group after U.K. Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  said
the High Speed 1 line will be sold under a 30-year operating
concession. The asset is worth at least 1.5 billion pounds ($2.2
billion), according to a person with direct knowledge of the
sale who declined to be identified because details are private.  
 “We are interested in it and we will be looking at the
documents,” Eurotunnel spokesman John Keefe said today in a
phone interview, adding that the company is keen on the asset.
“It would be a natural extension to the Channel Tunnel.”  
 Britain’s coalition government is seeking to sell the line
to help pay down a 155 billion-pound budget deficit and
encourage the addition of new destinations and services, Hammond
said in a statement today. Also part of the tender are several
stations including St Pancras International in central London,
which has extensive retail facilities.  
 Eurotunnel shares closed up 2.6 percent at 6.28 euros in
Paris, valuing the company at 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion).  
 Maintenance Contract  
 Network Rail Ltd., the government-backed owner of the
majority of Britain’s rail tracks and stations, is “not
interested” in bidding, spokesman  Kevin Groves  said by phone.
The not-for-profit company’s chief interest is in extending a
maintenance contract that’s set to expire in 2015, he said.  
 A spokeswoman for  Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s largest
investment bank with infrastructure assets that include the M6
toll road in Britain and Societe des Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhône
in France, declined to say if it would bid for the rail route.  
 High Speed 1 is currently used by Eurostar Group Ltd.
services from London to Paris and Brussels, international
freight services and  Go-Ahead Group Plc ’s domestic high-speed
trains between the U.K. capital and commuter towns in Kent.  
 The Channel Tunnel line is also likely to attract new
international services after the European Union opened cross-
border rail to competition from Jan. 1. Germany’s state-owned
Deutsche Bahn AG has said it’s interested in the route.  
 Passenger Benefits  
 “The money generated by this sale will make an early
significant contribution to the crucial task of reducing the
public-sector debt,” Hammond said in the statement. “The sale
will also bring benefits to passengers as the successful private
bidder will be incentivized to attract new operators.”  
 The sale will be managed by the line’s current owner,
 London & Continental Railways Ltd. , which was taken into state
ownership in 2009, and should be completed by the end of the
company’s fiscal year on March 31. LCR is being advised by
Zurich-based UBS AG, the government statement said.  
 Following the disposal, the performance of the new company,
HS1 Ltd., will be policed by the Office of Rail Regulation to
ensure that passenger interests are safeguarded, Hammond said.  
 Journey times from London to Paris and Brussels were cut by
20 minutes after the final section of High Speed 1 opened in
2007. The line’s U.K. terminus also moved north to St Pancras
station from Waterloo, making connections easier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Eurostar train enters the Eurotunnel. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
