-- European Stocks Climb for Ninth Straight Day After China Relaxes Yuan Peg
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-21T16:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/european-stock-index-futures-gain-after-china-ends-yuan-peg-bp-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  rose for a ninth
day, extending the longest rally in 11 months, after China’s
signal that it will relax the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar
stoked confidence in the global economy.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group surged to the highest
levels since April on speculation a stronger yuan will boost
Chinese demand for metals. Akzo Nobel NV gained 2.1 percent
after agreeing to sell its National Starch unit to Corn Products
International Inc. Acergy SA and Subsea 7 Inc. jumped more than
9 percent after agreeing to combine their businesses.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 1.1 percent to 258.18,
the highest close in seven weeks. The measure has advanced 11
percent from its 2010 low on May 25 as concern eased that
Europe’s debt crisis will derail the economic recovery.  
 “The central bank of China’s announcement is good for
sentiment and the market is gaining renewed optimism from
this,” said  Raimund Saxinger , a Frankfurt-based fund manager at
Frankfurt Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22
billion. “The real impact will be small though and the positive
effect might be short-lived as the announcement was expected.”  
 National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets. Germany’s DAX gained 1.2 percent and France’s CAC 40
increased 1.3 percent. The U.K’s  FTSE 100  climbed 0.9 percent.  
 Yuan Flexibility  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow
greater currency flexibility, signaling an end to the yuan’s
two-year-old peg to the dollar. The decision was made after the
world’s third-largest economy improved, the central bank said,
without indicating a timeframe for the change. It ruled out a
one-time revaluation, saying there is no basis for “large-scale
appreciation,” and kept the yuan’s 0.5 percent daily trading
band unchanged.  
 “The move appears to reflect increased confidence that the
Chinese and world economies are growing in a stable and
sustainable fashion,” UBS AG strategists including  Bhanu Baweja 
and  George Bory  wrote in a report today. “Almost certainly,
China’s leadership would not have taken this step unless they
were confident about economic and financial stability.”  
 A measure of  basic-resource producers  in the Stoxx 600
soared as much as 4.7 percent as copper, lead, nickel, tin and
zinc rose on the London Metal Exchange.  
 BHP Billiton, the world’s  largest mining company , jumped
4.7 percent to 2,031.5 pence, the highest close since April 29.
Rio Tinto, the third-biggest, surged 5 percent to 3,490 pence.
Vedanta Resources Plc surged to the highest level in more than a
month, adding 6 percent to 2,471 pence.  
 Swatch Soars  
 Swatch Group AG, the watchmaker that generates about 28
percent of its revenue in China, climbed 5.4 percent to 337.8
Swiss francs.  
 Daimler AG and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  surged 3.2
percent to 44.50 euros and 2.7 percent to 41.80 euros,
respectively. China is among the luxury carmakers’ biggest
individual markets.  
 Porsche SE advanced 5.5 percent to 37 euros.  Matthias Mueller , the automaker’s chief product strategist, is the
frontrunner to succeed Chief Executive Officer  Michael Macht ,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The move would
be part of a bigger reshuffle in which Macht would become the VW
group’s production head.  
 Separately, Commerzbank AG lifted its recommendation on the
carmaker to “hold” from “reduce”, saying “while it is
risky, we believe upside potential matches downside risk at
current share price levels.”  
 Akzo Nobel climbed 2.1 percent to 46 euros after the
world’s  biggest maker  of paints agreed to sell its National
Starch business for $1.3 billion in cash.  
 Acergy, Subsea 7  
 Acergy surged 9.6 percent to 110.3 kroner after the U.K.
provider of oil services agreed to buy Subsea 7 for about 15.8
billion kroner ($2.5 billion) in shares to create a “global
leader” in seabed engineering and construction. Subsea 7
rallied 9.1 percent to 113.3 kroner.  
 Aegon NV  rose 3.1 percent to 5.10 euros. The owner of U.S.
insurer Transamerica Corp. is preparing to sell its British life
and pension insurance business, including Scottish Equitable,
for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.2 billion), the Mail on Sunday
reported, without saying where it got the information.  
 TNT NV jumped 2.8 percent to 22.62 euros as Het Financieele
Dagblad said CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is in talks to buy part
of the postal unit of Europe’s second-biggest express-delivery
company. The newspaper cited unidentified people familiar with
the matter.  
 BASF, HeidelbergCement  
 BASF SE advanced 1.5 percent to 46.90 euros. The world’s
 biggest chemical maker  is poised to announce the purchase of
Cognis GmbH for at least 3.1 billion euros ($3.9 billion) as
soon as tomorrow, according to two people with knowledge of the
discussions.  
 HeidelbergCement AG rose 2.4 percent to 46.20 euros. The
world’s third-largest cement maker said it aims to revive profit
with spending reductions and by adding plants in emerging
markets such as India, Indonesia and Bangladesh.  
 A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S  gained 3.1 percent to 52,500
kroner, the highest close since September 2008. Maersk Lines has
set itself a target of delivering cargo by deadline 95 percent
of the time after finding that could raise revenue as much as 17
percent, Copenhagen-based Maersk said in its company newsletter
Maersk Post.  
 Solarworld AG  jumped 8.5 percent to 10.75 euros as Deutsche
Bank AG upgraded its recommendation on the German solar company
to “buy” from “hold.” Mediaset SpA, Italy’s biggest private
television broadcaster, climbed 2.8 percent to 5.09 euros as
Citigroup Inc. recommended buying the shares.  
 BP Slips  
 BP  Plc limited gains in European shares, sliding 2.2
percent to 349.5 pence. The Sunday Times said the company is
seeking to raise $50 billion to cover the cost of the oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 BP may first raise $10 billion from a bond sale this week
and is talking to banks to get a $20 billion loan, the newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
remaining $20 billion would come from asset sales over two
years, the newspaper said. BP wants to move quickly to raise
cash because of concern its ratings may be downgraded, boosting
its borrowing costs, the newspaper said.  
 “We need to have an unusually strong cash position,”
 Andrew Gowers , head of communications of London-based BP, said
when contacted by phone. He declined to provide more details.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        