-- Euro-Area Countries Must Fulfill Rescue-Fund Pledges, European Union Says
-- Jones Hayden
-- 2010-06-21T14:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/euro-area-countries-must-fulfill-rescue-fund-pledges-european-union-says.html

          
          
             The European Union said it expects
all euro-area governments to honor their pledges to support an
almost $1 trillion rescue fund to backstop the single currency,
even as most members have yet to approve their contributions.  
 “We expect that all euro-area member states will respect
their agreement on the ninth of May,” EU spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels today. “This is a matter of
fundamental solidarity in the euro area and all member states
should respect their commitments without delay.”  
 Most euro countries haven’t yet approved their share in the
440 billion-euro ($545 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility, the main part of the financial lifeline approved by
euro-region finance ministers on May 9-10 in a bid to stop
Greece’s sovereign-debt crisis from spreading. Another 60
billion euros will come from the European Commission and 250
billion euros from the International Monetary Fund.  
 The facility will sell bonds backed by national guarantees
and use the money raised to loan to nations in need. Each
nation’s share of guarantees is based on its holdings in the
capital of the European Central Bank, plus a further 20 percent.  
 Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said on June
7 that the vehicle will be operational once countries holding 90
percent of the shares have completed their approval procedures,
“which is expected in the course of June.” He forecast delays
in Slovakia and Belgium due to elections.  
 Plans Unclear  
 Austria, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and
Spain -- which together represent 68.2 percent of the
shareholding -- are the only countries so far to have approved
their contributions. The parliament of Finland, with 1.8 percent
of the shareholding, is due to vote on the issue on June 24,
while approval plans in most other countries remain unclear.  
 Investors want to see if the fund works and “the first
step is the formal approval by the various national parliaments,
which will reduce some of the concerns,”  Frank Will , head of
frequent borrower strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland in London,
said by e-mail. “The litmus test, however, would be the actual
support of one or more countries through the EFSF.”  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
 Jones Hayden  at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        