-- Ex-BOE Panelist Blanchflower Says Budget `Certain' to Lead to Double Dip
-- Maryam Nemazee
-- 2010-06-21T08:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/ex-boe-panelist-blanchflower-says-budget-certain-to-lead-to-double-dip.html

          
          
             Former Bank of England policy maker
 David Blanchflower  said the spending cuts the government plans
in its emergency budget tomorrow “look certain” to push the
U.K. back into a recession.  
 “You can’t just decimate the public sector and assume the
private sector will step into the hole,” Blanchflower said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in London
today. “The danger now is we’re certainly going into a double-
dip recession. I think that’s absolutely certain given what’s
coming.”  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is set to
outline the deepest spending cuts since the 1970s in the budget
to rein in the record deficit. He said yesterday he’ll raise
taxes on banks and savers and cut welfare spending and that the
“pain” of the squeeze will be spread over the Parliament’s
five-year term.  
 The budget comes six weeks after the Conservative-led
government took office. During the election campaign, the
political parties argued over the potential impact of spending
cuts on the economy. Blanchflower said that “quite a lot” of
the recovery is being driven by stimulus measures and he wants
to hear a “plan for growth.”  
 “When you pull the stimulus away, the question is, ‘what
does the private sector do?’” he said. “Cut and cut and cut is
a crazy thing to do. We’re repeating lessons of history. This is
what happened in the 1930s. The danger is it drives us into
recession.”  
 While the U.K.’s deficit widened to 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the last fiscal year and Fitch Ratings said
the U.K. needs to speed deficit cuts to guard its top credit
rating, Blanchflower said the U.K. government doesn’t have to
rush the plan at the expense of the economy.  
 “The U.K. is demonstrably not Greece,” he said. “We have
a sensible fiscal regime, we have our own central bank, we have
an exchange rate. The Greeks are completely different.”  
 David Blanchflower is a contributor to Bloomberg News.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fergal O’Brien  in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
 Maryam Nemazee  in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        