-- FAA's Aviation Revamp Puts Tax Dollars at Risk, U.S. Says
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-06-21T17:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/faa-s-40-billion-aviation-revamp-puts-taxpayer-dollars-at-risk-u-s-says.html

          
          
             A $40 billion overhaul of the U.S.
aviation control network may put tax dollars at risk as
regulators have so far failed to set realistic goals and 
coordinate with other agencies, a government  report  said.  
 The  Federal Aviation Administration  hasn’t estimated costs
or set a schedule for most events in an upgrade called  NextGen ,
the Transportation Department’s inspector general said in a
report. The agency made just 11 of 51 key decisions scheduled
for the year ended Sept. 30 on matters such as costs for
technology to track the weather, according to the report.  
 “NextGen may not deliver the expected long-term benefits
and ultimately puts billions of taxpayer dollars at risk”
unless the FAA sets expectations for the benefits to be
achieved, the report said. “FAA has not yet acquired the
necessary skill sets and expertise to successfully implement”
the program, according to the report.  
 The FAA is seeking to put dozens of technologies in place
at the same time to raise efficiencies in controlling aircraft
through the world’s busiest airspace. Companies including  Boeing
Co. , ITT Corp., Raytheon Co. and  Lockheed Martin Co.  are working
on equipment upgrades, including an effort to use satellites for
directing aircraft rather than ground-based radar.  
 FAA spokesman  Paul Takemoto  didn’t immediately return a
telephone call seeking comment. The FAA in a response included
in the report said that it concurred with the recommendations.  
 “The FAA remains confident it will achieve the vision set
out in the NextGen plan,” the agency said.  
 A government analysis cited by Lou Dixon, the assistant
inspector general for the Transportation Department, shows that
some air and ground technologies planned for 2025 may be delayed
by a decade or more, and that they may cost more than the
projected $40 billion budget, the report said.  
 Resolving Issues  
 The agency must resolve issues including the future of En
Route Automation Modernization, a $2.1 billion Lockheed project
to replace computers used by controllers to direct aircraft at
high altitudes, according to the report. The FAA said in April
it may have to delay the program after flaws were uncovered.  
 A decision must be made on a Raytheon project to modernize
equipment used by controllers to direct planes in airspace near
terminals, according to the report. Also, the FAA must decide
next year whether to move ahead with a plan to shift controller-
pilot communications to a text format from radio-based system.  
 The report recommended that the FAA take advantage of
research from other agencies, including the Defense Department,
that could reduce the costs and risks associated with the
NextGen program, the report said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        