-- Falcone Wireless Wager at Risk as Deals Curbed, Spending Looms
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2010-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/falcone-s-wireless-wager-at-risk-as-takeovers-limited-spending-needs-rise.html

          
          
             Philip Falcone  netted billions with
contrarian bets on the metals and U.S. housing markets. Now he’s
making what may be his riskiest wager yet.  
 Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund is starting
a telecommunications company that will square off against  AT&T
Inc. , Verizon Wireless and  Sprint Nextel Corp.  in selling
wireless Internet service. He needs billions of dollars to build
the planned network of 36,000 radio towers and two satellites.
If he doesn’t move fast enough, the government can take away the
wireless licenses he needs to operate.  
 “It’s a triple bank-shot with a twist,” said  Matt Desch ,
chief executive officer of  Iridium Communications Inc. , a
satellite company in McLean, Virginia. “I wish them well.”  
 All of which suggests Falcone’s best option may be to sell
the venture for its wireless licenses before the full network is
built, say analysts such as  Christopher Larsen  of Piper Jaffray
& Co. While the most likely acquirers,  AT&T  and  Verizon , are
barred from a purchase now under current federal regulations,
they’re both trying to change the rules.  
 Falcone paid an estimated $500 million for  SkyTerra
Communications Inc. , the core of his telecom assets, based on
securities filings tallied by Bloomberg. A surge in demand for
wireless services means the licenses may be worth as much as $7
billion, according to a  Credit Suisse Group AG  analysis of
wireless spectrum values.  
 In filings with the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission, Harbinger said it plans to build a nationwide
wireless network that uses so-called fourth-generation, or 4G,
technology to offer high-speed Internet connections to at least
260 million people over the next five years. The company plans
to supplement wireless service from land-based, or terrestrial,
radio towers with satellites 22,000 miles above Earth.  
 Satellite Potential  
 Satellites provide the potential advantage of offering
service in remote areas that AT&T and Sprint can’t reach. Even
so, the technology’s costs have overwhelmed similar efforts in
the past. Iridium’s predecessor, Globalstar Inc. and Teledesic,
backed by wireless pioneer  Craig McCaw  and Microsoft co-founder
Bill Gates, all sought bankruptcy protection a decade ago after
investing billions in satellite systems that never paid
off.      “There’s been more than one satellite company that
couldn’t make this work,” said  Todd Rethemeier , a New York-
based Hudson Square Research Inc. analyst. “The cash needed to
just build out the network can be very substantial, and that’s
before you have a single customer.”  
 Falcone, 48, may have an astute strategy he hasn’t shared
publicly, much like in 2007 when he bet on a decline in the U.S.
 housing market , analysts said. Joshua Lefkowitz, a Harbinger
spokesman, declined to comment.  
 Possible Sale  
 One possibility is that Falcone decides to sell instead of
build. The 54 megahertz of spectrum Harbinger has under license
through its satellite and telecom investments may be valued at
about $7 billion, assuming a potential customer base of 260
million, according to Credit Suisse.  
 Such a sale would require FCC approval, however, and the
commission will only sign off if a deal is in the public
interest, said Paul de Sa, chief of the FCC Office of Strategic
Planning and Policy Analysis.  
 Harbinger risks falling farther behind the competition.
While the company plans 4G trials in Phoenix and Denver by
September 2011, Sprint is already offering 4G service with
partner  Clearwire Corp.   
 Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based Verizon Wireless, the
largest U.S. provider, will begin rolling out its 4G network
later this year, and Dallas-based AT&T, the second-largest U.S.
wireless company, plans to introduce service next year.  
 “With Verizon, AT&T and Sprint building 4G networks, who
knows whether there’ll be a market,” said  Steve Clement  of
Pacific Crest Securities Inc.  
 Falcone’s Touch  
 It’s a departure for Falcone to be starting up a business,
rather than investing in one. Falcone founded New York-based
Harbinger in 2001, specializing in what it called “distressed”
businesses and industries. The firm took stakes in  New York
Times Co.  and recently invested in  Citigroup Inc.   
 In 2007, Harbinger generated returns of more than 65
percent on bets that bonds backed by mortgages to subprime
borrowers would lose value. The fund also gained from its
holding in  U.S. Steel Corp. , which benefitted from soaring
commodities prices.  
 Before running Harbinger, Falcone oversaw the distressed-
debt desk at Barclays Capital, a unit of London-based  Barclays
Plc , and supervised high-yield investments at Gleacher Natwest.  
 Telecom Entry  
 Falcone entered the telecom business by unusual means.
Harbinger started buying stock in the satellite company SkyTerra
in 2005 at $18 to $40 a share, according to Securities &
Exchange Commission filings.  
 After SkyTerra ran into difficulties, Harbinger loaned the
company $500 million in 2008 and then offered to take the whole
company private as its shares fell to less than $5. The
estimated $500 million he paid for SkyTerra comes from totaling
the final offer and more than 100 open market purchases
Harbinger disclosed in SEC filings.  
 Falcone needed FCC approval for the acquisition because
SkyTerra held wireless spectrum through licenses issued by the
government. Though the commission signed off on Harbinger’s deal,
it imposed conditions.  
 Harbinger had to agree to a business model that will help
bring more competitors into the U.S. broadband market, an
explicit goal of the FCC and Chairman  Julius Genachowski . The
company will offer broadband service wholesale to other
companies so personal computer manufacturers, Internet companies,
or consumer electronics firms can resell the service to
customers, according to the filings.  
 Competitive Force  
 “If Harbinger successfully deploys its terrestrial network,
Harbinger could have a beneficial impact on competition,” the
FCC wrote in a filing related to the SkyTerra deal. “It may be
a catalyst for market-changing developments.”  
 The commission included requirements to ensure Harbinger
invests enough to create a viable Internet services provider.
Harbinger has agreed to build out its network to cover 100
million Americans by the end of 2012, 145 million by 2013 and
260 million by 2016, according to the filings.  
 If Harbinger fails to meet those commitments, its licenses
to use SkyTerra’s radio spectrum may be declared “null and
void,” according to a March filing. Harbinger would risk losing
its spectrum license, effectively putting the venture out of
business, said the FCC’s de Sa.  
 Harbinger will need as much as $4 billion to build its
network, including at least $1 billion for the satellite
component, according to Tim Farrar, president of  Telecom, Media
& Finance Associates  in Menlo Park, California.  
 ‘Extremely Difficult’  
 Larsen  of Piper Jaffray said Falcone may need to cast a
wide net to raise the billions he needs, given the track record
of satellite ventures and the tumultuous capital markets.  
 “It’s an extremely difficult proposition financially,”
said Larsen, who is based in New York.  
 Harbinger Capital has about $10 billion under management
and it’s unlikely Falcone’s hedge fund investors would want a
substantial chunk of their money tied up in a long-term, capital
intensive business.  
 Harbinger in 2008 said it was considering an acquisition of
Inmarsat Plc, in which it already holds a 29 percent stake, and
the company’s stock has jumped several times since on
speculation Harbinger would proceed with a bid.  
 London-based Inmarsat is the world’s largest satellite
communications company and is generating cash that could be used
to finance Falcone’s U.S. venture. Such a deal would cost more
than $5 billion at Inmarsat’s current share price and would
require regulatory approval in the U.K. An Inmarsat spokesman,
 Christopher McLaughlin , declined to comment.  
 Wireless Growth  
 The wireless Internet market Harbinger is targeting is
promising and fast-growing. Consumers are increasingly using
smartphones such as the  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and  Motorola Inc. ’s
Droid to surf the Web, socialize and play video. Sales of such
devices jumped 49 percent worldwide in the first quarter to 54.3
million units, compared with 17 percent for conventional mobile
phones, according to Gartner Inc.  
 Fourth-generation networks allow for download speeds of up
to 10 times faster than third-generation, making applications
such as live television and video-calling services more viable.  
 Harbinger should focus on its terrestrial network as more
users opt for data-thirsty devices, said Peter Rysavy, president
of Hood River, Oregon-based consulting firm Rysavy Research.  
 “Based on current trends, you’re going to start seeing
serious issues in busy markets in three to five years,” he said.
“There will be a market for every bit of spectrum these
companies can get their hands on.”  
 AT&T, Verizon Interest  
 Verizon and AT&T have already shown an interest in
Harbinger’s licenses. After the FCC barred the country’s two
largest wireless carriers from amassing more than 25 percent of
Harbinger’s spectrum without commission approval, both companies
protested, arguing the restriction was unfair.  
 AT&T filed a petition with the FCC to rescind the
restrictions, arguing they are “entirely arbitrary.”  
 Verizon and AT&T are among the most active contributors to
Washington lawmakers. In the 2009 to 2010 election cycle, AT&T’s
political action committee gave $2.14 million to political
candidates, more than any other organization in the country,
according to data from the  Center for Public Integrity .  
 AT&T CEO  Randall Stephenson  in March said the government
needs to make more spectrum available to wireless carriers so
they can deliver new services to customers.  Michael Balmoris , an
AT&T spokesman, declined to elaborate on the company’s
statements.  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, declined to
comment on a possible purchase of Harbinger’s spectrum.  
 Very Hard Work  
 Without a sale, Falcone faces a challenging path. He may be
able to put together a viable wireless Internet company that
uses satellite technology to distinguish itself.  
 “But it’ll be two or three years of fundraising and very
hard work before we find out,” said Gerard Hallaren, research
director for  TownHall Investment Research  in Littleton, Colorado.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Philip A. Falcone, senior managing director of Harbinger Capital Partners, testifies during a House Committee hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
