-- Family Sells $2M Mansion, Gives Half to Charity: Review
-- Lili Rosboch
-- 2010-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/family-sells-2-million-mansion-gives-half-to-charity-review.html

          
          
             One day in 2006, 14-year-old Hannah
Salwen and her father, Kevin, were stopped at a traffic light
between a guy in a Mercedes convertible and a homeless man
sitting by the side of the road.  
 “‘Dad,’ she began, ‘if that man’ -- she pointed to the
Mercedes -- ‘had a less nice car, that man there’ -- she pointed
to the homeless man -- ‘could have a meal,’” Kevin Salwen
writes in “ The Power of Half ,” his memoir (with sections written
by Hannah) about the way that moment changed his family’s life.  
 Kevin and Joan Salwen lived in Atlanta with Hannah and her
brother, Joseph, in a $2 million mansion. Kevin, a former  Wall
Street  Journal reporter, was running his own magazine start-up,
while Joan had left a partnership at  Accenture  to become an
English teacher. The family had dinner together but their daily
lives seemed to be drifting apart, each busy with his or her own
activities.  
 Until the day Hannah spoke up.  
 She wanted to make a difference. When her mother asked,
semi-rhetorically, if she wanted them to sell their house and
donate half the profits to charity, she surprised everyone by
saying yes. The family decided to take up the challenge.  
 In “ The Power of Half ,” Kevin and Hannah chronicle the
Salwens’ journey from being “a family that just talks about
things” to “a family that actually does them.”  
 They take it as a good sign when a much smaller house just
a few blocks away comes on the market, and they buy it before
they’ve sold their mansion. They start thinking about how to use
the “extra” $800,000.  
 Family Decisions  
 It’s a family project and for the first time parents and
kids make decisions by consensus. They educate themselves about
the world’s big issues and choose to work in one place, with one
cause, rather than spreading the money around.  
 They fly to New York, meet with different nonprofit
organizations and eventually choose the  Hunger Project . They
will be helping two sets of Ghanaian villages move from poverty
to self-reliance through the construction of “epicenters”
featuring meeting halls, banks for micro loans, food storerooms
and health centers with lodging for a nurse.  
 The Salwens’ adventure is not trouble-free. There are no
buyers for their house, Kevin’s company is shutting down and
friends don’t always seem to understand what’s going on. The
family fears their project might fail.  
 But Kevin “wouldn’t give up their situation for
anything.” The sacrifice doesn’t feel grand and no one is
missing the space of the “dream house.” The new one makes them
aware, every time they get home, of what they’re doing together,
as a family.  
 Trip to Ghana  
 The peak of the project, for both charitable activity and
family reunification, is a trip to Ghana. When the Salwens
return to Atlanta, they send as promised the first $80,000,
taken from their savings, and small signs of lasting change
appear in their daily lives.  
 And this is how they realize the whole “house-selling
project” isn’t about the house but about the family.  
 The Salwens were looking for something significant to stand
for together, that wasn’t about themselves, spending, cars or
holidays. “The Power of Half” is an inspiring book about the
decision to trade objects for togetherness and the chance to
help others.  
 “The Power of Half: One Family’s Decision to Stop Taking
and Start Giving Back” is published by Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt (242 pages, $24). To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Lili Rosboch  in New York at 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Power of Half"  
                       
                         
                           Houghton Mifflin Harcourt via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "The Power of Half: One Family's Decision to Stop Taking and Start Giving Back." The book is by Kevin and Hannah Salwen. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "The Power of Half: One Family's Decision to Stop Taking and Start Giving Back." The book is by Kevin and Hannah Salwen. Source: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Authors Kevin Salwen and Hannah Salwen.  "The Power of Half: One Family's Decision to Stop Taking and Start Giving Back" is their latest book. Photographer: Allison Shirreffs/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
