-- Cavalli Own-Store Sales Rise at Least 10% Amid Cost-Cutting to Boost U.S.
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-06-21T12:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/fashion-company-cavalli-says-revenue-rose-lowers-costs-to-spur-u-s-sales.html

          
          
             Roberto Cavalli SpA, the Italian
fashion house known for its animal-print designs, said sales in
its own stores grew at least 10 percent in the second quarter,
while wholesale orders for spring 2011 showed “a positive
trend.”  
 “We continued to have double-digit growth in our own shops
around the world, consolidating our position in North America
and Europe,” Chief Executive Officer  Gianluca Brozzetti  said
yesterday in an interview in Milan. He declined to quantify the
sales increase.  
 Cavalli is cutting production costs to drive sales in North
America, where retailers and consumers are more price sensitive
than they were before the recession, he said.  
 “That doesn’t mean lowering prices,” the CEO said. “It’s
more about getting the right product content for the right
price.”  
 Although there is still demand for $3,000 evening dresses,
selling gowns priced between $6,000 and $8,000 “is more
difficult,” Brozzetti said. To keep prices under control, the
company is designing products in a more cost-effective way, such
as putting one brooch on a handbag instead of two, the CEO said.  
 “It’s the same bag,” he said. “It’s the same product.
There is always a decoration. But you make it smart, and that
will be appreciated by the final client who doesn’t need that
extra bit.”  
 Recovery  
 The luxury goods industry is recovering from its worst year
on record as demand returns in Europe and the U.S.  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , the world’s largest producer, said in
April that revenue at its fashion and leather goods unit climbed
8 percent, excluding currency swings, in the three months ended
March 31. Worldwide spending on luxury goods may rise 4 percent
in 2010, consulting firm Bain & Co. estimates.  
 Department and specialty store orders for Cavalli’s spring
2011 men’s collection are showing “a positive trend,” although
it’s very early, the executive said. The euro’s weakness and the
sovereign debt crisis in Europe make it difficult to predict
whether Cavalli’s revenue growth will continue at the same pace
in the second half of the year, Brozzetti said.  
 “Clients stop buying when there are events like that so we
have to watch out,” Brozzetti said. “We continue to be
realistic, cautious and careful.”  
 The Florence, Italy-based label, expects second-half
revenue to benefit from a major program of events to celebrate
the company’s 40th anniversary, such as special limited-edition
products, Brozzetti said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Milan at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        