-- Federer, Down Two Sets to Falla, Wins Opener in Five Sets at Wimbledon
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-21T22:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/federer-recovers-to-win-at-wimbledon-first-round-clijsters-beats-camerin.html

          
          
             Six-time champion  Roger Federer 
recovered from a two-set deficit to defeat 60th-ranked
Alejandro Falla in the opening round of Wimbledon.  
 Federer, the defending champion and top seed, beat the
Colombian 5-7, 4-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-1), 6-0 after coming within
five points of defeat in the third set. Had Falla won, it
would have been the first time a defending champion lost in
the opening match since 2003. It was the first time the
Swiss came back from two sets down at Wimbledon.  
 “It was a tough match,” Federer said in a news
conference. “He played really well and I struggled early
on but came through, which is most important.”  
 Third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia defeated  Olivier Rochus  of Belgium in a five-set match that ended at 10:59
p.m., the latest in Wimbledon history, under the Centre
Court roof that was installed last year.  
 Three-time runnerup  Andy Roddick , seeded fifth, won in
straight sets against fellow American Rajeev Ram. No. 7
 Nikolay Davydenko  of Russia needed five sets to beat South
Africa’s Kevin Anderson. No. 11  Marin Cilic  and No. 17  Ivan Ljubicic , both from Croatia, and No. 20  Stanislas Wawrinka 
of Switzerland all lost first-round matches today.  
 Italy’s  Francesca Schiavone , the women’s fifth seed
and French Open champion, lost 7-6 (7-0), 5-7, 1-6 to
Russia’s  Vera Dushevina , while former No. 1  Kim Clijsters 
of Belgium beat Italy’s  Maria Elena Camerin  in straight
sets in her first appearance since 2006 at tennis’s only
grass-court Grand Slam event.  Justine Henin  was another ex-
No. 1 to win, and current No. 2  Venus Williams  also
advanced.  
 Venus Williams Wins  
 Williams defeated Paraguay’s Rossana de los Rios,
winning 6-3, 6-2. The 30-year-old American is a five-time
winner of the tournament and was runner-up to sister
Serena, this year’s top seed, last year.  
 Belgium’s Henin advanced with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over
Latvia’s Anastasija Sevastova.  Ana Ivanovic  of Serbia
failed to reach at least the third round for the first time
with a 6-3, 6-4 loss to Shahar Peer of Israel.  
 Federer, who is seeking to tie  Pete Sampras ’s Open era
men’s record of seven titles at the All England Club in
London, was five points from defeat in the third set. He
struggled with his serve and backhand through the first two
sets, and saved a break point at 4-4 in the third set that
would have given Falla a 5-4 lead and a chance to serve for
the match. Falla did serve for the match in the fourth set,
but Federer’s service break eventually forced a tiebreaker.  
 Falla, a 26-year-old left-hander, hasn’t beaten a top-
10 player since he defeated No. 9  Tommy Haas  in Miami three
years ago. Federer is No. 2 in the world behind  Rafael Nadal  in the ATP Rankings.  
 Federer-Falla History  
 Federer had won his four previous matches against
Falla without dropping a set, including a 2004 second-round
match at Wimbledon. The 28-year-old Federer last lost in
the first round of a Grand Slam at the French Open seven
years ago.  
 Federer is the 11-8 favorite at British bookmaker
William Hill Plc to win the tournament. He has appeared in
every Wimbledon final since 2003 and only lost once, in
2008, to Nadal.  
 Falla, making his sixth Wimbledon appearance, has
never been past the second round. He made his first Grand
Slam third-round appearance at the Australian Open this
year. His first quarterfinal match on grass came in the
Netherlands last week.  
 “It is amazing for me playing the opening match on
Centre Court against Federer, playing such a great match as
I did,” Falla said in a news conference. “I just enjoyed
the match. I’m really happy because I played well.”  
 Federer Win Drought  
 Federer has not won a tournament since he beat  Andy Murray  to claim the Australian Open title in late January
for his record 16th Grand Slam championship. He was upset
by Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  in the quarterfinals of the
French Open, ending his record streak of 23 straight Grand
Slam semifinals, and lost to  Lleyton Hewitt  in the final of
a grass-court tournament in Halle, Germany, a week before
Wimbledon.  
 Hewitt was the most recent defending champion to lose
in the first round at Wimbledon, falling seven years ago to
then No. 203-ranked  Ivo Karlovic  of Croatia.  
 Hewitt avoided a first-round exit today, recovering
from losing the opening set against  Maximo Gonzalez  of
Argentina to triumph 5-7, 6-0, 6-2, 6-2.  
 Roddick Defeats Ram  
 Roddick defeated Ram 6-3, 6-2, 6-2. The 2003 U.S. Open
champion, who has never lost before the third round at
Wimbledon, said tennis fans respond to him differently
since he lost to Federer in five sets in the Wimbledon
final last year.  
 “I felt that everywhere,” he said in a news
conference. “It wasn’t just coming here into London that
kind of sparked it. Obviously, when I talk to people,
that’s what they want to talk about most times.”  
 Mardy Fish  of the U.S., runnerup at the Queen’s Club
grass-court tournament on June 13, was a first-round
winner. Austria’s  Jurgen Melzer , the No. 16 seed, beat
Dustin Brown -- the first Jamaican at Wimbledon since 1970
-- in four sets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        