-- Top Seed Federer Turns Around His Wimbledon `Disarray' With a Passing Shot
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-21T23:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/federer-turns-around-wimbledon-disarray-against-falla-with-passing-shot.html

          
          
             Roger Federer , who dropped the
first two sets of his opening-round match at Wimbledon to
the 60th-ranked player in the world, says he’s still
playing in the tournament because of one forehand.  
 A passing shot against  Alejandro Falla  helped the
defending champion and top seed fend off a break point that
would have put him down 5-4 in the third set -- leaving him
four points from elimination.  
 Instead of the Colombian serving for the biggest
Wimbledon upset since defending champion  Lleyton Hewitt 
lost in the first round in 2003, Federer held his serve to
go up 5-4 with a backhand volley and a service winner. He
went on to win the match against Falla 5-7, 4-6, 6-4, 7-6
(7-1), 6-0, keeping alive his chance of tying  Pete Sampras ’s Open-era men’s record of seven titles at
Wimbledon.  
 “My whole game was sort of in disarray,” Federer
said in a news conference. “I was just hoping that I got
three quick serves to come back. But I had to come up with
some passing shots, some scrambling shots.”  
 The last time the Swiss had to overcome a two-sets-to-
love deficit in the first round of a major was at the 2000
U.S. Open against  Peter Wessels , who retired in the fifth
set.  
 “There was definitely a bit of luck involved there,”
said Federer, who won the 15th of his record 16 Grand Slam
singles crowns at Wimbledon last year. “But that’s how it
goes sometimes.”  
 Another Forehand  
 Federer’s forehand also came to the rescue in the
fourth set, when the left-handed Falla served for the match
at 5-4. Federer broke the Colombian’s serve to break back
for 5-5, and won the set in a tiebreaker.  
 “I was thinking that I have big opportunity to beat
Federer here,” Falla said in a news conference. “Was a
big chance. And I just doubted myself a little bit in that
moment, in the first two points. And then he plays good
points.”  
 “When he’s down like that, like today, he doesn’t
give you any point,” Falla said. “You have to make it,
because he’s not going to miss on any of that.”  
 Since losing in the first round of Wimbledon in 2002,
Federer has been to every final at the All England Club
since 2003. He has lost the championship match once, to
 Rafael Nadal  in 2008.  
 Nadal, a Spaniard, plays his first-round match today
against  Kei Nishikori , a wild-card entrant from Japan.
Women’s defending champion  Serena Williams  faces Portuguese
teenager  Michelle Larcher De Brito , while Briton’s  Andy Murray  starts his bid for a first Wimbledon title against
Jan Hajek of the Czech Republic.  
 Late-Night Djokovic  
 Third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia defeated  Olivier Rochus  of Belgium in a five-set match that ended at 10:59
p.m., the latest in Wimbledon history, under the Centre
Court roof that was installed last year. Three-time runner-
up  Andy Roddick , seeded fifth, won in straight sets against
fellow American Rajeev Ram.  
 Second-seeded woman  Venus Williams  defeated Paraguay’s
Rossana de los Rios, winning 6-3, 6-2. The 30-year-old
American is a five-time winner of the tournament and was
runner-up to sister Serena, this year’s top seed, last
year.  
 Former No. 1 players  Kim Clijsters  and  Justine Henin ,
both of Belgium, advanced to the second round with
straight-set victories. Italy’s  Francesca Schiavone , the
women’s fifth seed and French Open champion, lost 7-6 (7-
0), 5-7, 1-6 to Russia’s  Vera Dushevina .  
 Trailing two sets to love so early in a major was “a
bit of a shock,” said Federer, whose record run of 23
straight Grand Slam semifinal appearances was ended three
weeks ago by Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  at the French Open.  
 ‘It’s Not Normal’  
 “For me it’s not normal,” Federer said. “It’s
something I’m not quite used to. But still I was able to
find a way.”  
 Before the opening round at Wimbledon, Federer had won
his four previous matches against Falla without dropping a
set, including a 2004 second-round match on the London
grass courts. Federer, 28, last lost in the first round of
a Grand Slam at the French Open seven years ago.  
 “I played him three times in one month, in the last
three tournaments,” the 26-year-old Falla said. “So I was
kind of used to playing against him. But I am happy because
I played a great match. I have got to keep working because
I have to improve still a few things.”  
 The Swiss had 101 winners, 37 more than Falla. Federer
produced 21 aces, while the Colombian had 8.  
 Federer, who won his 16th major title at the
Australian Open at the start of the season, said he felt
butterflies before the match.  
 ‘Always Nerves Involved’  
 “There’s always nerves involved,” Federer said. “I
kind of want that because it means the world to me to open
Centre Court. It’s a dream for any player to play opening
day on the perfect grass court.”  
 Federer will play 152nd-ranked  Ilija Bozoljac  from
Serbia in the second round.  
 “The next guy is a righty, big serving guy, nothing
to do with the guy I played today,” Federer said.
“Because you struggle today doesn’t mean you’re going to
struggle in the next match, too. Same thing if you win in
straights; it doesn’t mean you’re going to win the next
match in straights. That’s just the way tennis is.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        