-- Fitch Says Next Two Months to Test Kan's Will to Cut Record Japanese Debt
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-06-21T02:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/fitch-says-next-two-months-to-test-kan-s-will-to-cut-record-japanese-debt.html

          
          
             Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
debt-fighting credentials will be tested over the next two
months as he releases a fiscal strategy and his party contests
mid-term elections, Fitch Ratings said.  
 “It’s early days for his government, so the intention is
there, but it remains to be seen how strong the consensus is”
among politicians and the electorate,  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong
Kong-based director at the company’s Asia-Pacific sovereign
group, said in an interview in Tokyo today. “The next two
months is quite an important period.”  
 Kan, who took office this month, is scheduled to unveil
his plan for containing the world’s biggest  public debt  this
week before facing upper house elections on July 11. He has
indicated that he may double the nation’s consumption tax to 10
percent, a statement surveys show has hurt his approval ratings
and signals he may meet resistance to his debt-cutting plans.  
 The outcome of the ballot and release of Kan’s fiscal
road-map “will give us information about what political
appetite is in Japan for fiscal consolidation, or if it’s
there,” Colquhoun said.  
 The yield on Japan’s 10-year bond rose one basis point to
1.21 percent at 11:04 a.m. in Tokyo.  
 Colquhoun said today that while the outlook on Japan’s AA-
credit rating, the fourth highest, remains stable, it could
come “under downward pressure” if the government doesn’t
achieve a “credible” fiscal plan. Kan will not only need
fiscal targets but also a detailed roadmap of how he intends to
achieve them, he said.  
 ‘Credible Plans’  
 “More credible plans are detailed so they can say
quantitative numbers on spending and tax revenue measures. They
have a flexibility built into them,” he said. “In a credible
plan, we look for a clearly articulated guidance” on how the
government can react to any unexpected shocks.  
 Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service have also
said they will closely watch Kan’s budget strategy as Europe’s
fiscal woes increase global scrutiny of sovereign debt.  
 The premier is considering an annual spending limit of 71
trillion yen ($785 billion) over three years, two government
officials familiar with the deliberations said this month.  
 Kan’s approval rating fell 9 percentage points to 50
percent, an Asahi newspaper survey taken June 19-20 published
today showed. Half of the respondents said they disapproved of
his comments about doubling the  sales tax  from the current 5
percent, while 39 percent said they applauded the remarks.  
 Threaten Sovereignty  
 “Unless we work on fiscal rehabilitation, an
international organization such as the International Monetary
Fund could control our fiscal management,” Kan told reporters
last week. “We must rehabilitate our finances with our own
power without relying on other countries.”  
 In its election platform released last week, the ruling
Democratic Party of Japan said it will commit to erasing the
primary deficit in 10 years while capping bond sales at the
same level as this year’s 44.3 trillion yen in fiscal 2011. A
primary shortfall excludes interest payments on  bonds .  
 Japan’s finances have come under scrutiny since January,
when Standard and Poor’s cut the outlook of the nation’s AA
rating, the third-highest grade, to “negative.” Fitch said in
April that Japan’s creditworthiness is “at risk.” Moody’s
rates Japan’s debt at Aa2, the third-highest investment grade,
with a stable outlook.  
 The nation’s credit quality hasn’t been lowered by any
rating company since 2002, even as the debt swells. Japan’s
borrowings are approaching 200 percent of gross domestic
product, the highest among members of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Japan's prime minister Naoto Kan releases party strategy. Photographer: Tatsuyuki Tayama/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Japan's prime minister Naoto Kan  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) Naoto Kan poses with a copy of his party's manifesto at a news conference in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) Naoto Kan poses with a copy of his party's manifesto at a news conference in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
