-- Fitch Says Stable Coalition Government Would Help Slovakia's Credit Rating
-- Tasneem Brogger
-- 2010-06-21T11:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/fitch-says-stable-coalition-government-would-help-slovakia-s-credit-rating.html

          
          
             Slovakia’s credit rating may improve
if four parties in talks to form a ruling coalition create a
stable and cohesive government that is “able to implement
fiscal and structural reforms,” Fitch Ratings said.  
 The parties, who have all pledged fiscal austerity, took 79
of 150 seats in parliament in a June 12 election. The new
Cabinet would be led by  Iveta Radicova  and replace the
administration of Prime Minister  Robert Fico , who failed to curb
a ballooning budget deficit as the export-oriented country was
hit by the global economic crisis.  
 While the east European country’s fiscal  deficit  of 6.8
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 “isn’t out of line”
compared with other euro-region’s members, “public finances in
are nonetheless on an unsustainable path,” the ratings company
said in a statement.  
 “Further upgrades will depend on the future direction of
policy in Slovakia, namely fiscal and structural reform, which
underpins long-term income convergence with the rest of the euro
area,” the statement said. Fitch currently rates Slovakia at
A+, its fifth-best grade and one notch below Italy or Ireland,
with a stable outlook.  
 ‘Significant’ Steps  
 The fiscal deficit risks missing this year’s target and the
shortfall may swell to 7.4 percent of GDP unless a new
government takes “significant” steps, according to a survey of
economists by the Club of Economic Analysts issued on June 2.  
 Radicova’s SDKU party has called for a constitutional law
to prevent state debt from rising above some pre-set level.
Slovakia, which joined the euro area as its 16th member last
year, plans to sell between 6 billion euros ($7.4 billion) and 8
billion euros in state debt securities this year.  
 The government will need to take measures to reduce the
shortfall by about 3 percent of GDP in the medium-term, Fitch
said.  
 The Slovak economy is emerging from recession, with the
Finance Ministry forecasting economic growth will reach 3.2
percent this year after a 4.7 percent contraction in 2009. The
revival is being driven by exports, such as cars made locally by
Kia and Volkswagen AG.  
 “Euro-area membership is also a rating strength for the
country as it reduces downside risks to Slovakia’s external
finances and its banking sector,” Fitch said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
 Tasneem Brogger  in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        