-- Frank Agrees to Put Consumer Finance Bureau at Fed
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-21T18:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/frank-accepts-senate-proposal-to-house-consumer-agency-at-federal-reserve.html

          
          
             U.S. Representative  Barney Frank ,
the lead negotiator on the financial-overhaul legislation, has
accepted the Senate’s proposal to house a new consumer
protection bureau at the Federal Reserve.  
 Frank, chairman of the  House Financial Services Committee ,
will make the concession as part of a package of changes to be
debated tomorrow,  Steve Adamske , spokesman for the Massachusetts
Democrat, said today. Frank had supported creating a standalone
agency, an idea included in the financial bill passed by the
House in December.  
 President  Barack Obama  originally made a standalone agency
a centerpiece of his proposal for revising the government’s
oversight of Wall Street. Under the Senate plan, the bureau
would have independent authority to write and enforce rules
about consumer lending in mortgages, credit cards and other
financial products while being housed at the Fed.  
 “The way the Senate provision is drafted, it does give the
bureau a significant degree of independence,” said  Gilbert Schwartz , a former Fed attorney and a partner at the law firm
Schwartz & Ballen LLP in Washington.  
 The consumer agency was a main sticking point between
Republicans and Democrats crafting the Senate version of the
bill. Republicans wanted existing regulators to continue
policing banks for compliance with consumer-protection rules.
They also resisted a standalone agency, proposing instead that
it be contained at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. or the
Fed.  
 Auto Dealers  
 Frank’s package of proposed changes to the Senate bill
included restoring a measure that would exclude automobile
dealers from oversight by the bureau. The exemption was included
in the House version of the bill but was stricken by the Senate.
The White House wants auto dealers to fall under the bureau’s
jurisdiction. The measure is likely to be a subject of debate
when negotiators meet tomorrow.  
 In addition, Frank proposed putting payday lenders, check
cashers, money remitters and private student-loan providers
under the supervision of the consumer bureau.  
 The Obama administration in February backed away from a
standalone agency after the issue derailed negotiations between
 Senate Banking Committee  Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, and Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the
banking committee’s top Republican.  
 Obama’s Priorities  
 “The President has been clear that a consumer protection
agency must be structured so that it can operate independently
on behalf of the consumers,” White House spokeswoman Amy
Brundage said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 Obama’s priorities include ensuring the agency has
independent funding and authority to write and enforce its own
rules, Brundage said.  
 “We believe that the proposal in the Senate bill meets
that standard,” Brundage said.  
 House and Senate negotiators are entering a third week of
talks to reconcile the differences between their two bills. They
have said they expect to send completed legislation to Obama by
July 4.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        