-- France, England Coaches Work to Overcome Squad Revolts at Soccer World Cup
-- Greg Viscusi
-- 2010-06-22T18:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/france-england-coaches-work-to-overcome-squad-revolts-at-soccer-world-cup.html

          
          
             The France and England soccer
coaches tried to regain control of their teams yesterday after
player revolts and winless starts to their World Cup campaigns.  
 Coach  Raymond Domenech  couldn’t save France, which today
lost 2-1 to the hosts, South Africa, sending the 1998 champion
home. The French squad resumed training two days after striking
following  Nicolas Anelka’s  expulsion for insulting  Domenech  at
halftime of the 2-0 loss to Mexico. The England team met two
days ago to dissect its scoreless draw with Algeria, with
manager  Fabio Capello  telling the British Broadcasting Corp.
yesterday that although some players may be unhappy, the team
was “here to play at the World Cup, not for a holiday.”  
 Domenech leaves his post after the loss, allowing former
captain  Laurent Blanc  to take over.  
 “I have had a splendid adventure for the last six years,
good times and bad times,” Domenech said at a press conference.
“It is impossible to summarize at the moment what has happened.
I cannot analyze things yet. I am not concerned about myself,
only the French team and its future.”  
 France lost control of its tournament after a 0-0 tie with
Uruguay and the defeat to Mexico. The French were eliminated
today with the loss in their last group game. Uruguay beat
Mexico 1-0 in their match. To move on, England must beat Group C
leader Slovenia tomorrow after a 1-1 tie with the U.S. and the
draw with Algeria.  
 Two days ago, Domenech read a statement from the team after
it refused to train explaining that the players opposed the
French Football Federation’s decision to send Anelka home.
Yesterday, the coach said he supported the dismissal.  
 ‘Imbecility’  
 “I tried to convince the players for 45 minutes that what
they were trying to do was stupid, that it was an imbecility,”
he said last night at a televised news conference. “I thought
the French had the right to know, since this was all playing out
in view of the cameras. So that’s why I read the statement. In
no way did that mean that I supported their attitude.”  
 Anelka was ejected from the camp for refusing to apologize
to Domenech after arguing with the coach at halftime of the June
17 loss to Mexico.  
 ‘Justified’  
 “The sanction against Anelka is justified,” Domenech
added. “I support the decision. A player is not allowed to act
like that, whether it’s in the dressing room or elsewhere.”  
 France had been under scrutiny before the World Cup, after
 Blanc  was appointed to replace Domenech before the start of the
tournament. The 1998 world champion scraped into the finals with
a playoff victory over Ireland that was earned after striker
 Thierry Henry  admitted to handling the ball to set up the
decisive goal.  
 England’s situation came to a head when defender and former
captain  John Terry  said the players would give the manager
advice during a previously scheduled meeting after the two ties.  
 “As a group of experienced players, we owe to ourselves,
our country and the manager to be honest,” Terry said. “If we
feel in that meeting tonight things need to change, everyone
needs to voice their opinion. If it upsets him or any other
player, so what?”  
 ‘Went Too Far’  
 Terry last night apologized for his comments, the Daily
Mail reported, citing an interview with him. “Maybe I went too
far,” Terry was quoted as saying. “It was never my intention
to upset the manager or the players.”  
 No players voiced concerns during the meeting, Capello told
the BBC. Terry’s comments were a “very big mistake,” the coach
told ITV1.  
 “At the meeting we saw the Algerian game, we saw the
mistakes without comments,” Capello said. “Afterwards there
was no comments.”  
 Capello also dismissed newspaper reports of disharmony and
boredom in the camp of the 1966 champion, saying that team
spirit is “fantastic.”  
 “We have prepared everything perfectly for the players,
they can swim, go to the gym and train,” Capello told the BBC.
“The players are free and can go where they want. Everything is
more or less perfect.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Johannesburg at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     France soccer coach Raymond Domenech speaks during a press conference at the Free State Stadium.  Photographer: Clive Mason/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee and Rachel Brookes report on the French players' strike following Nicolas Anelka’s expulsion for insulting coach Raymond Domenech at halftime of the 2-0 loss to Mexico.
     Credit Agricole SA, France’s largest bank by branches, ended its advertisement campaign featuring members of the national soccer team amid the group’s mutinous behavior and as the team’s World Cup fate hung in the balance. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
