-- Fund Manager Eisman to Testify Before Senate on For-Profit Colleges' Loans
-- John Hechinger
-- 2010-06-21T16:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/fund-manager-eisman-to-testify-before-senate-on-for-profit-colleges-loans.html

          
          
             Steven Eisman , the hedge-fund manager
whose bet against the housing market was chronicled in a best-
selling book, will testify before the U.S. Senate after saying
for-profit colleges are pushing students to take on government
loans they can’t repay.  
 Eisman will be a witness in a June 24 hearing on the
industry, according to a list released today by the Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. Eisman is
shorting, or betting against, shares of higher-education
companies because of parallels he sees to subprime borrowers in
the housing market. In both mortgages and educational loans,
customers take on debts they can’t repay, Eisman said in a
presentation at a May 26 investment conference.  
 Senator  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who chairs the
committee, is holding hearings to examine the surge in federal
grants and loans flowing to  Apollo Group  Inc.’s University of
Phoenix,  Career Education  Corp.,  Corinthian Colleges  Inc. and
other for-profit higher-education companies.  
 “With students, families and taxpayers investing so
heavily in for-profit institutions through large loan debt and
billions of dollars in federal student aid, we must ensure that
student are actually getting the knowledge and skills they need
to pay off the debt,” Harkin said in a statement.  
 Student Population  
 The number of students attending for-profit colleges in the
U.S. rose to 1.8 million in 2008, from 550,000 in 1998,
according to Harkin. One in five students who left a for-profit
college with educational debt in 2007 defaulted on the loan
within three years, Harkin said, citing U.S. Department of
Education data. President  Barack Obama ’s administration proposed
rules on June 16 to tighten regulation of the industry.  
 Margaret Reiter, former supervising California deputy
attorney general, is also scheduled to testify at the hearing.
In 2007, Reiter’s agency reached an agreement with Corinthian in
which the company consented to pay $6.5 million, resolving
prosecutors’  allegations  that it misled students about
graduates’ salary and employment prospects, according to the
attorney general’s office. Corinthian, based in Santa Ana,
California, didn’t admit fault.  
 Another witness will be  U.S. Department of Education
Inspector General  Kathleen S. Tighe, whose office has criticized
the way accrediting agencies police for-profit colleges,
Harkin’s office said.  
 Accreditation Criticism  
 In a December report, the inspector general said Career
Education’s American Intercontinental University shouldn’t have
been accredited. Career Education, in a statement at the time,
disputed the inspector general’s findings.  
 Sharon Thomas Parrott , the chief compliance officer of
 Devry Inc ., based in Chicago, is also scheduled to testify.  
 Apollo, based in Phoenix, rose 47 cents, or less than 1
percent, to $48.86 at 12:25 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading.  
 Apollo’s University of Phoenix received a letter from the
education department resolving a February 2009 review, after
completing corrective action, the company said today in a
statement. The review focused partly on the company’s practices
for returning federal aid when students withdraw from programs.
Apollo reimbursed $660,000 in aid related to the agency’s
review, the company said.  
 Career Education, based in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, rose
15 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $27.15. Corinthian fell 16
cents, to $11.39.  
 ‘Big Short’  
 Eisman is one of the hedge-fund managers featured in “The
Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine” (Norton, 2010),  Michael Lewis ’s book about investors who anticipated the housing bust.
Without new government regulation, students at for-profit
colleges will default on $275 billion of federal student loans
in the next decade, Eisman said in his May 26 presentation.  
 A comparison of higher-education companies to the subprime-
mortgage industry is “absolute nonsense,”  Harris Miller ,
president of the Career College Association, the Washington-
based trade group that represents more than 1,400 for-profit
colleges, said in response to Eisman after his presentation.  
 The industry welcomes Harkin’s hearings to showcase its
contribution toward improving access to higher education, Miller
in a statement on June 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  John Hechinger  in Boston
at   jhechinger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        