-- German Stocks Rally as China Currency Move Spurs Confidence; Daimler Gains
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-06-21T15:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/german-stocks-rally-as-china-currency-move-spurs-confidence-daimler-gains.html

          
          
             German stocks  rallied after China
said it will relax its currency’s fixed rate to the dollar, a
sign that policy makers in the world’s third-largest economy see
the global recovery strengthening.  
 Daimler AG and  ThyssenKrupp AG  led gains in the benchmark
DAX Index, rising more than 2 percent. Porsche SE rose 5.5
percent as Volkswagen AG considers naming its chief product
strategist  Matthias Mueller  to run the sports-car maker.
 Solarworld AG  led the advance in the broader HDAX Index after
Deutsche Bank AG analysts advised buying the shares.  
 The DAX advanced 1.2 percent to 6,292.97 as 22 of its 30
stocks climbed. The gauge has rallied 11 percent since May 25
after concern about levels of government debt in Europe pushed
the measure near its cheapest level relative to earnings in more
than a year. The HDAX climbed 1.2 percent to 3,179.19 today.  
 “The move by China over the weekend to make the yuan more
flexible is a move towards market normalisation and this is
being welcomed by investors,” said  Joshua Raymond , a markets
strategist at City Index Ltd. in London. “The timing of the
announcement is clearly a move to calm the likely U.S. vigour
ahead of the G-20 meeting.”  
 The People’s Bank of China said it will end a two-year
currency peg adopted during the global financial crisis to
protect exporters. A stronger yuan will help curb inflation and
shift investment toward service industries from export-
manufacturing, the central bank said.  
 ‘Constructive Step’  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  called China’s decision a
“constructive step.” House Ways & Means Chairman  Sander Levin ,
a Michigan Democrat, said on June 16 that China needed to act by
the end of the June 26-27 Group of 20 leaders’ summit or risk
U.S. legislation that could levy penalties on Chinese imports.  
 Daimler, the world’s second-biggest luxury carmaker, gained
3.2 percent to 44.50 euros. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the
largest luxury automaker, climbed 2.7 percent to 41.80 euros.
ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, advanced 2.8 percent
to 22.60 euros.  
 Porsche rose 5.5 percent to 37 euros. Mueller’s move would
be part of a bigger reshuffling in which current Porsche Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Macht  would become the VW group’s
production head, two people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News on June 18.  
 Separately, Commerzbank AG upgraded Porsche to “hold”
from “reduce.”  
 Solarworld rose 8.5 percent to 10.75 euros after Deutsche
Bank upgraded the solar company to “buy” from “hold.”  
 BASF SE increased 1.5 percent to 46.90 euros. The world’s
largest chemicals maker is poised to announce the purchase of
Cognis GmbH for at least 3.1 billion euros ($3.9 billion) as
soon as tomorrow, two people with knowledge of the discussions
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        