-- German Bonds Fall, as Stocks Gain on Decision to Allow More Flexible Yuan
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-21T14:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/german-bonds-fall-as-china-s-flexible-yuan-curbs-demand-for-safest-assets.html

          
          
             German government bonds fell,
pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year security to a one-
month high, as stocks rose after China said it will allow a more
flexible yuan, curbing demand for the safest assets.  
 The  bund yield  extended last week’s gain, the biggest this
year, as the MSCI World Index of equities rose 1.2 percent and
the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield jumped seven basis points.
Spanish bonds rose for a third day, narrowing the extra yield
investors demand to hold them rather than German securities, as
concern nations may struggle to pay their debt subsided. The
European Central Bank slowed purchases of sovereign debt to the
least since its bond-buying program started on May 10.  
 “The news from China underpinned the bearish tone for
bunds with Treasuries, although it’s difficult to tell what the
longer-term effect may be,” said  Marcel Bross , an interest-rate
strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Spain was
performing very healthily on Friday and we’re still playing this
tightening pattern.”  
 Germany’s 10-year bond yield increased four basis points to
2.77 percent as of 3:40 p.m. in London, the highest since May
20. The 3 percent security maturing in July 2020 fell 0.34, or
3.40 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,238) face amount, to 102.03.  
 The Spanish 10-year bond yield fell 13 basis points to 4.47
percent, narrowing the yield difference with bunds 15 basis
points to 170 basis points.  
 Yield Trough  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow
greater currency “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out
“large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent
“excessive” moves.  
 Bund yields fell as low as 2.50 percent this month amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis may deepen and cause global growth
to falter. Strong demand at debt auctions last week for so-
called periphery nations including Spain renewed confidence in
the countries’ ability to fund their budget deficits, weakening
demand for German debt.  
 This week the Netherlands, Portugal and Italy plan to sell
government bonds. Dutch 10-year securities were little changed
today, with the yield at 2.98 percent. Equivalent-maturity
Portuguese yields fell two basis points to 5.70 percent and
Italian 10-year yields fell four basis points to 3.96 percent.  
 “The better risk appetite on the back of the announcement
from China to make the yuan more flexible should support euro-
zone spreads,”  Wilson Chin , a fixed-income strategist at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam, said today in an e-mailed report.
“Having said that, the effect is likely to be small and short-
lived given the euro-zone debt crisis is likely to linger for
the coming months.”  
 Greek Austerity  
 The ECB started buying government bonds last month to
support a rescue plan for nations facing rising debt costs that
was forged by the European Union and worth almost $1 trillion.
Purchases of government bonds slowed to 4 billion euros last
week, down from 6.5 billion euros the week before. The bank has
bought a total 51 billion euros of securities, it said today.  
 ECB Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  said today the
central bank’s government bond-purchase program is of a
“temporary nature” to help restore investor confidence in the
region.  
 “It’s by construction a temporary measure in order to calm
down markets,” Stark said at an event in London today.
“Markets have calmed down. I’d like to stress the temporary
nature of this program.”  
 The bond buying may cause bunds to underperform U.S.
Treasuries, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 ‘Clear Risk/Reward’  
 “Markets’ fears about who funds the ECB and what the ECB
owns (lots of potentially defaulting instruments, and growing)
implies a clear risk/reward,”  Andrew Roberts , head of European
rates strategy in London, said in a June 18 investor report.
“U.S. Treasuries will outperform bunds.”  
 The European Commission, the EU executive in Brussels, said
in a report issued today that it may be “some time” before the
EU labor market shows an upswing.  
 “The economy started to recover from deep recession around
a year ago, but it may take some time yet before the fragile
pick-up in economic activity and confidence triggers an upswing
in the labor market,” it said.  
 Government bond price declines should be seen as an
opportunity to buy the securities because market jitters over a
potential weakening of economic growth will support demand,
Nomura Holdings Inc. said today.  
 “We expect sensitivity to be high to any further signs of
slowing, and at the very least, this is likely to cause extra
volatility,” a team of Nomura analysts led by  Nick Firoozye  in
London said in an investor report. “This means that bonds will
remain in favor. Dips are ultimately still buying
opportunities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        