-- Gin Slobs, Rotting Blair Enliven London Exhibition of Comic Art
-- Martin Gayford
-- 2010-06-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/gin-slobs-rotting-blair-enliven-london-exhibition-of-comic-art.html

          
          
             Do what Victorian brides were
advised to do -- shut your eyes and think of England -- and one
of the things that comes to mind, along with wet weather and the
monarchy, is a sense of humor.  
 Britons like jokes, and so have their artists from William
Hogarth to the  Chapman  brothers. That’s the premise of a new
show at  Tate Britain  in London: “Rude Britannia: British Comic
Art.”  
 This is a survey of political cartoons, visual satire and
lewd imagery from the 17th century until today, presented
thematically rather than chronologically and with -- a more
dubious ingredient -- some contemporary art thrown in. As an
experience, it’s as much funny-peculiar as funny ha-ha, though
the subject matter is as rich as a traditional suet pudding.  
 There’s a good case for saying that “comic” artists such
as James Gillray (1757-1815) were at least as talented as most
of their portrait- and landscape-painting contemporaries. They
don’t usually make it into art history, excluded for not being
serious enough although a lot of the work on show is not at all
humorous.  
 It’s rude, as the exhibition title puts it, dealing with
the messy underside of life: vomit, sex, drunkenness, obesity
(all topics that might also come to mind when thinking of
Britain). Some of it’s politically incorrect in the extreme.  
 For physical squalor, little in the work of  Damien Hirst  or
 Tracey Emin  can beat Thomas Rowlandson’s print from 1811:
“Distillers Looking Into Their Own Business.” It shows three
repulsive elderly men drooling and dribbling into a tub labeled
“Double Distilled Gin” (it’s an attack on makers of cheap,
illegal gin, indicating the kind of stuff that might go into the
product).  
 Tony’s Smile  
 For inventiveness, vim and utter lack of respect, Gillray’s
depictions of the politicians of the 1790s are unbeatable.
Georgian caricatures seldom approach the sheer hatred of, for
example, Martin Rowson’s 2009 “Why they wanted to hold the Iraq
inquiry in private,” in which  Tony Blair  appears as a corpse in
an advanced state of putrefaction, still cheery and grinning.  
 The violence of visual satire in Britain seems to have
followed a J-curve. After the outrageous Regency era, Victorian
caricature grew tame and so -- on this evidence -- political
cartooning remained until a few decades ago, when the savagery
factor zoomed up. Thus  Adolf Hitler  and  Josef Stalin  were
treated far more gently by London cartoonists than  Margaret Thatcher  and  Tony Blair . (In contrast, Steve Bell’s  John Major ,
seen as a luckless and lackluster superman with his underpants
worn outside his trousers, looks almost affectionate).  
 Chopped Sausage  
 It may say something about the British that the political
section is more fun than the one labeled “Bawdy,” which tends
toward the grim. This contains some salacious postcards by
Donald McGill and jolly paintings by Beryl Cook of fat women and
male strippers but also, for example, a video of the
contemporary artist  Sarah Lucas  chopping up a large sausage with
what looks like hostile symbolic intent.  
 The mixture of contemporary art -- such as Lucas’s piece --
with the comic variety is one of the drawbacks of this
exhibition. The two don’t make a good blend. For one thing, the
proper artists tend to be much less entertaining.  
 Another problem is that the curators are trying too hard,
always a weakness with comedy. Accordingly, Hogarth’s engravings
are “interpreted” by a cartoon character from  Viz  magazine.
Humor works best when it’s immediate, light and subversive, so
fitting it into art history is almost bound to spoil the joke.  
 “Rude Britannia: British Comic Art” is at Tate Britain,
London, through Sept. 5. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/ .  
 ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "A French Dentist Shewing a Specimen of his Artificial Teeth and False Palates" by Thomas Rowlandson. The work is on show in the "Rude Britannia" exhibition at Tate Britain through September 5th. Source: Tate Britain via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Giant Factotum Amusing Himself"  
                       
                         
                           Tate Britain via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "The Giant Factotum Amusing Himself" by James Gillray. The work is on show in "Rude Britannia" at Tate Britain through September 5th. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "The Giant Factotum Amusing Himself" by James Gillray. The work is on show in "Rude Britannia" at Tate Britain through September 5th. Source: Tate Britain via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "The Gate of Calais" by William Hogarth. The work is on show in "Rude Britannia" at Tate Britain through September 5th. Source: Tate Britain via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Ptorydactyl"  
                       
                         
                           Tate Britain via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Ptorydactyl" by Gerald Scarfe. The work is on show in "Rude Britannia" at Tate Britain through September 5th. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Ptorydactyl" by Gerald Scarfe. The work is on show in "Rude Britannia" at Tate Britain through September 5th. Source: Tate Britain via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
