-- Goldman Sachs, Icon Are Bidding  for Wireless Broadband Operator AriaDSL
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-06-21T15:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/goldman-sachs-icon-are-bidding-for-wireless-broadband-operator-ariadsl.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Icon
Private Equity are trying to take control of AriaDSL BV after a
dispute between the Italian wireless broadband operator’s owners
pushed it into bankruptcy.  
 “We are planning an equity injection with possibly some
outside investors,”  Kirill Dmitriev , chairman of Moscow-based
Icon and AriaDSL board member, said in an interview. “We
strongly believe in the broadband wireless market and especially
in Italy, where only a wireless solution can really solve
internet access issues.”  
 Goldman Sachs and Icon, whose group owns about 60 percent
of Aria, are pitted against a bid from a team led by minority
shareholder Gilo Ventures, according to three people with
knowledge of the talks. Icon’s group is offering around 100
million euros ($124 million), said one of the people, who
declined to be identified before the acquisition is agreed.  
 AriaDSL, the Dutch parent of the Italian Wimax operator,
was declared bankrupt on March 2. The struggle for control of
the company began six months earlier after it hit a “liquidity
shortage,” according court papers filed in April by the
bankruptcy trustee, who is seeking a buyer for the company.  
 Officials for Goldman in London declined to comment.  Davidi Gilo , founder of Gilo Ventures, also declined to comment.  
 In December, most shareholders agreed to short-term funding
through a convertible bond that would be sold in three stages.
The investment would have given the company access to a 75
million-euro bank loan, the court papers show, cash that would
have been invested to build more base stations, the people said.  
 Financing Fails  
 A conflict among shareholders led that shareholder
financing to fail, the court documents show. Only the first of
the three payments was made and a number of shareholders, which
the documents don’t identify, requested that AriaDSL pay back
the loan. The shareholders sought the bankruptcy after failing
to get their money back, the documents show.  
 Goldman  and Icon’s interest Aria in began in 2008 when they
led a group that injected 55 million euros into AriaDSL to help
it fund a 48 million-euro purchase of six Wimax licenses, court
papers show. Goldman was involved through both its asset
management unit and its special situations group, which mainly
invests in distressed assets.  
 As part of the license agreement, Aria pledged to build 700
base stations by Nov. 1. To boost its reach, in  June 2009  Aria
and Telecom Italia SpA said Aria would use Telecom Italia’s
Wimax frequencies in Italy’s central and southern regions. In
exchange, Telecom Italia agreed to sell Aria’s broadband
services to its own clients. By April, Aria had built only about
120 base stations and the company isn’t likely to meet its
licensing target, according to the court documents.  
 For Icon, Aria remains a long-term project.  
 “We look at investments on a four-to-five year horizon and
the same here,” said Icon’s Dmitriev. “We have good experience
with Wimax in Russia and Ukraine, so we can use our scale of
operations to buy equipment cheaper.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        