-- McDowell Wins Golf's U.S. Open as Woods, Mickelson Fail to Mount Charge
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/graeme-mcdowell-of-northern-ireland-wins-golf-s-u-s-open-title-by-1-shot.html

          
          
             Graeme McDowell  of Northern Ireland
became the first European golfer in 40 years to win the U.S.
Open as  Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson  failed to mount a charge
during the final round.  
 McDowell’s 3-over-par 74 yesterday at Pebble Beach Golf
Links in California was the highest final-round score by a U.S.
Open champion in 25 years. He finished at even-par 284 for four
rounds, one better than Gregory Havret of France and two ahead
of two-time U.S. Open winner  Ernie Els  of South Africa.  
 “This is an absolute dream come true,” McDowell, 30, said
as he cradled the trophy in his arms on the 18th green.  
 Woods and Mickelson, the top two players in the Official
World Golf Ranking, tied for fourth place at 3-over after final-
round scores of 75 and 73, respectively.  
 “I kept my head down pretty much until about I bogeyed 10,
then had a little peek at the leaderboard to see what was going
on and no one was going crazy,” said McDowell, who was ranked
37th in the world entering the U.S. Open. “I couldn’t believe
it. I really just tried to stay calm.”  
 McDowell, who climbs to a career-high 13th in the world
rankings with the win, is the first Northern Irishman to claim
the U.S. Open title and the only European to win the season’s
second major championship since England’s  Tony Jacklin  at
Hazeltine National Golf Club in Chaska, Minnesota, in 1970.  
 McDowell’s Move  
 McDowell, who won $1.35 million, started the final round in
second place at 3-under, three shots behind 54-hole leader
 Dustin Johnson  of the U.S. He quickly moved atop the leaderboard
as Johnson played the first four holes in 6-over par.  
 No other players in the final three groups were able to
shoot below par and challenge McDowell, as Havret shot 72 and
Els matched Mickelson with a 73.  
 Woods followed up his third-round 66 with a 75 yesterday
that included six bogeys over his first 12 holes.  
 “Our game plan was just if we shot under par for the day
we would probably win,” said Woods, who hasn’t had a victory
since returning to golf following his admission of marital
infidelity. “The golf course was playing too hard, too fast,
and it can get away from you pretty quickly out there.”  
 Johnson, who won the past two U.S. PGA Tour events at
Pebble Beach, never recovered from his start. He finished with
an 11-over 82, the highest final-round score by a U.S. Open 54-
hole leader since 1911, when Fred McLeod shot 83.  
 When Havret missed an eight-foot birdie putt at the par-5
18th hole in the next-to-last group, McDowell elected to lay up
short of the green with his second shot. He then hit a wedge to
about 20 feet and two putts later raised his arms in victory.  
 The last player to shoot 74 in the final round to win the
U.S. Open was  Andy North  in 1985.  
 Father’s Day Win  
 McDowell’s father ran onto the green and jumped into the
arms of his son, who told him, “Happy’s Father’s Day, dad.”  
 McDowell two weeks ago won the Wales Open for his fifth
career European Tour title. He had top-20 finishes last year at
the U.S. Open, Masters and PGA Championship.  
 While McDowell has had success before, even his dad wasn’t
sure he could hold off players such as Woods and Mickelson, who
have 18 major titles between them.  
 The four previous U.S. Opens held at Pebble Beach were won
by Woods,  Jack Nicklaus ,  Tom Watson  and  Tom Kite , who have a
combined 202 PGA Tour wins. Ken McDowell also pointed to the
lack of success of European players at the tournament.  
 Before Jacklin in 1970, the last European to win the U.S.
Open was Scotland’s  Tommy Armour  in 1927, while the last
Northern Irishman to win a major championship was Fred Daly at
the 1947 British Open.  
 “It’s been a long time coming, but boy was it good,” Ken
McDowell said in an interview off the 18th green. “He’s been
playing so well, but you don’t think he’s going to win a major
with all those names there. I never would have dreamed this, but
miracles happen, don’t they?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in Pebble Beach, California, at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland celebrates with the trophy on the 18th green after winning the 110th U.S. Open at Pebble Beach Golf Links in California. Photographer: Donald Miralle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
