-- Liberty Media Tracking Stocks Rise as Company Moves to Simplify Structure
-- Kelly Riddell
-- 2010-06-21T20:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/liberty-media-tracking-stocks-rise-as-company-moves-to-simplify-structure.html

          
          
             Two of Liberty Media Corp.’s
tracking stocks rose after the company moved to simplify its
complex financial structure by announcing plans to turn its
largest unit,  Liberty Interactive , into an asset-backed stock.  
 An asset-backed Liberty Interactive, which houses home-
shopping network QVC, provides better transparency for the
company’s business, improves its ability to raise capital and
may help with acquisitions using stock, Chief Executive Officer
 Greg Maffei  said today on a conference call. Liberty Media will
split off Liberty Capital and Liberty Starz tracking stocks, to
complete the transaction.  
 Liberty Media, controlled by media mogul  John Malone , has
used tracking stocks and convoluted financial transactions to
pursue tax benefits, said  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets Ltd. in New York. The spinoff is the first step
in cleaning up the Englewood, Colorado-based company’s structure
and making it more attractive to investors, Crockett said.
Asset-backed stocks provide more transparency than tracking
stocks, he said.  
 “This spin is very complicated step to make a very
complicated story simpler, which is a good thing,” Crockett
said. “I wouldn’t be surprised if after this, the company cues
up Liberty Capital and Liberty Starz into their own asset-backed
stocks.”  
 Liberty Interactive  rose  21 cents to $12.56 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Liberty Capital  added 
$2.17, or 5.2 percent, to $43.95. Liberty Starz fell 7 cents to
$52.35.  
 The transaction gives Liberty Interactive more freedom to
pursue acquisitions and helps remove its trading discount, said
 Chris Marangi , an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York.  
 Liberty Interactive, which some investors have speculated
may buy out HSN, another home-shopping network, now has the
option to make the purchase with stock, Marangi said. Liberty
Interactive owns a 32 percent  stake  in HSN, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Courtnee Ulrich , a spokeswoman for Liberty Media, and  Mia Carbonell , a spokeswoman for HSN, weren’t available for comment.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        