-- Michael Foods Sets Final Pricing on $865 Million of Loans Backing Buyout
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-06-21T14:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/michael-foods-sets-final-pricing-on-865-million-of-loans-backing-buyout.html

          
          
             Michael Foods Inc. , the biggest
producer of egg products in North America, will price $865
million of loans at 4.5 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate, with a 1.75 percent Libor floor,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  
 The loan will price at 98 cents on the dollar, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private. Proceeds will be used to finance Michael Foods’ sale to
a fund run by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 The transaction will include a $790 million six-year term
loan B and a $75 million five-year revolving credit line, said
the person. In a revolving credit facility, money can be
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A
term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders for use in
collateralized loan obligations, mutual funds and hedge funds.  
 Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs and Barclays Plc are
arranging the financing. The loans are expected to begin trading
this afternoon.  
 Initial price guidance on the facility was 4.5 percentage
points to 4.75 percentage points over Libor, with a 1.75 percent
Libor floor. Libor is the rate at which banks lend to each
other.  
 Thomas H. Lee Partners LP agreed to sell Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based Michael Foods to GS Capital Partners in a
transaction that values the company at about $1.7 billion,
according to a May 21 statement from the food company.  
 Michael Foods’ total leverage ratio, or debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, will be
5.8 times once the acquisition closes. Before the transaction,
it’s been about 3.5 times, according to a report by Moody’s
Investors Service.  
 Mark Witmer , treasurer of Michael Foods, declined to
comment on the financing in a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Bravo  in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        