-- Tiger Woods Blames `Mental Mistakes,' Caddie for Failure to Win U.S. Open
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-21T05:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/tiger-woods-blames-mental-mistakes-caddie-for-failure-to-win-u-s-open.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods ’s challenge on the final
day of the  U.S. Open  faded just as quickly as it began a day
earlier.  
 Woods, along with almost every contender in the second
major championship of the year, bogeyed his way around  Pebble
Beach Golf Links  during the final 18 holes yesterday and
squandered opportunities to seize the tournament he had won on
the same course by a record 15 shots a decade ago.  
 Instead, it was  Graeme McDowell , a 30-year-old from
Northern Ireland, who became the first European to win the event
since 1970. As McDowell cradled the trophy on the 18th green,
Woods blamed the loss on mental errors, an excuse rarely
admitted by the three-time U.S. Open winner, and his caddie,
 Steve Williams .  
 “I told Steve we made three mental mistakes,” Woods said
in a brief televised interview. “The only thing it cost us was
a chance to win the U.S. Open.”  
 Woods remains at 14 major championship victories, four shy
of  Jack Nicklaus’s  record.  
 After climbing into contention with a 5-under-par 66 two
days ago, Woods said repeated mistakes yesterday left him in a
tie for fourth place after a round of 4-over-par 75. It was the
same result he had at the Masters Tournament in April, the first
event he played after taking a hiatus from golf following his
admission of marital infidelity.  
 Johnson Tumbles  
 Woods failed to capitalize as third-round leader  Dustin Johnson  tumbled from the top of the leaderboard within an hour
of his final round beginning. Johnson, who began the day leading
McDowell by three shots and Woods by five, made a triple-bogey
on the second hole, a double-bogey on the third and a bogey on
the fourth to fall out of contention for good.  
 Instead of taking advantage, Woods bogeyed the first and
fourth holes to fall four shots behind McDowell.  
 Woods said his first big mistake came at the par-5 sixth
hole, where his 3-wood tee shot flew off the edge of a cliff,
leading to the third of six bogeys.  
 “It should have been a 2-iron down there,” Woods said.  
 He wasn’t the only marquee player unable to tame the 91-
year-old course along the edge of the Pacific Ocean.  
 Ernie Els , a two-time U.S. Open winner, moved into a tie
for the lead with a birdie on the sixth hole, his third of the
day, only to drop back with two bogeys and a double-bogey over
the next five holes. He finished third, two shots behind
McDowell.  
 Mickelson’s Errors  
 Phil Mickelson , this year’s Masters Tournament winner and a
five-time U.S. Open runner-up, birdied his opening hole and had
eight straight pars before shooting 3-over for the final nine
holes to finish in a tie with Woods.  
 “It was a wide open tournament,” Mickelson said. “Many
guys had a chance. All I had to do was shoot even par on the
back. I wasn’t able to do it.”  
 Neither was Woods, who said advice from Williams led to
another bogey on the 10th hole. Williams told Woods to take
“dead aim” when the world’s top-ranked player said he wanted
to hit his sand wedge approach shot to the left of the flag.  
 “In my heart I said no,” Woods said. “You can’t play at
that flag.”  
 The ball rolled about 15 feet past the hole, leading to
another bogey.  
 The title fell out of Woods’s reach when two holes later he
made what he called his third mental mistake, a decision he said
was also influenced by Williams, his caddie of 11 years.  
 ‘Awful Swing’  
 Facing a downhill tee shot on a 203-yard par-3 hole, Woods
said his “instincts” were to hit a 5-iron to the right side of
the green. Instead, Woods said “we thought a 4-iron would be
better and I just made an awful swing.”  
 The ball landed left of the green in heavy rough, leading
to his last bogey and dropping him six shots behind the leader
with six holes to play.  
 By the time the final round was over, Woods trailed the
winner by three. He rolled his eyes and looked to the sky when
explaining what went wrong.  
 “You take away those three mental errors and I’m tied for
the lead,” he said.  
 Instead of walking off with the trophy and celebrating with
his wife and children as he did two years ago at Torrey Pines
near San Diego, Woods slipped away from the course flanked by
his agent,  Mark Steinberg , spokesman  Glenn Greenspan  and a bevy
of armed police.  
 Woods is next expected to play at the AT&T National, a
tournament he will host at the Aronimink Golf Club in Newtown
Square, Pennsylvania, from July 1-4.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Pebble Beach, California,
at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        