-- Times Square Bomb Suspect Shahzad Pleads Guilty
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/times-square-suspect-faisal-shahzad-pleads-guilty-to-attempted-car-bombing.html

          
          
             Faisal Shahzad , a naturalized U.S.
citizen who said he was trained to use explosives by the
Pakistani Taliban, pleaded guilty to driving a bomb-laden car
into New York’s Times Square to avenge the deaths of Muslims.  
 Shahzad, 30, pleaded guilty yesterday less than two months
after his arrest to all 10 terrorism-related charges, including
attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction, brought in an
indictment on June 17 by prosecutors in the office of Manhattan
U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara .  
 Shahzad told U.S. District Judge  Miriam Cedarbaum  that he
“intended to damage buildings, injure people, kill people” in
the May 1 bombing attempt.  
 “I consider myself a Mujahid, a Muslim soldier. The U.S.
and NATO forces have attacked the Muslim lands,” he said.
“It’s a war,” he said, adding “I am part of that. I am part
of the answer of the U.S. terrorizing the Muslim nations and the
Muslim people, and on behalf of that, I’m revenging the
attacks.”  
 Bharara said in a statement that Shahzad, who prosecutors
said faces a mandatory life sentence, didn’t have a plea deal
with the government and that the investigation is continuing.
Cedarbaum scheduled Shahzad’s sentencing for Oct. 5.  
 “Faisal Shahzad plotted and launched an attack that could
have led to serious loss of life, and today the American
criminal justice system ensured that he will pay the price for
his actions,” U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said yesterday
in the statement.  
 Cedarbaum  closely questioned Shahzad at yesterday’s hearing
in Manhattan, frequently interrupting him. She asked him why he
wanted to plead guilty.  
 ‘Attacking U.S.’  
 “I want to plead guilty and I’m going to plead guilty a
hundred times over,” Shahzad answered, according to a
transcript, “because until the hour the U.S. pulls its forces
from Iraq and Afghanistan and stops the drone strikes in Somalia
and Yemen and in Pakistan and stops the occupation of Muslim
lands and stops killing the Muslims and stops reporting the
Muslims to its government, we will be attacking U.S., and I
plead guilty to that.”  
 Shahzad, who has been held without bail since appearing
before a federal magistrate on May 18, was led away from the
courtroom in handcuffs. He is being held at the Metropolitan
Correctional Center, the federal jail in lower Manhattan.  
 Terrorism Charges  
 Shahzad was originally charged in a criminal complaint
unsealed May 4, the day after his arrest, with one count each of
attempted terrorism; attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction; using a destructive device in connection with an
attempted crime of violence; transporting explosives; and
attempting to destroy property with fire and explosives.  
 He pleaded guilty yesterday to those charges and five new
crimes which prosecutors added to their case against Shahzad on
June 18, including conspiracy counts and an attempted terrorist
act transcending national borders. The U.S. said in the
indictment that Shahzad received about $12,000 from a Pakistan-
based militant extremist group to finance the plot.  
 He also pleaded guilty to having a loaded rifle with him
when he left a bomb-laden Nissan Pathfinder at Times Square. He
said he folded the loaded 9 mm Kel-Tec semiautomatic rifle, put
it in a laptop computer bag, and carried it to Grand Central
Terminal train station, about five blocks away, and then home to
Bridgeport, Connecticut.  
 “It’s for killing,” Cedarbaum said, referring to the
rifle.  
 ‘My Self-Defense’  
 “Self defense, not for killing,” Shahzad responded. “I
had the gun just in case if I was attacked or if I was captured,
for my self-defense.”  
 Shahzad admitted he conspired “with others” outside the
U.S. who are members of Tehrik-e-Taliban, described by
prosecutors as a militant extremist group based in the
Waziristan region of Pakistan. He said he received 40 days of
terrorist training from the group, including five days of bomb-
making training.  
 Shahzad also received financing to carry out the attack,
including about $5,000 on Feb. 25 in Massachusetts from an
unidentified co-conspirator in Pakistan who Shahzad “understood
worked for Tehrik-e-Taliban,” prosecutors said in court papers.  
 Shahzad later received about $7,000 on April 10 in
Ronkonkoma on Long Island east of New York City, according to
the indictment. That money was sent by the same unidentified co-
conspirator in Pakistan, prosecutors said. Shahzad bought a
prepaid cellular telephone on April 16 and the Pathfinder on
April 24.  
 Taliban Funding  
 Shahzad said yesterday in court that he used the money from
the Pakistan Taliban to make the bomb in his apartment.  
 “That’s where I made the bomb in the house and then I put
the bomb in the car, in the Nissan Pathfinder and drove the car
to Times Squares in order to explode it,” he said, referring
incorrectly to the busy Midtown crossroads.  
 The vehicle, containing an improvised bomb made of
firecrackers, propane tanks and gasoline canisters, was found
abandoned and smoking on the street as the items in the back
smoldered, the U.S. said in court papers.  
 Shahzad said he set the bomb’s detonator to go off in 2 1/2
to five minutes and left the vehicle.  
 He said he expected to hear an explosion, and walked into
the crowd when it didn’t detonate. That comment provoked the
sharpest exchange with the judge during the hearing that lasted
almost an hour.  
 “You wanted to injure a lot of people?” Cedarbaum asked.  
 Shahzad said he was in a “war” and wanted to avenge
Muslims killed by U.S.  
 “But not the people who were walking in Times Square that
night,” the judge said. “Did you look around to see who they
were?”  
 ‘All the Same’  
 “Well the people select the government,” Shahzad said.
“We consider them all the same. The drones, when they
hit ....”  
 The judge interrupted him, saying, “Including the
children?”  
 Shahzad was arrested at about 11 p.m. on May 3 at New
York’s  John F. Kennedy International Airport  after boarding a
flight to Dubai. He was questioned by federal authorities for
two weeks.  
 Prosecutors said in a letter to two federal judges in New
York that they advised Shahzad daily of his constitutional
rights to remain silent and be brought before a judge.
Prosecutors said Shahzad repeatedly waived those rights during
the two weeks he was being questioned.  
 Leads Pursued  
 Prosecutors said that leads developed in Shahzad’s case
have been pursued by “hundreds of agents in different cities
working around the clock since the defendant’s arrest.”  
 Federal agents probing the attempted car bombing arrested
three people on May 13 on immigration charges in a series of
raids in the northeastern U.S., law enforcement officials said.
No one else has been publicly charged in the plot by U.S.
authorities.  
 The searches were “the product of evidence that has been
gathered in the investigation since the attempted Times Square
bombing” and didn’t relate to any known new threat, federal
authorities said.  
 Shahzad, who was born in Pakistan, lived in the U.S. for 10
years and became a U.S. citizen in April of last year, records
show. He said his wife and children, who had been with him in
the U.S., moved to Pakistan and are living with his parents in
Peshawar.  
 He left the U.S. on June 2, 2009, to join the Tehrik-e-
Taliban in Pakistan, he said in court.  
 “It’s a war,” Shahzad told Cedarbaum. “I did the
training to wage an attack inside the United States of America.
It would have been any kind of attack, but I was given bomb
training, and that is what I learned there.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Shahzad, 10-00928, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in federal court in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A sketch shows Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad as he stands before US Disctrict Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum on June 21, 2010 in New York. Source: Shirley Shepard/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 19 (Bloomberg) -- Faisal Shahzad, charged with trying to detonate a car bomb in New York’s Times Square, made his first court appearance yesterday in federal court in Manhattan, where he was assigned a lawyer and ordered held without bail. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
