-- India May Increase Compensation to Victims of 1984 Union Carbide Gas Leak
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-06-21T12:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/india-may-increase-compensation-to-victims-of-1984-union-carbide-gas-leak.html

          
          
             India may increase compensation for
victims of the 1984 toxic gas leak at a  Union Carbide Corp. 
plant in the city of Bhopal that killed at least 3,800 people,
Urban Development Minister  Jaipal Reddy  said in New Delhi today.  
 The country will also seek extradition of  Warren Anderson ,
the former chairman of Union Carbide, from the U.S., Reddy told
reporters in New Delhi today after a meeting of a group of
ministers formed to advise the government on the tragedy. The
panel decided to “clean up” the toxic site in Bhopal, he said.  
 An Indian court on June 7 sentenced seven former senior
employees of  Union Carbide ’s local unit to two years each in
jail, more than 25 years after the leak. The quantum of sentence
caused widespread public anger. The opposition Bharatiya Janata
Party has criticized the federal Congress-party led government
for allowing Anderson to leave India.  
 An accident at the Union Carbide pesticide plant on Dec. 3,
1984, released methyl isocyanate gas into the streets of Bhopal,
the capital of Madhya Pradesh state in central India. Union
Carbide estimated that 3,800 people were killed by the leak.
 Amnesty International , a human rights group, commissioned a
study that showed 7,000 perished within days and another 15,000
died later from exposure to the gas.  
 Midland, Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. , the world’s
second-largest chemical maker, acquired Union Carbide in 1999.
Dow says all liabilities were settled in a $470 million out-of-
court settlement Union Carbide agreed with the Indian government
in 1989.  
 India’s cabinet will take a view on the recommendation of
the ministerial panel in a meeting on June 25, Home Minister
 Palaniappan Chidambaram  said today.  
 “We have dealt with all issues -- compensation, legal and
pursuing the extradition of Warren Anderson, the legal options
available to the government of India and, most importantly, the
remediation issues and health-related matters,” Chidambaram
said.  
 Tomm F. Sprick , a spokesman for  Union Carbide , said this
month that the company and its officials are not subject to
jurisdiction of Indian courts since they did not have any
involvement in the operation of the Bhopal plant, which was
owned and operated by Union Carbide India Ltd.  
 Sprick did not immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on today’s developments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        