-- Indonesia's Credit Rating Outlook Raised by Moody's on Government Finances
-- Achmad Sukarsono
-- 2010-06-21T05:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/indonesia-s-credit-rating-outlook-raised-by-moody-s-on-government-finances.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s credit rating outlook
was raised to positive by Moody’s Investors Service,
highlighting the strength of Asia’s emerging economies amid
soaring debt burdens in developed nations from Greece to Japan.  
 The outlook on Indonesia’s Ba2 local- and foreign-currency
sovereign ratings was changed from stable, Moody’s said in a
statement today, three months after Standard & Poor’s raised the
country’s credit rating to a 12-year high. Moody’s last upgraded
Indonesia’s debt, to two levels below investment grade, in
September 2009.  
 “The core of Indonesia’s growth story is driven by a large
domestic market that is appropriately managed by a well-tested
economic policy framework,”  Aninda Mitra , Moody’s vice-
president and its lead sovereign analyst for Indonesia, said in
the statement.  
 The rupiah has risen 15 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months, the biggest gainer in Asia, as investors poured
money into an economy that expanded even as the global financial
crisis pushed Japan, the U.S. and Europe into recession.
Southeast Asia’s largest economy is less reliant on exports than
its neighbors, and the re-election of President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  to a second term last year boosted confidence.  
 “In the eyes of the international investor, the Indonesian
story is a good one,”  Fauzi Ichsan , a Jakarta-based senior
economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a telephone
interview today. “In Asia, after China and India, where can
investors go?”  
 Stocks, Rupiah  
 The benchmark  Jakarta stock index  rose 1.5 percent to
2,973.36 at noon local time, exceeding its April 30 record
close. The rupiah gained 0.9 percent to 9,013 per dollar as at
12:23 p.m.  
 Moody’s said it expects Indonesia to post “sustained
strong growth” and further improvements in the government’s
financial and debt position. External disturbances such as the
“instability in several European sovereign debt markets” have
had no serious implications on Indonesia’s “improving” credit
fundamentals, Mitra said.  
 S&P raised Indonesia’s sovereign credit rating to BB from
BB- on March 12, with a positive outlook. S&P and Moody’s both
rank Indonesia two levels below investment grade, while Fitch
Ratings on Jan. 25 raised its rating to one step below
investment.  
 Race to Raise  
 Improvements in the level and composition of the
government’s debt, along with sustained gains in the country’s
external position or a deepening of domestic markets, would be
the most likely triggers for a rating upgrade, Moody’s said.  
 “The three houses are racing in raising Indonesia’s”
ratings, said Ichsan. “If the government’s fiscal policy stays
conservative and stable with a budget deficit below 3 percent of
the gross domestic product, investors will be more convinced
that from a fiscal perspective the Indonesian government is
prudent.”  
 Indonesia’s central bank unveiled measures last week to
encourage investors to keep their money in the economy longer
and reduce volatility in capital flows and the rupiah. The move
is “ratings neutral as it does not fundamentally restrict the
timely and comprehensive servicing of credit obligations,”
Mitra said today.  
 In the past five weeks, President Yudhoyono has moved to
fill a yearlong leadership vacuum at the central bank by
nominating Bank Indonesia Acting Governor  Darmin Nasution  to
take the job permanently. He also named  Agus Martowardojo  as
finance minister to replace  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , who joins the
World Bank as one of three managing directors this month.  
 “Recent appointments and nominations at the finance
ministry and at the central bank are supportive of policy
continuity and institutional credibility,” Moody’s said. “The
increase in Indonesia’s foreign currency reserves is also
notable, while better prospects for foreign direct investment
could sustain further improvements in the overall external
position in line with its sovereign ratings peers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        