-- Infineon May Make Acquisitions, Spend as Much as $3.1 Billion, CFO Says
-- Ragnhild Kjetland
-- 2010-06-21T12:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/infineon-may-make-acquisitions-spend-as-much-as-3-1-billion-cfo-says.html

          
          
             Infineon Technologies AG could make
larger acquisitions and spend as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.1
billion), Chief Financial Officer  Marco Schroeter  said.  
 “I believe there is value to a certain size,” Schroeter
was quoted as saying by Financial Times Deutschland.  Christian Hoenicke , an Infineon spokesman, confirmed the comments today.  
 Infineon has 1.4 billion euros in gross cash on its  balance
sheet  and could “theoretically” raise more than 1 billion
euros in authorized capital and  bonds , the CFO told the
newspaper. Schroeter said the company has no intention of making
“indiscriminate, spontaneous acquisitions.”  
 Infineon, Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, on April 28
raised its 2010 outlook for a second time this year on higher
demand from automotive and industrial customers for chip cards
and security applications. The Neubiberg, Germany-based company
forecast revenue growth in the “high 30 percent range”
compared with the 2009 fiscal year.  
 “A large acquisition just for the sake of size makes me
skeptical,” said  Theo Kitz , an  analyst  for Merck Finck & Co. in
Munich. “An acquisition has to create value for shareholders 
 and the risk of not realizing synergies is especially high when
it comes to technology companies, if the technologies don’t fit
exactly.” Kitz has a sell rating on Infineon shares.  
 Infineon’s  shares  rose 2.3 percent to 5.37 euros at 1.58
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. Before today, the stock had gained 35
percent this year.  
 “We are continuously considering sensible options, with no
rush, with a view to strengthen one or another business
segment,” Schroeter told the newspaper. “There are no concrete
plans at the current time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        