-- Insurers Raise Individual Health Premiums an Average 20%, Kaiser Says
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-06-21T18:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/insurers-raise-individual-health-premiums-an-average-20-kaiser-says.html

          
          
             Americans buying their own  health
insurance  face an average 20 percent increase in premiums,
driving some toward cheaper plans with fewer benefits, according
to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.  
 An estimated 14 million U.S. individuals under age 65
purchase coverage themselves, rather than through an employer,
according to a Kaiser report released today. About 77 percent of
them got a premium increase, said the Menlo Park, California-
based  nonprofit , which  surveyed  1,038 buyers of their own
individual and family health insurance between March 19 and
April 2.  
 What’s driving up costs and how much is a fair rate
increase are issues of debate among regulators and insurers,
said  Drew Altman , Kaiser’s chief executive officer and
president. “If you’re being hit with a 20 percent increase and
inflation is negligible and your wages aren’t going up, that on
its face is an unreasonable increase,” Altman said. “You will
never convince a consumer that’s a reasonable increase when
wages and inflation are flat.”  
 About 60 percent of policyholders paid the higher bills,
while 16 percent switched to a less expensive plan, according to
Kaiser. Of those who changed coverage, nearly half said their
new policy offered fewer benefits.  
 Costs Increase  
 “Health insurance premiums are rising because medical
costs continue to soar and because younger and healthier people
are choosing to drop their insurance during a weak economy,”
said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health
Insurance Plans, an industry group based in Washington. “That’s
driving up costs for everyone else.”  
 The health-reform bill signed by President  Barack Obama  in
March, which requires most Americans to have insurance, may
increase the market for those purchasing their own policies by
30 million people, said  Gary Lauer , chief executive officer and
president of  EHealth Inc.  The Mountain View, California-based
company operates  EHealthInsurance.com , an online seller of
insurance.  
 The most common reason people buy health insurance through
the individual market is because they’re self-employed or small-
business owners, according to Kaiser. The average annual premium
for individuals purchasing a plan covering one person is $3,606
compared with $4,824 for group plans, where employers often
contribute to the cost, Kaiser said.  
 Higher Deductibles  
 Policyholders who purchased their own coverage spent an
average $1,690 on health expenses in the past year in addition
to their annual premium and typically had higher deductibles,
according to the report. The average annual deductible for
individuals who buy their own policies is $2,498 compared with
$634 for the most common type of employer-sponsored health
insurance.  
 The health law establishes exchanges where people can shop
for insurance, provides subsidies for lower-income consumers to
purchase policies, and prevents insurers from denying coverage
to those with pre-existing conditions. Most provisions don’t
take effect until 2014, according to Kaiser.  
 “I think these exchanges are going to bring visibility to
this market,” said Lauer in a telephone interview. “What’s
surprising to most people is it’s actually a vibrant market with
a lot of choices in most states.”  
 The difference in prices on similar health-insurance
offerings can be as much as 30 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
