-- Intesa May Delay IPO of Banca Fideuram Fund Unit as Market Discount Widens
-- Sonia Sirletti
-- 2010-06-21T09:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/intesa-may-delay-ipo-of-banca-fideuram-fund-unit-as-market-discount-widens.html

          
          
             Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , Italy’s second-
biggest bank, may be forced to delay an initial public offering
of its  Banca Fideuram SpA  asset-management unit as market swings
prompt investors to seek discounts on new stocks.  
 Intesa may have to sell the shares at a price that values
Fideuram below the 2.6 billion-euro ($3.2 billion) book value in
its 2009 annual report, said fund managers  Angelo Manca  of
Ockham Capital Partners in London and  Alessandro Frigerio  of RMJ
Sgr in Milan. Intesa’s board meets tomorrow in Milan to decide
on the Fideuram IPO, which would be the biggest since 2006.  
 “Intesa has little choice on Fideuram because market
conditions have worsened dramatically in the last few months,”
Manca said. “Prices have come down and Intesa would have to
risk selling for less than the unit’s book value.”  
 The delay may threaten Intesa Chief Executive Officer
 Corrado Passera ’s plan to strengthen capital this year by
shedding so-called non-strategic assets. The 11 percent drop in
Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index through June 18 has already
caused the postponement of share sales by KOS SpA and Moby SpA.
European stocks have declined this year on concern economic
growth may stall as governments cut budget deficits to combat
the sovereign debt crisis.  
 ‘Fluctuations’  
 At least 34 companies worldwide have postponed or withdrawn
IPOs since the beginning of May as the European debt crisis sent
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  down as much as 14 percent from
its 2010 high.  
 “Market fluctuations” may affect the timing of the
Fideuram IPO, Passera told reporters on June 11 in Venice. An
Intesa spokeswoman said the bank had no additional comment on
the matter.  
 After taking the company private in January 2007 in an
offer that gave Fideuram a value of 4.9 billion euros, Milan-
based Intesa aims to bring it back to the stock market by
selling at least 50 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB has lost half of
its value in the same period.  
 Fideuram, whose 4,300 private bankers advise clients on
stock and bond investments, specializes in individuals’ savings.
The Rome-based company holds 70 billion euros of assets, ranking
No. 1 in Italy.  
 Banca Generali  SpA, which trades at 14.6 times 2010
earnings estimated by analysts, is considered a peer of
Fideuram. Based on Banca Generali’s trading multiple, Fideuram
would be valued at 2.9 billion euros, using forecasts for the
asset manager’s 2010 earnings of 200 million euros.  
 Mediolanum SpA  and  Azimut Holding SpA  also are also
considered benchmarks for asset-management companies in Italy.
They trade at 12.7 times and 10.5 times earnings, respectively.  
 ‘Capital Loss’  
 “Selling below book value would lead to a capital loss and
would boost ratios by less than they expected,” said  Aldo Comi ,
a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.  
 Intesa is seeking to boost its Core Tier 1 ratio, a measure
of the bank’s ability to absorb losses, by at least 50 basis
points, said Comi, who has an “outperform” recommendation on
Intesa. Intesa would have to place a valuation on Fideuram of
3.3 billion euros in order to boost the ratio by 60 basis
points, he said.  
 As part of the IPO, Intesa is in talks to sell part of
Fideuram to private-equity firm Hellman & Friedman LLC. An
official of San Francisco-based Hellman declined to comment on
the status of their negotiations.  
 Fideuram’s first-quarter net income rose 30 percent to 63.5
million euros. The company runs 100 branches and has more than
630,000 customers.  
 Fideuram’s IPO would be the largest in Italy since oil
refiner Saras SpA sold 2.1 billion euros of shares five years
ago. Enel SpA, Italy’s largest utility, plans an initial public
offering of its Green Power unit in October.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Intesa is seeking to boost its Core Tier 1 ratio  
                       
                         
                           Dave Yoder/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Intesa SanPaolo SpA headquarters stand in Milan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Intesa SanPaolo SpA headquarters stand in Milan. Photographer: Dave Yoder/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
