-- Israeli City Committee Approves Plan to Raze 22 Arab Homes in Jerusalem
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-06-21T17:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/israeli-city-committee-approves-plan-to-raze-22-arab-homes-in-jerusalem.html

          
          
             A Jerusalem committee granted
initial approval for a development plan that calls for razing 22
homes in an Arab neighborhood that the municipality says were
built illegally.  
 The city plans to turn the area of the Silwan district into
a tourist park that will include souvenir shops and restaurants.
Mayor  Nir Barkat  is trying to raise funds abroad to help
residents whose homes will be demolished to rebuild elsewhere in
Silwan, Barkat’s spokesman, Stephan Miller, said today.  
 Fahri Abu Diab, chairman of the area’s residents’
committee, called today’s decision “a declaration of war” that
undermined the principle of coexistence in the city.  
 Israeli construction plans led to one of the sharpest
disagreements with the U.S. in years when, during a March visit
by U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden , an Interior Ministry committee
approved construction of 1,600 Jewish homes in east Jerusalem.
Today’s approval comes two weeks before Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is scheduled to meet with President  Barack Obama  in
Washington.  
 The plans approved in March delayed the launch of U.S.-
brokered indirect Israeli-Palestinian peace talks by two months
and drew criticism from Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who
expressed “dismay and disappointment” over the decision.  
 Palestinian State  
 Israel captured east Jerusalem from Jordan in the 1967
Middle East War and later annexed it in a move never
internationally recognized. Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as
the capital of a future state.  
 The city committee will meet twice to further discuss the
plan before it goes for further approval by the Interior
Ministry’s district planning panel, Miller said. Sixty-six of
the original 88 homes in the area that were proposed for
demolition will be given legal status instead, he said.  
 About 31,000 people live in Silwan, 700 in the area slated
for the park, according to city documents.  
 Netanyahu said in an e-mailed statement today that the plan
was only in preliminary stages and he hoped the sides “would be
able to agree on a solution for those who built illegally in
public areas.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        