-- Liverpool Sale Needs Time to Get Best Deal, Royal Bank of Scotland Says
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-21T16:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/liverpool-sale-needs-time-to-get-best-deal-royal-bank-of-scotland-says.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
said it wants to ensure 18-time English soccer champion
Liverpool is sold to owners with proper funding, saying a delay
is in “no one’s interest.”  
 The bank sent a response to supporters who wrote hundreds
of identical e-mails to senior bank executives, including Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , urging the government-
controlled bank to restrict the club’s credit facilities.  
 Fans have been contacting the bank since March after
becoming disillusioned with its American owners  George Gillett Jr . and  Tom Hicks  because of the team’s on-field performance and
levels of debt. The team’s seventh-place finish in the English
league last season was its worst in 11 years, while the team
also owes RBS and Wachovia Corp. 237 million pounds ($351
million). Hicks and Gillett put the team up for sale in April.  
 “This (sale) process needs to be allowed sufficient time
to maximize the chances of the club being sold to ownership
capable of realizing its long-term potential,” said the e-mail
signed by Roger Lowry, the bank’s head of public affairs.  
 RBS spokesman  Piers Townsend  confirmed the e-mail is
genuine.  Jonathon Brill , a spokesman for the owners, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  
 British Airways Plc Chairman  Martin Broughton  joined
Liverpool in the same role when plans for the sale were
announced on April 16. The club also appointed Barclays Capital,
the investment banking arm of Barclays Plc, to advise on the
sale. Broughton said in an interview at the time he was hopeful
a sale could be completed before the start of the Premier League
season in August.  
 ‘Confident’  
 “We are confident that the chairman and the board will be
mindful of the need to avoid any unnecessary delay in concluding
a sale, as it is in no one’s interest to risk deterioration in
the performance of the club prior to it being sold,” Lowry’s e-
mail added.  
 RBS, which received the biggest banking bailout in the
world from the British government, has extended Liverpool’s
credit facility to help the owners get fair value for the team
and it also caters for the club’s regular banking needs.  
 Fans have protested against the owners for much of their
three-year tenure.  
 “I appreciate that the club’s finances have been a
source of frustration for many supporters but it is in the
interest of the fans, the club and the bank that we continue to
support it through this process to ensure its longevity for all
concerned,” Lowry added.  
 Liverpool is also looking for a new coach after parting
company with  Rafael Benitez  earlier this month. Under the
Spaniard, Liverpool won the Champions League in 2005 and the
F.A. Cup a year later. It hasn’t won anything since.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg via the London newsroom at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        