-- Japanese Stocks Rise After China Signals Shift in Yuan Policy; Fanuc Gains
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-06-21T06:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/japanese-stocks-rise-after-china-signals-end-to-yuan-peg-daikin-advances.html

          
          
             Japanese stocks  rose to a one-
month high after China signaled an end to the yuan’s fixed
rate against the dollar, boosting speculation demand in
Japan’s biggest export market will grow.  
 Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. , which counts China
as its biggest market by revenue, surged 6.7 percent. Fanuc
Ltd., which makes industrial robots, climbed 5.5 percent.
 Mitsubishi Corp. , a trading company that gets 41 percent of
its sales from commodities, gained 6.6 percent after prices
for oil and copper advanced. The People’s Bank of China said
on June 19 that the exchange rate will be allowed increased
“flexibility,” since the recovery of the nation’s economy
has become more “solid.”  
 “Exports of Japanese-made machinery to China are strong
owing to demand for factory automation,” said  Yoji Takeda ,
who manages about $1.1 billion at RBC Investment (Asia) Ltd.
in Hong Kong. “I won’t substantially change my investment
strategies. I’d rather prefer to see how China’s currency
policies are being played out.”  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 2.4 percent to close
at 10,238.01 in Tokyo. The broader  Topix index  gained 2
percent to 902.49, its highest close since May 19. The Topix
has fallen 9.7 percent from a 52-week high on April 15 amid
concern China will act to cool property prices and that
European countries will struggle to repay debt.  
 Machinery Makers  
 Last week, the Nikkei 225 climbed 3 percent, its biggest
weekly advance since March, as reports showed sentiment among
American consumers improved and New York manufacturing grew.
Shares in the gauge trade at 1.34 times book value, the
lowest level among benchmarks for the world’s five biggest
equity markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Hitachi Construction, Asia’s No. 2 excavator maker,
soared 6.7 percent to 1,873 yen, and market leader Komatsu
Ltd. jumped 4.6 percent to 1,782 yen. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines
Ltd., the nation’s No. 2 shipping line, surged 4.5 percent to
671 yen, and bigger competitor Nippon Yusen K.K. climbed 3.1
percent to 363 yen.  
 In a statement posted on its website, China’s central
bank ruled out a one-time revaluation, saying there is no
basis for “large-scale appreciation.” It didn’t give a
timeframe for the change.  
 Shipping Lines  
 “Japanese shipping companies that will benefit from
increasing cargo traffic to China are likely to attract
investors,” said  Yuya Tsuchida , a strategist at Toyo
Securities Co. Shipping lines had the second- steepest  gain
among the Topix’s 33 industry groups, behind trading
companies.  
 Fanuc advanced 5.5 percent to 11,370 yen and  contributed 
the most to the Nikkei 225’s advance amid speculation rising
personnel costs will spur manufacturers to invest in
automated production equipment. In the past month, suppliers
to Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. have raised wages
to end strikes in China.  
 “Numerous Japanese capital goods companies in the
machinery and electric appliances sectors should stand to
benefit from greater labor-saving investment demand in
China,”  Fumiyuki Takahashi , a Tokyo-based strategist at
Barclays Plc, wrote in a report on June 18.  
 Rising exports to Asia will prompt Japan’s government to
raise its economic-growth estimate to 2.6 percent for the
year ending March 31 from a December forecast of 1.4 percent,
public broadcaster NHK said on June 20. China was Japan’s
biggest export market by value last year, according to a
Finance Ministry  report  in March.  
 Mitsubishi, Japan’s biggest trading company by market
value, jumped 6.6 percent to 2,033 yen. Closest rival  Mitsui
& Co.  gained 5.9 percent to 1,210 yen, on speculation that
demand for raw materials will increase in China, the world’s
largest copper user.  
 Copper futures for September delivery rose 4.8 percent
today, while crude oil for July delivery climbed 2 percent.  
 Among stocks that fell were Sumco Corp., which dropped
the most among Nikkei 225-listed shares. The silicon-wafer
maker lost 3.2 percent to 1,736 yen after Morgan Stanley
reduced its rating on the stock to “ equal-weight ” from
“overweight.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 1.2 percent to 10,113.40 as of 9:03 a.m. in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
