-- Japanese Bonds Decline as China's Yuan Decision Reduces Demand for Debt
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-21T07:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/japan-s-bond-futures-fall-as-recovery-signs-damp-demand-for-safety-of-debt.html

          
          
             Japanese bonds fell for the first
time in three days after China said it would allow its currency
to fluctuate, damping demand for the safety of government debt.  
 Ten-year  bonds  slid the most in a week as Asian stocks
rallied on optimism China’s decision signals growth is
improving in world’s third-largest economy. The announcement
may also defuse global trade tensions by deflecting criticism
from Group of 20 leaders who have blamed China for relying on
an undervalued currency to promote exports.  
 “China is showing its resolve to tighten things in order
to make the economy more sustainable,” said  Akio Kato , team
leader of Japanese debt in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management
Co., which runs the $38.6 billion Global Sovereign Open fund.
“Stock investors are taking it as a positive sign. Gains in
stocks are weighing on bonds.”  
 The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due June 2020 rose 1.5
basis points to 1.215 percent as of 3:56 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price fell 0.135 yen to 100.757 yen. The yield’s gain was
the most since June 11.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery declined 0.13
to 140.48 as of the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 2.4 percent, its biggest gain
in two weeks.  
 The People’s Bank of China said June 19 it was abandoning
the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global
crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s
no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the
exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.”  
 ‘More Solid’  
 “The recovery and upturn of the Chinese economy has
become more solid with the enhanced economic stability,” the
PBOC said. “It is desirable to proceed further with reform of
the renminbi exchange-rate regime and increase the renminbi
exchange-rate flexibility.”  
 A G-20 summit is scheduled to take place on June 26 and 27
in Toronto. Authorities will resume a managed float of the yuan,
also known as the renminbi, against a basket of currencies,
according to the June 19 statement.  
 The decline in bonds was tempered on speculation Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  will lead efforts to rein in the
world’s largest public debt. The premier said last week he
would consider the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party ’s
proposal to raise the consumption tax to 10 percent.  
 ‘Strong Fiscals’  
 “Kan has indicated he’s more focused on strong fiscals
than a strong economy,”  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist
at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s second-
largest banking group, wrote in a note to clients today.
“That’s expected to support bonds.”  
 Bonds maintained their losses after a report showed
Japan’s all industry activity index increased in April, a sign
the economic recovery is gaining traction.  
 Japan’s all industry index rose 1.8 percent after dropping
a revised 0.7 percent in March, the Trade Ministry said in
Tokyo.  
 “The economy has been improving since reaching the bottom
in March 2009,” said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist in
Tokyo at Nikko Cordial, a unit of Japan’s third-largest banking
group. “Yields have stayed too low to reflect that economic
outlook.”  
 Ten-year yields may rise to 1.5 percent at the end of
September, Nomura said. If his forecast proves accurate,
investors who buy the securities today will incur a 2.1 percent
loss, Bloomberg calculations show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
