-- Judge Defers Bail Ruling in Bronx Synagogue, Newburgh Air Base Terror Case
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-06-21T19:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/judge-defers-bail-ruling-in-bronx-synagogue-newburgh-air-base-terror-case.html

          
          
             A federal judge didn’t rule right
away on whether to grant bail to four men accused of plotting to
blow up New York synagogues and attack aircraft at a military
base with heat-seeking missiles.  
 U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  said at a hearing today
in federal court in White Plains, New York, that she would issue
a written ruling this week. Defense attorneys argued that their
clients are the victims of an entrapment plot by a government
informant and should be released because they don’t pose an
immediate risk to the community and aren’t likely to flee.  
 James Cromitie, 41; David Williams, 28; Onta Williams, 32;
and Laguerre Payen, 27, were arrested in May 2009 after planting
the bombs in cars outside two synagogues in the Riverdale
section of the Bronx and have been in custody ever since. Payen,
a native of Haiti, isn’t eligible for bail because of his
immigration status.  
 “There’s no risk of flight,” said  Vincent Briccetti , who
is representing Cromitie. “He doesn’t have a driver’s license,
he doesn’t have a car, he doesn’t own a passport, he’s never
left the country. He’s not going anywhere.”  
 The charges against the defendants include conspiracy and
attempting to use weapons of mass destruction within the U.S.,
conspiracy and attempting to acquire and use anti-aircraft
missiles and conspiracy and attempting to kill officers and
employees of the U.S. They face as long as life in prison if
convicted.  
 Entrapment Claim  
 McMahon last week sent prospective jurors home, delayed the
start of the trial and agreed to listen to bail arguments from
defense attorneys, who say the suspects were the victims of an
entrapment plot by a paid Federal Bureau of Investigation
informant.  
 The judge said prosecutors had to give the defense a memo
from the lead FBI agent on the case to the manager of Stewart
International Airport in upstate New York. The memo said that
the main suspect in the case, James Cromitie, would be
conducting surveillance of adjoining Stewart Air National Guard
Base and posed no danger because he was working with a
government agent.  
 Prosecutors said if that memo must be turned over, the
defense may be entitled to see other documents, some of them
classified and requiring security clearances. Assistant U.S.
Attorney David Raskin said today the government may need three
weeks or more to gather the records and urged McMahon to keep
the suspects in detention.  
 “The defendants, all four of them, pose a clear danger to
the community,” Raskin said.  
 Mosque Meeting  
 The plot began in June 2008 when the informant, whom the
four men believed was associated with a Pakistan-based terrorist
group, met with Cromitie at a mosque in Newburgh, New York,
about 60 miles north of Manhattan, according to the complaint.  
 According to the informant, Cromitie said he was upset that
people were being killed by the U.S. military in Pakistan and
Afghanistan, where his parents lived before he was born, and
expressed a desire to do something in the U.S., the complaint
said.  
 In December 2008, Cromitie allegedly asked the informant to
obtain explosives and rockets for an operation. Cromitie and two
other suspects are accused of traveling in May 2009 to a
Stamford, Connecticut, warehouse with the informant, where they
collected a surface-to-air missile system and three improvised
explosive devices -- all of which had been disabled.  
 Defense lawyers have until July 2 to decide whether to
renew a motion to dismiss the case, and the government will have
another two weeks to respond.  
 The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (White Plains).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        