-- Kagan Hearing Gives Nominee the Chance to Make Good on Her Call for Candor
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/kagan-hearing-gives-nominee-the-chance-to-make-good-on-her-call-for-candor.html

          
          
             In 1995  Elena Kagan  lamented that
the U.S. Supreme Court confirmation process had become a “vapid
and hollow charade” as she urged senators to ferret out the
nominees’ views on the country’s most highly charged issues.  
 Nominees “usually can comment on judicial methodology, on
prior case law, on hypothetical cases, on general issues like
affirmative action or abortion,” she wrote in a law review
 article , published two years after she advised then-Senator  Joe Biden  on the high court nomination of  Ruth Bader Ginsburg .  
 Now the  Supreme Court  nominee herself, Kagan will have a
chance to live up to those words -- or at least add substance to
a confirmation process that Biden once called a “kabuki
dance,” devoid of any concrete discussion about a nominee’s
views. Her confirmation hearing begins June 28.  
 Kagan has promised to be more forthcoming than previous
nominees, according to Senator  Arlen Specter , a Pennsylvania
Democrat who met with her last month. Specter said Kagan went so
far as to criticize a previous nominee as being “not
appropriate in responses.”  
 Supreme Court nominees often have powerful incentives not
to expound on their views, and Kagan, 50, is no exception. With
Democrats in control of the Senate -- and with no major
controversy attached to her name -- a blunder at the hearings
might be the only thing that could derail her confirmation and a
lifetime appointment to the nation’s highest court.  
 “This is one of those situations where you want to be as
expansive as you need to be to get confirmed and not a bit more
expansive,” said  Jack Quinn , who as White House counsel under
President  Bill Clinton  was Kagan’s boss.  
 Constitutional Discussion  
 In theory, a Supreme Court confirmation hearing offers an
opportunity for a far-reaching discussion about the
Constitution, the scope of governmental power and the role a
justice should play in shaping American law.  
 In reality, no hearing has approached that standard since
1987, when Senate Democrats and nominee  Robert Bork  dueled over
the scope of the constitutional protections for individual
rights. The Senate rejected Bork 58-42.  
 In the eight confirmation hearings since then, nominees
have studiously avoided offering substantive opinions beyond
those already in the public domain.  
 Ginsburg set the standard in 1993 when she told senators
she would offer “no hints, no forecasts, no previews” of how
she would rule in a future Supreme Court case. President  George W. Bush ’s two successful nominees -- Chief Justice  John Roberts 
and Justice  Samuel Alito  -- cited the Ginsburg approach to
justify their own measured responses.  
 ‘Hollow Charade’  
 Kagan slammed the post-Bork hearings in her 1995 article.
They “presented to the public a vapid and hollow charade, in
which repetition of platitudes has replaced discussion of
viewpoints and personal anecdotes have supplanted legal
analysis,” she wrote.  
 The 1995 article may make it harder for Kagan to duck
questions, said  Walter Dellinger , a Washington lawyer who worked
with Kagan when he was solicitor general under Clinton.
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah cited the piece during
her confirmation hearing last year to become U.S. solicitor
general.  
 “I’m sure there will be questions directed to her that
might not have been directed so pointedly at other nominees,”
said Caroline Frederickson, executive director of the  American
Constitution Society , a network of liberal lawyers and law
students.  
 No Judicial Background  
 Kagan’s limited track record will also give senators
grounds to demand greater candor, said  Rachel Brand , a
Washington lawyer who as a member of the Bush administration
helped shepherd the Roberts and Alito nominations through the
Senate. Kagan will be the first Supreme Court nominee since 1971
to appear before the committee without having previously been a
judge.  
 “Senators don’t have as much to go on, so they may expect
her to provide more of her views in the hearing,” Brand said.  
 The man who nominated Kagan, President  Barack Obama , has
hinted that he would welcome a more robust debate about the
direction the court has taken under Roberts. Obama has accused
the Roberts court of favoring corporate interests over those of
“ordinary citizens.”  
 The nomination hearing could feed that story line. Senators
who have met with Kagan say she has criticized the court’s Jan.
21 decision voiding decades-old limits on corporate campaign
spending. As the Obama administration’s top advocate in Supreme
Court cases, Kagan argued unsuccessfully in favor of the
restrictions.  
 ‘Keen Understanding’  
 “The hearing is the venue in which senators and all
Americans will have the opportunity to learn about Elena Kagan’s
view of the law and her keen understanding of how it impacts the
daily lives of Americans,” said  Ben LaBolt , a White House
spokesman.  
 At least one Republican on the Judiciary Committee, Senator
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, questions whether Kagan will
be more forthcoming than previous nominees. Asked about her 1995
article, he laughed.  
 “She may have rethought that,” Graham said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        