-- Kan Says Focus of G-20, G-8 Summits Will Be on Europe's Fiscal Problems
-- Takashi Hirokawa
-- 2010-06-21T09:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/kan-says-focus-of-g-20-g-8-summits-will-be-on-europe-s-fiscal-problems.html

          
          
             Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said the biggest issue on the agenda of this week’s Group of 20
and Group of Eight summits in Canada will likely be the world’s
debt problems, especially in Europe.  
 “This is a situation that has a large impact on the global
economy,” Kan said today at a press conference in Tokyo. “I
will explain Japan’s thinking in reviving growth and fiscal
rebuilding.”  
 The three-day meeting of world leaders in Canada begins
June 25. Kan will take part in the one-day G-8 gathering in the
resort area of Muskoka, Ontario before the broader G-20 summit
beginning the next day in Toronto.  
 Kan reiterated that he is open to discussing raising the
country’s 5 percent  consumption tax  in an effort to slash the
world’s largest public  debt . He said the debate will begin after
elections on July 11 for the upper house of parliament, adding
that it likely will be “at least two to three years” before
the tax is lifted.  
 Kan took office less than two weeks ago, ahead of the mid-
term elections that will be a referendum on his  Democratic Party
of Japan ’s performance since it overturned five decades of
mostly one-party rule last August. A poll today showed his
popularity dropped after his remarks last week that he is open
to the  Liberal Democratic Party ’s proposal to raise the sales
tax to 10 percent.  
 The new administration’s approval rating fell 9 percentage
points to 50 percent from a week ago, the Asahi newspaper said
today. Support for the DPJ fell 8 points to 32 percent, while
the LDP’s backing rose 1 point to 13 percent. Forty-six percent
of respondents said they support an increase in the consumption
tax to 10 percent, while 45 percent said they oppose it.  
 The Asahi surveyed 1,025 people, and didn’t provide a
margin of error.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        