-- Kerkorian's Ex-Dealmaker Seeks Casinos With Onex Buyout Fund
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2010-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/kerkorian-s-ex-dealmaker-seeks-casinos-with-4-3-billion-onex-buyout-fund.html

          
          
             Alex Yemenidjian , the former
dealmaker for billionaire  Kirk Kerkorian , is hunting for more
casino acquisitions after buying the Tropicana Las Vegas Hotel &
Casino out of bankruptcy.  
 Yemenidjian, one-time president of casino group MGM Grand
Inc. and former head of the  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  film
studio, said he and Toronto-based buyout firm  Onex Corp.  plan to
build a casino company by purchasing properties, whole companies
or bidding for new development licenses.  
 “We have looked at about 25 to 30 different
opportunities,” Yemenidjian said in an interview in Las Vegas.
“We are looking at two or three opportunities at any particular
point in time, not just in Vegas, but everywhere.”  
 Yemenidjian and the private-equity firm may consider casino
investments of more than $1 billion. Tropicana Las Vegas is the
first asset in Onex Partners III, which raised a targeted $3.5
billion, plus $800 million from Onex, for “diverse” investments,
including gambling, the firm said. The partners have looked in
Macau, China, South America and Europe for casinos, made several
unsuccessful offers and have bid for an Illinois gaming license.  
 Yemenidjian and Onex, which has $12 billion under
management, scooped up Tropicana last July for about $205
million after buying most of its debt at a discount. They are
spending $165 million renovating the iconic resort, which was
featured in the 1964  Elvis Presley  film “Viva Las Vegas!” and
“Diamonds Are Forever,” the 1971 James Bond movie starring
 Sean Connery .  
 ‘Gaming Platform’  
 “The objective is to build a gaming platform,” said
Yemenidjian, 54, a California State University graduate who is
Tropicana’s chairman and chief executive officer. “Onex and I
would not have entered into the gaming business just for this
single property.”  
 Onex began searching for casino acquisitions in late 2005,
 Tim Duncanson , the managing director overseeing media and
entertainment deals, said in an interview. The firm was outbid
on regional casinos during the boom. After finding an “ideal
partner” in Yemenidjian, Onex was surprised its first
acquisition was on the Las Vegas Strip, Duncanson said.  
 In 2005, Yemenidjian oversaw the $5 billion sale of
Kerkorian’s  MGM studio  to a group led by  Sony Corp.  In the
1990s, he was president of MGM Grand ahead of its $6.4 billion
acquisition of Mirage Resorts Inc. He remained on the board
until mid-2005, shortly after a renamed MGM Mirage, today the
biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, finished its
$4.8 billion purchase of Mandalay Resort Group.  
 Painful Memory  
 The MGM studio, based in Los Angeles, put itself up for
sale again last year after falling behind on $3.7 billion in
debt. An auction brought a high bid of $1.5 billion from  Time
Warner Inc. , people with knowledge of the offer said in March.
MGM is also controlled by Providence Equity Partners Inc., TPG
Inc. and  Comcast Corp.   
 “It pains me to see it in this condition because I was
really hoping that the buyers would do well with it,”
Yemenidjian last month said of the studio’s troubles. “We took
a lot of pain to buy back all the rights that had been sold to
others, and to build the company, and it was all dismantled.”  
 Yemenidjian, a certified accountant who splits his time
between homes in Las Vegas and Los Angeles, has also served as a
director of Tracinda Corp., Kerkorian’s investment company,
which remains the  biggest shareholder  in MGM Mirage.  
 Before partnering with Onex and acquiring Tropicana,
Yemenidjian spent three years seeking his own casino
investments, eyeing escalating deal prices with disbelief. He
will invest alongside Onex.  
 On the Sidelines  
 “There were very successful hedge funds and private-equity
groups that were acquiring these assets, and I was asking
myself, ‘What am I missing? Do they know something I don’t
know?’” Yemenidjian said. “I was looking at individual
transactions and concluding that the numbers don’t make sense.”  
 The biggest deals included Apollo Global Management LLC and
TPG’s $30.7 billion buyout of  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc.  in
January 2008 and Colony Capital’s an $8.5 billion takeover of
 Station Casinos Inc.  with management in November 2007.  
 The financial crisis caused other deals inked during
bidding wars to be abandoned in costly settlements, such as
Fortress Investment Group LLC and Centerbridge Partners LP’s
$6.1 billion buyout of  Penn National Gaming Inc. , and Crown
Ltd.’s $1.75 billion acquisition of Cannery Casino Resorts LLC.  
 “We were trying to buy at the same time as those people,
but we were a little too frugal,” Duncanson said of Onex.
Trading Tropicana’s debt for equity was a similar strategy to
the firm’s successful takeover of Loews Cineplex Entertainment
Corp. from bankruptcy with Oaktree Capital Management LLC in
2001, which they sold profitably in 2004.  
 Tropicana Vegas  
 The partners are renovating the 53-year-old Tropicana with
a South Beach, Florida, theme, refurbishing rooms and suites
with plantation shutters and bamboo furnishings, updating the
conference and exhibition spaces, changing the restaurants and
re-creating the four-acre pool area as a Nikki Beach Club.  
 Renovating the Tropicana for $165 million wouldn’t have
been possible during Vegas’s boom, Yemenidjian said. Labor and
material prices in Las Vegas are about 30 percent less than in
2007, before the financial crisis halted most Strip development.  
 Since the crisis, local housing prices have collapsed 56
percent from their August 2006 peak, and Strip projects
including  Boyd Gaming Corp. ’s Echelon and IDB Development Corp.
and Elad Group’s The Plaza have been mothballed.  
 Yemenidjian said he hopes Las Vegas hotel room prices rise
in 2011 and 2012. Resorts in the largest U.S. casino and
conference market have slashed room prices and boosted special
offers to battle a record two-year slump worsened by new hotel
openings. Average room rates have tumbled 27 percent since the
2007 peak,  Las Vegas Convention & Visitors Authority  data show.  
 “Because of the supply-demand imbalance that happened at
the same time that the economy took a deep dive, nobody has
pricing power any more, not even the highest priced properties
in town, or the newest properties,” Yemenidjian said.  
 Las Vegas Strip gambling  revenue  is up 7.2 percent this
year through April, after falling 9.4 percent in 2009 and 11
percent in 2008, according to Nevada’s gaming control board.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        