-- Wall Street Is Close to Stiffing Overhaul: Commentary by Roger Lowenstein
-- Carol Matlack
-- 2010-06-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/kerviel-s-team-at-socgen-frequently-exceeded-limits-former-manager-says.html

          
          
             Jerome Kerviel ’s last boss at
 Societe Generale SA  said he finds it difficult to look into the
face of the trader who he saw as a reliable employee prior to
the bank’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6 billion) trading loss.  
 Eric Cordelle , the former trader’s last manager on the
Delta One trading desk before Kerviel’s activities were
discovered in January 2008, told a Paris court yesterday his
excuses for building up 50 billion euros worth of bets are
“pathetic.”  
 “It’s hard for me to look at his face,” said Cordelle,
who testified that he’s still looking for work after being fired
following the discovery of the unauthorized trades. “No one
else is allowed to make bets, but he thinks it doesn’t work that
way for him.”  
 Kerviel, 33, is accused of abuse of trust, faking documents
and hacking the bank’s computers to hide positions that exceeded
his mandate with faked hedges. Societe Generale announced the
loss in January 2008, with former Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Bouton  calling the former trader a “terrorist.” Kerviel has
argued his superiors were aware of and condoned his bets.  
 Cordelle and his then boss  Martial Rouyere  denied they knew
anything of Kerviel actions.  
 Rouyere said Kerviel was one of three traders on the Delta
One desk he “relied on.” He said he’d thought Kerviel could
help train Cordelle, who said he had no trading experience when
he arrived on the desk in April 2007.  
 “I had faith in Jerome,” said Rouyere, who left the bank
in August 2008. “He was someone serious, professional.”  
 Faked Hedges  
 When the bank began to uncover Kerviel’s bets and faked
hedges, Rouyere said the team reviewing his transactions didn’t
immediately understand what he’d done.  
 Before the weekend of Jan. 19, “I had no idea it could be
a fraud, a fraud of such magnitude,” Rouyere said. “We weren’t
sensitized to the risk of fraud” at the bank.  
 Rouyere sent Kerviel a text message asking him to come back
to the bank to help sort out what had happened. Kerviel messaged
back that he was thinking of “throwing himself under a train.”
Rouyere said he believed Kerviel felt guilty, which Kerviel
denied.  
 “It was just an expression,” Kerviel said. “It’s
something I said fairly often” when trades didn’t go well.  
 Rouyere and Cordelle both described the Delta One desk as
“young,” with Kerviel being one of the most senior members.
Cordelle was brought in for his  management  skills, to help re-
staff the eight-man desk which already “worked very demanding
hours,” Cordelle said.  
 Daily Limit  
 The traders exceeded the desk’s 125 million-euro daily
limit “fairly frequently” for technical reasons, such as data-
entry errors, Cordelle said. He never knew of a trader doing so
intentionally, he said.  
 Cordelle moved to the Delta One team in April 2007 from
Societe Generale’s operations in Japan. He didn’t know the
trading business and was offered the job because the bank needed
someone with management experience to build the team with new
hires and client contacts, he said.  
 Kerviel was presented “as someone who worked well, had
good results,” Cordelle said. “Someone I could rely on.”  
 Cordelle has a wrongful-termination suit pending against
Societe Generale. He claims he wasn’t given adequate instruction
to manage the Delta One desk. His request to join the criminal
case as a victim was denied.  
 Cordelle said he wasn’t informed of a 2005 incident when
Kerviel was reprimanded for secret bets on  Allianz SE ’s shares.  
 “The problem wasn’t whether he gained or lost, the problem
is the lying,” he told the court.  
 Securities exchanges Eurex twice wrote to the bank about
Kerviel’s trading volume in late 2007. Cordelle said he only saw
the second letter and wasn’t included in a meeting on the issue.  
 “Jerome was totally reassuring,” and that his volume was
up wasn’t surprising because the desk’s total volume was also on
the rise, Cordelle said. Rouyere said he didn’t know of the
Eurex letters.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Matlack  in Paris at 
 carol_matlack@businessweek.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jerome Kerviel a former trader for Societe Generale SA. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
