-- Khodorkovsky Questions Putin Ally From His Glass Cage in Moscow Courtroom
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-06-21T14:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/khodorkovsky-questions-putin-ally-from-his-glass-cage-in-moscow-courtroom.html

          
          
             Mikhail Khodorkovsky  questioned
former Russian Economy Minister  German Gref  in a Moscow court
where the convicted one-time owner of OAO Yukos Oil Co. is
facing a second trial that could keep him in jail for a further
two decades.  
 Gref, summoned as a defense witness, spent more than two
hours giving testimony as Khodorkovsky questioned him from the
glass cage he occupies with co-defendant and former business
partner  Platon Lebedev  in the Khamovniki District Court.  
 Now the chief executive officer of OAO Sberbank, Gref
backed up the defense’s claim that Yukos was not alone among
Russian oil companies in selling crude to its units at
discounted prices. Gref also testified he had been unaware of
any large-scale theft of oil while serving in the government of
then-President  Vladimir Putin , now prime minister.  
 Khodorkovsky is already serving an eight-year sentence for
tax evasion and fraud in a trial that he claimed was motivated
by his opposition to Putin. The 46-year-old, once Russia’s
richest man, could get 22 1/2 more years if found guilty of
stealing 350 million tons of oil from Yukos, which was later
bankrupted and auctioned off under a $30 billion tax claim.  
 Gref, also 46, said that so-called transfer-pricing within
vertically-integrated oil companies was not necessarily illegal,
though the schemes hurt tax collection. He said he “probably”
would have been informed if 60 million tons of oil a year had
been stolen while he was economy minister.  
 Martians, Putin  
 Khodorkovsky handled the questioning himself, beginning
with elementary points and building his argumentation.  
 “If a company is a victim of theft, who’s responsible for
paying its taxes?” Khodorkovsky asked in his final question to
Gref. “The company that had its oil stolen? The thief? Or
nobody?” Judge Viktor Danilkin threw out the question.  
 The defense began calling witnesses in April after the
prosecution spent a year giving evidence. Former Prime Minister
 Mikhail Kasyanov , who joined the opposition after leaving
government in 2004, has testified on Khodorkovsky’s behalf, as
has former central banker  Viktor Gerashchenko .  
 Industry Minister  Viktor Khristenko , who served as energy
minister during Putin’s presidency, is due to testify tomorrow.  
 “It’s more likely that Martians will show up in court” than
it is that Putin will make a voluntary appearance, defense
lawyer Konstantin Rivkin told reporters during a break. The
court summoned only Gref and Khristenko from the government, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        