-- Sumo Wrestlers Lose Biggest Company Sponsor Amid Baseball Gambling Scandal
-- Anna Mukai
-- 2010-06-22T07:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/nagatanien-won-t-sponsor-nagoya-sumo-tournament-after-gambling-scandal.html

          
          
             Japan’s  sumo  wrestlers lost their
biggest sponsor as a scandal involving illegal gambling unfolded,
threatening the next tournament and annual sales of $94 million.  
 Nagatanien Co.  decided to cancel its 12 million yen
($130,000) in sponsorship for the Nagoya tournament, scheduled
to begin July 11, after wrestlers admitted to gambling on
baseball matches, mahjong and card games.  
 “We take this case seriously as it has a big social
impact,” the Tokyo-based company said in a  statement . “We hope
this traditional national sport will become clean.”  
 The reputation of the ancient sport has been damaged in
recent years after allegations of assault and drug use by
wrestlers. Fuji Xerox Co., Japan’s biggest maker of color
copiers, and confectionary maker  Morinaga & Co.  may also review
their association with the sport after the latest scandal.  
 About 65 sumo association members and wrestlers have
admitted to illegal gambling, Japanese media have reported.
Kotomitsuki, who holds the second-highest sumo rank of ozeki,
agreed to a one-tournament suspension after admitting to
gambling on baseball games.  
 The  association  will decide whether to proceed with the
Nagoya tournament on July 4 after considering the findings of a
panel it has commissioned to investigate the gambling problem,
Chairman Musashigawa said yesterday. The sumo association
declined to comment about Nagatanien withdrawing sponsorship.  
 ‘Major Cleanout’  
 Sports Minister  Tatsuo Kawabata  said he was concerned about
links between the sport and organized crime after media reports
stablemasters gave front-row tournament tickets to gangsters.  
 “We will take this opportunity to do a major cleanout,”
Kawabata told reporters in Tokyo today. “We have to create an
environment where a wrestler can do his best, and fans can cheer
without any concerns.”  
 The sumo association  forecasts  annual sales of about 8.53
billion yen this year from six tournaments, according to a
report on its website.  
 Sponsors pay 60,000 yen to sponsor each bout, with the
majority of the funds going to the winning wrestlers. Company
names are displayed on banners and are read out before matches.  
 Nagatanien, which  makes  noodles, rice mixes and soups, has
provided between 15 percent and 20 percent of the total
sponsorship for each tournament.  
 Sport Review  
 The company has canceled its Nagoya tournament sponsorship
and is reviewing its future association with the sport,
spokeswoman Mitsue Kuga said.  
 Nagatanien  shares  rose 7 yen to 877 yen at the 3 p.m. close
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Fuji Xerox may review its sponsorship that began this year,
spokesman Masaaki Bando said. The unit of Fujifilm Holdings Corp.
provided 9 prizes at each tournament held this year.  
 Morinaga may also cancel its award, which is given in a
tournament in September, spokesman  Takashi Morisaki  said.  
 “We’ve had a long relationship with the sumo association
so we can’t make a big decision now,” he said. “We’re going to
have to look at what happens and decide then.”  
 McDonald’s Holdings Co. Japan isn’t considering reducing
its sponsorship, said spokesman  Kazuyuki Hagiwara . The burger
chain installed a custom-made seat to support the weight of
wrestlers at its restaurant near Tokyo’s sumo stadium after it
started sponsoring the sport last year.  
 Sake maker  Ozeki Co. , which has been a sponsor since 1958
and takes its name from the sumo rank meaning “champion,” said
it had no plans to change its relationship with the sport.  
 “We’re just going to have to be patient and find out what
happened,” spokesman Jotaro Nagano said.  
 The origins of sumo date back at least to the 7th century,
and one legend has it that a sumo match between two gods
determined who would rule Japan. Most wrestlers are known by a
single name linked to their stable.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Japanese sumo wrestler Ozeki Kotomitsuki  
                       
                         
                           Jiji Press/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         A file photo taken on May 23, 2010 shows Japanese sumo wrestler Ozeki Kotomitsuki in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photo taken on May 23, 2010 shows Japanese sumo wrestler Ozeki Kotomitsuki in Tokyo. Source: Jiji Press/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
