-- NBC Stations Backing Comcast After NFL, Olympics Vow
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-21T19:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/nbc-stations-agree-to-back-comcast-s-28-billion-deal-on-nfl-olympics-vow.html

          
          
             Television station owners affiliated
with NBC agreed to support  Comcast Corp. ’s purchase of  NBC
Universal  after the company pledged it won’t shift events such
as the Olympics and U.S. football to cable, an executive said.  
 The agreement keeps NBC’s Sunday night National Football
League games and the 2012 Olympics on free over-the-air
television,  Michael Fiorile , past chairman of the NBC Television
Affiliates Board, which represents more than 200 NBC stations
not owned by the network, said today in an interview.  
 “We support the merger with these conditions, which they
tell us they won’t oppose,” said Fiorile, president of closely
held Dispatch Printing Co., which owns NBC affiliate WTHR-TV in
Indianapolis. Comcast endorses the affiliates’ position, said
Washington-based spokeswoman  Sena Fitzmaurice .  
 The $28 billion transaction would give Philadelphia-based
Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, control of NBC’s
network, owned-and-operated TV stations, cable channels and a
movie studio. As affiliates backed the takeover, the
Communications Workers of America labor union and Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News, today joined opponents of the deal as
proposed.  
 “A company of this size will be able to exert an unhealthy
degree of influence over the media landscape,” according to a
letter the CWA, Bloomberg and groups including Common Cause and
the Writers’ Guild West today sent to the Federal Communications
Commission and Justice Department. The deadline to file comments
at the FCC is today. The agency hasn’t set a date for a
decision.  
 Cable Channels  
 Comcast would have an incentive to assign Bloomberg
Television, a competitor to NBC Universal’s CNBC business
channel, to a more expensive tier of its cable systems,  Greg Babyak , Bloomberg LP’s director of government affairs, said at a
June 14 meeting with FCC staff to discuss imposing conditions on
the merger, according to a  disclosure filing  by Patton Boggs
LLP, which represents Bloomberg LP.  
 The merger may cause “significant anti-competitive and
consumer harms,” Matthew Polka, chief executive officer of the
American Cable Association, representing small cable companies,
said today on a conference call.  
 Comcast-NBC would be able to increase programming fees by 20
percent “and possibly much more” in 60 large and mid-sized
markets, the Pittsburgh-based cable association said today in an
e-mailed statement. The association wants conditions before
regulators approve the merger, Polka said.  
 The FCC can impose conditions on Comcast relating to the
combined companies in return for approving a deal.  
 ‘Comprehensively Address’  
 Comcast will “comprehensively address” concerns raised in
today’s filings with the FCC by the July 21 deadline to respond,
said Executive Vice President  David Cohen  on a company  blog .
More than 140 federal, state and local officials have written to
support the merger, including the governors of Pennsylvania, New
York and California, Cohen said.  
 The deal is “pro-competitive, pro-consumer, and in the
public interest,” Cohen said. The combination would encourage
investment and bring diverse programming, the company told
lawmakers during hearings in February.  
 In talks with the NBC stations, Comcast also agreed to
separate the negotiations when stations renew affiliation
agreements with the network from the talks over the price
Comcast pays to carry an affiliate’s signal on its cable
systems, Fiorile said.  
 “We’re really kind of pleased with them coming into NBC,”
said Fiorile of the affiliates group. “They’re in the sports
business, they’re in the entertainment business, and with these
safeguards they’re not going to contest, we feel pretty good
about the deal.”  
 NFL, Olympics  
 NBC is to broadcast Sunday night NFL games through 2013. It
has the rights to the summer Olympic games in London in 2012,
and has said it plans to bid for the 2014 and 2016 games. The
events bring more viewers for the network and its affiliates,
who control some of the advertising time and revenue.  
 Comcast pledged to protect broadcast television when the
deal was announced Dec. 3, and “keeping certain marquee events
on over-the-air is part of that commitment,” said  Fitzmaurice ,
the Comcast spokeswoman.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        