-- Nestle Waters `Optimistic' Sales Will Rebound on Emerging Markets Growth
-- Tom Mulier
-- 2010-06-21T08:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/nestle-waters-optimistic-sales-will-rebound-on-emerging-markets-growth.html

          
          
             Nestle Waters , whose sales have
dropped for two years, aims for revenue growth of as much as 6
percent as it expands in markets that lack clean drinking water.  
 Nestle SA  expects bottled-water revenue, excluding the
effects of currency swings and acquisitions, to achieve the same
targets as the entire company over the long term, Nestle Waters
Chief Executive Officer  John J. Harris  said in an interview in
Paris. Nestle’s goal, which it calls the Nestle model, is for 5
percent to 6 percent average sales growth each year.  
 “I’m optimistic that the worst is behind us for bottled
water,” Harris said. “Whether it gets to the model this year
or next year, it should be within the model.” Nestle Waters was
Nestle’s only unit to post a decline in so-called organic
revenue in 2009.  
 Expanding populations and poor infrastructure for drinking
water have led demand for bottled water in emerging markets to
increase even during the global slowdown, Harris said. More than
2 million people die each year from diarrhea caused by unsafe
water, sanitation and hygiene, according to the  World Health
Organization . Consumption in the U.S. and western Europe is also
picking up, Harris said.  
 “Water resources are becoming increasingly scarce at a
time when demand is increasing,” Consumer Equity Research
analyst  James Targett  wrote in a June 9 report. Nestle gets
about a tenth of its water sales from emerging markets, while
Danone gets about half, Targett estimates.  
 Nestle’s bottled water sales rose 2.5 percent in the first
quarter, led by Nestle Pure Life, the world’s biggest bottled-
water brand.  Targett  has estimated a sales increase of 1.5
percent this year and 2.5 percent next year.  
 Emerging Markets  
 Nestle’s bottled-water unit, with plants in about 37
countries, wants to enter five more, aiming to expand its
proportion of sales from emerging markets to a third of revenue
within a decade, Harris said. He declined to name the five.  
 “We have got to figure out how to get our business to
reflect the emerging markets,” he said. “That’s a big push for
us.” Nestle will consider making its own investments if it
can’t find companies to acquire or form alliances within those
markets, Harris said.  
 Nestle is the world’s largest bottler of water, with sales
of 9.06 billion Swiss francs ($8.2 billion) last year from that
business.  Group Danone SA , its closest rival, had 2009 revenue
of 2.58 billion euros ($3.2 billion).  
 Modest Growth  
 Reaching 5 percent to 6 percent growth would be the fastest
growth for the unit since 2007, when so-called organic sales
rose 6.6 percent. Revenue has dropped in the last two years as
consumers in western markets cut back on bottled water and
beverages as the economy slowed and to avoid creating waste.  
 “We’re starting to see people come back, though they’re
not coming back to the magnitude that they were before they
left,” Harris said. “We’re starting to see overall an industry
that’s showing modest, low growth in the west. Taking a look at
the rest of the world, we’re looking at incredible double-digit
growth.”  
 Nestle’ s Perrier and San Pellegrino water could reach 1
billion francs of sales annually each within six to seven years,
having kept growing through the slowdown, Harris said.  
 Emerging-market consumption has room to grow, as it’s often
as low as 10 liters (2.6 gallons) per capita annually, compared
with about 140 liters for Italy, the biggest market for bottled
water, the executive said. Harris has led Nestle Waters since
late 2007 after helping Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle
integrate its 2001 acquisition of Purina and heading the pet-
food business in Europe and Asia.  
 Nestle also plans to expand in existing markets such as
China, Brazil, the Middle East and Pakistan, Harris said. Nestle
Waters hasn’t entered India because it hasn’t yet found
“sustainable, quality” water sources in that market, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        