-- Netanyahu Says Reduced Gaza Restrictions Bolster Israel's Naval Blockade
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-06-21T11:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/netanyahu-says-reduced-gaza-restrictions-bolster-israel-s-naval-blockade.html

          
          
             Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said his government’s decision to relax restrictions
on aid entering the Gaza Strip strengthens the country’s case
for keeping its sea blockade of the Hamas-ruled coastal enclave.  
 Middle East envoy  Tony Blair  said the move yesterday to
allow in all food and a wider range of building supplies mean
that there is “no need” for aid groups to try and breach
Israel’s embargo. Organizers in Iran and Lebanon have said they
will soon send ships to Gaza with humanitarian supplies.  
 The Israeli decision follows international criticism of a
May 31 commando raid on a flotilla of ships trying to breach the
blockade in which nine pro-Palestinian activists from Turkey
were shot dead. The incident spurred calls on Israel to loosen
its blockade.  
 “You have to understand that we’re talking about efforts
by Iran and Hezbollah to breach the sea blockade and security
closure against Hamas,” Netanyahu told parliament’s Foreign
Affairs and Security Committee. “That’s why yesterday’s Cabinet
decision is so important. It gives us legitimacy among our
friends in the world to tighten the security closure, by lifting
the closure on civilian goods.” His remarks were sent in an e-
mail from his Jerusalem office.  
 The Israeli Navy is preparing itself for the likelihood
that more ships will try to breach the blockade, said an army
spokesman who declined to be identified in line with military
regulations. According to the new guidelines, materials that
might have military uses will still be banned.  
 Israel will soon issue a list of goods that cannot be
brought into the Palestinian territory. Blair, who represents
the so-called Quartet of international powers backing Israeli-
Palestinian peace efforts, helped develop the new policy with
Netanyahu and called it “sensible.” The Quartet is made up of
the U.S., Russia, the European Union and the United Nations.  
 “No Need”  
 “Look, we have a sensible policy now,” Blair said today
in an interview with Israeli Army Radio. “There is no need to
bring things directly into the seaport in Gaza.”  
 Foreign aid ships “can take things by sea to
Ashdod,” Blair said. Ashdod is Israel’s port closest to Gaza.  
 The White House welcomed the Israeli decision and invited
Netanyahu to meet with President  Barack Obama  on July 6,
rescheduling a planned June 1 meeting that was canceled in the
wake of the flotilla raid.  
 For the past three years, Israel has allowed about 100
basic food products and consumer items into Gaza, while banning
such goods as chocolate, jam, potato chips and shaving cream. It
started letting those items in two weeks ago as it began to ease
the restrictions.  
 International Pressure  
 The Hamas government’s Minister of Economy Ziad Zaza
dismissed the relaxing as “nonsense,” saying Israel is trying
to reduce international pressure by saying it is easing the
situation.  
 Israeli officials say they must prevent shipments from
going into Gaza without first checking them for weapons that may
be used against the country’s southern towns and cities, which
have come under attack from rockets. Activists who have
organized flotillas to challenge the embargo say restrictions on
supplies going into Gaza have led to a humanitarian crisis, a
charge Israel disputes.  
 The nine activists were killed as their ship headed toward
Gaza to run the Israeli blockade. Israeli officials have said
its forces came under attack as they boarded the ship. Activists
have said they threw the firearms into the sea and that the
Israelis instigated the violence. There was no major violence on
five other boats intercepted in the operation.  
 Full Control  
 Israel has been blockading Gaza since Hamas seized full
control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year. The group is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Israel carried out a military operation in Gaza in December
2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of rockets into
its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict. Since the end of the three-week
operation, more than 400 rockets have been fired from Gaza into
Israel, killing one foreign worker, the Israeli army said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        