-- New Jersey's Christie, Lawmakers Reach Agreement on $29.3 Billion Budget
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-21T23:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/new-jersey-lawmakers-agree-on-29-3-billion-budget-republican-malone-says.html

          
          
             New Jersey lawmakers reached
agreement with Governor  Chris Christie  on a $29.4 billion budget
that doesn’t boost the highest U.S. property-tax bills in the
U.S.  
 “This budget stays true to the principles I originally
outlined, keeping spending within our means and restoring fiscal
order without raising taxes,” Christie, a Republican who took
office in January, said in a statement today.  
 Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature,
disagree with some of Christie’s $10 billion in spending cuts
and said they would leave it to Republicans to propose and
spearhead the plan for the fiscal year starting July 1.  
 The agreement maintains a $300 million reserve and restores
some reductions in areas including welfare, mental health and
home nursing care for the elderly.  
 The agreement differs little from Christie’s March budget
address, Assemblyman  Joseph Malone  of Bordentown, the ranking
Republican on the budget committee, said in an interview.
Republicans plan to introduce a bill incorporating the agreement
today, he said.  
 “Most importantly, this budget will be signed on-time and
all the rumors of a shutdown will remain just that,” Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West Deptford, said
in a statement issued with Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , a
Democrat from East Orange.  
 Christie, 47, the state’s first Republican governor since
1997, was elected amid voter anger over property-tax bills that
climbed 72 percent to an  average  $7,281 in 2009, from $4,239 in
1999, according to state data. Christie said he wouldn’t raise
taxes to balance the budget.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        