-- New York Lawmakers Raise Tobacco Taxes in Passing Emergency Spending Bill
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-21T23:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/new-york-lawmakers-raise-tobacco-taxes-in-weekly-emergency-spending-bill.html

          
          
             New York lawmakers approved
proposals to raise tobacco taxes and collect levies on
cigarettes sold by American Indians from their reservations to
people outside their tribes.  
 The proposals were part of Governor  David Paterson ’s 12th
consecutive weekly package of emergency spending bills to keep
the government operating. The measures are needed as lawmakers
and Paterson haven’t agreed on a comprehensive budget that
closes a deficit estimated at $9.2 billion when the fiscal year
began on April 1.  
 “The remaining gap to close is $3.651 billion,” said
Senator  Carl Kruger , a Democrat from Brooklyn and head of the
Senate Finance Committee. That figure assumes Democrats in the
senate use their 32 vote majority to pass annual budgets for
public safety, economic development and transportation, he said.
The assembly approved the budget bills last week.  
 New York, the nation’s third-most populous state, would
expect to receive about $290 million this year from a $1.60 per
pack increase in the  cigarette tax , to $4.35, and a boost in the
wholesale tax on other tobacco products, such as snuff and
cigars, to 75 percent from 46 percent. Collecting taxes on
cigarette sales from reservations would raise $150 million.  
 The $150 million estimate is “very, very conservative,”
said Senator Jeffrey Klein, Democrat of the Bronx. He said a
court challenge by Indian tribes is likely, though the state
could eventually collect $500 million of tax over a full year.  
 Budget Nears Resolution  
 In comments to reporters outside the Senate chamber, Klein
said he expects a budget agreement this week, before a June 28
deadline set by Paterson. The key areas in dispute are the
Assembly’s desire to cut school aid by less than the $1.4
billion proposed by Paterson and the Senate, and the Senate’s
desire for state-funded property-tax rebates to senior citizens.  
 The cigarette and tobacco measure “raises revenue, reduces
health risks, and lowers health costs for all New Yorkers,”
Senate Democratic Leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn said in a
statement.  
 Paterson last week set a June 28 deadline for lawmakers to
agree on a budget, which he said must not include borrowing. If
there is no agreement, the governor said he would resubmit his
original budget that includes a 1 cent-per-ounce tax on
sweetened beverages and larger cuts in school aid that many
lawmakers don’t favor.  
 If legislators hadn’t approved the weekly spending plan,
which includes an appropriation to pay state workers, the
government would have begun to shut down, said  Morgan Hook , a
Paterson spokesman.  
 No Rating Change  
 New York’s bond rating hasn’t suffered from the late budget
or “very difficult state political process,” Moody’s Investors
Service said June 18 as it affirmed an Aa2 grade, the third
highest, for the state’s  general obligation bonds.  The outlook
for the state’s debt remains stable, Moody’s said.  
 “It appears likely that the state will solve the budget
gap with some combination of spending cuts, revenue increases
and one-time revenues that will not imperil the long-term fiscal
health of the state,” the rating company said in a report.  
 The Assembly last week trimmed the deficit by about $1.05
billion in budgets approved for departments including public
safety, transportation and economic development, Megna said.
After the Senate has an opportunity to study the measures, they
“will pass,” said  Travis Proulx , a spokesman for Senate
Majority Leader  John Sampson , a Democrat of Brooklyn.  
 The departmental budget bills also cut $302 million from
aid for New York City. The state cut municipal aid payments to
other cities by 2 percent to 5 percent, or about $15 million in
all, budget documents show.  
 MTA Debt Authorization  
 Another provision would authorize the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority to sell as much as $6 billion of
additional debt to finance its capital spending plan, Megna
said.  
 Politicians of both parties have pushed to collect revenue
on cigarette sales from American Indian reservations. The state
hasn’t tried to make the collections since the early 1990s, when
an attempt resulted in violent opposition that injured a state
trooper and closed the main Albany-to-Buffalo highway. Federal
court rulings have affirmed the New York’s right to collect the
taxes.  
 If Paterson attempts to collect taxes on American Indian
cigarette sales “there will be a clash of cultures,” and more
violence may occur, said Senator  George Maziarz , a Republican
from Wheatfield.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        