-- New Jersey Democrats Seek 2.9% Property-Tax Cap, Higher Than Christie's
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-21T19:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/new-jersey-democrats-seek-2-9-property-tax-cap-higher-than-christie-s.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , the state’s highest-ranking Democratic lawmaker, plans
to introduce legislation today to cap increases in the nation’s
highest property taxes at 2.9 percent a year.  
 The plan challenges Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s
proposed 2.5 percent limit. Sweeney’s cap would be instituted by
statute, rather than through a constitutional amendment as
Christie has proposed. Any changes to the state constitution
need voter approval.  
 Sweeney said his figure more closely mirrors the rate of
inflation. Consumer prices have risen 2.7 percent on average
annually since 1990, according to U.S. government data. Under
his proposal, communities that keep tax growth below the cap
would be able to set aside the difference and boost property
taxes more than 2.9 percent in future budgets if needed.  
 “Certainly, New Jersey needs a solid cap, but it has to be
a realistic cap based on realistic numbers,” Sweeney, 51, of
West Deptford, said in a statement. “Storms tear the roofs off
buildings, floods and blizzards happen, vital equipment breaks,
and towns and school districts need to be able to meet the needs
those occurrences create.”  
 Rising Costs  
 Christie and lawmakers face a constitutional deadline to
agree on a budget by the July 1 start of the fiscal year.
Democrats, who lead the Senate and Assembly, today failed to
override Christie’s veto of a tax surcharge on annual incomes of
at least $1 million. The override vote passed the Assembly 47-
33, along party lines. Democrats needed a two-thirds majority to
override Christie’s veto.  
 Democrats had hoped to use the estimated $637 million of
proceeds to restore funding Christie proposed cutting from
programs for the elderly, including property-tax rebates.  
 Christie, 47, was elected in November amid voter anger over
property-tax bills that climbed 72 percent to an  average  $7,281
in 2009, from $4,239 in 1999, according to state data. He has
said he won’t raise taxes to balance the state budget.  
 Tax Cap  
 In 2007, former Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine  enacted a 4
percent cap on property-tax growth. Last year, homeowners’ bills
climbed 3.3 percent on average, the smallest jump in a decade.
Before the cap law, increases averaged about 7 percent,
according to Sweeney.  
 “The current cap law has been a success, but that doesn’t
mean we can’t improve upon it,” Sweeney said. “If the cap can
contain property taxes to their lowest increases in a decade,
then a tighter cap can definitely push increases well below the
governor’s magic 2.5 percent goal.”  
 Christie’s spokesman  Michael Drewniak  said the Democrat’s
proposal is “weak and deficient.”  
 “What is proposed by Senator Sweeney is just another leaky
cap with too many exceptions,” Drewniak said.  
 A 2.5 percent increase to last year’s property-tax bill
would cost the average homeowner $182 more, according to
Bloomberg calculations. A 2.9 percent boost would cost an
additional $211.  
 “When you multiply that $29 difference by millions, it
becomes a significant number,” said  Jerry Cantrell , president
of the  New Jersey Taxpayers Alliance . “It really boils down to
whether you want to continue to nip around the edges or do you
want to get a permanent reform.”  
 Dueling Plans  
 Cantrell said his group prefers the constitutional
amendment backed by Christie. Otherwise, the state may return
“right back to where it was,” Cantrell said.  
 Republican lawmakers said June 17 they will try today to
force legislative action on Christie’s proposed tax ceiling,
which would allow exemptions only with voter approval or to
cover debt-service payments. Sweeney’s plan would allow
exceptions for health-care costs, spokesman  Derek Roseman  said.  
 Christie’s proposal, introduced May 20, needs to be
approved by early August for it to appear before voters on the
November ballot as a proposed constitutional amendment,
according to Assembly Republican leader  Alex DeCroce .
Republicans plan to make a motion during today’s voting session
to move the measures out of legislative committees, he said.  
 Sweeney didn’t return calls to his offices in Trenton or
Woodbury or his mobile phone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        