-- Nigerian President Jonathan Won't Disclose Yet Whether He'll Run in Polls
-- Dulue Mbachu
-- 2010-06-21T11:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/nigerian-president-jonathan-won-t-disclose-yet-whether-he-ll-run-in-polls.html

          
          
             Nigerian  President  Goodluck Jonathan 
said it’s too soon to announce whether he will run in next
year’s presidential election because it would damage his
government’s effectiveness.  
 “I’m not in a position to tell Nigerians whether I will
contest now or not because we have a political environment that
gets too heated up when people are preparing for elections,”
Jonathan said yesterday in an interview with the state-owned
 Nigerian Television Authority . “So we feel that the best thing
to do is to keep our mouths sealed until the appropriate time.”  
 Jonathan said he would announce his decision after
electoral reforms are completed and before the primaries of his
ruling  People’s Democratic Party .  
 A bid by Jonathan to run in the election would violate the
PDP’s unwritten policy to alternate the presidency for two four-
year terms between the mainly Muslim north and the predominantly
Christian south. Jonathan, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger
River delta in the south, succeeded former President  Umaru Yar’Adua , a northern Muslim who died on May 5, three years into
his first four-year term.  
 Africa’s most populous country of more than 140 million and
largest oil producer has suffered periodic outbursts of
religious and communal violence that have claimed more than
13,000 lives since 1999, according to Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  
 Sectarian Tensions  
 Sectarian tensions have worsened this year, with clashes
between Muslims and Christians around the central city of Jos
claiming hundreds of lives since January. Army officers have
seized power six times since Nigeria’s independence from the
U.K. in 1960, once sparking a civil war from 1967 to 1970.  
 While many northern political leaders have urged Jonathan
to uphold PDP policy, pressure to run is also mounting on him
from his native delta region, home to Nigeria’s oil industry,
which is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. crude imports.  
 Attacks on the oil industry by armed groups campaigning for
local control of oil revenue cut more than 28 percent of
Nigeria’s oil output between 2006 and 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        