-- Nigeria Asks U.S. Court for Permission to Enter Christmas Plane-Bomb Case
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-06-21T17:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/nigeria-asks-u-s-court-for-permission-to-enter-christmas-plane-bomb-case.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s government asked the U.S.
judge presiding over the prosecution of  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , who is accused of trying to blow up a jet on
Christmas Day, for permission to enter the case.  
 Nigeria seeks to observe the proceedings, assure its
citizen gets a fair trial and protect the nation’s integrity,
according to the filing made today with U.S. District Judge
 Nancy Edmunds  in Detroit. Nigeria also wants copies of any
papers submitted to the judge.  
 “Nigeria has a zero tolerance for terrorism,” the
nation’s lawyers said in a brief accompanying its petition.
“However, this case is a public interest case that involves
unusually extensive and complex legal issues.”  
 Abdulmutallab on Jan. 6 was indicted for attempting to
detonate explosives hidden in his clothing on a Northwest
Airlines jet on Christmas day. The flight, which originated in
Amsterdam, carried 290 passengers and crew.  
 He faces six counts, including attempted use of a weapon of
mass destruction and attempted murder. The maximum sentence is
life in prison, U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said when
announcing the indictment.  
 Holder has said that Abdulmutallab, who pleaded not guilty,
cooperated in the investigation. Edmunds, in April, scheduled a
pre-trial status conference for tomorrow. No trial date has been
set.  
 Diplomatic Relations  
 Abdulmutallab’s attorney,  Miriam Siefer  of the Federal
Public Defender Office in Detroit, said she hadn’t yet seen
Nigeria’s filing and couldn’t immediately comment on it.  
 Dean Boyd , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the filing. The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency said
it learned about Abdulmutallab in November, when his father went
to the U.S. Embassy in Nigeria to seek help in finding him.  
 Nigeria, in its filing, said it also seeks preserve its
diplomatic relationship with the U.S.  
 “The Government of Nigeria is not unmindful of the gravity
of this matter and its initial impact on the friendly relations
between the United States and Nigeria,” it said. The African
nation has a population about 150 million.  
 Northwest Airlines is part of  Delta Air Lines Inc. , based
in Atlanta.  
 The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10cr20005, in the
Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        