-- Nobel-Prize Winner Mundell Signals Yuan Move Will Erode Economic Stability
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-06-21T05:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/nobel-prize-winner-mundell-signals-yuan-shift-may-erode-economic-stability.html

          
          
             Robert Mundell , the Nobel Prize-
winning economist, signaled that China’s pledge to return to a
more flexible exchange-rate policy may erode stability in the
global and Chinese economies.  
 Keeping the yuan pegged to the dollar has been “a great
source of stability” for China and the world, the Columbia
University professor told reporters in Hong Kong today. While
U.S. President  Barack Obama  welcomed the move, “he is not an
economist,” Mundell said.  
 The yuan climbed the most in 18 months against the dollar
today after the central bank said June 19 it will increase the
currency’s “flexibility,” signaling an end to the crisis
policy of a peg. The announcement was ahead of a Group of 20
summit this week where leaders will discuss how to sustain the
global recovery and prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.  
 Mundell, credited as the intellectual “father” of the
euro, has previously called for the European currency to be
fixed against the dollar, saying exchange-rate swings were a
cause of the global financial crisis.  
 The yuan climbed 0.14 percent to 6.8165 per dollar at 10:55
a.m. in Hong Kong, from 6.8262 on June 18, the biggest gain
since Dec. 31, 2008.  
 The central bank’s announcement followed pressure from
trading partners including the U.S., where lawmakers threaten
legislation that could penalize Chinese imports. An under-valued
yuan, or renminbi, gives the nation an unfair advantage in trade,
they argue.  
 ‘It’s Wrong’  
 “It’s wrong for the U.S. to force China to destabilize the
renminbi, I myself don’t think it’s a good idea,” Mundell said.
He called the Chinese move “political.”  
 The yuan has traded at about 6.83 per dollar since July
2008, a policy that the central bank indicated is no longer
necessary after the Chinese  economy  cemented its recovery.  
 Mundell said the yuan-dollar peg gave Asian exporting
nations more confidence in their trade positions by tying
together two of their biggest customers. It also served as an
“anchor” for the exporting countries’ monetary policies, he
said.  
 China could tackle its balance-of-payments surplus and
build-up in  foreign-exchange reserves  while maintaining a fixed
exchange rate, the economist added, saying that the tools could
include boosting wages and consumer spending and easing the way
for more imports.  
 Inflation, Asset Bubbles  
 In a question-and-answer document published yesterday, the
People’s Bank of China said that a floating exchange rate will
help the nation to restructure its economy, curb  inflation  and
asset bubbles, and reduce  trade  imbalances.  
 China is “accelerating efforts to adjust its economic
structure and growth model, and the global financial crisis has
made this task even more important and pressing,” the central
bank said. “The reform of the exchange-rate mechanism will help
promote economic restructuring and improve the quality and
efficiency of growth.”  
 Mundell, who won a Nobel Prize in economics in 1999, spoke
to reporters at a conference center where he was giving a speech.
The economist “played a significant role in the founding of the
euro,” according to his page on Columbia University’s Web site.  
 -- Sophie Leung . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Nerys Avery .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Robert Mundell, Nobel Prize winning economist  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Mundell, Nobel Prize winning economist and Columbia University professor, stands for a portrait in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Mundell, Nobel Prize winning economist and Columbia University professor, stands for a portrait in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's yuan policy.
     China’s yuan climbed the most in 18 months against the dollar after the central bank signaled it would end a two-year peg. The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow greater “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out “large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent “excessive” moves. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
