-- Obama Budget Chief Orszag Said to Be Planning to Leave Post
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/obama-budget-chief-orszag-said-to-be-planning-to-leave-post-within-months.html

          
          
             White House Budget Director  Peter Orszag  plans to leave President  Barack Obama ’s Cabinet before
the White House begins preparing its next budget, administration
officials said.  
 Orszag, 41, considered leaving his post as director of the
Office of Management and Budget in April and stayed on after an
appeal from the president, the officials, who spoke on condition
of anonymity, said. Orszag’s decision to leave in July will
accelerate the process of picking a successor.  
 Orszag’s spokesman declined to comment directly on his
plans. “Peter’s focused on his work, not on Washington
speculation,” said  Kenneth Baer , the budget office’s
communications director.  
 The departure comes as Obama is putting his focus on
slicing the federal  deficit , forecast to reach a record $1.6
trillion this year. The president appointed a bipartisan panel
to recommend ways to cut the shortfall, and its report is due in
December.  
 Upon leaving the administration, Orszag will likely join a
think tank, said one of the administration officials.  
 A former director of the Congressional Budget Office,
Orszag has worked to advance two of Obama’s top legislative
priorities: the $862 billion economic stimulus measure passed in
February 2009 and the $940 billion health-care overhaul passed
in March. As director of the budget office, he prepared both of
Obama’s first two spending blueprints.  
 Potential Replacements  
 Among the potential replacements under consideration are
 Laura Tyson , a former director of the National Economic Council
under President  Bill Clinton , and  Rob Nabors , who served as OMB
deputy director under Orszag before moving to the White House to
work under Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel , said one of the
officials.  
 The budget director’s post requires Senate confirmation.  
 Orszag’s departure would make him both the first member of
Obama’s Cabinet and the first economic adviser to leave the
administration.  
 His exit would come as the White House pushes an election-
year, $55 billion jobs bill in the Senate, which would add to
last year’s $862 billion stimulus package.  
 ‘The timing makes sense,” said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a
former CBO director during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration. ‘You want to have a new person for the full fall
budget cycle, so that they are involved in all aspects of the
preparation for the next budget.”  
 Earlier this month, Orszag announced a plan to force some
federal agencies to reduce their fiscal 2012 budget requests by
5 percent to help cut the deficit.  
 “As stewards of the American people’s tax dollars, we
cannot afford to waste money on programs that do not work, that
are outdated or that are duplicative of one another,” he said
in a speech on June 8 at the Center for American Progress.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Office of Management and Budget Director Peter Orszag pauses while speaking during an event in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- White House Budget Director Peter Orszag plans to leave President Barack Obama’s Cabinet before the White House begins preparing its next budget, administration officials said. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
