-- Obama's Carbon-Reduction Plans May Be Scaled Back to Electricity Sector
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-06-21T21:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/obama-s-carbon-reduction-plans-may-be-scaled-back-to-electricity-sector.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama , who meets
with lawmakers at the White House this week to discuss energy
legislation, may have to abandon a pollution-reduction program
for the whole U.S. economy and push instead for new laws that
target the electricity-producing companies.  
 A plan to cap carbon-dioxide emissions from nearly every
sector, favored by Obama and many Democrats, is stalled in the
Senate and there isn’t enough time this year to get it passed,
 Eileen Claussen , president of the Arlington, Virginia-based  Pew
Center on Global Climate Change , said in a telephone interview.  
 “The longer we keep batting around proposals that do not
have much of a chance, the less likely we are to get something
that does have a chance,” Claussen said.  
 A cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases, in which
companies would buy and sell a declining number of pollution
rights, was a major feature of the first budget plan Obama sent
to Congress in February 2009. Still, after the House passed cap-
and-trade legislation in June 2009, climate change took a back
seat to overhauls of the health-care system and banking sector.  
 Obama’s best chance for getting new greenhouse gas limits
through Congress this year is scaling back the economy-wide cap-
and-trade program in the House bill so it applies only to the
electricity sector, Claussen said.  
 Under another alternative, cap-and-trade would be dropped
and replaced with a requirement that utility companies buy more
electricity from carbon-free sources like wind farms and solar
panels, Claussen said. Burning coal, oil and natural gas to
generate electricity accounts for roughly one-third of U.S.
greenhouse gases, according to Environmental Protection Agency
data.  
 Obama Meeting  
 Obama plans to meet June 23 with a group of Senate
Democrats and Republicans at the White House to discuss energy
legislation. In an Oval Office address last week, he said the  BP
Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico should spur new laws to
“change how we produce and use energy.” He didn’t insist that
the Senate pass the House cap-and-trade bill and said he’s open
to “other ideas.”  
 Obama wants “to pass a comprehensive energy bill that
reduces our dependence on foreign oil, makes key investments in
the areas of alternative energy” and “deals fundamentally with
the environmental degradation that happens from carbon
pollution,” White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said
yesterday on ABC’s “This Week.”  
 Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who is
pushing a revamped cap-and-trade bill that charges power plants,
factories and oil refineries a price for the carbon dioxide
produced from burning coal, oil and natural gas, said yesterday
he’s willing to consider a scaled-back plan that begins with
utilities.  
 ‘Significant Step’  
 “That’s a significant step forward to a better, safer
country,” Lieberman, who co-wrote the cap-and-trade plan with
Massachusetts Democrat  John Kerry , said on CNN’s “State of the
Union” program.  
 It usually requires 60 out of 100 votes to pass major
legislation through the Senate, and there are about 50 senators
willing to support a carbon-pricing plan, Lieberman said.
Passing legislation this year to limit the greenhouse gases
scientists have linked to climate change is still possible
because another 20 senators are undecided, he said.  
 Scaling back Kerry and Lieberman’s economy-wide plan for
pricing carbon to the power sector, which accounts for roughly
one-third of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, won’t help it pass
Congress this year, Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska
Republican, said yesterday on CNN.  
 “It still puts you in the world of cap-and-trade,”
Murkowski said.  
 Economic Impact  
 Lawmakers are worried about the impact of a carbon price on
energy prices and job growth as the economy emerges from the
worst recession since the Great Depression, Murkowski said.  
 “I don’t think that there is the political ability to put
a price on carbon as we’re speaking.”  
 Murkowski said Democrats should instead take up a bill that
cleared the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee last
year that requires utilities buy 15 percent of their electricity
from renewable sources such as wind, solar, and geothermal power
plants by 2021.  
 The renewable electricity standard, combined with the
bill’s tougher energy-efficiency standards for buildings
appliances and industrial equipment, “puts us clearly on that
path to reduced emissions,” said Murkowski, who voted for the
bill when it was before the energy committee.  
 Including Nukes  
 Last week, Murkowski also put forward a plan from Senator
 Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican, as the basis for
legislation that could win the 60 votes needed to pass the
Senate this year.  
 Lugar’s plan would treat new nuclear reactors and coal-
fired power plants that capture and store their carbon dioxide
emissions the same as wind farms and solar panels under a
“diverse energy standard.”  
 The Edison Electric Institute, which represents investor-
owned utility companies, has been focused on economy-wide cap-
and-trade proposals in the House and Senate and hasn’t yet taken
a position on the alternative plans for the power sector,  Dan Riedinger , a spokesman for the Washington-based trade group,
said in a telephone interview.  
 Willing to Discuss  
 The Electric Power Supply Association, which represents
companies that generate and sell electricity in wholesale power
markets, is willing to discuss a cap-and-trade program that’s
limited to the power sector or a renewable electricity standard,
 John Shelk , chief executive officer of the Washington-based
industry body, said in a telephone interview.  
 Still, an economy-wide price on carbon dioxide emissions
remains the EPSA’s “preferred position” and the alternatives
to it may “have their own substantive and political
difficulties,” Shelk said.  
 Some Senate Democrats are urging Obama to shelve plans to
directly regulate greenhouse gases, either through new
legislation or by the Environmental Protection Agency.  
 Energy legislation to be considered this year should focus
on cleaning up the Gulf oil spill, caused by a fatal April 20
explosion on a BP-leased rig, compensating its victims and
speeding development of “clean energy technologies,” Senator
 Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said in an e-mail.  
 Energy Legislation  
 “We need to set aside controversial and more far-reaching
climate proposals and work right now on energy legislation that
protects our economy,” said Rockefeller, who is pushing for a
two-year delay of the EPA’s carbon dioxide regulations for
industrial sources like power plants.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, wants
to bring up energy legislation next month. Senate Democrats
didn’t decide at a June 17 meeting whether the legislation
should impose limits on carbon dioxide emissions or set a
renewable electricity standard and Reid plans another set of
talks this week.  
 “They need to decide very quickly what they’re going to
do,”  Robert Gramlich , a senior vice president at the
Washington-based American Wind Energy Association, said in a
telephone interview.  
 If energy legislation doesn’t clear the Senate in July,
then it probably can’t pass Congress this year as lawmakers’
attention shifts to the November elections, Gramlich said.  
 “It’s time for everybody to get serious,” he said.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        