-- Lockheed Reinstated to $5 Billion Commando Contract as Competitor Barred
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-21T22:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/lockheed-reinstated-to-5-billion-commando-contract-as-competitor-barred.html

          
          
             Lockheed Martin Corp.  was reinstated
to a U.S. contract valued at as much as $5 billion through 2018
after a competitor was barred from new government orders, the
Pentagon said today.  
 The work is being returned to Lockheed, the world’s largest
defense contractor, after New York-based  L-3 Communications
Holdings Inc.  said June 9 that the U.S. Air Force had
temporarily suspended the unit holding the contract.  
 The L-3 unit faces a criminal probe into the use of a
military computer network for e-mail surveillance of its workers
and those of the government and other contractors, according to
a June 3 memo by the Air Force deputy general-counsel’s office.  
 “The decision was made late Friday afternoon to reinstate
the contract for logistic support services, originally awarded
in 2009, to Lockheed Martin,” the U.S. Special Operations
Command’s Kenneth McGraw said in an e-mail.  
 McGraw said L-3 will finish some current work orders.
Others will be transferred to Lockheed Martin “as the two
companies conduct the transition over the next 120 days,” he
said. The contract’s work covers everything from maintenance for
aircraft and ground vehicles to supporting computers and
electronic equipment used by special operations forces
worldwide.  
 The L-3 unit’s suspension was a factor in the command’s
decision, McGraw said.  
 Continuous Support  
 The command “must ensure special operations forces have
continuous logistics support as they prepare to deploy,” he
said. “It would be very difficult to ensure continuous support
to the war fighter from L-3 while the suspension is in place.”  
 Lockheed spokesman  Keith Mordoff  said the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company was pleased with the reinstatement. “We
look forward to getting to work providing critical services,”
Mordoff said.  
 Jennifer Barton , an L-3 spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment.  
 Lockheed Martin won the 10-year contract on March 3, 2009,
from L-3, which had served as a special operations forces’ prime
contractor for 20 years. The award has been on hold while L-3
protested to the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        