-- Oil Rises to Six-Week High as China's Yuan Move Boosts Recovery Optimism
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-06-21T09:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/oil-rises-to-six-week-high-as-china-s-yuan-move-boosts-recovery-optimism.html

          
          
             Crude rose to the highest in six
weeks on speculation that demand may grow as China, the world’s
second-largest energy consumer, signaled an end to the yuan’s
fixed rate to the dollar.  
 Oil climbed above $78 a barrel, extending last week’s 4.6
percent gain, after the People’s Bank of China indicated it’s
abandoning the yuan peg adopted during the global financial
crisis to shield exporters, a move that may boost the country’s
purchasing power. The dollar traded near a four-week low against
the euro, bolstering speculative demand for commodities.  
 “We’re looking to the east this morning and the indication
that the yuan will be allowed to strengthen,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London. “The
impact of cheaper oil for Chinese consumers and the stimulus for
imports is what is pushing prices up this morning.”  
 Crude for July delivery rose as much as $1.69, or 2.2
percent, to $78.87 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. That’s the highest price since May 6.
The contract, which expires tomorrow, was at $78.50 at 10:46
a.m. London time. Brent crude for August settlement was up 1.6
percent at $79.45 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  
 In New York, the more widely traded August contract was
$1.32 higher at $79.58. Futures have gained 18 percent in the
past year.  
 China, the world’s most populous nation and the fastest-
growing major economy,  consumes  more oil than any country except
the U.S. China’s central bank said there’s no basis for “large
scale” moves in its currency even as it pledged increased
exchange-rate flexibility.  
 ‘No Disruptions’  
 “China will control and manage its currency very well,”
said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative sales manager at
Newedge Group in Tokyo. “I don’t think China will take action
rapidly but gradually, therefore there’ll be no disruptions to
the financial market. Chinese demand is still growing.”  
 The dollar fell as low as $1.2487 against the 16-nation
euro, the weakest level since May 24, and was at $1.2404 per
euro at 10:46 a.m. London time. The yuan climbed the most in 20
months against the dollar after China’s central bank relaxed its
two-year peg before a Group of 20 summit this week.  
 “This is only going to make imports less expensive for the
Chinese, so a bit of upward momentum from that will be a story
that will play out through a lot of markets, especially
commodities,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 U.S. Economy  
 All 90 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the
Federal Reserve will hold the benchmark interest rate at a
record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been
since December 2008. Policy makers meet tomorrow for two days.  
 “Some of the commentary that comes out in the Fed’s
statement may have an impact on markets and I think it’s more
likely than not to promote the idea that the U.S. is recovering
more strongly than previously expected,” said Westmore at
National Australia Bank.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their  net-long position  in New York crude futures to the highest
in three weeks, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  
 Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 32,930 contracts in the week
ended June 15, the Washington-based commission said June 18 in
its Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions gained
15,473 contracts, or 89 percent, from a week earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        