-- Crude Oil Falls Amid Concerns Europe's Debt Crisis Will Endanger Recovery
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-06-22T12:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/oil-declines-as-optimism-fades-over-boost-to-global-economy-from-yuan-plan.html

          
          
             Crude oil declined for the first
time in three days, tracking global equity markets, on renewed
concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will hamper the
economic recovery.  
 Oil dropped as a European Central Bank official said some
of the region’s banks face funding problems. The  Stoxx Europe 
600 Index of equities in 18 European countries dropped as much
as 1.4 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced its crude price
forecasts today.  
 “Oil is clearly moving toward $80 a barrel but people are
anxious about the euro economies,” said  Hannes Loacker , a
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich analyst in Vienna. “We still
see the correlation between equity markets and commodities.”  
 Crude for July delivery was down $1.07, or 1.4 percent, to
$76.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange at 1:05 p.m. London time. The July contract expires
today. The more-actively traded August contract was down $1.05
cents, or 1.3 percent, at $77.56 a barrel after falling as low
as $77.33 a barrel. Futures have dropped 3.3 percent this year.  
 Brent crude for August declined as much as $1.26, or 1.6
percent, to $77.56 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London, and was at $77.86 at 1:07 p.m. local time.  
 Bank Funding  
 Asian and European stocks dropped for the first time in
nine days today after  Christian Noyer , a governing council
member of the European Central Bank, cited the funding problems
facing banks and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said Spanish
lenders face difficult years as credit losses mount.  
 “We’ve seen oil come off on the back of equity markets,”
Nas Nijjar, a crude-oil trader at CMC Markets in London, said by
phone today. “We saw a sharp fall in commodities yesterday, the
market is a bit nervous.”  
 China’s central bank said June 19 it will increase
flexibility in the yuan, marking an end to the crisis policy of
pegging to the dollar. A day later, the People’s Bank of China
said the shift would reduce the economy’s “overreliance on
exports,” indicating an expectation for the yuan to rise.  
 “China’s move to more flexibility is a positive thing, but
only in the medium to long-term,” said Loacker of Raiffeisen.
“So after the first enthusiasm, people took profit after quite
a good rise in crude prices in the past few days.”  
 U.S. inventories of crude oil probably dropped 1 million
barrels last week, according to the median of 10 analyst
 estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. The industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute is scheduled to release its supply report today.  
 Goldman Cuts Forecast  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its price forecasts for crude
oil because commodity markets are “fragile” because of
concerns that growth in Europe and China will slow, the bank
said in a report today.  
 “Commodity markets are generally rebounding strongly off
their lows but sentiment remains fragile on European and Chinese
concerns,” said analysts led by New York-based  Allison Nathan .  
 West Texas Intermediate oil was forecast at $87 a barrel
for a three-month period, down 9.4 percent from a $96 prediction
Goldman Sachs made in a May 10 report. It also downgraded
estimates for six-month and 12-month crude and for Brent oil.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Kwiatkowski  in London at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net 
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        