-- Federer Recovers to Win at Wimbledon First Round; Clijsters Beats Camerin
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-21T17:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/top-seed-federer-rallies-to-beat-falla-in-five-sets-at-wimbledon-1st-round.html

          
          
             Defending champion  Roger Federer 
recovered from a two-sets-to-love deficit to defeat 60th-ranked
Alejandro Falla in the opening round of Wimbledon.  
 The Swiss, a six-time champion, beat the Colombian 5-7, 4-
6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-1), 6-0. Had Falla won, it would have been the
first time a defending champion lost in the opening match since
2003. It was the first time the Swiss came back from two sets to
love down at Wimbledon.  
 “You can draw from experience and your inner strength and
it brings you through,” Federer told the British Broadcasting
Corp. immediately after the match. “He played great, it wasn’t
that I was just playing badly and making lots of unforced
errors. I actually thought I played well.”  
 Former women’s No. 1  Kim Clijsters  beat Maria Elena Camerin
in straight sets on her first appearance at tennis’s only grass
court Grand Slam since 2006, while No. 4 seed  Jelena Jankovic 
also advanced.  
 Men’s No. 7 seed  Nikolay Davydenko  of Russia needed five
sets to beat South Africa’s Kevin Anderson. No. 11 seed  Marin Cilic  and No. 17  Ivan Ljubicic , both from Croatia, lost.  
 Sampras’s Record  
 Federer, who is seeking to tie  Pete Sampras ’s Open era
men’s record of seven titles at the All England Club in London,
struggled with his serve and backhand through the first two
sets. Federer then fended off a breakpoint for a 5-4 lead in the
third set with a forehand winner.  
 Falla, a 26-year-old lefthander, hasn’t beaten a top 10
player since he defeated then world No. 9  Haas  in Miami three
years ago. Federer is No. 2 behind  Rafael Nadal  in the  ATP
Rankings .  
 Federer had won his four previous matches against Falla
without dropping a set, including a 2004 second-round match at
Wimbledon. The 28-year-old last lost in the first round of a
Grand Slam at the French Open seven years ago.  
 Men’s top seed Federer is the 11-8 favorite at British
bookmaker William Hill Plc to win the tournament. He has
appeared in every Wimbledon final since 2003, and only lost
once, in 2008 to  Nadal .  
 Federer got a standing ovation from crowd when he walked
onto Centre Court. Last year he became only the sixth man to win
all four majors after he triumphed at the French Open, then
claimed a record-breaking 15th Grand Slam singles title at
Wimbledon and took his 16th at the start of the season at the
Australian Open.  
 Sixth Appearance  
 Falla was making his sixth Wimbledon appearance, and has
never made it past the second round. He made his first Grand
Slam third round at the Australian Open this year. Falla had his
first quarterfinals on grass at a tournament in ‘s-
Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, last week. He had only beaten a
top 10 player twice in his career.  
 Federer said at a news conference yesterday he had overcome
a “disappointing” run after the Australian Open and wasn’t
worried about not winning a tournament since he beat  Andy Murray 
in Melbourne.  
 The Swiss was upset by Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  in the
quarterfinals of the French Open, ending his record streak of 23
straight Grand Slam semifinals. He lost to  Lleyton   Hewitt  in the
final at Halle, his first defeat there since 2002, a week before
Wimbledon.  
 Hewitt’s Loss  
 Hewitt was the most recent defending champion to lose in
the first round, seven years ago to then No. 203-ranked  Ivo Karlovic  of Croatia.  
 “I found my game again in Madrid,” said Federer, who lost
in the Madrid Masters finals on clay to second seed  Nadal  in
May. “Played well in Paris. In Halle I think the performances
were good. That’s why I’m confident for Wimbledon now,” he said
yesterday.  
 Davydenko overcame Anderson 3-6, 6-7 (3-7), 7-3, 7-5, 9-7
in a 4-hour, 13-minute match to reach the second round for only
a fourth time in nine attempts. Cilic, a semifinalist at this
year’s Australia Open, lost to Florian Mayer of Germany, and
Ljubicic lost to Michal Przysiezny of Poland, both in  straight
sets.  
 Mardy Fish  of the U.S., runnerup at Queen’s on June 13, and
Gael Monfils, Feliciano Lopez, Albert Montanes and Victor
Hanescu were other winners. Austria’s Jurgen Melzer, the No. 16
seed, beat Dustin Brown -- the first Jamaican at Wimbledon since
1970 -- in four sets.  
 Clijsters, twice a semifinalist at Wimbledon and the winner
of two Grand Slam titles, won 6-0, 6-3 on Court 2 against
Camerin of Italy. The 27-year-old Belgian is now ranked No. 8 by
the WTA Tour.  
 Serbia’s Jankovic defeated 16-year-old British wildcard
Laura Robson 6-3, 7-6 (7-5).  
 Bartoli Win  
 No. 11 seed  Marion Bartoli  of France, runner-up in 2007,
beat Germany’s Julia Goerges 6-4, 6-3, while Russian seeds Nadia
Petrova, Vera Zvonareva, Alisa Kleybanova, and Maria Kirilenko
advanced. Kazakhstan’s Yaroslava Shvedova also secured a secon-
round spot.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        