-- Opti Canada Bonds Outperforms Junk Debt on Capital Plan: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-21T11:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/opti-canada-bonds-outperforms-junk-debt-on-capital-plan-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Opti Canada Inc.  bondholders are
rallying behind the chief executive officer’s plan to raise
capital, with securities of the investor in oil-sands projects
outperforming U.S. high-yield debt over the past three weeks.  
 Opti’s 7.875 percent U.S. dollar-denominated bonds due in
December 2014 have gained 3.25 cents on the dollar since May to
89.403 cents as of June 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At that price, they yield 10.975 percent. The
securities returned 4.95 percent since May 28, compared with 1.0
percent for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II Index.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Christopher Slubicki  told investors
last week Opti expects to complete a transaction by the end of
the year to raise capital for expansion. That may include an
asset sale, corporate sale or other transaction.  
 “I would presume it’s just on the speculation that there’s
going to be a conclusion to the strategic alternatives review
process,” said  Andrew Potter,  an analyst at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in Calgary.  
 The Calgary-based company, which owns a 35 percent stake in
 Nexen Inc. ’s Long Lake oil-sands project, announced in November
a review of “strategic alternatives” that could include a
sale, restructuring of its credit line or assets sale. Unit
sales could help to pay down Opti’s debt, which stands at about
$2.18 billion.  
 The bonds are rated Caa3 by Moody’s Investor Service, or
nine notches below investment grade, and B by Standard & Poor’s,
two levels higher.  
 Opti’s  shares  have fallen 9.8 percent this year on the
Toronto Stock Exchange to C$1.83. The company went public in
2004 at C$22.  
 Fairfax Sale  
 Elsewhere in credit markets,  Fairfax Financial Holdings
Ltd.  sold C$275 million of 7.25 percent 10-year debt, priced to
yield 394 basis points over government bonds. The Toronto-based
owner of Canadian and U.S. insurers plans to use proceeds from
the sale to repay debt, and for general corporate purposes.  
 Genworth MI Canada Inc., a mortgage insurer in Oakville,
Ontario, raised C$275 million in 10-year, 5.68 percent debt.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated June 18 that
future moves to increase interest rates aren’t “preordained”
because of an uneven global recovery. Deputy Governor  Tim Lane 
is speaking in Winnipeg, Manitoba, tomorrow.  
 Statistics Canada is scheduled to release consumer price
index data tomorrow and retail sales figures June 23. The
inflation rate is expected to fall to 1.3 percent in May, from
1.8 percent in April, based on a Bloomberg survey of 12
economists.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        