-- Osaka Building Boom to Worsen Office Glut in City Where Half Offices Empty
-- Masatsugu Horie
-- 2010-06-21T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/osaka-building-boom-to-worsen-office-glut-in-city-where-half-offices-empty.html

          
          
             Osaka, Japan’s biggest financial
center outside Tokyo, is building a  business and shopping
complex  that will add 6 million square feet (557,000 square
meters) of space in a city where more than half of new offices
remain empty.  
 The first stage of the  Osaka Station North District
project , also known as Kita Yard, will include four towers
ranging from 33 stories to 48 stories in the Umeda district,
double the size of London’s Canary Wharf district, according to
Yusuke Iwamoto, a Tokyo-based spokesman for  Mitsubishi Estate
Co. , one of the project’s developers. Construction started in
March and is due to be completed in 2013, he said.  
 Osaka’s biggest building boom in 20 years comes as
vacancies are soaring across the country and as the city loses
its allure as an alternative to Tokyo’s business district, the
heart of the world’s biggest megacity.  Resona Holdings Inc.  may
be the next Osaka-based company to move its headquarters to
Tokyo, following the banking units of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.   
 “Osaka is losing its draw as a business city,” said
 Takashi Ishizawa , head real estate analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho
Securities Co. “Even if Kita Yard flourishes, it would likely
be at the expense of other commercial areas.”  
 Umeda is adding 4 million square feet of office and retail
space this year, the most since at least 1990, according to
privately held office brokerage company  Miki Shoji Co.   
 Hankyu Corp.  opened a flagship department store in Umeda in
September and added a 41-story office tower in May, while a
hotel in a 23-story complex also opened this year, ballooning
capacity in a 1-kilometer radius around Osaka station, Japan’s
busiest outside Tokyo.  
 Rising Vacancies  
 Vacancies among new offices in Osaka, which account for
about 20 percent of all business properties, stood at 53 percent
in May, near a record-high 59 percent set the previous month,
according to Tokyo-based Miki Shoji.  
 “The planning for these new projects goes back 10 or 15
years when the economy was going strong,” said  Yasuhiro Matsumoto , an analyst in Tokyo at Shinsei Securities Co., who
grew up and went to university in the Osaka area. “They are
building it now simply because they started the project at a
good time. If they make a tall building then many companies will
be attracted, but total demand is not going to increase --
tenants will simply move from nearby.”  
 Tokyo’s office vacancy rate rose to a record 8.94 percent
last month, while Nagoya’s, the country’s third-largest
metropolitan area, stands at 13.26 percent, according to Miki
Shoji, which started compiling monthly data in January 2001.  
 Japanese businesses reduced spending for a 12th quarter and
capital spending fell 12.9 percent in the three months ended
March 31, the Ministry of Finance said on June 3 in Tokyo.  
 Falling Rents  
 The surplus of properties in Osaka is pushing down rental
and land prices in the city that is home to the nation’s second-
biggest stock exchange. Office rents dropped in each of the
first five months of 2010, adding to a two-year slide, while
commercial land prices fell  7.4 percent  last year, leading a
nationwide slump to the lowest in at least 36 years.  
 Mitsubishi Estate, Japan’s biggest developer by market
value, and the property unit of Orix Corp., a financial services
firm, are among 12 companies backing the 560,000-square-meter
project. Mitsubishi Estate’s Iwamoto declined to comment on the
cost of the project.  
 “Unless rents are very high it will be difficult to make a
profit” for the developers, said Daita Obata, an Osaka-based
assistant manager at Miki Shoji. Companies bought the land when
property prices were peaking, he said.  
 Tokyo-Bound  
 Panasonic Corp. ,  Sharp Corp.  and  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. 
are among 28 companies in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
that have headquarters in the Osaka area. By comparison, there
are 178 in Tokyo.  
 The wider Osaka metropolitan area, with a population of 11
million, is Japan’s largest after Tokyo with  35 million ,
according to data compiled by the United Nations. Megacities are
metropolitan areas with 10 million or more inhabitants.  
 Resona, Japan’s fourth-largest bank by market value, is
considering moving its headquarters to Tokyo, where more than 90
percent of the company’s staff already work, according to
spokesman  Masatoyo Miura . He declined to give a timeframe.  
 “There are more opportunities in Tokyo, which draws
companies,” said Shinsei’s Matsumoto. “It’s natural to move.
Companies sometimes keep a head office in Osaka just out of
respect for its beginnings.”  
 New Tenants  
 The developers of the first phase of Kita Yard, which will
include a hotel, residential area and convention center, as well
as offices and shops, are optimistic they will find tenants.  
 “We’ve had lots of inquiries,” said Shuichi Yamaguchi, an
Osaka-based spokesman for Mitsubishi Estate. “Location is
everything, and even if the economy changes, good locations keep
their value.” He declined to name possible tenants.  
 Osaka city, which is leading planning and helped arrange
the land acquisition for Kita Yard, is limiting its investment
to about 7.7 billion yen ($84 million) for infrastructure, said
Yoshihiro Fujikawa, a local government official in charge of
redevelopment.  
 The city’s sagging fortunes have seen previous building
projects suffer from a lack of demand. Osaka city and private
investors spent 120 billion yen in the 1990s on the city’s
tallest building, only to sell it for less than a 10th of that
after its owner went bankrupt. Osaka Prefecture bought the 55-
story  World Trade Center  for 8.5 billion yen this year.  
 Kansai International Airport , built on a man-made island 40
kilometers (25 miles) south of the city, last year had the least
passengers for a full year of operations since it opened in
1994.  
 Kita Yard also will have to compete with a 28-story office
being built by Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. that is due to
open this year in Umeda. West Japan Railway Co., the biggest
railway operator based in the area, will add space within Osaka
station building next year.  
 “It’s a big development for Osaka,” said Mizuho’s
Ishizawa. “It’s going to make for very tough competition.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A handout illustration shows the Osaka Station North District Project, in Osaka, Japan. Source: Osaka Station North District Project via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Umeda Sky Building, left, stands next to the construction site of the first stage of the Osaka Station North District project, known as "Kita Yard," in Osaka, Japan. Photographer: Tetsuya Yamada/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Construction continues on the first stage of the Osaka Station North District Project, known as "Kita Yard," in Osaka, Japan. Photographer: Tetsuya Yamada/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The World Trade Center building, center, stands in Osaka. Photographer: Tetsuya Yamada/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Airplanes are parked at Kansai International Airport in Izumisano City, Osaka, Japan. Photographer: Tetsuya Yamada/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
