-- Osborne Targets Banks, Welfare, Pensions in Effort to Reduce U.K. Deficit
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-21T06:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/osborne-targets-banks-welfare-pensions-in-effort-to-reduce-u-k-deficit.html

          
          
             (Corrects 10-year gilt yield in paragraph seven.)  
 U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said he’ll raise taxes on banks and savers, while
cutting welfare spending in a budget tomorrow that aims to close
a record deficit without strangling an economic rebound.  
 Osborne said yesterday the “pain” of the biggest spending
squeeze in 30 years will be spread over the Parliament’s five-
year term and that his plans “will put beyond doubt” his
resolve to fill the budget hole. Fitch Ratings said June 8 the
U.K. needs to speed deficit cuts to guard its top credit rating.  
 “The country understands that we can’t go on piling up the
debts, we can’t take a ‘manana’ attitude,” Osborne told the
British Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. “The greatest risk to the
British economy at the moment is the sovereign debt risk.”  
 His austerity plan, coming six weeks after the
Conservative-led government took office, will set the size of
the budget while leaving details of cuts until he maps out
departmental plans in the autumn. Osborne said it remains a
“good rule of thumb” that spending cuts account for 80 percent
of the consolidation and that tax increases make up 20 percent.  
 The independent Institute for Fiscal Studies  estimates  that
Osborne will need to squeeze the budget by 85 billion pounds
($126 billion), equivalent to 5.7 percent of gross domestic
product, to eliminate the shortfall by 2015.  
 Some economists and opposition parties say current
government forecasts of  2.6 percent growth  in 2011 and 2.8
percent in 2012 may be scaled back as Osborne’s measures suck
resources out of the economy. During this year’s election
campaign ex-Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said immediate spending
cuts sought by Conservatives risked a double-dip recession.  
 ‘Serious Risk’  
 “There is undeniably a very serious risk that accelerated
and intensified fiscal tightening could derail a still fragile
U.K. economic recovery,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight.  Ed Balls , the schools secretary
under Brown, told the BBC yesterday that Osborne risks repeating
“the mistakes of the 1930s.”  
 Gilts have gained since  David Cameron ’s Conservative-
Liberal Democrat coalition took over on May 11, with the yield
on the 10-year securities declining 34 basis points to 3.54
percent.  
 Part of the effort to sell the austerity measures to voters
will include a levy on banks’ assets or liabilities that will
raise at least 2 billion pounds a year, according to three
people with knowledge of the plans. Osborne signaled he will
make the announcement this week.  
 Voter Opinions  
 A  poll  by ComRes Ltd. in yesterday’s Independent on Sunday
suggests voters accept the need for fiscal retrenchment. More
than half said child benefits should be withdrawn from the
wealthiest families, while 48 percent said they would rather pay
more taxes than have public spending cut.  
 ComRes telephoned 1,004 adults on June 16-17. No margin of
error was given.  
 Osborne told the BBC that he’ll press ahead with plans to
increase capital-gains tax to prevent rich people from declaring
earned income, which is subject to as much as 50 percent tax, as
a capital gain that is liable to an 18 percent tax.  
 “We will have more to say about that,” Osborne said. He
declined to say whether he will raise value-added tax after the
Sunday Telegraph reported that it may rise to 20 percent from
17.5 percent.  
 Of the U.K.’s current 704 billion-pound budget, more than a
quarter, or 196 billion pounds, is targeted for “social
protection” measures, including welfare and pensions. Total
public-sector pay totals about 160 billion pounds a year.  
 The previous Labour government also planned to spend 122
billion pounds on health, 89 billion pounds on education and 40
billion pounds on defense. Debt interest would make up for 43
billion pounds.  
 Welfare Targeted  
 Osborne took aim at the welfare budget, saying it
discourages people from working in favor of state handouts.  
 “It has got out of control in recent years,” he said.  
 The effort to trim the deficit will also focus on the
public-sector  workforce , Osborne said. He told the BBC that many
of Britain’s 6.1 million employees faced a wage freeze that
extends beyond this year to keep their jobs.  
 The last Labour government added 900,000 workers to the
state payroll during its 13 years in power, more than a third of
them in the past two years to help counter the recession. The
government now accounts for one in five jobs in Britain.  
 Part of the effort to rebalance the workforce will include
a one-year payroll-tax break costing 900 million pounds to
encourage economic growth outside the most prosperous regions,
according to a person with knowledge of the plans.  
 Council Tax Freeze  
 He’ll also introduce a program to freeze Council taxes --
which pay for municipal services -- for 2011 and 2012, according
to person with knowledge of the plan. Local authorities will be
given assistance by the central government to maintain services,
the person added.  
 Osborne also said he has appointed former Labour Party
Cabinet Minister  John Hutton  to chair an independent panel on
public-sector pensions that will report by September on how to
make savings over the next few years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
