-- Osborne to Tax Banks, Cut `Out of Control' U.K. Spending
-- Andrew Atkinson
-- 2010-06-22T16:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/osborne-to-tax-banks-cut-out-of-control-u-k-spending.html

          
          
             British Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  increased the value-added tax rate to 20 percent
from 17.5 percent in the first permanent change to the levy on
sales of goods and services in almost two decades.  
 “The years of debt and spending make this unavoidable,”
Osborne told Parliament in London in his emergency budget today
as he announced a package of spending cuts and tax increases to
cut the U.K.’s record  deficit .  
 The rate will increase from January and produce more than
13 billion pounds ($19 billion) a year of extra revenue by the
end of this Parliament in 2015, Osborne said. “That is 13
billion pounds we don’t have to find from extra spending cuts or
income-tax rises,” he said.  
 The VAT increase dwarfed other revenue-raising measures in
a budget that sought to all but eliminate a deficit that reached
11 percent of gross domestic product last fiscal year.  
 The tax generates about 15 percent of total government
revenue and retailers say the rise may dampen consumer spending
as the economy emerges from its worst slump since World War II.  
 “We understand that the budget deficit needs to be tackled
but we think the focus needs to be cutting public spending over
tax rises,” Krishan Rama, a spokesman for the industry lobby
group, the British Retail Consortium, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “What we’re concerned about is that the
recovery at the moment is very fragile and consumer confidence
is also fragile, so we don’t want something to fracture that.”  
 Jobs at Risk  
 The BRC said in May that a VAT increase of this size would
cost 163,000 jobs over four years and reduce consumer spending
by 3.6 billion pounds over the same period.  
 VAT has remained at 17.5 percent in every year except one
since 1991, when  John Major ’s Conservative administration raised
the rate from 15 percent to help plug a deficit.  Gordon Brown ’s
Labour government introduced a temporary reduction to 15 percent
last year as part of a 20 billion-pound stimulus package to
fight the recession.  
 Britain’s 17.5 percent VAT rate is one of the  lowest in
Europe . Among major western European countries, only Spain has a
lower rate at 16 percent. The levy is 19 percent in Germany,
19.6 percent in France and 20 percent in Italy. There is no VAT
system in the U.S., where each state levies a sales tax.  
 Revenue Forecast  
 VAT is forecast to raise 80.7 billion pounds this fiscal
year and 111 billion pounds in 2015-16, according to revised
forecasts published today by the independent  Office for Budget
Responsibility .  
 A few items deemed necessities, such as food, children’s
clothing and books, are exempt from VAT to protect the poorest
households while domestic fuel is charged at 5 percent. Osborne
said essential items would remain free of tax over the five
years of this Parliament.  
 Danny Gabay , a former Bank of England economist and
director of Fathom Financial Consulting in London, said the
higher sales tax risks keeping inflation above the 3 percent
upper limit of the government target well into 2011.  
 The increase will cost charities at least 150 billion
pounds a year in unrecoverable tax, according to the Charity Tax
Group, which represents more than 400 non-profit organizations.
The government should introduce a rebate scheme for charities to
help limit the damage, the group said in a statement.  
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc, the largest U.K. clothing
retailer, said in a statement it welcomed the fact there was now
clarity on VAT.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Atkinson  in London at 
a.atkinsonbloomberg.net.  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gilt sales may fall 28 percent  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
