-- Osborne's U.K. Deficit Cutting May Spark Opposition That Rattles Coalition
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-06-22T09:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/osborne-s-u-k-deficit-cutting-may-spark-opposition-that-rattles-coalition.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s plans to cut spending by the most since the
1980s in an emergency budget today may test the durability of
the six-week old coalition and the strength of union opposition.  
 The prospect of an increase in value-added tax may lead
some Liberal Democrat lawmakers to rebel against the
Conservative led-coalition, as unions oppose steps to cut jobs,
public workers’ pay and welfare. The spending reductions and tax
increases also risk tipping the economy back into recession.  
 “He’s facing three big challenges,” said  Danny Gabay , a
former Bank of England economist and director of Fathom
Financial Consulting in London. “He’s got to deliver a plan
that will hold the coalition together, have the support of the
electorate and satisfy the markets.”  
 Osborne, 39, the youngest chancellor since 1886, is staking
the government’s reputation on keeping Britain’s top-grade
investment rating with measures that the independent Institute
for Fiscal Studies  estimates  will slice 85 billion pounds ($126
billion) off the budget, equivalent to 5.7 percent of gross
domestic product, to eliminate the shortfall by 2015. Unions
called for an emergency meeting to develop a strategy to fight.  
 The retrenchment comes days before Prime Minister  David Cameron  flies to Canada for meetings of world leaders. The Group
of Eight is split over how fast deficits should be pared, with
President  Barack Obama  focusing on bolstering growth and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  joining Cameron in containing debts.  
 Credit Rating  
 The austerity plan will set the size of the budget while
leaving details of cuts until Osborne maps out departmental
plans in the fall. Fitch Ratings said June 8 the U.K. needs to
speed deficit cuts to guard its top credit rating.  
 The U.K.’s Office of Budget Responsibility last week
estimated debt would rise to 74 percent of GDP in 2015 from 62
percent in the current year. The deficit will be 10.5 percent of
GDP this year.  
 “It’s going to be bad everywhere, and the removal of
public demand could be nasty” said Shamik Dhar, an economist at
Aviva Plc, which has 262 billion euros ($323 billion) under
management. “I don’t think the structural deficit is going to
be as bad, and interest rates at near zero are going to help.”  
 The pound declined against the dollar and gilts advanced as
some investors anticipated the spending cuts would prompt the
Bank of England to maintain its record-low benchmark interest
rate of 0.5 percent.  
 Pound Weakens  
 The pound, down 9 percent against the dollar so far this
year, weakened 0.3 percent to $1.4713 at 10:25 a.m. in London.
Yields on 10-year gilts fell 4 basis points to 3.46 percent.  
 Some economists and opposition parties say current
government forecasts of  2.6 percent growth  in 2011 and 2.8
percent in 2012 may be scaled back as Osborne’s measures suck
resources out of the economy. As he battled to stave off defeat
during this year’s election campaign, Labour Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown  said immediate spending cuts sought by
Conservatives risked a double-dip recession.  
 Alistair Darling , Osborne’s Labour Party predecessor, said
Osborne is overplaying the risk of a sovereign debt crisis to
shrink the size of the state.  
 Darling yesterday told reporters in London yesterday that
he would be “astonished’ if Osborne holds back from increasing
VAT to 20 percent from 17.5 percent.  
 ‘Very Difficult’  
 ‘‘There is going to be a very difficult couple of years,
perhaps even three years,’’ said  Tim Bale , senior lecturer in
politics at the University of Sussex. ‘‘The relationship with
the Lib Dems is going to be problem if they begin to lose
support. It’s going to be very difficult for the Lib Dems to
hold it together.’’  
 To cushion the impact of spending cuts, Osborne will
propose raising the ceiling at which the lowest rate of income
tax is levied by 1,000 pounds to 7,475 pounds, exempting 880,000
low earners from payment, said a person with knowledge of the
plans. He’ll also seek to maintain spending on schools, hospital
buildings and other infrastructure projects.  
 Part of the effort to sell the austerity measures to voters
will include a levy on banks’ assets or liabilities that will
raise at least 2 billion pounds a year, according to three
people with knowledge of the plans.  
 Osborne told the British Broadcasting Corp. June 20 that
he’ll press ahead with plans to increase capital-gains tax to
prevent rich people from declaring earned income, which is
subject to as much as 50 percent tax, as a capital gain that is
liable to an 18 percent tax.  
 Welfare Cuts  
 Of the U.K.’s current 704 billion-pound annual budget, more
than a quarter, or 196 billion pounds, is targeted for ‘‘social
protection” measures, including welfare and pensions. Total
public-sector pay totals about 160 billion pounds a year.  
 Osborne said in his BBC interview that the welfare budget
is “out of control” and that it discourages people from
working because they can rely on state handouts.  
 The effort to trim the deficit will also focus on the
public-sector  workforce , Osborne said. He told the BBC that many
of Britain’s 6.1 million employees face a wage freeze extending
beyond this year.  
 The last Labour government added 900,000 workers to the
state payroll during its 13 years in power, more than a third of
them in the past two years to help counter the recession. The
government now accounts for one in five jobs in Britain.  
 Bob Crow , leader of the RMT Union, which represents 80,000
transport workers, called on the Trades Union Congress to stand
up to the government and plan a “campaign of industrial and
political action to fight back against plans to attack jobs, pay
and pensions.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
