-- Louisiana Governor Asks Judge to Lift Drilling Ban; Ruling May Be Tomorrow
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-21T19:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/louisiana-s-jindal-asks-judge-to-lift-deepwater-drilling-ban-on-job-losses.html

          
          
             Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  and
state Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell  asked a U.S. judge to lift
a six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of
Mexico within 30 days to avoid “turning an environmental
disaster into an economic catastrophe.”  
 The drilling ban may cost Louisiana’s economy, “which was
already weakened by Katrina and is now crippled by the Deepwater
Horizon disaster,” almost 11,000 direct and indirect jobs in
five months, Caldwell said in papers filed yesterday in federal
court in New Orleans.  
 “Even after the catastrophic events of Sept. 11, the
government only shut down the airlines for three days,”
Caldwell said in support of  Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC ’s
lawsuit seeking to end the moratorium.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  temporarily halted all drilling
in water deeper than 500 feet on May 27 in response to the worst
oil spill in U.S. history, caused by the April sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast. The ban,
implemented at the recommendation of Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , gives a presidential commission six months to study
ways to improve the safety of deepwater drilling.  
 Hornbeck and more than a dozen Louisiana offshore service
and supply companies have sued U.S. regulators to lift the ban,
which has idled 33 deepwater drilling rigs in the Gulf of
Mexico. The companies claim the ban is costing between $165
million and $330 million each month in lost wages for Louisiana
jobs tied to the drilling.  
 ‘Horrible Event’  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  said today that he will
rule on the request for a preliminary injunction that would lift
the ban as early as noon tomorrow, and no later than June 23.  
 “You are admittedly struggling with a horrible event in the
Gulf,” Feldman told government lawyers at a hearing in New
Orleans. “But your decision has to be faithful to the law before
it can be accepted by the public.”  
 Feldman had ordered regulators and the offshore companies
to appear in his court after rejecting the U.S. government’s
request to delay the litigation until late July. “The issues
presented are of national significance and to delay resolution
would be irresponsible.” Feldman said in a handwritten note at
the bottom of the order denying that request.  
 Today, Feldman asked lawyers whether the government
considered “doing something terrible to the tanker industry”
after the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska in 1989. “Why
shouldn’t the entire railroad industry be stopped until the
government looks at the safety of all railroad crossings”
following a fatal train accident, he said.  
 ‘Game-Changer’  
 “That’s exactly our point,”  Carl Rosenblum , a lawyer for
the companies, replied. U.S. regulators didn’t shut down the
automobile industry when Toyota Motor Corp.’s cars developed
acceleration problems, either, Rosenblum said. “We’re here to
make sure the government follows the law.”  
 “The Deepwater Horizon was a game-changer, a real
illustration of the risks that are inherent in deepwater
drilling,” Guillermo Montero, a Justice Department lawyer, told
Feldman. “We want to be sure it is as safe as we thought it was
the day before this happened.” added Brian Collins, another
government lawyer.  
 The oil-industry jobs at risk from the ban should be
weighed against the thousands of fishing and tourism jobs
imperiled by the spill, Collins said.  
 In court papers last week, lawyers for U.S. regulatory
agencies said the ban is necessary to “ensure more lives are
not lost and that new blowouts and spills do not occur.  
 ‘Balanced Approach’  
 “A second deepwater blowout could overwhelm the efforts to
respond to the current disaster and dramatically set back
recovery,” the government said.  
 Caldwell argued that drilling can be safely resumed within
30 days if federal inspectors are permanently stationed on each
rig. The inspectors would re-certify all blowout prevention
equipment, enforce compliance with all drilling procedures, and
ensure training of all rig personnel to industry standards,
including any new safety recommendations made by the
presidential commission.  
 “After confirming the correctness and preparedness of each
rig and well design, these deepwater rigs should be permitted to
resume work, and the Department of Interior should resume
issuing permits,” Caldwell said in yesterday’s brief. Such a
“balanced approach” would allow safe resumption of a vital
portion of the state’s economy “without the necessity of
shutting down an entire industry segment,” he said.  
 Caldwell and Jindal said regulators failed to consult with
state officials or conduct a “risk benefit analysis” of the
impact an extended ban would have on Louisiana’s economy. A
moratorium lasting as long as 18 months could cost the state
20,000 new and existing jobs, the Louisiana Department of
Economic Development estimates  
 ‘Long-Term Disaster’  
 Deepwater rigs probably will ship out for work overseas
during the U.S. ban, Caldwell said, so “there will likely be no
deepwater rigs available to resume drilling in the Gulf of
Mexico. Having to wait an additional year or more for available
rigs will turn the short-term adverse effects of the moratorium
into a long-term economic disaster for Louisiana.”  
 Hornbeck’s suit was joined by Bollinger Shipyards Inc.,
Chouest Shipyard Cos., Bee Mar LLC and other deepwater support
companies that employ a total of more than 13,000 workers and
7,000 vendors. The companies told Feldman they have been
contacted by customers planning to cancel contracts because of
the deepwater ban.  
 Diamond Offshore Co., owner of the world’s second-largest
fleet of floating drilling rigs, sued last week in federal court
in Houston seeking to overturn the moratorium. Houston-based
Diamond accused the government of illegally “taking” its
drilling contracts, worth as much as $500,000 a day, and causing
analysts to downgrade the company’s shares because of the ban.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in New Orleans at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor of Louisiana Bobby Jindal. Photographer: Patrick Semansky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
