-- Palm Oil Gains for Fourth Day on Higher Prices for Crude Oil and Soybeans
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-06-21T10:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/palm-oil-gains-for-a-fourth-day-in-malaysia-as-crude-oil-soybeans-advance.html

          
          
             Palm oil futures gained for a fourth
day, tracking advances in crude oil and soybeans and as exports
from Malaysia expanded, led by Chinese orders.  
 Palm oil for September delivery on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange climbed 0.2 percent to 2,405 ringgit ($754) a metric
ton, after gaining as much as 0.9 percent earlier.  
 Crude oil in New York for July delivery jumped as much as
2.2 percent to $78.87 a barrel, the highest since May 6, while
soybeans for November delivery in Chicago advanced for a fourth
day, gaining as much as 1.6 percent to $9.45 a bushel, the
highest level since June 4.  
 Malaysia’s palm oil exports rose in the first 20 days of
this month, led by a surge in Chinese demand, estimates by two
cargo surveyors showed. Malaysia is the second-largest producer
of palm oil and China, the largest user of edible oils. Both
surveyors’ data also showed exports increased to the European
Union, the second-largest destination, and India, the largest
consumer of palm oil.  
 “Exports should remain encouraging, driven mainly by
higher Chinese demand,” according to a report issued by Yeonzon
Yeow, head of research at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. “With
China maintaining a ban on Argentinean soya oil, demand for
crude palm oil is likely to remain buoyant.”  
 Shipments tracked by independent market surveyor Intertek
grew 17 percent compared with the same period in May to 906,321
tons, the company said. Shipments to China jumped 57 percent to
344,600 tons in the period.  
 Societe Generale de Surveillance said exports from Malaysia
advanced 16 percent to 914,849 tons, with shipments to China up
25 percent to 310,740 tons.  
 Yuan Effect  
 Palm oil also gained after China’s central bank signaled it
would end the yuan’s two-year peg to the dollar.  
 “A stronger yuan would lower the cost of palm, which in
international trade is calculated in dollars,” potentially
lifting Chinese demand for palm oil, said  Ben Santoso , a
plantation analyst at DBS Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte.  
 Still, at the moment “soybean crushing earns more margin
than palm oil refining and consumption volume growth will hence
be tilted towards soybeans/soybean oil more than palm oil,”
Santoso said.  
 Soybean oil in Chicago for December delivery gained as much
as 1.1 percent, and last traded at 39.30 cents a pound,
narrowing the  premium  over palm oil to $111.88 a ton, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 Ringgit Strengthening  
 “The ringgit and other Asian currencies will rise in
tandem with the yuan, hence there is no major impact ultimately
on the purchases of palm oil,” said Arhnue Tan, a senior
analyst at ECM Libra Capital Sdn.  
 The Malaysian ringgit gained a fourth day, rising as much
as 2.2 percent to the dollar, the biggest gain since May 10. The
currency has gained four out of the first five months this year,
and is poised to extend its advance in June, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 CME Group Inc.’s September-delivery palm oil contract,
which is pegged to the Malaysian benchmark price, gained 2.3
percent to $754.50 a ton. That’s the biggest gain since May 27.  
 On the Dalian Commodity Exchange, January-delivery palm oil
closed 1.3 percent higher at 6,518 yuan ($959) a ton while
Dalian soybean oil advanced 1.3 percent to 7,642 yuan a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        