-- Papandreou Says Budget Cuts Will Overcome Investors' Skepticism
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-21T13:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/papandreou-says-greek-budget-cutbacks-will-overcome-investors-skepticism.html

          
          
             Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said skeptical investors will in time come to believe
his measures to reduce the European Union’s second-biggest
budget deficit are changing the way his country operates and
avert concerns about default.  
 “I know that markets aren’t convinced,” he said in a
radio interview yesterday on “Bloomberg on the Economy” with  Tom Keene.  “I know that, I’ve lived through this crisis. They’re
not going to be convinced by political programs. But they will
be convinced if we do have results.”  
 Officials from the EU, European Central Bank and
Intenational Monetary Fund said last week his program is “on
track on all of the main dimensions.” They are charged with
ensuring Greece sticks to its pledge to reduce a budget deficit
of  13.6 percent  of gross domestic product in return for 110
billion euros ($137 billion) in rescue loans. Papandreou has cut
spending and wages and raised taxes to bring the gap to under
the 3 percent EU ceiling in 2014.  
 “There are a number of things that show we are on a
different path eight months after we’ve taken on a government in
a crisis,” Papandreou said in New York, where he came for a
two-day meeting of the  Socialist International , a global
organization of social democratic, socialist and labor parties
he has headed since January 2006.  
 He cited comments from the EU, ECB and IMF officials,
dubbed the “troika” in Greece, that the country is ahead of
the deficit target of 8.1 percent for this year and that tax
increases are boosting revenue. The officials also said there
are signs the economy may not shrink as much as the 4 percent
forecast by the EU and IMF.  
 Deadly Demonstrations  
 Greece’s austerity measures have sparked dozens of anti-
government demonstrations, including one in which three bank
employees were killed. Papandreou has said resolving the
financial crisis is a political and economic challenge he must
win. Failure by the 58-year-old, U.S.-born leader threatens
default on the country’s debt.  
 Papandreou said in the interview he’s encouraged and
“cautious.” He has promised spending cuts and tax increases
equal to 14 percent of Greece’s 237 billion-euro gross domestic
product in a bid to bring Greece’s deficit within the EU limit.
That may deepen a yearlong recession and boost  unemployment ,
which rose to a 10-year high of 11.7 percent in the first
quarter.  
 Stocks Gain  
 The  ASE  Index advanced 42.21, or 2.7 percent, to 1,585.20
as of 4 p.m. in Athens trading, the biggest gain among 18
western European benchmark indexes today, narrowing its loss for
the year to 28 percent. The  FTSE/ASE 20 Index  of Greece’s
biggest companies rose 2.9 percent to 758.01.  
 Euro-area governments and the IMF will halt payments from
the aid package, approved last month, if quarterly reviews show
Papandreou is failing to meet deficit-reduction targets.  
 The threat reflects Greece’s history of understating its
deficit. Within weeks of Papandreou’s victory on October 4, his
new government revealed that the shortfall would be more than 12
percent, four times the EU limit and twice the previous
government’s estimate.  
 EU scrutiny since then has shown that Greece shouldn’t have
qualified for the euro, as it never managed to keep the deficit
under the 3 percent limit.  
 Greek 10-year government  bond yields  were about 1.4
percentage points, or 140 basis points, higher than benchmark
German bunds at the beginning of October as Papandreou came to
power. The so-called yield spread widened to as much as 965
basis points on May 7. It widened a basis point today to 670.  
 EU Backstop  
 Spreads for Spain, Portugal, Italy and Ireland widened in
the wake of concerns about Greece, even after the EU and IMF
pledged the loans to Greece. That prompted the EU to set up a
broader 750 billion-euro financial backstop in May for the
entire euro region. Spain has the EU’s third-highest deficit,
Greece is the second-highest, while Ireland has the highest.  
 While the EU-IMF plan shields Greece from returning to debt
markets until 2012, “we’re on a massive crisis-change mode
every day,” Papandreou said. “We don’t want to wait for three
years,” even though the plan “gives us that leeway.”  
 A June 17 poll of 2,100 Greeks showed 52.6 percent believe
the country would default. Support for Papandreou, educated at
Amherst College in Massachusetts and the London School of
Economics, slid to 32.7 percent compared with 47.5 percent at
the end of 2009. Seven in 10 Greeks believe the economy is
headed in the wrong direction.  
 A June 9 Bloomberg quarterly poll of investors and analysts
who are subscribers showed that 73 percent believe a default by
Greece is likely, and more than 40 percent said Greece is likely
to abandon the euro.  
 Even so, Greece is “on track,” Papandreou said in an the
interview. As changes to the pension system and labor markets
follow the country’s deficit cutting, “we will see markets
responding and we’ll see that it is not the inevitable that
people are saying about restructuring or default.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Keene  in New York at   tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou in an interview in New York. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
