-- New York's Paterson Seeks Authority to Sell New Bonds Backed by Sales Tax
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-21T19:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/paterson-seeks-power-to-sell-additional-bonds-backed-by-new-york-sales-tax.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson 
sent the legislature a bill that would allow the state to sell
additional bonds backed by its sales tax and give him power to
cut spending if needed to keep the budget in balance.  
 The proposal comes as Paterson is negotiating with
lawmakers to close a gap estimated at $9.2 billion when the
fiscal year began April 1. Paterson has delayed payments to
schools and others to conserve cash, and has said he needs
authority to reduce spending previously approved by lawmakers.  
 The plan submitted June 18 “is not intended to be part of
the budget negotiations,” said  Morgan Hook , a spokesman for
Paterson. The legislation is separate from an emergency spending
bill needed to keep government operating for another week, or
annual budgets for public safety, transportation, and economic
development, all of which lawmakers are set to vote on today.  
 Paterson said last week he doesn’t want to close this
year’s deficit with borrowing. Assembly leaders proposed to sell
$2 billion of bonds backed by personal income-tax revenue, and
their Senate counterparts suggested issuing as much as $1
billion of additional bonds backed by payments from tobacco
companies and the state’s pledge to pay investors.  
 Paterson, who isn’t seeking a new term in office in the
November elections, didn’t call for the creation of a financial
oversight board to monitor state finances and certify that its
budgets are balanced. Such a board was suggested earlier this
year by Lieutenant Governor  Richard Ravitch .  
 Dedicated Revenue  
 The bill to authorize borrowing, sent to lawmakers late
June 18, would let the state sell additional debt backed by a
quarter of the revenue collected under the 4 percent sales tax.
One cent of every four raised by the tax is already earmarked
for bonds sold by the Local Government Assistance Corp. in the
1990s to cover accumulated budget deficits.  
 Existing sales tax bonds are  rated  AAA by Standard &
Poor’s, the highest grade, and Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
its third highest.  
 New bonds backed by the sales tax could be sold only to
finance spending on buildings or other physical assets “and may
not be issued for deficit-financing purposes,” according to a
summary of the bill, prepared by Paterson’s office.  
 The new bill was first  described  by the Buffalo News.  
 The sales-tax bonds could be issued through the New York
State Dormitory Authority or the  Empire State Development Corp. ,
which already issue bonds backed by the state’s personal income
taxes, its most-used form of debt. The authorities can sell
state-backed debt without voter approval, as is required for
general obligation bonds.  
 Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said in March he wants voters
to approve all New York borrowing.  
 Budget Certification  
 Sales of all state-backed bonds would be blocked if the
governor and lawmakers don’t certify that the budget is in
balance or that the governor can’t cut spending under the
enacted fiscal plan, according to the proposal.  
 The bill would have a governor and leaders of the Senate
and Assembly certify the budget is balanced when it is enacted.
During the year, the governor may declare the spending plan out
of balance and reduce outlays in programs of his choice if there
is no alternative agreement with legislators within 40 days.  
 Appropriations  for bond interest and principal were
approved by lawmakers and Paterson in March and have not been
delayed by the budget impasse.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        