-- Petrobras Has Seen `No Impact' on Rig Rates From Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-06-21T14:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/petrobras-has-seen-no-impact-on-rig-rates-from-gulf-of-mexico-oil-spill.html

          
          
             Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, said it has seen “no impact” on
rig rates from the U.S. ban on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “If the moratorium is forever, it will certainly affect
the drilling market, but if the moratorium takes six months to a
year, it won’t affect that much because those rigs are hired for
a long term,”  Samir Passos Awad , head of Petrobras in the
Netherlands, said today in an Oslo interview. “For the moment
we’re not seeing any rigs being available or rig rates going
down” because of the moratorium, he said.  
 President  Barack Obama  in May extended a moratorium on
deepwater drilling permits by six months and ordered a halt to
33 exploratory wells after the April 20 explosion on a
Transocean rig leased to  BP Plc  caused the worst spill in U.S.
history. The leak will reduce exploration costs in Brazil as
rigs idled by the moratorium will lower rental rates,  Jose Luis Villanueva , a director at Fitch Ratings, said on June 17.  
 “All the companies that are drilling in the Gulf, the big
companies, have projects in West Africa, so they can move the
rigs from the Gulf to Angola or Nigeria, if they don’t have
projects in Brazil,” Awad said. “Petrobras is planning to
build 28 rigs in Brazil for the coming years, so the plans are
not counting on availability of rigs to come out of the
moratorium, but if it happens we could accelerate some
programs.”  
 Production Delay  
 Petrobras would still consider going into projects with BP,
with whom it owns a share in the Gulf of Mexico Tiber find,
according to Awad. Petrobras operates the Cascade and the
Chinook fields, which were scheduled to start this year with the
floating production, storage and offloading vessel BW Pioneer at
record depths.  
 “We were just about to bring into production Cascade and
Chinook,” Awad said. “This is now waiting for authorization
from the MMS. It’s a very sensitive issue and I’m afraid we’re
going to have to wait a little bit.”  
 The Minerals Management Service is a U.S. agency that
oversees offshore production.  
 Awad said that while Petrobras remains interested in the
U.S. Gulf, future participation in any licensing rounds depends
on what areas become available.  
 “The company is right now refocusing its work to Brazil,”
he said. “We’re not leaving the international scenario, but we
have a lot to do in Brazil.”  
 Petrobras is spending as much as $224 billion through 2014
to boost production at oil fields including Tupi, the largest
discovery in the Americas since Mexico Cantarell in 1976.  
 -- Editors:  Jonas Bergman ,  Raj Rajendran   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        