-- Petrobras, Fabricato, Genomma, Grupo Galicia: Latin America Equity Preview
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-06-21T07:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/petrobras-fabricato-genomma-grupo-galicia-latin-america-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes today in Latin American trading. Stock
symbols are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous
close.  
 The  MSCI Latin America Index  rose 0.6 percent to 3,917.28.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock.  
 Argentina  
 Grupo Financiero Galicia SA  (GGAL AF): Argentina’s largest
lender may be active after the national statistics agency
reported the country’s economy expanded 6.8 percent in the first
quarter from the same period last year. The bank rose 0.4
percent to 2.46 pesos.  
 Brazil  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  (PETR4 BS): Brazil’s state-
controlled oil producer must offer new shares at the same time
that the government swaps oil for the company’s stock, said
Brazilian Energy Ministry official Marco Antonio Almeida.
Petrobras dropped 0.1 percent to 29.49 reais.  
 Randon SA Implementos e Participacoes  (RAPT4 BS): The
Brazilian auto-parts maker sold 1,150 Hopper rail cars to MRC
Solucoes em Logistica Ferroviaria Vnte-Al Ltda, according to a
regulatory filing. Randon lost 1.2 percent to 9.57 reais.  
 Colombia  
 Textiles Fabricato Tejicondor SA  (FABRI CB): Colombia’s
central bank won’t continue buying $20 million daily in the
foreign-exchange market after June 30, bank chief Jose Dario
Uribe said. Policy makers have said the dollar purchases were
meant to curb a rally that left the peso “misaligned.” A
weaker peso points to higher revenue for exporters such as
Colombia’s biggest textile maker. Fabricato fell 0.7 percent to
29.8 pesos.  
 Mexico  
 Genomma Lab Internacional SAB  (LABB MM): The Mexican
producer of over-the-counter drugs may become part of the
benchmark IPC index as early as August, Chief Financial Officer
Oscar Villalobos said. Genomma rose 2.3 percent to 46.84 pesos.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        