-- Pfizer Rejected by Supreme Court on Menopause Drug
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-06-21T21:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/pfizer-rejected-by-supreme-court-over-2-7-million-menopause-drug-verdict.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected
 Pfizer Inc. ’s appeal of a verdict for an Arkansas woman who
blamed the company’s menopause drugs for her breast cancer,
leaving intact a $2.7 million award that may grow with punitive
damages.  
 The justices today let stand a lower court decision
upholding that award, which marked the first federal verdict
against Pfizer’s Wyeth unit over its Prempro hormone-replacement
treatment.  
 The appeal by Wyeth and Pfizer’s Upjohn unit sought to
leverage a different part of the appeals court ruling ordering a
new trial on punitive damages, which a jury had set at $27
million. Pfizer argued that the new trial should cover all
aspects of the case, including the jury’s finding that the drugs
helped cause Donna Scroggin’s cancer.  
 “While we are disappointed with the court’s decision, it
does not change the prior ruling by the appeals court, which
affirmed the dismissal of punitive damages as to Upjohn and
ordered a new trial on punitive damages for Wyeth,” Pfizer said
in a statement.  
 Scroggin was among 6 million women who took the pills to
treat menopause symptoms including hot flashes, night sweats and
mood swings. Wyeth faces more than 8,000 lawsuits over the
medicines, which are still on the market.  
 Scroggin and other women contend company executives ignored
studies raising questions about the link between hormone-
replacement drugs and breast cancer to pump up sales of their
drugs.  
 Health Risks  
 The Supreme Court action “validates our evidence that
shows Wyeth hid the health risks of this drug and the drugs
caused breast cancer in thousands of women,” Jim Morris,
Scroggin’s lawyer, said in a telephone interview today. “We are
looking forward to asking another jury to decide the extent of
Wyeth’s wrongful conduct.”  
 Scroggin took three menopause drugs: Provera, a progestin-
laden treatment made by what is now Pfizer’s Upjohn unit;
Premarin, an estrogen-based drug made by Wyeth, and Prempro, a
combination of the two other drugs introduced by Wyeth in 1996.  
 Annual sales of Wyeth’s hormone-replacement drugs topped $2
billion before a 2002 study sponsored by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health suggested women using the medicines had a
higher breast cancer risk. New York-based Pfizer, the world’s
largest drugmaker, bought Wyeth last year in a $68 billion
transaction.  
 Jury’s Decision  
 The Supreme Court’s decision not to review the case isn’t
surprising since the appellate court left the jury’s decisions
on liability and actual damages undisturbed, said  Carl Tobias , a
professor at University of Richmond Law School who teaches
classes on mass-tort law.  
 The denial “is a good sign for plaintiffs going forward”
with Prempro claims, Tobias said today in an e-mail.  
 Wyeth has lost seven of the 11 Prempro cases that have been
considered by juries since the cases began going to trial in
2006.
The drugmaker got some of those verdicts thrown out at the post-
trial stage and or had awards reduced.  
 Pfizer also has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases at
either the pretrial stage or after the cases have been set for
trials, said  Chris Loder , a Pfizer spokesman.  
 Pfizer’s appeal in the Scroggin case centered on the
Constitution’s Seventh Amendment, which guarantees the right to
a jury trial in federal civil cases. In a separate line of
argument, the company contended that the trial judge should have
excluded the testimony of an oncologist who testified that the
hormone treatments caused Scroggin’s cancer.  
 Pfizer shares fell 11 cents to $15.10 at 4:00 p.m. New York
time. After the headlines were published, Pfizer shares fell as
much as 2.4 percent, from an opening high of $15.38 to an
afternoon low of $15.01.  
 The case is Wyeth v. Scroggin, 09-1123.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        