-- Pfizer Withdraws Mylotarg Drug After Deaths, No Proven Benefit
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-06-21T22:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/pfizer-withdraws-mylotarg-cancer-treatment-after-deaths-no-proven-benefit.html

          
          
             Pfizer Inc.  will withdraw its blood
cancer drug Mylotarg after 10 years on the U.S. market because
studies didn’t prove it works and the treatment was linked to
deaths from liver and lung complications.  
 Mylotarg, for relapsed acute myeloid leukemia, is the first
medicine to be pulled off the market that was cleared through
the Food and Drug Administration’s  accelerated approval  program,
the agency said today in a statement. Pfizer volunteered to halt
sales after trial results raised safety concerns “and the drug
failed to demonstrate clinical benefit,” the FDA said.  
 Mylotarg was approved in 2000 based on preliminary data
showing improved remission rates, with a requirement for more
complete trials to prove it extended survival. Wyeth, which sold
Mylotarg before being  purchased  by Pfizer in October, didn’t
start mandated follow-up research until 2004 and didn’t provide
results until this year.  
 “Accelerated approval still has a place in the approval
process but it’s also more important that we learn over the
years that the whole development plan be set up well in
advance,” said Robert Kane, acting deputy director for safety
in the FDA’s Division of Hematology Products, in a phone
interview today. “The trials should be planned and if possible
under way when the sponsor submits the application.”  
 Wyeth began a required study designed to confirm Mylotarg’s
benefits in 2004, four years after it won the conditional
marketing clearance. The test was stopped early when patients
didn’t show any benefit on treatment and four times as many
deaths were possibly attributed to the drug.  
 ‘Disappointed’ in Results  
 “We are disappointed that the study did not confirm the
clinical benefit of Mylotarg,” said  Mace Rothenberg , Pfizer’s
head of oncology development.  
 Pfizer will withdraw the drug from the U.S. market Oct. 15
to allow time to assess current studies and planned individual
treatments, he said. Patients and researchers who want to
continue using it after that time must file an investigational
new drug application with the FDA. Sales of Mylotarg were $8.8
million in the first quarter, the company said.  
 “We have to label the drug for investigational purposes,”
Rothenberg said today in a phone interview. “There’s a lot of
processes to work back from saying we need this much time.”  
 Pfizer fell 11 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $15.10 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock
dropped 17 percent this year,  compared with  an 8.8 percent
decline in the 11-member Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals
Index.  
 First Drug Approved  
 Mylotarg was cleared in May 2000 for patients 60 years and
older who were on their first relapse of acute myeloid leukemia
and weren’t considered candidates for cytotoxic chemotherapy. It
was the first drug approved for this specific condition, and is
used by about 2,500 patients a year, Pfizer said. The medicine
is given in two infusions about 14 days apart.  
 “This is the first accelerated approval drug that has ever
been pulled from the market,” said  Ira Loss , an analyst at
Washington Analysis who has followed the FDA for more than three
decades. “That makes it a big deal. I don’t think it’s a big
deal for Pfizer.”  
 The accelerated approval was based on three studies of 142
patients showing a 26 percent overall remission rate and a 5.9-
month median duration of overall survival. Almost all study
participants experienced declines in blood cells used in
clotting and fighting infections, and half had anemia.  
 Risk Increased  
 At the time the drug was cleared, about 1 percent of
patients had experienced veno-occlusive disease, a potentially
deadly liver complication. The FDA revised the prescribing
information to show a 10 percent risk in 2006, according to
Kane. The agency hasn’t tracked a precise number of deaths
caused by Mylotarg because it’s difficult to determine if a
fatality was the result of the treatment or the disease, he
said.  
 “I’m very mixed about this decision,”  Mikkael Sekeres ,
director of the Cleveland Clinic’s leukemia program and a member
of the FDA’s  Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee , said in an
interview after the recall was announced. “On the one hand, it
limits my arsenal of therapies. On the other hand, kudos to the
FDA for saying that a drug that hasn’t shown a survival
advantage, and that hasn’t resulted in improvements in patient
reported outcomes, maybe shouldn’t be an option.”  
 European Rejection  
 European regulators recommended against approval of
Mylotarg in 2007, citing three studies that showed “only a
small proportion” of patients achieving complete remission
while on the drug and a lack of comparisons with other
treatments.  
 The five-year Mylotarg study released in December didn’t
show benefit in response rate, disease free survival or overall
survival in 627 previously untreated patients ages 18 to 60.
Deaths possibly related to treatment were reported in 1.4
percent of patients taking standard therapy and 5.7 percent of
patients with Mylotarg added to therapy, according to an
analysis by the  Southwest Oncology Group,  one of the largest
clinical trials cooperative groups supported by the National
Cancer Institute.  
 Acute myeloid leukemia causes abnormal cells to grow inside
bone marrow and replace healthy blood cells, increasing the risk
of infection and bleeding. The disease most often occurs around
age 65, according to the  National Cancer Institute . About 13,000
patients are diagnosed a year in the U.S., according to Pfizer.  
 Common Form  
 A more common form of the condition, called  chronic
myelogenous leukemia , occurs in youth or middle-age and is
usually caused by a chromosome abnormality. Treatments include
Gleevec and Tasigna, from Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG ,
and Sprycel from New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.   
 Accelerated approval was authorized in 1992 to help spur
development of medicines for HIV. The first accelerated cancer
drug came in 1995, and many subsequent grants have been given
because tumor shrinkage or other physical signs that cancer is
being defeated can be measured more quickly than prolonged
survival.  
 Of 53 new uses for cancer drugs approved from July 2005 to
December 2007, nine got accelerated approval, according to a
study provided by the FDA. The agency said it doesn’t have
complete historical data on these decisions.  
 Pfizer’s recall of the drug is “very bad news” for
leukemia patients who haven’t responded to other treatments,
said  Peter Marks , director of leukemia services at  Yale-New
Haven Hospital .  
 Keeping Patients Alive  
 “There are some people who I can honestly say would not be
on this earth were it not for this drug,” Marks said today in
an interview. While some of Marks’s patients suffered “serious
liver complications” after taking the drug at the FDA-approved
dose, he said he administers the medicine in smaller doses over
a longer period of time.  
 “Since we’ve changed over to this method of using it in
divided doses, we’ve really not seen any of those same
complications,” Marks said. “It just doesn’t happen. The
question is, with larger studies, will that be shown to have the
kind of efficacy that will be needed to convince FDA that this
is a valuable drug.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       PFIZER Headquarters  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Pfizer Inc. employee walks through the company's German headquarters in Berlin, Germany. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Pfizer Inc. employee walks through the company's German headquarters in Berlin, Germany. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
