-- Financial Regulator Fines Photo-Me 500,000 Pounds for Disclosure Failures
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-06-21T10:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/photo-me-fined-500-000-pounds-by-u-k-s-fsa-for-creating-false-market-.html

          
          
             Photo-Me International Plc , a maker
of photo mini-labs, was fined 500,000 pounds ($742,000) by the
U.K. securities regulator for failing to quickly disclose inside
information to the market, creating a “false market.”  
 From September to December 2006, announcements by Surrey,
England-based Photo-Me created expectations “it would benefit
from the winning of large mini-lab sales contracts and strong
mini-lab sales generally,” the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority  said in a statement today .  
 In January 2007, Photo-Me was told it was one of several
firms competing for the contract and in February realized it’s
revised mini-lab forecast was lower than it initially expected.
In March of that year, the company said its earnings would miss
forecasts, driving its shares down 24 percent, the FSA said.  
 The FSA said the delay in disclosing the revised outlook
led to a “false market” in the company’s shares for 44 days.  
 “Listed companies should assess, in a timely fashion, how
any information they hold affects the accuracy of what they have
previously disclosed to the market and whether this information
is inside information,”  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s director of
enforcement said in the statement. “Inside information must be
announced to the market as soon as possible.”  
 Photo-Me disputed the FSA’s claim it didn’t act quickly
enough, while saying it wouldn’t appeal the agency’s fine.  
 “The FSA has underestimated the real-time difficulties
faced by the company in updating the market on the possible
outcome of the relevant complex contractual negotiations,”
Photo-Me said in a statement today. “However, the board has
decided it is not in the best interests of shareholders to incur
further legal costs” to pursue an appeal.  
 On June 17 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
he will abolish the Financial Services Authority and give most
of its power to the Bank of England, undoing the regulatory
system set up by  Gordon Brown  in 1997.  
 The FSA has recently beefed up regulation following
complaints it did little to detect the financial crisis. The
regulator won three of the four insider-trading prosecutions it
has brought to trial.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        