-- Komorowski, Kaczynski Face Polish Runoff, Tight Race
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-21T14:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/poland-s-komorowski-kaczynski-face-runoff-for-presidency-exit-polls-show.html

          
          
             Bronislaw Komorowski  received
fewer votes than expected in Poland’s presidential elections,
setting up a runoff with  Jaroslaw Kaczynski  that may determine
the pace of euro adoption and deficit reduction.  
 Komorowski, the acting president and candidate of Prime
Minister  Donald Tusk’s  Civic Platform, got 41.2 percent of the
vote and Kaczynski 36.7 percent, with 94 percent of voting
districts reporting. The mean of 17 opinion polls conducted in
June showed Komorowski winning by 11 percentage points.  
 A Komorowski victory in the July 4 runoff would give Civic
Platform control of the presidency and cabinet, ending divisions
that arose under the late President  Lech Kaczynski , Jaroslaw’s
twin, who died in an April 10 plane crash. Komorowski backs a
timetable for euro membership and spending limits. Kaczynski
opposes a euro deadline and has called for increased spending.  
 “Civic Platform underestimated their opponent and now they
have a serious problem,” said Slawomir Sowinski, a political
scientist at Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski University in Warsaw.
“The chances are 50-50 now, and unless the ruling party shows
the will to win the next president may be another Kaczynski.”  
 Five years ago, Tusk lost a runoff to Lech Kaczynski after
leading by 3 percentage points after the first round of voting.
Kaczynski won by 8 percentage points in the final ballot. The
Election Commission plans to release final first-round results
by tonight.  
 ‘Main Risk’  
 The zloty gained 0.3 percent against the euro to 4.0368 as
of 3:30 p.m. in Warsaw, after trading as much as 0.8 percent
stronger following the decision of China’s central bank to relax
the yuan’s two-year peg against the dollar.  
 “The outcome of the elections is the main risk for the
currency,” BNP Paribas said in a research note today, advising
clients that political concerns may cause the zloty rally to
“fade” once the 4 per euro level is breached. “Kaczynski
could actually win the second round, thus hitting a big blow on
the government and its ability to start fiscal reforms.”  
 Grzegorz Napieralski , chairman of the Democratic Left
Alliance, is in third place, with 13.7 percent of the vote.  
 Those votes will be crucial because Komorowski, 58, may
draw more votes from the Left Democrats than Kaczynski, said
 Beata Laciak , a sociology professor at Warsaw University. Sixty-
six percent of Napieralski voters listed the acting president as
their preferred alternative in a June 10-13 survey by researcher
CBOS, while Kaczynski was named by 11 percent.  
 ‘Keys to Vault’  
 “Napieralski holds the keys to the vault and he’ll be
wooed intensively,” Laciak, who studies voter attitudes, said
by telephone late yesterday.  
 Komorowski’s lead over his main rival has narrowed from
almost 24 percentage points at the end of April, based on the
average result of six polls that month.  
 Kaczynski, chairman of the largest opposition party, Law &
Justice, can make a serious challenge because Civic Platform
failed in its effort to cast him as hostile to the EU and free-
market policies, said Andrzej Olszewski of pollster  TNS OBOP .  
 “Law & Justice is going into the second round in the
glow of victory and can feel the wind in its sails, which will
definitely result in good ideas for the campaign,” Olszewski
said today in a phone interview from Warsaw. “Meanwhile, Civic
Platform is in a panic, which doesn’t help when you’re trying to
come up with a new campaign that cannot be allowed to fail.”  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. His veto can be overturned by a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 “To the extent that we have a runoff, it’s not a huge game
changer,” said Manik Narain , an emerging market strategist at
UBS AG in London. “I don’t think at this stage anybody is
really going to change their bets to a Kaczynski victory.”  
 Civic Platform Policies  
 Komorowski said last week that Poland needs to establish a
timeline for adopting the euro to ensure responsible economic
policies.  
 Tusk’s government has proposed limiting increases in
discretionary spending to no more than 1 percent above
inflation, saving an estimated 9 billion zloty ($2.7 billion) a
year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit to less than the
EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product within three
years, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said June 11.  
 Law & Justice  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski, 61, has said he would continue his
brother’s policy of opposing setting a date for euro entry. The
late president was the last EU leader before Czech President
 Vaclav Klaus  to sign the Lisbon Treaty, intended to streamline
EU institutions and prepared for the bloc’s enlargement.  
 Law & Justice last year called for an increase in spending
to offset the impact of the first global recession since the
1930s. Poland is the only EU member to have avoided an economic
contraction since the credit crisis started.  
 Even with a cooperative head of state, Tusk may be
reluctant to make large changes in public policy as he seeks to
consolidate support in two elections over the next 12 months,
said  Elisabeth Andreew , an economist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, said in a note to clients.  
 “We do not expect any massive reform packages in the near-
term perspective, as it may affect the outcome of the November
local elections and the parliamentary elections in 2011,”
Andreew said before the exit polls were released.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Acting Polish president Bronislaw Komorowski. Photographer: John  Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
