-- Polish Presidential Election Is Open Race After First Round, Pollster Says
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-21T11:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/polish-presidential-election-is-open-race-after-first-round-pollster-says.html

          
          
             Poland’s acting President  Bronislaw Komorowski  can’t rely on winning the July 4 second round vote
after his party garnered a narrower victory than polls had
indicated in the first round, said Andrzej Olszewski of pollster
 TNS OBOP .  
 “We’re back at the starting line,” said Olszewski, who
heads the research company that last night published the most
accurate exit polls, compared with the State Election
Committee’s official results.  
 Komorowski, the candidate of Prime Minister  Donald Tusk’s 
Civic Platform, got 41.2 percent in the June 20 vote, and
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski  won 36.7 percent, with 94 percent of voting
districts reporting. That’s a closer margin than an exit poll by
MillwardBrown SMG/KRC for TVN television, which showed
Komorowski ahead 45.7 percent to 33.2 percent. Kaczynski is
representing the Law and Justice Party of his twin brother and
former president Lech, who died in an April 10 plane crash.  
 “Komorowski’s lead of only about 5 percentage points in
yesterday’s vote reflects the weakness of Civic Platform’s
candidate and shows how serious the challenge is now,”
Olszewski said in a phone interview out of Warsaw today. “Civic
Platform is in a very difficult situation; its concept fell
apart and the new arguments in favor of Komorowski have to be
presented right away.”  
 Komorowski’s lead over his main rival in the presidential
election has waned from almost 24 percentage points at the end
of April, based on an average outcome of six polls that month.
Tusk in 2005 lost a runoff in his presidential bid against  Lech Kaczynski  after leading the first round by 3 percentage points.
Kaczynski won by 8 percentage points in the final ballot.  
 ‘Glow of Victory’  
 “Law and Justice is going into the second round in the
glow of victory and can feel the wind in its sails, which will
definitely result in good ideas for the campaign,” Olszewski
said. “Meanwhile, Civic Platform is in a panic, which doesn’t
help when you’re trying to come up with a new campaign that
cannot be allowed to fail.”  
 Komorowski’s Civic Platform focused its campaign on
Kaczynski, casting him as a stereotype hostile toward the
European Union and the free-market transition that Poland has
undergone since abandoning communism two decades ago, Olszewski
said.  
 A Komorowski victory in the July 4 runoff would give Civic
Platform control of the presidency and cabinet, ending divisions
that arose under the presidency of  Lech Kaczynski . The president
represents Poland abroad, is head of the army and can veto
legislation. His veto can be overturned by a three-fifths
majority in parliament. A Kaczynski win would risk putting the
office of the president at loggerheads with the government.  
 Opposing Views  
 Kaczynski is opposed to Tusk’s goal of setting a date for
euro adoption and his party last year sought higher state
expenditure to ease the impact of the global crisis. Tusk’s
Civic Platform has argued in favor of budget cuts to comply with
European Union rules.  
 OBOP will also conduct exit polls after the July 4 vote,
asking about 50,000 voters at 500 voting stations, Olszewski
said. Exit polls published by MillwardBrown SMG/KRC for TVN
television were conducted by telephone.  
 “A positive aspect to having such a huge difference
between one reliable poll and the other polls is that people
will eventually free themselves from the dictatorship of the
other poll’s results,” said Slawomir Sowinski, a political
scientist at Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski University in Warsaw.
“This means Poles no longer look at who’s the polls’ favorite,
which is another piece of bad news for Komorowski.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        