-- Porsche Advances as Volkswagen Considers Mueller to Run Sports-Car Maker
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-06-21T15:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/porsche-advances-as-volkswagen-considers-mueller-to-run-sports-car-maker.html

          
          
             Porsche SE  rose to the highest level
in a month as Volkswagen AG considers naming  Matthias Mueller ,
its chief product strategist, to run the sports-car maker.  
 Mueller’s move would be part of a bigger reshuffling in
which Porsche Chief Executive Officer  Michael Macht  would become
the VW group’s production head, two people familiar with the
matter told Bloomberg News on June 18.  
 Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen  and Porsche are
discussing their future model strategy as they seek to complete
a merger next year. Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche plans to
expand its offerings to reach a target of doubling deliveries to
150,000 vehicles in the medium term.  
 “This would be a good move,” said  Aleksej Wunrau , an
analyst at ING BHF-Bank AG in Frankfurt who recommends buying
the shares. “Volkswagen needs a cost-efficient strategy for its
luxury brands Audi, Porsche and Bentley and Macht is obviously
seen as capable of delivering it.”  
 Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche  increased  1.94 euros, or
5.5 percent, to 37 euros in Frankfurt, the highest level since
May 18. Volkswagen’s preferred shares added 2.6 percent to 77.73
euros.  
 Macht, 49, is Volkswagen CEO  Martin Winterkorn ’s choice to
replace  Jochem Heizmann  because of his decade-long experience in
running production at Porsche before he was named to head the
sports-car maker a year ago, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are confidential.  
 Mueller Frontrunner  
 Mueller is the frontrunner to succeed Macht as CEO of the
Porsche AG carmaking operations, the people said, adding that a
final decision on the changes hasn’t been made. Porsche SE, the
sports-car maker’s holding company, improved its full-year
forecast last week after sales beat analysts’ estimates as the
new Panamera sedan attracted buyers.  
 Volkswagen spokesman  Stefan Ohletz  declined to comment, as
did Porsche’s  Albrecht Bamler .  
 Heizmann, a member of VW’s executive board since February
2007, will take on a new role tightening cooperation between
truckmakers Scania AB and MAN SE, two people familiar with the
matter said in April.  
 Other management changes being discussed at Volkswagen
involve Porsche’s development chief,  Wolfgang Duerheimer , who
might be replaced by  Wolfgang Hatz , head of engine development
at Volkswagen, one of the people said.  
 Improved Forecast  
 Porsche  forecast on June 18 that its loss for the year
ending July 31 will be less than 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion).
That compares with a “low single-digit” billion-euro loss
predicted on March 17. Nine-month sales rose 12 percent to 5.2
billion euros.  
 Commerzbank AG , Germany’s second-biggest bank, raised
Porsche to “hold“ from “reduce” today, citing “solid”
results and a planned capital increase of about 5 billion euros
in the first half of 2011.  
 Today’s share-price gain is also “a belated reaction to
the good results,” said  Stipo Bralo , a Frankfurt-based analyst
at SEB AG who has a “strong buy” recommendation on the stock.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Michael Macht  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Michael Macht, chief executive officer of Porsche SE, speaks in Stuttgart, Germany, on Thursday, July 23, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Macht, chief executive officer of Porsche SE, speaks in Stuttgart, Germany, on Thursday, July 23, 2009. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wendelin Wiedeking, former chief executive officer of Porsche SE, right, hugs Michael Macht, chief executive officer of Porsche SE, during speeches by the company's executives in Stuttgart, on July 23, 2009. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
