-- Puerto Rico Beats Bad Grades Using High-Rated Agency in $1.4 Billion Deal
-- Brendan A. McGrail
-- 2010-06-21T15:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/puerto-rico-beats-bad-grades-using-high-rated-agency-in-1-4-billion-deal.html

          
          
             Puerto Rico Sales Tax Financing
Corp. , whose dedicated revenue boosts its credit rating at least
two steps above the commonwealth’s, leads $7.6 billion of
planned issues this week as yields rise on all but top-rated
debt.  
 Yields  on general-obligation bonds rated AA- jumped to as
much as 3.61 percent last week, the highest since April 29, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, as the cost to insure Illinois
against default rose to a record and Fitch Ratings said
municipal downgrades led upgrades by 2-to-1 in the first
quarter. Top-rated 10-year yields fell 1 basis point to 3.19
percent, according to Municipal Market Advisors. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “There’s just so much pressure from the headlines,” said
 Matt Fabian , managing director of Municipal Market Advisors, a
research firm in Concord, Massachusetts. “The market has been
far more comfortable with Puerto Rico, because things on the
surface at least appear to be getting better.”  
 The Puerto Rico corporation known by its Spanish acronym
Cofina plans a $1.4 billion offering June 23 of bonds backed by
sales taxes, which rose 6.1 percent in April from a year earlier
to $93.4 million, according to the  Government Development Bank ,
the fiscal agent for the commonwealth.  
 The bonds are rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service and A+
by Standard & Poor’s, the fifth-highest levels. The sales tax
backing gives Cofina a credit rating higher than the
commonwealth’s general obligation rating, which is the lowest of
any state at A3 by Moody’s, the seventh-highest rank, and BBB-
by S&P, the lowest investment grade.  
 Exempt in Any State  
 The bonds of  Puerto Rico , a self-governing territory ceded
to the U.S. in 1898 after the Spanish-American War, are exempt
from federal, state and local taxes in all states.  
 The Cofina sale pushes June’s four-week total to $28.3
billion, 20 percent lower than the $35.5 billion in the four
weeks of April, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The corporation brought $1.4 billion to market in January
that attracted enough buyers to increase the sale 31 percent to
$1.8 billion. Bonds maturing in 2042, the largest portion of the
sale, were priced to yield 5.65 percent, 115 basis points above
 30-year  top-rated debt, according to MMA.  
 The new issue may cost investors more, said  Doug Nelson , an
assistant portfolio manager for  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. , a
money manager in Shawnee Mission, Kansas, that oversees $65
billion. Yields on Puerto Rico revenue bonds have fallen 27
percent from a high of 6.4 percent in May 2009 to 4.7 percent
June 18.  
 More Expensive  
 “We already have some,” Nelson said of Cofina bonds. “I
have a feeling this deal will come a little more expensive than
last time, so I don’t know if we’ll buy more.”  
 Puerto Rico will use the sale to help close a budget
deficit and repay debt. Citigroup Inc. will lead the sale,
according to preliminary documents.  
 The debt, to mature from 2033 to 2042, will begin pricing
for individual investors tomorrow, said  Fernando Batlle , vice
president of finance for the Government Development Bank.  
 “We do not anticipate hitting the market again, maybe once
before 2012,” Batlle said. “But there may be opportunities for
refunding offerings.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        