-- Quanto Swaps Signal 9 Percent Euro Drop on Greek Default, Citigroup Says
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-06-21T07:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/quanto-swaps-indicate-euro-may-slump-9-if-greece-defaults-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             The euro will fall 9 percent against
the dollar should Greece default, according to Citigroup Inc.
prices for quanto credit swaps that allow investors to bet on
currency volatility and sovereign debt risk.  
 So-called quanto swaps on European government bonds give
investors the chance to bet the 16-nation currency will decline
as governments struggle to finance budget deficits. Profit can
be made from buying insurance on a euro-area government in
dollars and selling protection on the same bonds in the common
currency, according to Citigroup.  
 “Everybody knows the euro will be punished if a country
defaults, but nobody knows by how much,” said  Mikhail Foux , a
credit strategist at Citigroup in New York. Quanto credit-
default swaps provide a “decent approximation,” he said.  
 An emergency ban on default swaps is being considered by
the European Union after German Chancellor  Angel Merkel  and
French President  Nicholas Sarkozy  blamed the derivatives for
worsening the fiscal crisis. Germany curbed trading of some debt
and euro-currency derivatives last month to ease selling
pressure on the region’s bonds and currency.  
 Credit-default swaps signal there’s a 50 percent chance
Greece will renege on its debt commitments within five years,
according to CMA DataVision. Swaps pay the buyer face value less
the value of the defaulted debt should a borrower fail to adhere
to its obligations. The contracts allow investors to hedge
against losses on debt or speculate on creditworthiness.  
 The euro may fall as much as 28 percent if France fails to
repay investors, while a default by the Spanish government would
trigger a 20 percent currency devaluation, Italy a 17 percent
drop and Germany a 25 percent decline, according to Citigroup.  
 SovX Index  
 The euro has fallen 13 percent against the dollar this year
and dropped to a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7. At the same
time, the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments surged to 168.5 basis points
June 4, compared with 62.5 basis points Jan. 6, CMA prices show.
“Investors who believe the current volatile environment is here
to stay should be selling sovereign quanto CDS,” Foux said.
“Quanto CDS is a great tool to mitigate one’s FX exposures.”  
 The impact of a sovereign default on the euro is calculated
by the quanto spread, the gap between the cost of protecting
against default in different currencies, divided by the
benchmark credit-default swap level. Swaps on European
sovereigns typically trade in dollars so the value of protection
isn’t eroded by weakening of the euro in case of default.  
 The ratio between the Greek quanto, or the 75 basis-point
difference between the cost of dollar- and euro-denominated
swaps on the nation, and the cost of dollar swaps at 795 basis
points is 9.4. Investors can profit from changes in spreads and
currency as they rebalance their holdings and Citigroup said a
quanto trade on Greece over the past six months would have
yielded about 200 basis points.  
 The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.2454 as of 8:04 a.m. in
London. A basis point on a credit-default swap contract
protecting $10 million of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Twenty euro notes pass through a counting machine in a currency exchange store in Lisbon Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
