-- Owner of Lipstick Building in NYC Seeks Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-16T21:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/rbc-sues-owners-of-lipstick-building-where-madoff-operated-after-default.html
The owner of Lipstick Building, the
midtown Manhattan tower where  Bernard L. Madoff  ran the biggest
Ponzi scheme in U.S. history, filed for bankruptcy with a plan
to reorganize with support of its largest creditor.  Metropolitan 885 Third Avenue Leasehold LLC’s petition for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
New York listed as much as $500 million in both assets and debt.
In June,  Royal Bank of Canada  sued to force a sale of the 34-
story tower, because the landlord had defaulted on a
$210 million loan.  Goldman Sachs & Co. owns Metropolitan 885 Third Avenue
Leasehold, according to court papers.  The skyscraper, between East 53rd Street and 54th Street,
was designed by John Burgee Architects with  Philip Johnson . It
gets its name from its elliptical shape, which resembles a tube
of lipstick, and the red granite on its exterior.  “The recent violent downturn in the building and real
estate markets have had a significant impact on the debtor’s
operations,” Jacob Abikzer, a managing member of Metropolitan
Real Estate Investors LLC, said in court documents. Increasing
vacancy rates and lease renewals led to a serious liquidity
issue, he wrote.  Latham & Watkins LLP  is the building’s largest tenant,
occupying about two-thirds of its total rentable area as of July
2008, according to a statement that year. According to court
papers, the law firm’s lease lasts until June 2021. Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC rented the 17th, 18th and 19th
floors. Federal investigators seized his offices when he was
indicted in 2008, and ran their investigation from the property.  Reducing Debt  RBC will support the prepackaged plan, which gives it a
61 percent recovery on its $130 million secured claim, according
to a “disclosure statement” that outlines the terms of a
reorganization. It supports the Chapter 11 plan by allowing use
of its cash collateral in exchange for protections, and reducing
its debt to $130 million from $210 million.  “Plan funders” will give a $15 million equity infusion to
the company, according to court filings, which didn’t disclose
the identity of the funders.  Marc Richards , the Blank Rome LLP
lawyer representing Metropolitan, didn’t return a call for
comment.  RBC was listed as the largest unsecured creditor. As part
of its restructuring plan, an entity named “New Lipstick” will
pledge its entire ownership stake to RBC, according to Abikzer’s
statement.  RBC Claim  If the plan is contested and doesn’t get confirmed, RBC
will keep its $210 million claim in principal, plus interest,
expenses, penalties and fees, according to court papers. It also
calls for general unsecured creditors to be repaid in full.  RBC will waive unsecured deficiency claims worth
$80 million, according to court papers.  Metropolitan, whose principal includes real-estate investor
 Haim Revah , bought the building in 2007 for $648.5 million from
Tishman Speyer Properties LP, as U.S. commercial real estate
prices were reaching their peak. In addition to the RBC loan,
the buyers borrowed $60 million from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
and sold a 79 percent interest in the ground beneath the
building to  SL Green Realty Corp.  and  Gramercy Capital Corp.  for
$317 million. The group leased the land back for 70 years, and
has the right to repurchase it.  The case is In re Metropolitan 885 Third Avenue Leasehold
LLC, 10-16103, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 