-- Treasuries Fall for Second Day as Stocks Rally After China Ends Yuan Peg
-- Theresa Barraclough
-- 2010-06-21T11:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/treasuries-fall-for-second-day-as-stocks-rally-after-china-s-ends-yuan-peg.html

          
          
             Treasuries fell for a second day,
sending the 10-year yield up by the most in five days, as China
said it will allow a more flexible yuan, boosting confidence in
the global recovery and triggering gains in stocks.  
 Longer-maturity bonds led declines after the People’s Bank
of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan
peg to the dollar adopted to protect exporters during the global
financial crisis. The decision to end the yuan’s peg was made
after the world’s third-largest economy improved, the central
bank said in a statement on its website. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index advanced 1.4 percent and the  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of
shares gained 2.5 percent.  
 “It’s a vote of confidence in the Chinese economy and the
global economy and so will boost risk assets at the expense of
Treasuries,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist
at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “China would not have
depegged if it did not think the recovery was for real.”  
 The yield on the 10-year note rose seven basis points to
3.29 percent as of 7 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. It climbed earlier by 8.5 basis points, the most
since June 14 based on intraday generic yields. The 3.5 percent
security due May 2020 dropped 18/32, or $5.63 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 25/32.  
 Signs the global economy is able to overcome Europe’s debt
crisis have lowered demand for Treasuries, sending the 10-year
yield up from the 3.06 percent it slid to on May 25. It will
reach 3.8 percent by the end of the year, according to the
median of 62 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of debt last
week at yields below market value, assuaging concern it will
need help to raise funds. Concern some European lenders may
become insolvent receded after the European Union said it will
publish results of bank stress tests.  
 Currency ‘Flexibility’  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow
greater currency “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out
“large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent
“excessive” moves.  
 Investors remained bearish on U.S. debt, according to a
survey of money managers by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc.  
 The company’s index measuring the outlook for Treasuries
through the end of December was little changed at 42. A figure
below 50 shows investors expect prices to decline. The company,
based in Jersey City, New Jersey, interviewed 23 fund managers
controlling $1.33 trillion of assets.  
 China’s announcement will also hurt Treasuries as it means
the central bank will have fewer dollars to purchase the
securities, according to UBS AG.  
 ‘Slower Accumulation’  
 “Somewhat slower reserve accumulation will lead to slower
accumulation of U.S. Treasuries,” analysts led by  Mansoor Mohi- uddin , the global head of foreign-exchange strategy at UBS in
Singapore, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  
 Treasuries also declined before the government sells $108
billion of notes this week.  
 The Treasury will auction $40 billion in two-year debt
tomorrow, $38 billion in five-year notes the following day and
$30 billion in seven-year securities on June 24. The total is $5
billion less than last month’s sales of the same maturities.  
 Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 36 percent of the two-year notes at the
prior auction in May, compared with an average of 42 percent
over the past 10 sales.  
 Treasuries of all maturities are still headed for the best
first half in a decade on speculation reduced inflationary
pressures will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to keep interest rates
near zero.  
 ‘Continue South’  
 “Treasury yields will continue south,” said  Akira Takei ,
a fund manager in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest bank. “Inflation is not imminent and
in fact, we should be more concerned about deflation. The Fed
cannot raise rates any time soon.”  
 The consumer price index declined 0.2 percent in May from
the previous month, the biggest drop since December 2008, a
Labor Department report showed on June 17.  
 The difference in yields between 10-year Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities, or  TIPS , and comparable conventional notes
showed money managers expect the consumer price index to
increase an average 2.03 percent a year in the next decade, down
from 2.41 percent at the end of 2009. The  spread  narrowed to
1.83 percent on May 21, the least since Oct. 9.  
 U.S. policy makers will hold the benchmark  interest rate  at
a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent at the end of their
next two-day meeting on June 23, according to all economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The central bank reiterated at the end of its April 28
meeting that it intended to keep its benchmark rate near zero
for an “extended period” to help spur the recovery.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 73 percent
chance the Fed will maintain or cut rates by its December
meeting, up from 63 percent a month earlier, and down from 77
percent at the end of last week.  
 Treasuries have returned 3.9 percent since Dec. 31, heading
for the largest gain in the first six months of a year since
2000, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Theresa Barraclough  in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The People's Bank of China stands in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
