-- Trichet Says Deficit Offenders May Lose Voting Rights
-- Christian Vits
-- 2010-06-21T16:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/trichet-says-eu-budget-deficit-offenders-could-lose-their-voting-rights.html

          
          
             European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said governments in breach of European Union
fiscal rules could face tougher punishment including the
withdrawal of voting rights.  
 “A wider spectrum of financial sanctions needs to be
considered, along with non-financial and procedural sanctions,
such as more stringent reporting requirements or even a
limitation or suspension of voting rights,” Trichet told
lawmakers in Brussels today. The ECB’s chief also said that
governments could consider changing the euro’s founding treaty.  
 EU officials are devising new fiscal rules to prevent a
repeat of the European sovereign debt crisis, which was sparked
when Greece’s budget spiraled out of control and forced it to
seek an EU-led bailout. European leaders plan to outline the
strengthened enforcement system by October after hammering out a
$929 billion rescue program last month.  
 Trichet said governments should explore every route that
“the legislation of Europe permits” to toughen EU rules.
Beyond that “we could reflect on changing the Treaty.” The
last revision to the EU’s treaties, signed in Lisbon, took eight
years to negotiate and ratify.  
 The ECB last week published a document ruling out expulsion
from the euro region as the ultimate penalty “because the very
existence of this option would put the viability of the common
currency into question and would thus not be seen as credible.”  
 Trichet also indicated that the EU’s efforts to ease money-
market tensions are starting to work.  
 ‘Normal’ Markets?  
 “I hope and expect that all the decisions taken” will
enable a “progressive return, which I observe now, to a more
normal functioning of the interbank market,” Trichet said.  
 The EU’s crisis-fighting measures have nevertheless failed
to reassure all investors that the danger has passed. The extra
yield that investors ask to hold Spanish 10-year  government
bonds  over German bunds surged to a euro-era high on June 16
after the El Economista newspaper reported that the IMF, the
U.S. and the EU were preparing a lifeline for Spain. The EU
“firmly” denied the report.  
 Trichet also reiterated the ECB’s support for the Chinese
government’s decision, announced on June 19, to increase the
yuan’s “flexibility.”  
 “The decision which has been made public by the Chinese
authority is a good decision that corresponds to our opinion
what is in the interest of China itself, of the Chinese economy
and Chinese growth and also in the interest of the partners of
China,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Louis  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        