-- Rupee Rises to Five-Week High as China Central Bank Eases Control on Yuan
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-21T11:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/rupee-rises-to-five-week-high-as-china-central-bank-eases-control-on-yuan.html

          
          
             India’s rupee gained the most this
month on optimism local exporters will benefit from an easing of
China’s exchange-rate policy.  
 The currency appreciated for a fourth day, the longest
winning streak since March, after the People’s Bank of China
said on June 19 it will allow more movement in the yuan. The
rupee also rose as the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index 
climbed as much as 1.7 percent.  
 “The rupee will keep its bias to appreciate as China
prepares to ease restrictions on the yuan,” said  Roy Paul ,
deputy general manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “A
stronger yuan would be a boost to Asian exports.”  
 The rupee advanced 0.9 percent to 45.7525 per dollar as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose as high as 45.575 earlier, the strongest
level since May 18.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 46.09 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 46.67 at the end of last week. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 “The reasons why the rupee will benefit from the yuan move
is not because of India’s trade links with China, but because
the rupee is one of the most free-floating Asian currencies
around,” said  Thomas Harr , a currency strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Singapore. “The Reserve Bank of India is among
the most relaxed in terms of intervention and it is unlikely to
intervene today either.”  
 The Indian central bank is still evaluating the impact of
China’s decision to relax a two-year yuan peg, Deputy Governor
 Subir Gokarn  said today.  
 “It’s too early to judge the concrete impact on exchange
rates or any other variables,” Gokarn told reporters in Mumbai.
“Clearly, the signals are very strong from China on its change
of stance.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        