-- Saipem, PBG Place Lowest Bid of $900 Million to Build Polish LNG Terminal
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-06-21T11:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/saipem-pbg-place-lowest-bid-of-900-million-to-build-polish-lng-terminal.html

          
          
             A group of companies led by  Saipem
SpA , Europe’s largest oilfield-services provider, placed the
lowest bid to build Poland’s first liquefied natural gas import
terminal on the Baltic Sea.  
 The group, which includes  PBG SA , Poland’s largest builder
by market value, and Techint Group, bid 2.95 billion zloty ($900
million). That beat offers from a group including Daewoo
Engineering & Construction Co Ltd. and Korea Gas Corp., and
another that included Tecnimont SpA of Italy; Vinci SA, the
world’s biggest construction company; and Polimex-Mostostal SA,
Poland’s biggest builder.  
 Polskie LNG, the state-owned company charged with building
the terminal in the port of Swinoujscie, is satisfied with bids,
Chief Executive Officer Zbigniew Rapciak said in Warsaw after
opening the bids today. His company will choose the winner by
the end of the month based on a formula that considers the
prices for various parts of the project.  
 Poland is building the terminal, scheduled to be ready by
mid-2014, to help mitigate the effects of supply cuts such as
the five-month reduction in deliveries last year caused by a
dispute between Russia and Ukraine, and to meet demand from
planned gas-fired power plants. About two-thirds of the 14
billion cubic meters of gas Poland consumes annually is imported
from the former Soviet Union.  
 The terminal will be able to import as much as 5 billion
cubic meters of gas a year and may later be expanded by 50
percent. Jan Chadam, head of Polskie LNG’s supervisory board,
had estimated in March that the facility would cost less than
600 million euros ($744 million).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        