-- Tsang to Revise Hong Kong Voting Plan in Compromise With Democratic Party
-- Frederik Balfour
-- 2010-06-21T09:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/tsang-to-revise-hong-kong-voting-plan-in-compromise-with-democratic-party.html

          
          
             Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  offered to revise proposed changes to the electoral system
in a bid to win over opposition lawmakers and ensure his second
attempt to deliver constitutional reform succeeds.  
 The new plan adopts a proposal by the  Democratic Party  that
the 10 new seats on the city’s Legislative Council are chosen by
all voters, Tsang told reporters today. Pro-democracy groups had
threatened to block the government’s package, in which half of
the seats would have been chosen by business groups representing
so-called functional constituencies.  
 “The revised proposal is more democratic and will pave the
way for universal suffrage,” Tsang said.  
 The government needs support from two-thirds of the 60
LegCo members to succeed when they vote on June 23. The nine
Democrats had been among 23 pro-democracy lawmakers who had said
they would block the package. Some opposition members said they
would vote against the amended plan because it preserves
functional constituency seats, which aren’t directly elected.  
 “We are worried that these detours in the government
proposal will make it even harder to achieve universal
suffrage,”  Alan Leong , a LegCo member from the Civic Party,
said in a telephone interview today. Still, with the likely
support of all nine Democratic Party lawmakers, the proposal
will pass, Leong said.  
 Popularity Contest  
 The government had been seeking feedback from the public
for the past six months on its original proposal envisioning
five new functional constituency seats and five seats directly
elected, and to substitute it with a new version at the last
minute was unacceptable, Civic Party members said.  
 “The revision gives an excuse for the functional
constituencies to stay on,” said  Audrey Eu , leader of the Civic
Party who bested Tsang in a televised debate on June 17
according to polls. “This takes us away from the goal of
universal suffrage.” Eu said all five Civic Party members would
vote against the new resolution.  
 Chinese President  Hu Jintao  told Tsang in December to
“handle constitutional development issues properly to ensure
social harmony.”  
 Tsang’s predecessor  Tung Chee-hwa  stepped down from his
post in 2005, more than two years early, after a botched attempt
to push through separate China-sponsored constitutional changes.  
 Tsang’s own popularity has been slipping amid the wrangle
over elections, polls show. On June 4, about 113,000 people
attended a candlelight vigil to mark the 21st anniversary of the
crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square,
the largest number since 1989 according to police estimates.  
 Democracy Timetable  
 While Hong Kong has multiple political parties and more
civil liberties than in mainland China, the central government
controls the pace and direction of constitutional changes under
the “one country, two systems” formula  struck  when Britain
handed the territory back to China in 1997. The timetable for
greater democracy was set by the National People’s Congress
Standing Committee.  
 Eu is calling for universal suffrage in 2012, five years
earlier than China’s plans for letting the public vote for the
chief executive and eight years before planned direct elections
of all LegCo members.  
 Two Ballots  
 The revised plan entails two ballots for each voter, one
for the five new geographical constituencies and one for so-
called functional constituencies, Tsang said today. Local
district counselors would nominate candidates for the five
functional constituency seats.  
 The revision “shows the government’s sincerity to promote
progress in democracy in Hong Kong,” Tsang said.  
 The revised proposal is consistent with the Basic Law, the
city’s mini constitution,  Wong Yan Lung , the secretary for
justice, said at the briefing.  
 Results of a random survey of 934 households conducted by
the Hong Kong Transition project between June 4 and June 14
indicate a majority of the respondents “express dissatisfaction
with the Chief Executive’s performance,” said  Michael DeGolyer ,
a professor of government and international studies at  Hong Kong
Baptist University , who heads the study.  
 Sixty-three percent of respondents favored the abolition of
functional constituencies representing key industries such as
banking, law and manufacturing. That’s up from 55 percent of
those polled from May 6 to May 15.  
 “A lot of people are connecting the business domination of
the functional constituencies with unfair policies they are
experiencing,” said DeGolyer.  
 The number of people living in poverty in Hong Kong in the
first nine months of last year rose 19 percent, the South China
Morning Post reported May 12, citing government data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marco Lui  in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Donald Tsang, Hong Kong's chief executive, in Hong Kong, earlier this year. Twenty-three pro-democracy lawmakers, including Eu’s Civic Party, have vowed to block the proposal. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
