-- Saudi Arabian Regulator Approves Falcom Petrochemical Exchange-Traded Fund
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-06-21T14:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/saudi-arabian-regulator-approves-falcom-petrochemical-exchange-traded-fund.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabia approved its second
exchange-traded fund this year as the kingdom seeks to expand
investment opportunities in the Middle East’s largest  bourse.   
 Falcom Financial Services will offer an exchange-traded
fund for petrochemical companies on the bourse, the Riyadh-based
Capital Market Authority said in a statement on the  exchange’s
website  today. The market regulator approved in March its first
ETF, offered by  Falcom.    
 Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier, is opening
its stock market to more direct international investment.
Previously, non-resident foreigners were only permitted to trade
through share-swap transactions.  
 The new ETF will have 14 petrochemical companies, including
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , Falcom’s Chief Executive Officer
Adeeb Al-Solwailim said in an e-mailed response to questions
today. “The fund aims to invest at least 95 percent of its
assets in equities in the petrochemical sector and to provide
investors with long-term capital appreciation.”  
 ETFs track indexes of commodities, bonds or currencies.
Unlike a mutual fund, whose shares are priced once a day after
the end of each trading session, an ETF is listed on an exchange
where it is bought and sold throughout the day.  
 The Saudi market regulator permitted Falcom to list the
first ETF on the bourse on March 28. The fund will include
Islamic bonds and commodities, such as gold and silver.  
 The Saudi Tadawul All Share Index gained 0.6 percent to
6,450.68 today, the highest level since May 18.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
Or  mharoutunian@bloomberg.net ;
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        