-- HSBC Expects Lending to Rise in Middle East This Year as Economy Recovers
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-06-21T08:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/hsbc-expects-lending-to-rise-in-middle-east-this-year-as-economy-recovers.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest
bank by market value, expects to boost lending in the Middle
East this year after posting a 16 percent decline last year amid
slowing economic growth following the credit crisis.  
 “Overall, we can see signs of recovery,”  Majed Najm , the
head of international for  HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd. , said in an
interview in Dubai today. “Our pipeline is building up and we
are going to increase” the loan book this year, said Najm, who
oversees the bank’s operations in 10 countries.  
 HSBC’s Middle East unit operates in 15 countries in the
region, from Algeria in the west to Pakistan in the east. Its
loan book dropped to $22.8 billion in 2009 from $27.3 billion in
the preceding year, according to the bank’s annual report, with
pretax profit slumping 74 percent to $455 million and bad-loan
provisions jumping almost fivefold to $1.33 billion.  
 Najm said HSBC’s lending will increase in the bank’s main
markets of the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Egypt and Saudi
Arabia as well as in some of the bank’s newer, faster-growing
markets like Kuwait, Iraq and Algeria. The situation with
provisions for bad loans “remains fluid,” he said.  
 HSBC along with other banks in the region were hurt last
year as slowing economic growth reduced lending, hit investment
banking income and led to rising loan defaults.  Emirates NBD
PJSC , the biggest Gulf Arab bank by assets, more than doubled
provisions for bad loans to 3.63 billion dirhams ($988 million)
in 2009 and reported a 9 percent drop in annual profit.  
 “The evaluation of credit has evolved” since the credit
crisis, Najm said. “Banks are demanding more clarity now” and
only lending to projects with “appropriate cash flows,” he
said.  
 HSBC is one of several banks that has applied for a banking
license in Libya and expects a decision on it “soon,” Najm
said.  
 HSBC is one of the biggest lenders to state-owned Dubai
World group, which is seeking to alter terms on at least $30
billion of loans and liabilities.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        