-- HSBC's Russia CEO Stuart Lawson Said to Leave; Carver Is Named Interim CEO
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-06-21T17:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/hsbc-s-russia-ceo-stuart-lawson-said-to-leave-carver-is-named-interim-ceo.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc’s  Russia Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Lawson  has left the bank, according a
person with direct knowledge.  
 Lawson, 56, who oversaw the bank’s first retail branch
opening in Moscow a year ago, joined HSBC in March 2008 from
Bank Soyuz. His deputy in Moscow,  Rob Carver , was appointed
interim CEO, said the person, who cited an internal memo.  
 HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank by market value, invested $200
million in its Russian unit in September 2008 amid the record
stock-market rout triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The funding tripled HSBC Russia’s capital and
“demonstrated” the bank’s long-term commitment to the country,
Lawson said at the time. The bank has added three more branches
in Moscow and one in St. Petersburg, and has been building a
wealth management business and a ruble bond trading operation.  
 Lawson spent most of his career at Citibank Inc.,
overseeing its start-up and expansion in the 1990s. He became
chairman of Deltabank in 2001 and chairman and CEO of Bank
Soyuz, a mid-sized Russian bank, from 2004.  
 HSBC’s communications office in London didn’t return calls
from Bloomberg. Lawson, reached on his mobile phone, declined to
discuss his plans.  
 Lawson’s departure follows the exit of  Bernie Sucher , the
country head of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, in May. UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, said this month its Russian chief
 Steven Meehan  would leave in the next few months and will be
replaced by Nick Jordan, who previously headed Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in Moscow.  
 Global banks are competing for talent in Russia as the
economy of the world’s largest energy supplier recovers from its
steepest decline on record. Companies will probably sell a
record 1 trillion rubles ($32 billion) of domestic bonds this
year, according to Trust Investment Bank and ING Groep NV. Both
UBS and Renaissance Capital forecast Russian companies will
raise $20 billion in initial public offerings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        