-- Sberbank's Gref, Former Economy Minister, Testifies in Khodorkovsky Trial
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-06-21T08:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/sberbank-s-gref-former-economy-minister-testifies-in-khodorkovsky-trial.html

          
          
             OAO Sberbank Chief Executive Officer
 German Gref , Russia’s economy minister under then-President
 Vladimir Putin  for eight years, testified today in the second
trial of jailed former billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky .  
 Khodorkovsky, who built OAO Yukos into Russia’s biggest oil
company until his arrest in 2003, questioned Gref from inside
the defendants’ cage in the Khamovniki court in western Moscow
over the legality of oil-pricing tactics used by Yukos and its
subsidiaries.  
 Former Prime Minister  Mikhail Kasyanov  last month testified
in support of Khodorkovsky and his former business partner
 Platon Lebedev , who are already serving eight-year sentences for
tax evasion and fraud. They are now on trial in Moscow for
stealing 350 million tons of oil from Yukos before it was seized
and sold by the government to recover more than $30 billion in
back-tax claims.  
 Yukos traded oil with its units at below-market prices,
following a common practice used by all Russian crude producers,
Kasyanov said in his testimony in May.  
 Gref said his responsibilities as minister didn’t include
“inspections” of corporate finances. Still, he said he would
have been informed if other officials had uncovered theft by
executives at a company as big as Yukos. Russia’s tariff system
for oil would explain why Yukos acquired crude from its units at
below-market prices, Gref said.  
 Gref, 46, left the government in 2007 to take over state-
run Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender. Sberbank shares were up
3.9 percent to 83.20 rubles at 12:53 p.m. in Moscow, valuing the
company at about $58 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        