-- SEC Sues ICP Asset Management and Founder for CDO Fraud
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-21T21:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/sec-sues-icp-asset-management-founder-priore-for-cdo-fraud.html

          
          
             ICP Asset Management LLC  and its
founder were sued by U.S. regulators for their role in
overseeing mortgage-linked investments insured by  American
International Group Inc.  as the housing market declined.  
 Thomas Priore , 41, and New York-based ICP directed more
than $1 billion of trades at artificially high prices on behalf
of collateralized debt obligations they managed, the Securities
and Exchange Commission said today in a lawsuit filed at federal
court in New York. Priore denied wrongdoing and said he would
fight the allegations.  
 The suit, the SEC’s first aimed at a so-called collateral
manager, may open a new front for the agency in its examination
of firms that dealt with mortgage assets before the U.S. housing
market collapsed in 2007. ICP violated its duty to clients by
making investments that broke rules limiting risk, and failing
to get required approvals for trades from AIG and bond insurer
 FGIC Corp. , another victim, the SEC said.  
 “The CDOs were complex but the lesson is simple:
collateral managers bear the same responsibilities to their
clients as every other investment adviser,”  George Canellos ,
director of the SEC’s New York regional office, said in a
statement. “When they violate their clients’ trust, we will
hold them accountable.”  
 The CDOs, known as Triaxx, invested primarily in mortgage-
backed securities. ICP favored itself and certain clients in its
trading, for example, by having one CDO sell assets to another
at inflated prices, the SEC said. The firm used the dealings to
cover other clients’ losses and to generate higher fees for
itself, according to the lawsuit.  
 SEC Sweep  
 The lawsuit stems from a sweep of more than 50 investment
advisers that manage structured financial products, Canellos
said in a call with reporters. The inquiry focuses on the firms’
possible conflicts of interest and whether they appropriately
priced assets during times of market stress, he said.  
 The SEC has already sued other companies and executives for
misconduct related the housing crisis. The agency sued  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  in April, claiming it didn’t disclose to
investors the role played by hedge fund Paulson & Co. in
devising and betting against mortgage-linked securities. Goldman
Sachs has denied the allegations.  
 ‘Ongoing Approval’  
 AIG, which partly insured two Triaxx CDOs, needed to
consent to any purchases by the vehicles and didn’t get a chance
in many cases, according to the complaint. Marketing documents
for the CDOs said AIG would provide “ongoing approval on the
collateral” and oversight for other investors, the complaint
said.  
 In an attempt to get around those rules, ICP in some cases
sold bonds from a client account, bought new securities and then
sold them to the CDOs at inflated values, it said.  
 “We at all times acted in the best interest of our clients
and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these
allegations,” Priore said today in an e-mail statement.  
 Priore bought about $1.3 billion in bonds from Bear Stearns
Cos. in June 2007 after two of its hedge funds collapsed,
according to the lawsuit. He used a forward agreement -- a
contract forbidden in the Triaxx investment guidelines because
it could increase risk -- to purchase the bonds because ICP
didn’t have enough funds for the deal, the SEC said.  
 He sold some of the bonds to another ICP client at higher
prices about two weeks later, diverting the $14 million profit
to ICP instead of the CDOs. Priore didn’t get AIG’s approval,
nor did he inform the CDOs’ directors, said the SEC, which is
seeking fines and disgorgement of gains.  
 Mark Herr , an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  
 AIG Complained  
 ICP kept some bonds in one of AIG’s CDOs after the New
York-based insurer rejected them in October 2007, the SEC said.
“In late 2008, after AIG complained about unauthorized trades,
ICP was compelled to stop nearly all reinvestments by the Triaxx
CDOs,” the complaint said.  
 FGIC’s insurance unit was rated AAA before the credit
crisis and last year was forced to halt claims payments after
losses on mortgage-bond CDOs. A message left on a voicemail for
its public-relations department wasn’t returned.  
 Priore also backdated trades of mortgage-backed bonds in
2008, using prices from a year earlier, causing one of the
Triaxx vehicles to overpay by about $3.5 million, the SEC said.  
 Priore, the majority owner of ICP, founded the firm as an
affiliate of Bank of New York in 2004. It became an independent
company in 2006.  
 Guggenheim  
 Before starting ICP, Priore managed the fixed-income and
structured-products group at Guggenheim Capital Markets, and
before that was a vice president in PaineWebber Inc.’s fixed-
income sales and trading department, bringing the company’s
first CDO to market in 1998, according to a Triaxx prospectus.
He graduated from Harvard University with a bachelor’s degree in
American History and holds a master’s in business from Columbia
University.  
 CDOs package pools of assets such as mortgage bonds, bank
capital notes and buyout loans into new securities with varying
risks.  
 After the head of ICP’s capital-market operations left the
company following what industry newsletter Asset-Backed Alert
described as a “shouting match” with Priore, ICP said in March
that the unit would be taken over by PrinceRidge Holdings LP,
the investment bank run by former UBS AG executives  John Costas 
and  Michael T. Hutchins . At the time, those operations had 60
employees, while ICP’s asset-management business had about a
dozen.  
 PrinceRidge within a week abandoned the planned transaction
as it learned about the CDO investigation, a person familiar
with the matter said today.  
 $8.8 Billion  
 ICP oversaw $8.8 billion of CDOs filled with asset-backed
securities as of Sept. 30, 2007, when the market closed, the
15th-most, according to Standard & Poor’s data. The firm’s
favored CDO, called Triaxx Funding, borrowed about $2.5 billion
from lenders and issued about $280 million in notes, according
to its prospectus.  
 The firm was the second-largest manager of mortgage-bond
CDOs insured by New York-based AIG, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The value of the $5.5 billion of CDO slices
insured by AIG had fallen to $3.2 billion by the time the
Federal Reserve bought them from the firm in 2008 as part of its
bailout, according to the insurer’s disclosures.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The lawsuit may open a new front for the SEC in examining firms that managed mortgage-backed assets before the credit crisis. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
