-- Shell Tarred by Gulf Spill Pays Premium on Bond: Credit Markets
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-06-22T15:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/shell-pays-up-for-bond-sale-as-energy-debt-extends-losses-credit-markets.html

          
          
               Royal Dutch Shell Plc  was penalized
by the  bond market  in a $2.75 billion debt offering and  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp . notes tumbled on concern the worst oil spill in
U.S. history will depress profits across the industry.  
 Investors demanded an extra 110 basis points in yield over
U.S. Treasuries to buy the five-year notes from Shell, compared
with 89 basis points for existing debt of similar maturity from
The Hague-based company. Debt of Anadarko, owner of a 25 percent
stake in  BP Plc ’s leaking well in the  Gulf of Mexico , fell
yesterday the most since June 9.  
 Shell, with the most Gulf rigs affected by a ban on deep-
water drilling, faces higher yield spreads as investors wager
that the U.S. government will increase regulation, while
Anadarko may face costs related to the BP spill. The explosion
of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig two months ago is rippling
across petroleum companies, said Brookfield Investment
Management Inc.’s  Joel Levington .  
 “It could delay the timing of projects or possibly
eliminate them,” said Levington, managing director of corporate
credit at Brookfield in New York, with $24 billion in assets
under management. “It could require additional monitoring and
maintenance, all of which could hurt earnings, cash flows and
returns on invested capital.”  
 Energy bonds have lost 0.34 percent this month, compared
with a gain of 0.56 percent for U.S. investment-grade bonds,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Shell
bonds have gained 0.09 percent in June.  
 Bond Sales Surge  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, sales of corporate bonds are
increasing, with  HeidelbergCement AG , the world’s third-largest
cement maker, and  ENI SpA ,  Italy ’s biggest energy company,
leading issuance in  Europe  today.  
 Companies around the world issued $17 billion of notes
yesterday, more than three times the daily average of the past
two months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Heidelberg, Germany-based building materials company is
offering 500 million euros ($614 million) of bonds due December
2015 that may be priced to yield about 7.25 percent, more than
the 6.75 percent it paid when it raised 650 million euros of
similar-dated notes in January. ENI in  Rome  is selling 10-year
securities that pay interest of about 110 basis points to 115
basis points more than the swap rate, a banker familiar with the
deal said.  
 Sales rose as the extra yield investors demand to own
corporate bonds instead of government debt fell 2 basis points
to a three-week low of 194 basis points, or 1.94 percentage
point, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market
Corporate Index shows. Yields averaged 4.08 percent.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 Benchmark indicators of credit risk in the U.S. and Europe
rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 109.25 basis points
as of 11:51 a.m. in  New York , the first increase since June 9,
according to Markit Group Ltd. In  London , the Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings increased 5.4 basis points to 118, Markit prices show.  
 Both indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Shell has five exploratory wells among 33 in deep Gulf
waters that were set to halt drilling under a moratorium from
the Obama administration following the BP accident, an official
of the Minerals Management Service, who asked not to be
identified discussing the specific companies, said May 28.  
 ‘Costly’ Moratorium  
 “The offshore drilling moratorium will be costly for
producers, which will need an extended period to ramp back to
pre-accident levels once the ban is lifted,” Ken Austin, a
Moody’s senior credit officer in New York, wrote in a report
yesterday. “These companies also face significant questions
over whether they will be able to cancel or reduce the costly
commitments under their rig and service contracts.”  
 The spread on Shell’s $1 billion of six-year notes issued
in September widened to 103.4 basis points yesterday from 89.3
basis points as of June 10, the last trade before news of the
offering, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 Shell’s $1.75 billion of 3.1 percent notes due in June 2015
yield 3.115 percent, Bloomberg data show. Its $1 billion of
floating-rate debt yields 35 basis points more than the three-
month London interbank offered rate, a borrowing benchmark.  
 ‘Pretty Attractive’  
 “The all-in yields are still pretty attractive from a
treasurer’s perspective, but obviously they’re paying for their
association with the oil-and-gas business,” said Jason Brady, a
money manager who oversees $4 billion in fixed-income assets at
Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .  
 Shell posted a 57 percent increase in earnings to $5.48
billion in the first quarter, its biggest profit since 2008.
Year-on-year profit fell more than 60 percent in three of the
previous four quarters.  
 Shell spokeswoman Kirsten Smart declined to comment on the
sale.  
   Total SA , Europe’s third-largest oil company, sold $2.5
billion of bonds on June 17 in a two-part offering. The Paris-
based company’s 3 percent, five-year notes priced to yield 110
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg
data show.  
 Anadarko Bonds  
 Bonds from Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , fell
after Moody’s cut its  credit rating  one level to Ba1, a step
below investment grade, after the close of trading on June 18.  
 Anadarko’s 5.95 percent securities due in 2016 declined 2.7
cents to 88.1 cents on the dollar yesterday to yield 8.45
percent, or 642 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Trace data show. The notes traded at 110.9 cents on
April 19, the day before the  oil spill . The securities fell
another 0.56 cents to 87.5 cents on the dollar as of 11:50 a.m.
in New York.  
 “I think the credit markets have downgraded all of the
spill companies by several notches,” said Brookfield’s
Levington. “The rating agencies are trying to catch up with
what the markets have already done.”  
 The downgrade “is very disappointing and surprising in
light of Anadarko’s limited role as a non-operating investor in
the Macondo well,” Robert Gwin, chief financial officer of the
company, said in a statement June 18.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Royal Dutch Shell Plc logo. Photographer: Michael Fein/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
