-- Shimao, Chinese Developers Rise as Morgan Stanley Upgrades on Yuan's Rise
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T09:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/shimao-chinese-developers-rise-as-morgan-stanley-upgrades-on-yuan-s-rise.html

          
          
             Chinese developers rose in Hong Kong
trading after Morgan Stanley upgraded property stocks on the
prospect that yuan appreciation will reduce the need for higher
interest rates.  
 Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. , controlled by Chinese
billionaire  Xu Rongmao , jumped 7.8 percent to HK$13.06 at the 4
p.m. close, the biggest gain since Oct. 6.  Agile Property
Holdings Ltd.  surged 8.7 percent after advancing as much as 11
percent, and  Soho China Ltd. , the biggest developer in Beijing’s
central business district, gained 3.2 percent to HK$4.55,
extending this year’s rally to 8.3 percent.  
 The People’s Bank of China on June 19 signaled an end to
the Chinese currency’s 23-month-old peg to the dollar and said
it will allow greater “flexibility.” The yuan’s appreciation
may be limited to 1.9 percent against the dollar this year as
the euro’s slump hurts exporters, a survey of 14 economists by
Bloomberg News showed.  
 The Chinese currency’s appreciation the rest of the year
“will help regulators to manage imported inflation and reduce
the need for further tightening,” Morgan Stanley analysts
including  Jerry Lou  said in a report today. “Property
developers should outperform; we believe policy austerities are
now priced in and the tightening stance should moderate.”  
 They raised their rating on property stocks to
“overweight” from “underweight.”  
 China has since April raised down payments and mortgage
rates on second homes and restricted bank lending to developers
to avert a property bubble. The government has refrained from
raising interest rates so far this year.  
 An  index  tracking 34 Shanghai-traded developers gained 3.8
percent at the 3 p.m. close, the most since May 18.  
 -- Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Andreea Papuc , Joost Akkermans  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        