-- Sigma Pharma Says It May Miss Full-Year Profit, Names Jamieson Chairman
-- Lena Lee
-- 2010-06-21T06:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/sigma-pharma-says-it-may-miss-full-year-profit-names-jamieson-chairman.html

          
          
             Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , the
Australian drugmaker that posted a record loss last month,
appointed a new chairman and said it may miss its full-year
profit forecast. The shares fell the most in about one month.  
 Brian Jamieson  succeeds  John Stocker  as chairman today,
Sigma said in a statement. Stocker is among three executives who
resigned after the loss, which was followed by a 48 percent one-
day drop in the shares and a takeover bid from Aspen Pharmacare
Holdings Ltd., Africa’s largest drug company.  
 Sigma said it may not meet the earnings target as
government regulations hurt the Arrow generics business. The
Melbourne-based drugmaker said it started the sale process for
its 30-year-old  Herron brand  of consumer products and will sell
and lease back some properties to raise funds for debt repayment.  
 “Underlying earnings are going to remain under significant
pressure, exacerbated by ongoing and intensifying competition in
the generics markets, which goes hand-in-hand with further
tightening in regulatory policy,”  David Arter , an analyst at
Wilson HTM Investment Group in Melbourne, said by telephone. He
has a “hold”  rating  on the stock.  
 Sigma had forecast profit this fiscal year to be similar to
the A$80.1 million reported in the 12 months ended Jan. 31, 2009.  
 ‘Continuing Volatility’  
 “Given the performance of our generics division to 31 May
2010 and the continuing volatility of the industry generally, we
believe there is considerable uncertainty that our budget will
be achieved in the current financial year,” Jamieson said in
the text of a speech at the annual general meeting.
“Significant one-off corporate costs arising from the Aspen bid
and other non-recurring activities will also impact on the
result.”  
 Sigma posted a loss of A$389 million in the year to Jan. 31,
2010, because of writedowns, including A$375.1 million for Arrow.
Earnings may have been hurt by government-mandated price
reductions to generic drugs and laws that require pharmacists to
disclose the prices at which they buy medicines from
distributors such as Sigma,  Dan Hurren , a Sydney-based analyst
at UBS AG, said in March.  
 “It’s going to get worse before it gets better,” Hurren
said today. “Everyone we’ve spoken to in the generics industry
says discounts are accelerating very rapidly.”  
 Record Drop  
 Sigma lost  4.8 percent to 50 Australian cents in Sydney
trading, reducing its market value to about A$589 million.
That’s the biggest decline for the shares since May 25. The
stock fell by a record on March 31 after Sigma reported the
full-year loss, erasing A$513 million from its market
capitalization.  
 Durban, South Africa-based Aspen offered on May 21 to buy
Sigma’s outstanding shares for 60 Australian cents each, or a
total of A$708 million, and assume net debt of A$785 million.
The Australian company said today that due diligence continues
and advised shareholders to take no action.  
 Jamieson is also chairman at Mesoblast Ltd., a Melbourne-
based developer of stem-cell treatments. Sigma said June 16 it
appointed  Mark Hooper , a former finance chief at the company, as
chief executive officer to replace  Elmo de Alwis  from September.
The drugmaker has yet to name a replacement for Chief Financial
Officer  Mark Smith , who quit May 13.  
 Products under the Herron brand range from vitamins to
nappy rash treatments to paracetamol, once promoted by Hazel
Hawke, the ex-wife of former Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke.  
 “They’re not going to get a good price for it,” Hurren
said. “They’ve really underspent on that business, so it’s not
well-positioned.”  
 Sigma doesn’t break out  earnings  at Herron, part of its
pharmaceuticals business. The unit accounted for A$716 million,
or 22 percent of revenue in the year ended Jan. 31. The
company’s other main business is a health-care division that
distributes medicines to drugstores and owns the Guardian and
Amcal pharmacy brands.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
 Lena Lee  in Singapore at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        