-- SKF India Expects First Profit Growth in Three Years on Automobile Demand
-- Hemal Savai
-- 2010-06-21T08:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/skf-india-expects-first-profit-growth-in-three-years-on-automobile-demand.html

          
          
             SKF India Ltd. , unit of the world’s
largest maker of ball bearings, expects profit to rise for the
first time in three years as demand for cars and motorcycles
surge in the South Asian nation.  
 Net income may rise 12 percent this year, Managing Director
 Shishir Joshipura  said. The company’s profit fell 26 percent
last year and 21 percent in 2008.  Profit  tripled to 436 million
rupees ($9.5 million) in the first quarter, the company said in
a  statement  to the Bombay Stock Exchange on April 23.  
 Rising salaries and accelerating growth in Asia’s third-
largest economy is boosting demand for cars made by Suzuki Motor
Corp. and  Toyota Motor Corp.  adding to sales at automobile
component makers including SKF. The $1.2 trillion economy may
expand at between 9 percent and 10 percent annually in the
coming years,  Chakravarthy Rangarajan , chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said on June 17.  
 “If the current trend remains, then we should be able” to
meet our targets, Joshipura said in a phone interview today.  
 SKF’s  shares  have risen 36 percent in dollar terms in the
past three months making it the best-performing stock in the
 Bloomberg Asia Pacific Metal Fabricate/Hardware Index . They rose
0.5 percent to 481.95 rupees in Mumbai at 12:20 p.m.  
 The company which gets 45 percent of its revenue from the
automobile industry, expects sales to rise 20 percent this year,
Joshipura said. SKF, based in Mumbai, gets the balance from
selling ball bearings to factories. Industrial production grew
17.6 percent in April, just short of the 17.7 percent expansion
achieved in December, the biggest increase since at least 1994.  
 “This year will be one of the best for the company in
terms of growth,” said  Umesh Karne , an analyst at BRICS
Securities Ltd. who  recommends  investors “buy” the shares.  
 SKF plans to expand capacity at its Pune and Bangalore
factories “in the beginning of next year,” Joshipura said
without elaborating. The company is 53.58 percent  owned  by SKF
Group, according to the data on Bombay Stock Exchange’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hemal Savai  in Mumbai at  at
 hsavai@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        