-- Smurfit-Stone to Exit Bankruptcy by June 30 as Plan Approved, Lawyer Says
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-21T18:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/smurfit-stone-to-exit-bankruptcy-by-june-30-as-plan-approved-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Smurfit-Stone Container Corp.  won
final court approval of a reorganization plan that lets the box
and paper maker leave bankruptcy June 30.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Brendan Linehan Shannon  in
Wilmington, Delaware, today overruled the last objection to a
compromise with shareholders that will make Smurfit a publicly
traded company owned by unsecured creditors.  
 When the plan is implemented, Smurfit will have “reduced
our debt and realigned our capital structure in a way that
dramatically improves the company’s prospects for long-term
growth and profitability,” Chief Executive Officer  Patrick J. Moore , said in a statement.  
 Company managers reached the settlement with shareholders
last month. The two sides fought over whether Smurfit was worth
enough money to give current shareholders a recovery.  
 Under the deal, preferred and common-stock owners will
split 4.5 percent of the new equity to be issued as part of the
reorganization, Smurfit said last month. The rest will go to
unsecured creditors in exchange for canceling about $3 billion
in debt.  
 The company will leave bankruptcy with about $1.8 billion
in debt,  Matthew A. Clemente , a lawyer for Smurfit with the firm
Sidley Austin LLP, said in an interview.  
 The agreement involved shareholders Mariner Investment
Group LLC, Senator Investment Group LP, P. Schoenfeld Asset
Management LP and Fir Tree Inc., according to court documents.  
 Smurfit filed for bankruptcy in January 2009, listing
assets of $7.45 billion and debt of $5.58 billion. The company
closed plants, fired workers and cut debt during its
reorganization.  
 The case is Smurfit-Stone Container Corp., 09-10235, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        