-- South Korea Offers Inflation-Linked Bonds at 2.77%, First Sale Since 2008
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-21T04:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/south-korea-offers-inflation-linked-bonds-at-2-77-first-sale-since-2008.html

          
          
             South Korea today started selling
inflation-linked bonds for the first time since August 2008,
broadening the range of investment options in the country as
economic expansion drives consumer prices higher.  
 The government is offering a 2.77 percent yield on the 10-
year debt and will sell them until June 24, the Ministry of
Strategy and Finance said in an e-mailed statement today. South
Korea also sold 1.7 trillion won ($1.4 billion) of 10-year
conventional bonds at a yield of 5 percent, the ministry said,
adding that investors bid to buy 4.6 trillion won of the notes.
That’s triple the 1.5 trillion won originally put up for sale.  
 “Market interest in the inflation-linked bonds should be
strong at these levels,” said  Matthew Huang , a Singapore-based
fixed-income strategist at Barclays Plc. “As long as inflation
is above 2.23 percent, these bonds will perform better than the
benchmark 10-year bond.”  
 The consumer price  index  rose 2.7 percent from a year
earlier in May, the most in four months, and the Bank of Korea
aims to keep the pace of increases between 2 percent and 4
percent through 2012. Central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  today
signaled the benchmark interest rate may be raised from a record
low, saying “if the present accommodative policy continues for
long, it may spark inflation or asset-price bubbles.”  
 Strengthening Currency  
 Investors holding dollars should buy South Korea’s
inflation-linked bonds and stand to make an additional 14
percent return in the coming year from the won’s advance to
1,025 versus the greenback, according to Barclay’s Huang. The
currency today climbed 2.5 percent to 1,173.10 as of 12:37 p.m.
in Seoul, after gaining 3.6 percent last week.  
 Inflation-linked bonds typically have lower yields than
conventional debt because the principal increases annually at
the rate of the consumer price index. The securities pay semi-
annual interest on the adjusted principal. Their face value on
South Korea’s is protected against deflation, because the
principal can’t fall below par.  
 Inflation  may accelerate at a faster pace than previously
anticipated in the second half and policy makers should take
steps to contain it, Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said last
week. The Bank of Korea will raise its benchmark  rate  by 50
basis points to 2.5 percent by the end of this year, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 South Korea plans to sell inflation-linked debt every month
apart from December with a view to raising as much as 1.8
trillion won a year, according to the finance ministry. The
sales are expected to lower borrowing costs for the government
and attract funds from long-term investors,  Kyung Yong Lee , an
official at the ministry’s government bonds department, said
before today’s offer.  
 “We don’t have investment tools that hedge against
inflation,” Lee said. “We see demand for these types of
products, especially from pension funds, who are sensitive to
inflation.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        