-- Korea Keeps Emerging Market Status as MSCI Skips Upgrade for Second Year
-- Saeromi Shin
-- 2010-06-22T04:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/south-korea-retains-msci-emerging-market-status-on-trading-restrictions.html

          
          
             South Korea was kept as an emerging
market at MSCI Inc. as the index provider skipped the nation for
an upgrade for a second year. Taiwan, also under a similar
review, also retained its status as a developing market.  
 MSCI  left South Korea’s status unchanged in June 2009 and
said it will evaluate the nation for an upgrade as a developed
market this year. The latest review again cited the “rigidity”
of its investor identification system and the lack of an active
offshore market for the country’s currency, as well as anti-
competitive practices relating to stock market data.  
 The decision means the nation will lose out on purchases of
equities in Asia’s sixth-biggest market by investors who are
restricted to developed-nation equities because of their
perceived lower risk. The Korean market was assigned
“developed” status by FTSE Group, a rival index compiler, in
September 2009.  
 “There may be disappointment in the short term,” said  Chu Moon Sung , a Seoul-based fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which manages $26 billion. “But I think
sentiment will stabilize soon because there are growing calls
for an upgrade, given the size of the South Korean markets and
the economy especially after the FTSE moved forward.”  
 The benchmark  Kospi Index  lost 0.5 percent to 1,731.48 at 
the close in Seoul, the biggest drop in two weeks.  
 Kospi’s Climb  
 The Kospi has climbed 24 percent since FTSE announced the
upgrade on Sept. 18, 2008. The  gauge  has risen 2.9 percent this
year as profit growth at companies was offset by concerns that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will stall a global economic
recovery, and that increased tension between North and South
Korea will curb investment.  
 “On the stock data issue raised by MSCI, we believe that’s
an irrelevant issue for upgrading the nation to developed
status,” Kong Do Hyun, a spokesman for Korea Exchange Inc.,
said by phone today. “Korea Exchange will continue its
consultation with MSCI in a direction that will help further
develop South Korean market.”  
 South Korea is better off staying as an emerging market as
its weighting among developed markets will be “very small,”
Credit Suisse Group said.  
 ‘Big Fish’  
 “It’s better to be a big fish in a small pond,” Sakthi
Siva, an analyst at Credit Suisse who’s the top-ranked Asia
strategist in Institutional Investor’s 2010 poll, said in a
briefing in Seoul today.  
 MSCI, which said it will review South Korea for a possible
upgrade next year, said no change is currently being considered
to the market classification status of Greece as the sovereign-
debt crisis “has had no impact on the equity market
accessibility and investability.”  
 Greece has cut spending, raised taxes and trimmed wages to
tackle the deficit, which swelled to 13.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year, more than four times the European
Union’s limit. The nation’s benchmark ASE Index has fallen 27
percent this year, the world’s worst performer.  
 In South Korea, overseas funds have bought a net 6.24
trillion won ($5.3 billion) of stocks this year, adding to last
year’s purchase of 32.4 trillion won, according to Koscom Corp.,
which provides financial data from the Korea Exchange. The funds
sold a net 33.6 trillion won of the equities in 2008.  
 MSCI indexes are tracked by investors with an estimated
$5.2 trillion in assets, compared with about $4 trillion for
FTSE gauges, according to a May 26 report by Shinhan Investment
Corp. Funds that mimic the performance of the  MSCI Korea Index 
buy shares of  Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s biggest
computer-memory maker, and  Posco , Asia’s most profitable
steelmaker.  
 Greece, Israel  
 Countries that were elevated to developed market status by
MSCI in recent years include Greece and Israel. South Korea had
a market capitalization of $838 billion as of June 20, sixth-
biggest in the Asia Pacific region. The $929 billion economy,
more than twice of Greece or Israel, expanded a faster-than-
expected 2.1 percent in the first quarter.  
 “We remain convinced that it is only a matter of time
until the promotion takes place,” CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
analysts led by  Chris Lobello  wrote in a June 11 report. “If it
doesn’t happen this year it will very likely be the next year.”  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has dropped 1.9 percent
this year, while the  MSCI World Index  has lost 4.4 percent.  
 South Korea represents 13.2 percent of the MSCI Emerging
Market Index, the third largest after China and Brazil,
according to a May 19 report by Morgan Stanley.  
 Taiwan will also stay under review for a potential upgrade
to developed status in 2011, MSCI said. The United Arab Emirates
and Qatar, which retained their frontier markets status, will
remain under review for a potential reclassification to emerging
markets, the index provider said.  
 So-called frontier markets typically have less-developed
economies and financial markets than emerging markets, and have
more restrictions on foreign stock ownership.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The benchmark Kospi Index lost 0.8 percent to 1,726.37 as of 9:03 a.m. in Seoul, the biggest drop in two weeks. Photographer: Nasha Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
