-- South Korea's Won Rises to One-Month High After China Signals Yuan Rise
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-21T01:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/south-korea-s-won-rises-to-one-month-high-after-china-signals-yuan-rise.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won climbed to the
highest level in a month after China signaled an end to the
yuan’s two-year-old peg to the dollar, paving the way for
currency appreciation in the nation’s biggest export market.  
 Central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today a
strengthening yuan may pose difficulties for South Korea by
spurring gains in the won, which advanced the most in a week.
Shipments to China surged 50 percent in the first 20 days of May,
helping drive the 42 percent increase in overall exports
reported for the whole month, official figures show.  
 “A stronger yuan will give  Korean goods  a competitive edge
in the China market,” said Sang Hoon Huh, a currency researcher
at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “Foreign investors will also
buy the won on bets the currency may also have to strengthen
because of the yuan.”  
 The won strengthened 1.9 percent to 1,179.60 per dollar as
of 9:59 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency touched 1,175.50 today, the strongest level since
May 20.  
 Policy makers are likely to reiterate verbal warnings that
they will take action to stabilize the market in the event that
herd behavior leads to volatility,  Oh Suk Tae , an economist at
SC First Bank Korea Ltd. said in Seoul yesterday.  
 Stocks Rally  
 The  Kospi  share index rose 1.5 percent, headed for its best
close since April, on speculation yuan appreciation will boost
sales of exporters including  Samsung Electronics Co.  and  Hyundai
Motor Co.   
 South Korea’s government forecasts exports will rise 13
percent this year to $410 billion, following a 14 percent
decline in 2009. The nation’s trade surplus in the second
quarter is expected to be bigger than in the first three months
of the year, the ministry said last month.  
 The government’s benchmark three-year bonds fell for the
first time in four days. The yield on the 3.75 percent note due
June 2013 rose five basis points to 3.77 percent, according to
Korea Stock Exchange.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        