-- South Korea Sees Risks in China Yuan Move Hailed by Thailand, Philippines
-- Lily Nonomiya
-- 2010-06-21T07:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/south-korea-sees-risks-in-china-yuan-move-hailed-by-thailand-philippines.html

          
          
             China’s decision to allow greater
flexibility in its currency invited mixed reactions from the
region, with Thailand and the Philippines welcoming the move and
South Korea saying the move may hurt its economy.  
 The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s
abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the
global crisis to shield exporters. The yuan today rose the most
in 18 months, and stocks in the region advanced, with the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index  jumping 2.8 percent by 4:06 p.m. in Tokyo.  
 A stronger currency will boost the purchasing power of
households in China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy
and the top export destination for countries from Japan to
Taiwan. At the same time, South Korean central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said a higher yuan may pose a risk for the country by
spurring gains in the won.  
 “A stronger yuan should help boost exports from the region
to China,” said  David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics
in Singapore. “Now that the Chinese will allow appreciation,
the sense is that this should be supportive of the other
currencies, allowing them to appreciate a little faster than
otherwise.”  
 Philippine central bank Governor  Amando Tetangco  yesterday
said the decision “bodes well for intra-Asian trade” and would
boost economic growth in Asia and “encourage capital to flow
into the region.” Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  also
said the flexibility will improve his nation’s export
competitiveness with China.  
 Currencies Rise  
 Currencies rose in the first trading day since the central
bank’s announcement. South Korea’s won and the Philippine peso
both climbed to the highest level in a month against the dollar.
The yuan jumped 0.4 percent to 6.80 at 3:22 p.m. in Shanghai.  
 A stronger yuan “would be supportive of the won, but
that’s not so terrible,” said Cohen. Increased demand from
China “should be supportive of Korean exports.”  
 The PBOC made its announcement at 7 p.m. Beijing time on
June 19 in a posting on its website, a week before leaders from
the Group of 20 meet in Toronto. The PBOC said in a follow-up
statement yesterday that a more flexible currency will help curb
an excessive reliance on exports. It advanced 0.2 percent to
6.81 in Shanghai, the most since December 2008.  
 The decision follows a strengthening in China’s economy
that saw gross domestic product expand 11.9 percent in the first
quarter from the same period of 2009. Surging industrial
production, exports, retail sales and property prices have
sparked concern of overheating that may end in a bust.  
 U.S. Pressure  
 Before the exchange rate was frozen in July 2008, Premier
 Wen Jiabao ’s government had allowed a 21 percent advance versus
the dollar over three years. The peg has been a point of
contention with the U.S., where lawmakers have threatened to
pursue trade sanctions on the basis that holding down the yuan’s
value unfairly favors Chinese exports.  
 Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who has called
for yuan flexibility, said in a statement on June 19 that he
hopes the move will “contribute to stable and balanced growth”
in the global economy.  
 Some say the stronger currency could cool the world
expansion. A stronger Chinese currency may slow China’s growth,
hurting countries that count on the world’s third-largest
economy for demand, according to  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive
officer of Fukoku Capital Management in Tokyo.  
 “If that happens, people will have to abandon a growth
scenario for this year, as growth in China is the only hope for
the global economy,” Sakurai said. “If the currency rises too
much, exports from the country will slow, which may also lead to
declines in exports from Japan to China.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lily Nonomiya  in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco  
                       
                         
                           Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco speaks during an interview in his office at the central bank, in Manila. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco speaks during an interview in his office at the central bank, in Manila. Photographer: Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
