-- South African Coal price Rises to a 7-Week High as Shipments to Asia Grow
-- Alistair Holloway
-- 2010-06-21T11:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/south-african-coal-price-rises-to-a-7-week-high-as-shipments-to-asia-grow.html

          
          
             Prices for coal shipped from South
Africa’s Richards Bay, the continent’s biggest export facility
for the fuel, advanced a second straight week on increased
shipments to Asia.  
 Export prices rose 32 cents, or 0.3 percent, to an average
$93.61 in the week to June 18, according to IHS McCloskey.
That’s the highest since the week ended April 30. Richards Bay
Coal Terminal increased exports to Asia by 50 percent last month
compared with May 2009, mjunction Services Ltd., a Web-based
trader backed by India’s biggest steel producers, said last
week. Shipments to Atlantic Ocean ports fell 27 percent, it
said.  
 South Africa is boosting exports to Asia as India and China
recover from last year’s economic slowdown while demand in
Europe fell amid concern that Greece’s sovereign-debt crisis
will spread. The two Asian nations together accounted for about
42 percent of Richards Bay’s shipments in the first quarter of
this year compared with about 25 percent a year earlier.  
 Power-station coal  prices  at Australia’s Newcastle port, a
benchmark for Asia, gained 1.1 percent, rising for the third
straight week. The index for  coal prices  at the New South Wales
port rose to $100.40 a metric ton in the week ended June 18,
according to the  globalCOAL NEWC Index .  
 Benchmark European  coal  derivatives advanced. Coal for
delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp with settlement next
year gained 50 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $102 a ton at 12:01
p.m. in London. The data are drawn from information supplied by
ICAP Plc, GFI Group Inc., Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse
Group AG, IHS McCloskey, Bloomberg and Tradition Financial
Services.  
 IHS McCloskey’s data are an average based on daily price
assessments and a market survey. Prior to the week ended April
30, the market survey was only carried out weekly.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        