-- Steamy $47 Million Superyacht Has Cool Pedigree, Turkish Bath
-- A. Craig Copetas
-- 2010-06-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/steamy-47-million-superyacht-has-cool-pedigree-turkish-bath.html

          
          
             Belgian textile heiress, art
historian and licensed passenger-ship captain Ineke Bruynooghe
stands on a balcony overlooking some $2 billion worth of luxury
yachts moored in Monaco harbor.  
 The 37-year-old owner of  S.S. Delphine  -- the last
operational steam-powered superyacht afloat -- points the tip of
an unpolished and close-cut fingernail through the aroma of
exhaust fumes toward the world’s most flamboyant single display
of seafaring wealth.  
 “Plastic and smelly,” Bruynooghe huffs at the diesel-
fueled composite-fiber palaces, whose owners pay more than
$30,000 a month for the chance to drop anchor in Monte Carlo’s
flashy waters. “Yachting is a man’s world. They want plastic,
the modern look, with no sense of history. What I do in that
world is unheard of.”  
 Now, after 15 years at the helm of the ship that  Franklin Roosevelt ,  Winston Churchill  and  Josef Stalin  reputedly met on
to prepare the Yalta Convention at the close of World War II,
Bruynooghe is seeking to negotiate its sale for 38 million euros
($46.8 million). The vintage vessel was launched in 1921 at
Detroit’s Great Lakes Engineering Works by U.S. carmaker Horace
Dodge for his daughter Delphine.  
 Hein Velema, chief executive officer of Fraser Yachts Ltd.,
says it looks like a tough sell in a climate where second-hand
superyacht prices have dropped some 40 percent and 2010 summer
season charters are down 35 percent. “It’s not easy to get good
information on what yachts are worth their price,” he says.
“Those with inside information want to keep it to themselves
and those with fantastic yachts find it cheaper to keep them in
port.”  
 Muscular Yachting  
 Still, Velema says a pedigreed superyacht might have the
muscle to survive the global financial storm and sink the luxury
armada. “The superyacht industry is far too macho,” Velema
says. “Before the September 2008 crash, Russian buyers
comprised 25 percent of the market and all they wanted was to
spend more money on bigger, faster and more luxurious vessels.
That’s changed. Forty percent of all yachts more than 132 feet
are now for sale and the Russians have become rational.”  
 At 258 feet, Bruynooghe’s refurbished Delphine is the
largest yacht built in the U.S. that’s still working today. Yet
the Flemish sea captain says Delphine’s most significant
provenance is her ownership papers.  
 “She has been owned by women for 40 of her 89 years,”
Bruynooghe says. “Men, I’m sorry about this, but Delphine went
49 years with male owners and she was a total mess when I bought
her in 1997.”  
 Turkish Bath  
 Over the following six years, Bruynooghe plowed 35 million
euros into returning Delphine to her Roaring Twenties glory. She
scoured museums and archives for the yacht’s blueprints to
ensure that the engineering and architectural refit precisely
matched Dodge’s original design, right down to the six-person
Turkish bath, a hairdressing salon and a brace of 20-foot-tall
quadruple steam engines that can take 12 passengers and 22 crew
members on a 3,600 mile voyage without a fuel stop.  
 “I’ve devoted 13 years of my life to Delphine,”
Bruynooghe says. “It’s time for a change, though I want to sell
her to a yachting person who loves history and comfort.”  
 Although Delphine is clearly the queen of the superyachts,
the 1,342 gross-ton ship is too heavy to be legally registered
as a yacht with maritime authorities. She’s a “passenger
vessel,” a smaller yet no less sumptuous version of what the
French call a “paquebot” such as the Queen Elizabeth II and
with ghosts that are no less extraordinary.  
 Fire Water  
 In 1926, Cabins 1 and 2 caught fire while Delphine was
docked on the Hudson River in Manhattan. “The fire department
poured in too much water and she sank,” Bruynooghe says. “The
Dodges rebuilt and relaunched her five months later, but with a
different interior.”  
 The U.S. Navy in 1942 commissioned Delphine as the flagship
for the Chief of Naval Operations. The dining room still can
seat 77 admirals. The bespoke tenders, handmade from Honduran
mahogany in 1927, each carry 10 people. The only new
accoutrements are the toys: flat-screen televisions, jet skis,
Jacuzzis and a concert Steinway that comes with a lounge-bar
pianist as a member of the crew.  
 Between 1946 and 1968, the pipes of Delphine’s Aeolian
organ again filled the music room, until Anna Dodge sold her to
the Lundeberg Maryland Seamanship School as a training vessel.
Bruynooghe eventually bought the remains as “scrap” from a
French hotelier in Marseille and began her quest to breath
“health” back into the dilapidated hulk.  
 Smooth Sailing  
 “Delphine is now a cathedral,” says  Pascal Wiscour- Conter , chief executive officer of Equisea Yacht Management in
Monaco. “She’s the ultimate prestige vessel, particularly for
anyone who wants a quiet charter. Diesel superyachts vibrate.
Steam is a smooth sail and Delphine will remain unique because
today’s shipwrights don’t have the expertise, mechanical ability
and management skills to build this type of vessel from
scratch.”  
 Cruising aboard the Delphine doesn’t come cheap. Charter
rates run 360,000 euros a week, and the price tag fails to
factor in fuel, provisions and other incidentals. The ship’s
closely held clients under Bruynooghe’s stewardship include
Formula One racing star  Kimi Raikkonen , the French luxury-goods
giant LVMH Moet Hennesy Louis Vuitton SA and the prestige
jewelry firm Van Cleef & Arpels Ltd.  
 Oceangoing Museum  
 “Delphine is not a caprice yacht for owners who only want
to know where their boat is during Easter vacation,” Wiscour-
Conter says of the steel-hull vessel, which requires a minimum
onboard maintenance crew of 10 hands whenever she sits idle.
“Whoever buys her must share Bruynooghe’s passion to maintain
an oceangoing museum fitted with every luxury, navigational and
security convenience imaginable, otherwise Delphine will fall
apart in 3 years.”  
 “Horace Dodge spent $2 million to build Delphine,”
Bruynooghe says. “My banker tells me that’s more than $180
million in 2010 dollars, but the ship couldn’t be replicated.
Dodge designed and built the steam engines himself and they’re
very environmentally friendly.”  
 Delphine’s pair of 6-foot-tall propellers is powered by
20,000 liters of water converted in vapor pressure by diesel
fuel. “It’s 19th-century hydrophysic technology that cuts costs
and leaves a low pollution signature,” Bruynooghe says. “ Roman Abramovich’s  superyacht Ecstasy uses more than 1,000 liters of
fuel an hour. Delphine consumes 600 liters an hour on a short
trip and 300 liters an hour on a long trip.”  
 As Bruynooghe tells it, the top hand below deck is the
boilerman. He lubricates the machinery in a gargantuan engine
room where the temperature is a constant 46 degrees Celsius. It
takes the boiler seven days to build up the pressure required to
commence a voyage from a dead start. Then it’s full steam ahead.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
A.  Craig Copetas  in Monaco at  ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ineke Bruynhooghe, owner of the superyacht Delphine in Monaco. The S.S. Delphine is the last operational steam-powered superyacht afloat. Photographer: A. Craig Copetas/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of the S.S. Delphine. The vessel is the last operational steam-powered superyacht afloat. Source: S.S. Delphine via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The swimming pool of the S.S. Delphine. The vessel is the last operational steam-powered superyacht afloat. Source: S.S. Delphine via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The smoking room of the S.S. Delphine. The vessel is the last operational steam-powered superyacht afloat. Source: S.S. Delphine via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A bedroom in the S.S. Delphine. The vessel is the last operational steam-powered superyacht afloat. Source: S.S. Delphine via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The galley of the S.S. Delphine. The vessel is the last operational steam-powered superyacht afloat. Source: S.S. Delphine via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
