-- Stocks Rise to Two-Month High as Insurance Rule May Boost Equity Purchases
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-06-21T11:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/sterlite-larsen-lead-sensex-index-advance-to-highest-level-in-two-months.html

          
          
             India’s stocks rose to a two-month
high on speculation a new government rule will boost investment
in equities and as China’s move to end the yuan’s fixed rate to
the dollar boosted confidence in the global economic recovery.  
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. , the nation’s largest private-sector
infrastructure company, surged to the highest in more than two
years. India will allow life insurers to offer unit-linked plans,
which may boost their investments in equities. Sterlite
Industries (India) Ltd., the biggest copper and zinc producer,
climbed the most in a year as metal prices rallied.  
 “The uncertainty over insurance products is over, which is
positive for the markets,” said  Alex Mathews , head of research
at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi, southern
India. “The news from China has boosted investor confidence.”  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 305.73, or 1.7 percent, to 17,876.55, its highest since
April 9. The S&P CNX  Nifty  Index on the National Stock Exchange
rose 1.7 percent to 5,353.30. The  BSE 200 Index  increased 1.7
percent to 2,252.69.  
 Larsen & Toubro climbed 2.1 percent to 1,836.35 rupees, its
highest since February 2008.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , the country’s
second-biggest lender, surged 3.5 percent to 899.8 rupees.
Jaiprakash Associates Ltd., a builder of dams, roads and bridges,
jumped 3.7 percent to 133.5 rupees. India’s decision to allow
life insurers to offer unit-linked plans may raise insurance
companies’ investments in stocks to $25 billion this fiscal year,
SMC Capitals Ltd. said.  
 Insurance Funds  
 Larsen’s stock gain was also helped by its plans to double
sales from its electrical and electronics division to 80 billion
rupees ($1.8 billion) by 2015, the Business Standard  reported ,
citing R.N. Mukhija, president of operations. The company will
invest over 10 billion rupees in manufacturing facilities to
meet the target and grow by 15 percent a year, according to the
report.  
 The increase of as much as 48 percent in insurance company
investments will mainly come from the primary market and from
buying shares in public offerings of state-owned companies, said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at New Delhi-based SMC
Capitals. His estimate is 19 percent higher than the average of
$21 billion for the fiscal year starting April 1 by ICICI
Prudential Insurance Co., Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co., SBI
Life and Birla Sun Life Insurance Co.  
 Metal Prices  
 Sterlite  gained 7.9 percent to 182.9 rupees, its steepest
increase in almost 13 months. Copper advanced the most in a
month on the London Metal Exchange. Sterlite also advanced after
each share was split into two, increasing liquidity by making
the stock cheaper to trade.  
 Hindalco Industries Ltd., the biggest aluminum producer,
increased 5.7 percent to 153.6 rupees.  Tata Steel Ltd. , the
biggest producer of the alloy, jumped 6.6 percent to 504.8
rupees.  
 Metal prices climbed after China said it may allow the yuan
to move higher against the dollar, boosting demand for products
in the world’s third-largest economy. A stronger yuan may help
policy makers stanch inflation without curbing economic
expansion.  
 Hindalco shares also increased after the Economic Times
reported that the company’s unit Novelis Inc. may bid for the
rolled products division of Rio Tinto Alcan. A Hindalco
spokesman declined to comment on the report, which cited people
it didn’t identify, and there was no response to an e-mail sent
to Rio Tinto Alcan, the newspaper said.  
 Fund Flows  
 Overseas  funds  bought a net  5.44 billion rupees  of Indian
equities on June 17, increasing total purchases of the stocks
this year to 255.2 billion rupees, according to the nation’s
market regulator.  
 Inflows from overseas reached a record 834.2 billion rupees
in 2009, exceeding the high set two years ago in local currency
terms, as the biggest advance in 18 years lured foreign funds.
They sold a record 529.9 billion rupees of shares in 2008,
triggering a record annual decline.  
 Indian mutual funds’ equity assets under management are
poised to grow by as much as 30 percent annually over the next
five years, according to the Boston Consulting Group.  
 Economic growth, a young population and a high savings rate
will drive growth, Alpesh Shah, a Mumbai-based director at
Boston Consulting, said today. Indian mutual funds manage about
2 trillion rupees in stocks, Shah said.  
 India’s stocks were cut to “underweight” from
“overweight” today at BNP Paribas, which set a 12-month
estimate for the Sensex of 19,700. Reversing a yearlong call to
favor Indian stocks, the brokerage raised  China’s stocks  to
“overweight” from “neutral,” predicting a 36 percent rally.  
 “The change in preference for China over India reflects
our view that the Indian market has priced in many of the
positive factors we have been highlighting,” BNP Paribas
analysts led by  Clive McDonnell  said in a report today. “While
these structural factors have not gone away, pessimism over the
prospects for China have opened up a valuation gap.”  
 The following were among the most active on the exchange:  
 Edelweiss Capital Ltd.  (EDEL IN) soared 19 percent to 500.7
rupees, its biggest one-day advance since November 2008, after
the Mumbai-based brokerage and financial services company said
it will on June 24 consider a stock split and free share plan.  
 Hindustan Motors Ltd.  (HM IN) jumped 20 percent to 24.6
rupees, its steepest climb since November. The carmaker is in
talks with General Motors Co. and other automakers to sell a
stake, CNBC television reported.  
 P. Balendran, a spokesman for GM India denied the report.
Ravi Kathuria, a spokesman for the C.K. Birla group, the founder
of Hindustan Motors, declined to comment on “speculation.”  
 Infrastructure Development Finance Co. Ltd.  (IDFC IN)
gained 2.5 percent to 173.15 rupees. The company plans to take a
global fund manager as a strategic partner in its asset
management unit, the Economic Times newspaper reported, citing a
company executive. Infrastructure Development’s Managing
Director  Rajiv Lall  wasn’t immediately available at his office
telephone for comment on the report.  
 Schrader Duncan Ltd.  (SDL IN) gained 6.5 percent to 176.7
rupees, its highest close since January. Schrader Bridgeport
International Inc., which controls the tire tube valve maker, is
in talks with J. P. Goenka, an Indian industrialist, to buy his
stake, Press Trust of India reported.  
 Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  (SUNP IN) climbed 2.4
percent to 1,754.5 rupees. The nation’s largest drugmaker by
market value got approval from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to market a generic version of Pfizer Inc.’s
Xanax, according to its e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        