-- Stocks Fall, Slowing Global Advance; Commodities Trim Gain
-- Patrick Chu
-- 2010-06-21T12:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/stocks-commodities-surge-after-china-signals-end-to-peg-dollar-weakens.html

          
          
             Stocks advanced for a 10th day,
sending the MSCI World Index to its longest rally in 11 months,
oil and copper soared and Treasuries plunged after China
signaled it will relax the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar.  
 Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.3 percent
and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed to the highest point
since May 13 at 8:38 a.m. in New York. The  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index  jumped 2.5 percent, the most in more than two weeks. Oil
exceeded $78 a barrel, copper gained more than 3 percent and
gold reached a record in New York. The Korean won strengthened
as the yen and dollar fell against most major currencies, while
the 10-year Treasury yield surged 7 basis points.  
 The People’s Bank of China said it will end a two-year
currency peg adopted during the global financial crisis to
protect exporters, a sign policy makers expect the world economy
to strengthen. China, the world’s largest copper consumer and
second-biggest user of oil after the U.S., signaled the change
before the G-20 summit in Toronto on June 26 to 27.  
 “It’s a vote of confidence in Asia and in risk appetite
and a reduction in the dangers of a trade war,” said  Sean Callow , a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Sydney. “The currencies of Asian nations, which are close
competitors with China on the trade front, should do well.”  
 Gains in Asia were led by the  Shanghai Stock Exchange
Composite Index , which surged 2.9 percent. Toyota Motor Co., the
world’s biggest automaker, rose 1.7 in Tokyo while Mitsubishi
Corp. jumped 6.6 percent. Posco, South Korea’s biggest
steelmaker, rallied 5.9 percent in Seoul.  
 BHP, Rio Tinto  
 In Europe, all 19  industry  groups in the  Stoxx 600 
advanced. Basic-resources shares led the rally, as  BHP Billiton
Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company, gained 4.2 percent and
Rio Tinto Group surged 4.5 percent in London. Daimler AG led
automakers higher, climbing 3 percent in Frankfurt. Akzo Nobel
NV rallied 1.7 percent in Amsterdam after agreeing to sell its
National Starch business to Corn Products International Inc.  
 BP Plc led declining shares, falling 3.8 percent after
saying the cost of its response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill,
the worst in U.S. history, has accelerated to reach $2 billion.  
 The surge in U.S. futures indicated the  S&P 500  may rise
for a third day. Corn Products Inc. climbed 0.9 percent in
German trading. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. rose 0.8 percent in
pre-market U.S. trading as people with direct knowledge of the
matter said the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission agreed
to give the lender more time to file a response to the agency’s
April 16 fraud lawsuit.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 2.4 percent, extending
its 10-day rally to 9.8 percent, the longest winning streak
since September 2005. Benchmark equity indexes in every major
emerging market open for trading advanced, led by industrial
companies on optimism for increased sales to China. Indonesia’s
Jakarta Composite index climbed as much as 1.8 percent, the
rupiah strengthened 1 percent against the dollar and bonds
rallied after Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation’s
credit rating outlook to positive from stable.  
 Gold for immediate delivery jumped to an all-time high of
$1,265.30 an ounce. Copper for delivery in three months on the
London Metal Exchange jumped as much as 4.6 percent to $6,729.75
a metric ton, the biggest increase since May 18. Crude for July
delivery, which expires tomorrow, rose as much as $1.69, or 2.2
percent, to $78.87 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Bonds, Default Swaps  
 Government bonds in the U.S. and Germany declined as their
appeal as a haven waned. The 10-year Treasury yield climbed to
3.29 percent, while the German bund yield rose three basis
points to 2.76 percent. The yields on bonds of so-called
peripheral euro-region nations fell, narrowing the  difference 
between Spanish and German 10-year securities by 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 167 basis points.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European corporate
bonds plunged by the most in more than three weeks, with the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
junk-rated European companies falling 28 basis points to 492,
the lowest since May 13, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 Developing-nation, Asian and commodity currencies rose most
against the dollar, with the Korean won strengthening 2.6
percent, its biggest gain since June 3, to 1,171.95 per dollar.
The Australian dollar jumped 1.4 percent to 88.38 U.S. cents.
The yen fell against all 16 of its most-traded counterparts.  
 The pound and U.K. government bonds rose as a report showed
London house prices increased to a record, and before the
government presents an emergency budget tomorrow. The 10-year
U.K. gilt yield fell two basis points to 3.52 percent. The pound
reached a five-week high against the dollar before trading
little changed at $1.4827 from $1.4824 on June 18.  
 ----With assistance from  Matthew Brown ,  Claudia Carpenter ,  David Merritt ,  Abigail Moses ,  Michael Patterson  and  Steve Voss  in
London. Editors:  Stephen Kirkland ,  Paul Armstrong   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Chu  at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The closing figure of the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Jim O'Neill, chief global economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., talks about China's relaxation of a two-year peg of the yuan against the dollar. 
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's “The Pulse.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Straszheim, senior managing director of China research at International Strategy & Investment Group, talks about the People's Bank of China's decision to end the two-year currency peg to the dollar and the impact on the stock market.
     Straszheim talks with Margaret Brennan and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China's currency policy, and implications for the nation's economy and global trade.
     China’s signal of an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may accelerate a shift toward domestic demand as the prime driver of growth as President Hu Jintao seeks to strengthen household incomes. Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
