-- Stroer IPO May Value Company at $1.6 Billion; Shares Said to Trade in July
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-21T14:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/stroer-s-initial-public-offering-may-value-company-at-up-to-1-6-billion.html

          
          
             Stroer Out-of-Home Media AG seeks to
raise 275 million euros ($343 million) in an initial public
offering that may value the German outdoor advertiser at as much
as 1.26 billion euros, the terms for the sale showed.  
 Stroer will use the proceeds to reduce its current debt of
540 million euros, according to the term sheet obtained by
Bloomberg News. The company, which says it’s Germany’s biggest
outdoor advertiser, also plans to use the cash to finance
expansion in Poland and Turkey.  
 Offerings in Germany this year have slowed after Brenntag
AG and  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG  each raised more than 700
million euros in March. Meanwhile, Europe’s debt crisis spurred
at least 33 companies from London-based Ferrous Resources Ltd.
to Chinese wind-turbine maker Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. to shelve IPOs.  
 New York-based Cerberus Capital Management LP, a current
Stroer shareholder, will seek to sell as much as 100 million
euros of stock, according to the term sheet. About 49 percent of
the company will be freely tradable after the IPO, with the
shares being listed on the Frankfurt bourse.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley are managing the
sale, which may value the company at 1.11 billion euros to 1.26
billion euros, the document showed. Commerzbank AG, Credit
Agricole SA and WestLB AG are acting as co-lead managers.  
 The price range for the IPO will be published July 2,
according to two people familiar with the transaction. The
bookbuilding will take place between July 5 and July 13, and the
shares are set to start trading July 15, said the two people who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t official.  
 Stroer agreed to buy News Outdoor Poland sp. z o.o., a
subsidiary of News Corp., for about 26 million euros “to become
the top out-of-home provider in Poland based on sales revenue,”
according to a statement from the Cologne-based company today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Julie Cruz  at   jcruz6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        