-- Sugar Rises Most in Two Weeks on Speculation Importers Will Add Purchases
-- M. Shankar
-- 2010-06-21T19:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/sugar-advances-in-london-on-speculation-import-demand-will-remain-buoyant.html

          
          
             Sugar futures gained the most in
almost two weeks on speculation that importers will increase
purchases.  
 The Philippines will auction rights to import 100,000 tons
of the sweetener tariff-free over the next two weeks, Bernardo
Trebol, the nation’s sugar regulatory administrator, said on
June 17. Also, Egypt may buy at least 50,000 metric tons of raw
sugar, according to a state-owned company.  
 “Global demand is strong, and the evidence can be seen at
the Brazilian ports where volumes to be shipped out are on the
rise,” said  Michael McDougal , a senior vice president at
brokerage Newedge USA in New York.  
 Raw sugar for October delivery climbed 0.58 cent, or 3.8
percent, to 15.96 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since June 8. Prices
are up more than 12 percent this month, heading for the first
rally since January.  
 On London’s Liffe exchange, white-sugar futures for October
delivery advanced $13.40, or 3 percent, to $467.80 a metric ton,
also the biggest gain since June 8.  
 “The market is tight,”  Naim Beydoun , of Rolle,
Switzerland-based Swiss Sugar Brokers, wrote in a report dated
today. “Supply will keep replenishing the pipelines as long as
market values remain in the vicinity of profit-producing levels,
for the time being 14 to 16 cents for New York and $460 to $490
for London.”  
 Tight Supplies  
 A surplus in the year starting Oct. 1 is “unlikely to be
sufficient to rebuild supply pipelines,” Czarnikow Group Ltd.
said in a report this month. Two years of demand exceeding
production reduced stockpiles by 27 million tons, the broker
said.  
 Cane output in Brazil’s Center South, the world’s largest
producing region, may be lower than previously estimated because
dry weather is hindering crop development, a domestic industry
association, known as Unica, said today.  
 In March, Unica said the region would produce 595.9 million
tons of sugar cane this year, up from 541.5 million tons last
year. The association will release a revised estimate in coming
months.  
 Sugar futures more than doubled last year as adverse
weather reduced output in Brazil and India, the biggest
producers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
 M. Shankar  in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        