-- Sundance Plane Wreckage Recovery Resumes in Congo
-- Pius Lukong
-- 2010-06-22T11:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/sundance-plane-wreckage-is-found-in-congo-with-no-survivors-minister-says.html

          
          
             A French military team will help
recover the bodies of the entire board of  Sundance Resources
Ltd. , including millionaire  Ken Talbot , who were killed in an
aircraft crash in dense jungle in the Republic of Congo.  
 “The recovery operation has started again today” after
the wreckage was found yesterday,  Karen Oswald , a spokeswoman
for Sundance, a Perth-based iron ore company, said today by
telephone. Australian mining contractors are clearing access to
the remote location, she said.  
 Six Australian, two British, one American and two French
citizens were on the twin turboprop Casa C212 plane chartered by
Sundance that went missing June 19 on a flight from Cameroon’s
capital Yaounde to Yangadou in Congo. Congo has set up a
commission to investigate the cause of the crash, Transport
Minister  Isidore Mvouba  said today.  
 “It will take longer than the families would wish to
repatriate the bodies,” Australian Foreign Minister  Stephen Smith  told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “We have to brace
ourselves for a painstaking period.”  
 Sundance is among companies exploring and building mines in
Africa, attracted by its mineral riches, including the world’s
biggest deposits of platinum, chrome and diamonds. The company
aims to complete an initial study for its $3.4 billion Mbalam
iron-ore project in Cameroon by the end of 2010.  
 Exhaustive Probe  
 “There’ll be an exhaustive investigation,” Smith said.
“But it needs to be coordinated between two jurisdictions and
that will have its own difficulties.”  
 The Sundance personnel, including Chairman  Geoff Wedlock ,
Chief Executive Officer  Don Lewis , company secretary  John Carr- Gregg  and non-executive directors  John Jones  and  Craig Oliver ,
were in Africa visiting members of the governments of Cameroon
and Congo and the Mbalam project.  
 Sundance’s Chief Financial Officer  Peter Canterbury  is
acting as CEO.  George Jones , the chairman of the company until
Wedlock was appointed in July last year, was yesterday named as
a strategic adviser.  
 “I feel a responsibility to step back in and help and I’ll
rebuild that board,” Jones said in an interview on Sky
television. “There’s been a vast loss of talent.”  
 The search team hasn’t recovered the flight-data recorder
known as the black box, which will help determine the cause of
the accident, Cameroon’s Minister of Communications  Issa Tchiroma Bakary  said in Yaounde.  
 Aero Service  
 The aircraft was chartered from Aero Service, a “widely
used” Congo company that Sundance hired as recently as March or
February, Sundance spokesman David Brook said in an interview.
Aero Service is banned from flying within the European Union,
according to a notice on the European Commission website.  
 “They had been planning to use two planes, Ken’s plane and
a smaller one than the one they went on so they didn’t all go on
the one plane, which was against company policy,”  Brian Thornton , a spokesman for Talbot’s closely held company Talbot
Group, said by phone today. “It wasn’t adhered to because they
couldn’t land Ken’s plane on one of the landing strips.”  
 The Casa C212 plane is popular for military use because it
needs less than 600 meters (1,970 feet) of unprepared runway and
has a range of more than 1,000 kilometers, according to the
website of Casa owner European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.,
the parent of Airbus SAS.  
 Robust Aircraft  
 “It has a reputation as a robust, mid-range utility plane,
often used in rougher areas,” said  Paul Tyrell , CEO of the
Regional Aviation Association of Australia. “It certainly was
on a mission for which it was designed.”  
 Aero Service, with a fleet of seven passenger and cargo
planes, has had three crashes in the past five years, according
to the Aviation Safety Network website. A call to Aero Service’s
offices at Pointe Noire in Congo wasn’t answered today.  
 Other mining companies said it would be against their
policy to allow all top executives to fly in the same aircraft.  
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , whose African operations include
projects in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Guinea and Ghana,
doesn’t allow directors to travel together, spokesman  Alan Fine 
today by phone from Johannesburg. Charter companies are vetted
for “adherence to national and international regulatory
standards,” he said, adding that AngloGold doesn’t typically
use charter flights on an ad hoc basis.  
 Gold Fields Ltd. , which has mines in Ghana and explores for
gold in countries including Mali, has a “formal policy” to fly
executives separately, spokesman  Sven Lunsche  said by mobile
phone. In “very unusual circumstances, when we require a
charter, this is not always possible,” he said.  
 French Team  
 The aircraft wreckage was located at about 3 p.m. local
time yesterday by a helicopter, Sundance said in a statement.  
 A team of 10 French military personnel, including a medical
detail, was immediately deployed to the remote crash site, which
is on the western ridge of the Avima Range near the Gabonese
border, the company said.  
 Talbot’s assistant,  Natasha Flason , was on the flight,
Talbot Group said in a statement.  Jeff Duff , a consultant to
Sundance, was also on board, Sundance said.  
 “Charter flights are an occupational hazard in the mining
industry,” said  Peter Strachan , a Perth-based analyst for
independent advisory company StockAnalysis.  
 Sundance shares are suspended from trading in Sydney.
They’ve declined 16 percent this year on the Australian stock
exchange, compared with a 6.4 percent drop in the benchmark
index.  
 Talbot Investments  
 Talbot, 59, was a director of Sundance and its  largest
shareholder . He was Australia’s 33rd richest person with a
fortune of A$965 million ($846 million), according to Business
Review Weekly’s annual Rich 200 list, published in May. Talbot
Group has investments in iron ore, uranium, liquefied natural
gas, copper, zinc, lead, molybdenum and nickel.  
 “It’s too early to say what’s going to happen with the
group’s investments,” CEO Shane Edwards said today by phone.
Talbot is survived by his second wife Amanda and four children.  
 Talbot was one of the most successful investors in
Australia in the past year, according to the BRW article, making
a 113 percent return on his shares. He was listed among the top
20 shareholders in more than a dozen companies, it said.  
 The mining magnate founded  Macarthur Coal Ltd.  and built
the company into the world’s largest producer of pulverized coal
used in steelmaking, with a market value of A$3.2 billion.  
 “His generosity of spirit and flamboyancy were indelibly
etched on everybody that came across Ken,” Talbot Group’s
Thornton said today. “He was enthusiastic and ebullient about
life and what you can get out of life. He had outstanding acumen
in business and that defined the man.”  
 Mbalam Project  
 Work at  Sundance’s operations  in Cameroon has been
suspended, the company said June 20. Its Mbalam iron-ore project
includes a planned rail and port operation. Construction is
scheduled to start next year, the company said in a presentation
this month. It has exploration permits in Cameroon as well as
Congo, where it has been drilling.  
 Talbot was charged in 2007 with corruptly making payments
to former state minister Gordon Nuttall between October 2002 and
September 2005, and was due to appear in Queensland’s District
Court for a pre-trial hearing on Aug. 9, according to Queensland
Courts. He was scheduled to face trial in the District Court of
Brisbane at the end of August, according to his spokesman. He
had pleaded not guilty, according to BRW magazine.  
 ‘Dedicated Contribution’  
 Wedlock, also chairman of  Gindalbie Metals Ltd. , worked at
BHP Billiton Ltd. for 32 years, according to Sundance’s website.
He also chaired Jupiter Mines Ltd. and Gladiator Resources Ltd.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. All three companies
extended their condolences to his wife and sons today in
statements to the Australian stock exchange.  
 “He was a friend and colleague who made an exceptional and
dedicated contribution to the company,” Perth-based Gladiator
said.  
 Wedlock was CEO of BHP’s iron-ore division from 1996 to
1997, and that year became an executive director at Portman
Mining Ltd., since acquired by Cleveland-based Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc. His other roles included development of the
Cannington silver, lead and zinc mine in Queensland and the
Syama gold mine in West Africa, according to Portman.  
 Lewis, a civil engineer, was formerly managing director of
Multiplex Engineering and had more than 20 years experience in
the mining industry, according to Sundance’s  website . Oliver, an
accountant, was also a director of De Grey Mining Ltd. and was
chief financial officer at Western Areas NL.  
 Carr-Gregg, a lawyer, was general manager of the company
secretariat, and commercial and company secretary at Aristocrat
Leisure Ltd. before joining Sundance. He had worked as an
attorney in New York, Sundance said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pius Lukong  in Yaounde via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A portrait of Talbot Group Holdings owner Ken Talbot. Source:  Talbot Group Holdings via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Sundance Resources Ltd. board members, clockwise from top left: Craig Oliver, a non-executive director, Don Lewis, chief executive officer, John Carr-Gregg, company secretary, and Geoff Wedlock, chairman. Source: Sundance Resources Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
