-- Pound Reaches a Five-Week High on London's Home Prices, China's Currency
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-06-21T16:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/u-k-pound-advances-against-the-dollar-as-london-house-prices-reach-record.html

          
          
             The pound reached a five-week high
against the dollar as London’s record asking prices for homes
and China’s signal of an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the
greenback spurred demand for currencies tied to economic growth.  
 “The Chinese move has been good for risk assets like the
pound, because it signals they are confident in the recovery,”
said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG
in London. “The good house price data is also positive for
sterling.”  
 The pound gained as much as 0.8 percent to $1.4937, the
highest level since May 12, before trading little changed at
$1.4796 at 5:36 p.m. in London. Sterling was little changed at
83.51 pence per euro and gained 0.2 percent to 134.72 yen.  
 Average asking prices for homes in London rose 2.2 percent
in June from the previous month to 429,597 pounds ($636,000),
 Rightmove Plc  said. Global stock markets rallied after China
China said on June 19 it will allow greater currency
“flexibility,” boosting confidence in the global economic
recovery.  
 The U.K.’s government bonds rose before the release of the
budget tomorrow, with the yield on the 10-year gilt declining
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.52 percent. The
two-year yield fell 2 basis points to 0.86 percent.  
 Gilt sales may fall 28 percent this fiscal year as
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  cuts spending to
reduce the budget deficit and safeguard the nation’s top credit
rating, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 15 bond trading
firms that deal with the debt agency.  
 Spending Cuts  
 The government will issue 165 billion pounds of gilts in
the year ending March 31, down from 185.2 billion pounds
projected in April and last year’s record 227.6 billion, the
survey showed. Osborne will present his emergency budget
tomorrow, the first since the Conservative-Liberal Democrat
coalition came to power last month.  
 Osborne is preparing to outline the deepest spending cuts
since the 1970s to rein in the deficit, which amounts to 11.1
percent of gross domestic product, the biggest among the Group
of Seven nations. Britain faces a “formidable” fiscal
challenge and needs to accelerate plans to scale back spending,
Fitch Ratings said on June 8. Osborne announced an initial 6
billion pounds of reductions on May 24.  
 Gilts outperformed U.S. Treasuries today, with the  premium 
investors demand for Britain’s debt narrowing to 24 basis
points, from 32 basis points on June 18.  
 Futures Bets  
 Sterling also rose as futures traders trimmed bets that the
pound will decline against the dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  
 The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the pound compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 48,134 on June
15, compared with net shorts of 74,680 a week earlier. That’s
the lowest level since Feb. 5.  
 “Investors had a very pessimistic view about Britain
earlier this year,” said  Neil Jones , head of currency hedge
fund sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in London. “There
were speculations about ratings downgrades and slow growth. But
economic numbers have since improved, and we now have a new
government which appears to be committed to reducing budget
deficit.”  
 Stocks, commodities and oil prices rose after China
signaled it will relax the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar. The
MSCI World Index of shares gained 0.8 percent.  
 The People’s Bank of China said it will end a two-year
currency peg adopted during the global financial crisis to
protect exporters, a sign policy makers expect the world economy
to strengthen. China, the world’s largest copper consumer and
second-biggest user of oil after the U.S., signaled the change
before the G-20 summit in Toronto on June 26-27. The Chinese
currency rose the most since July 2005 revaluation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        