-- Banks Have Billions at Stake When Overhaul Heads to Agencies
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-06-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/u-s-banks-have-billions-at-stake-as-rulemaking-heads-to-federal-agencies.html

          
          
             While Congress puts finishing
touches on its financial-regulatory overhaul, Wall Street
lobbyists are preparing for a new battle out of the public
spotlight and inside almost a dozen federal agencies.  
 If the bill passes in roughly the form being negotiated by
House and Senate lawmakers, regulators will be directed to write
hundreds of new rules, conduct dozens of studies, combine two
banking agencies and bring industries such as mortgage brokers
under federal oversight for the first time.  
 The process will take place in an arena where technical
knowledge and relationships with regulators take precedence over
old-fashioned legislative arm-twisting. The lobbying will be
intense because a slight change in the wording of a rule or in
the definition of terms such as “major swaps participant”
could curtail a firm’s business -- or allow it to flourish.  
 “We ain’t seen nothing yet,” said  David Hirschmann ,
president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Center for Capital
Markets Competitiveness.  
 The Chamber, reviewing a recent version of the text,
counted 399 rulemakings and 47 studies that would be mandated by
the bill. “This is going to be a huge implementation challenge
and we are already getting ready for it,” Hirschmann said.  
 Take the capital rules that the Federal Reserve would be
required to write for the largest financial firms. The amount of
capital a bank holds, and how much of it needs to be easily
convertible to cash, directly impacts the bottom line. Capital
is reserve funds that can’t be spent on moneymaking activities
like lending.  
 The difference between, say, a verdict that calls for banks
to hold 8 percent of risk-weighted assets as capital, as opposed
to 6 percent, could mean billions of dollars in lost profits.  
 Costly Overhaul  
 Analysts have already calculated that the overall impact of
the regulatory overhaul will be costly to Wall Street banks.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  earnings per share  could decline 23
percent and Morgan Stanley’s would fall 20 percent, according to
a June 16 report by Citigroup Inc. analyst  Keith Horowitz .
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s profits may drop 18 percent and Bank of
America Corp.’s 16 percent, Horowitz wrote.  
 That impact may change depending on how the regulations are
written.  
 The legislation would require that the Fed, along with the
new council of regulators headed by the Treasury Department,
oversee financial companies deemed systemically risky. The
council will have to determine which companies fall under the
Fed’s jurisdiction, whether they are banks, insurers, hedge
funds or other financial firms.  
 Interchange  
 Under the bill’s current language, Fed officials would also
be charged with determining whether the so-called interchange
provision, the debit-card “swipe” fees banks charge merchants,
are reasonable. The Fed’s view could determine whether billions
of dollars end up with large banks or merchants.  
 Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest payment
networks, set swipe fees and pass the money to card-issuing
banks including Citigroup, JPMorgan and Bank of America. U.S.
merchants estimate that they paid $48 billion in interchange
fees in 2008.  
 Giving regulators with expertise a lot of room to maneuver
is the only way to implement new rules, said  Douglas Elliott , a
fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  
 “These things get very technical,” said Elliott, a former
JPMorgan investment banker. “It would be a real mistake for
Congress to try to do it.”  
 Start From Scratch  
 In some cases, the rulemaking has to start from scratch.
The new consumer financial protection bureau would need to first
write rules on how it will write rules. Then it would establish
criteria for the companies and products it regulates.  
 The direction from Congress in the legislation is broad:
The consumer agency is to police “covered persons,” or any
person offering or providing a consumer financial product or
service. Some of the “covered persons” are defined in the
bill, while others aren’t.  
 For example, the agency would regulate mortgage brokers and
anyone who is a “larger participant of a market for other
consumer financial products or services.” In the rule-writing,
the agency would have to determine exactly what a “larger
participant” is.  
 “It’s all on-the-blackboard stuff until you get to the
regs,” said  Wayne Abernathy , a former Treasury official who is
now an executive vice president at the American Bankers
Association. “That’s when it becomes real life.”  
 FDIC Fees  
 Another rule-writing that will be closely watched concerns
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s regulation on fees that
banks must pay into the deposit insurance fund. Fees now based
largely on the deposits held by lenders would shift to being
based more on assets. Custodian banks, which typically hold more
assets for other institutions than they manage, such as Boston-
based State Street Corp. and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp .,
could pay much more into the fund unless the FDIC agrees to
treat them differently.  
 Proposals to tighten oversight of derivatives trading, the
focus of Wall Street lobbying efforts for more than a year, will
fall to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. The agencies will have leeway to
interpret terms including “swap dealer” and “major swap
participant.”  
 Firms classified as swap dealers and major swap
participants will have to trade on regulated exchanges and
through clearinghouses, and would be subject to capital and
margin requirements. So-called commercial end-users that aren’t
dealers or participants would be exempt from the regulation.  
 Technical Details  
 While the Senate and House bills give agencies as much as
18 months to write the most significant rules, the process could
take much longer as the technical details are crafted, experts
said.  
 “It’s physically impossible for the regulators to meet all
the mandates in the bills in the timelines that are specified,”
said  Mark Calabria , director of financial regulation studies at
the Cato Institute in Washington and a former aide to Republican
Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama.  
 As such, the picture for financial regulation will remain
cloudy until well into 2012, banking lawyers and former
regulators said.  
 “Financial institutions of all types are yearning for
clarity, but the simple truth is that certainty is many months
away,” said  David Nason , a former assistant Treasury secretary
who is now managing director at Promontory Financial Group, a
Washington-based consulting firm.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lobbying will be intense because a slight change in the wording of a rule or in the definition of certain terms could curtail a firm's business. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
