-- U.S. Seeks `Fundamental' Gaza Policy Change With Russia, UN, EU
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-21T20:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/u-s-seeks-fundamental-gaza-blockade-policy-change-with-russia-un-eu.html

          
          
             The U.S., United Nations, European
Union and Russia are jointly consulting with Israel, the
Palestinian Authority and Egypt on what the State Department
called a “fundamental change in policy” toward the Gaza Strip.  
 The Quartet, as the U.S. and its partners describe
themselves when dealing with the Middle East, said Israel has
“legitimate security concerns that must continue to be
safeguarded.” The group seeks a solution that would put an end
to weapons smuggling into Gaza, promote Palestinian unity and
ensure an “unimpeded flow of humanitarian aid, commercial goods
and persons” to and from the coastal enclave.  
 Israel eased its blockade yesterday, allowing all food and
certain building supplies into the Palestinian territory, which
is controlled by Hamas, designated a terrorist group by the
U.S., Israel and the EU. The easing, which the Quartet described
as a “welcome development,” follows international criticism of
a May 31 raid by Israeli commandos on a Gaza-bound aid flotilla
that left nine pro-Palestinian activists dead.  
 Yesterday, Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said
his government’s decision to relax the restrictions strengthens
the case for keeping the sea blockade in place. Middle East
envoy and former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said the
easing means there is “no need” for aid groups to send more
flotillas.  
 “There was never a humanitarian crisis in Gaza,” Israeli
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  told reporters at the UN in New York
today after meeting with Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon . “There
is no hunger.”  
 Lebanon, Blockade  
 Groups in Iran and Lebanon have said they will soon send
humanitarian aid to Gaza by ship, setting up a possible new
confrontation. The Israeli government warned last week that it
might use “all necessary means” to prevent violations of the
blockade.  
 “Other people have been talking about other flotillas,”
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in Washington.
“There’s no basis for any kind of action that risks the same
kind of confrontation” that occurred on May 31, he said.  
 Israeli officials have said its forces came under attack as
they boarded one ship, the Mavi Marmara, that day. There was no
violence on five other boats intercepted in the operation.  
 The Quartet said in its statement today that it wants to
promote more commerce between Gaza and the West Bank, where the
Palestinian Authority holds sway, and “encourage involvement”
by the authority at border crossings.  
 “Now comes the hard part of actually implementing this
policy and in the process working effectively with the
Palestinian Authority to increase the flow of people and goods
between Gaza and the West Bank,” Crowley said.  
 Limits on Goods  
 For the past three years, Israel has allowed only about 100
basic food products and consumer items into Gaza, while banning
such goods as chocolate, jam, potato chips and shaving cream.  
 The U.S. hasn’t seen the Israeli list of items that will be
prohibited, Crowley said. “We definitely think concrete should
be let in” so that schools and other buildings can be rebuilt,
Crowley said.  
 Many Gaza homes and institutional buildings were leveled
during a three-week conflict between Hamas and Israel that ended
in January 2009. Israel said the offensive was meant to stop the
firing of rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into
its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the military operation, killing one
foreign worker last March, the Israeli army said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        