-- Germany Rejects Obama's Call on Growth, Stoking G-20 Conflict
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-06-21T15:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/u-s-urgently-needs-to-reduce-deficit-economy-minister-bruederle-says.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government rebuffed U.S. calls to focus on bolstering growth
over debt reduction, setting a course for conflict at the Group
of 20 summit in Canada this week.  
 “Nobody can seriously dispute that excessive public debts,
not only in Europe, are one of the main causes of this crisis,”
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters in Berlin
today alongside Merkel. “That’s why they have to be reduced.”  
 Germany is holding to G-20 commitments on exit strategies
from fiscal stimulus, and “not violating international
requirements for a coordinated strategy for sustainable
growth,” Schaeuble said. “We will face up to the international
debate and I think we can do that with a great deal of self-
confidence,” he said.  
 Five days before G-20 leaders meet in Toronto, the
economic-policy divide between Europe and the U.S. is hardening.
President  Barack Obama , in a letter to his G-20 counterparts
dated June 16, urged a focus on economic growth, saying order to
public finances should be restored in the “medium term.”  
 German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle , at a separate
press conference earlier today, said the U.S. must join Europe
in “urgently” cutting spending.  
 “It’s urgently necessary for monetary stability that
public budgets return to balance,” Bruederle said. “This is
something we should also tell our American friends.”  
 Canada’s ‘Minimum’  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , in his own letter
to G-20 counterparts, said June 18 that he wants leaders to
agree to a target of reducing their deficits by half by 2013,
and to stabilize or begin reducing their ratios of debt-to-
output by 2016.  
 The European Union is “somewhat wary” of these targets
because Europe’s goals are more ambitious, according to a senior
EU finance official, who said the proposals by Canada should be
the “minimum.”  
 “A number of advanced countries will have to go further,”
said the official, who spoke to reporters in Brussels today on
the condition of anonymity. “For us, it has to be absolutely
clear that this is a minimum.”  
 European G-20 members will make deficit reduction a central
theme in Toronto, Merkel said June 19 in a video message on the
Internet.  
 “We will talk about when we’ll switch from the phase of
economic stimulus programs toward lasting budget
consolidation,” Merkel  said . “In the opinion of Europe’s
participants, and especially Germany, this is urgently
necessary.”  
 ‘Unity of Purpose’  
 Whereas Obama called on the G-20 to reaffirm its “unity of
purpose to provide the policy support necessary to keep  economic
growth  strong,” Merkel said that “it’s not about growth at any
price, it’s about sustainable” growth.  
 She said June 11 that she expects to have a “hard time”
at the summit, with pressure from fellow leaders to spend to
boost growth while she sees “no alternative” to budget
savings.  
 Nobel prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said the U.S.
isn’t worried about “loose monetary policy” and said it would
be a risk for the euro region to allow  Axel Weber , president of
the Bundesbank, to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as head of the
European Central Bank, German newspaper Handelsblatt reported  
 “If you’re looking for somebody who aims at an inflation
rate of zero percent while unemployment rises to 13 percent,
then Weber is certainly the right man,” the newspaper quoted
Krugman as saying.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Five days before G-20 leaders meet in Toronto, the economic-policy divide between Europe and the U.S. is hardening. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
