-- Ukraine Firms Apply for $658 Million of VAT Bonds as State Pays Back Debt
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-06-21T13:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/ukraine-firms-apply-for-658-million-of-vat-bonds-as-state-pays-back-debt.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s government said
corporations applied for $658 million in value-added tax bonds
designed help the state manage its debts to the country’s
exporters.  
 The program attracted 809 companies, who will receive 5.2
billion hryvnia ($657.5 million) in the VAT bonds, said the
deputy head of Ukraine’s tax administration Oleksiy Lyubchenko.  
 Ukraine’s government plans to issue 19.5 billion hryvnia of
the bonds to cover VAT reimbursements to exporters this year,
Lyubchenko said in parliament in the capital Kiev today. The
government said last month it will offer a 5.5 percent coupon on
the bonds, which mature in five years.  
 The  International Monetary Fund , which approved a $16.4
billion emergency loan to Ukraine in late 2008, says the
government needs to reimburse exporters before disbursement of
the bailout can be resumed. The loan has been frozen since
November. Ukraine is in talks to obtain a second loan worth as
much as $19 billion, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said
in April.  
 The government may issue the VAT bonds in early July,
Tetyana Yefymenko, deputy finance minister, said in an interview
today. She said the government is inviting more companies to
apply for the bonds by then.  
 ‘Give Us Anything’  
 Exporters say the government’s failure to repay the VAT
debt has left them short of cash needed to continue their
operations and turn a profit.  
 “We are owed 170 million hryvnia in VAT refund arrears,”
Yuriy Atanasov, director general at pipe maker ZAO Centravis
Production Ukraine, said at the same press conference. “Give us
anything. We would like to see how the market develops and to
avoid speculative discounts, which we expect in the first months
of this instrument being traded.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net .
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        