-- Hungarian Government's Attacks on Central Bank `Prone to Fail,' Simor Says
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-21T15:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/hungarian-government-s-attacks-on-central-bank-prone-to-fail-simor-says.html

          
          
             Hungary’s new government, which has
called on the central bank’s leadership to quit, should give up
its “attacks” which are “dangerous” and “prone to fail,”
Magyar Nemzeti Bank President  Andras Simor  said.  
 Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s efforts to reduce salaries at
the central bank violate the institution’s independence, Simor
told reporters today after the central bank left the  benchmark
two-week deposit rate  unchanged at 5.25 percent.  
 Orban, who swept to power in April elections, has called on
Simor, his two deputies and the four outside members of the
rate-setting Monetary Council to resign for policy mistakes, and
in Simor’s case, for having held investments in Cyprus. Simor
has rejected demands to quit before his term expires in 2013.  
 “Political propositions attacking” the central bank’s
independence “are dangerous and prone to fail,” Simor said.
“Every political attack has a price and the citizens are the
ones who have to pick up the tab.”  
 The intensifying battle over the central bank comes after
Orban abandoned attempts to convince international creditors to
allow his Cabinet to raise the  budget-deficit target  for this
year, following a selloff in the forint, stocks and bonds.  
 ‘Significant Worsening’  
 Comparisons of the country’s finances with Greece’s by
Hungarian ruling-party officials earlier this month caused a
“significant worsening” in Hungary’s risk profile, the rate-
setting council said today in a statement. The council urged the
government to detail fiscal proposals “as soon as possible” on
how it will meet this year’s creditor-approved  budget deficit
target  of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product.  
 “Ongoing tensions mean that investors will remain nervy
and Hungarian markets will stay susceptible to further
selloffs,” London-based  Neil Shearing  and  David Oxley  of
Capital Economics Ltd. said in an e-mailed research note.  
 Hungary was the first European Union member to obtain an
 International Monetary Fund -led bailout to avert a default
during the credit crisis. The central bank has cut  the benchmark
interest rate  to 5.25 percent, the lowest since the fall of
communism in 1990, from a record 11.5 percent in October 2008.  
 Orban, who hasn’t said who he would like to see succeed
Simor, has criticized the central bank for being slow to reduce
the benchmark rate. He also blamed policy makers for failing to
stop the spread of foreign-currency-based loans, one of the
reasons cited by investors when they sold Hungarian assets in
2008, pushing the country to the brink of default and forcing
the government to take the emergency loan.  
 The central bank ended 10 months of rate cuts last month
in part because of investor concern that Orban planned to loosen
fiscal policy after gaining power following eight years in the
opposition. Orban reversed course and announced a special tax on
banks, a government spending freeze and cuts in aggregate state
salaries to meet the budget target after investors sold local
assets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        