-- Hungary Holds Benchmark Interest Rate for Second Month on Inflation, Risk
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-21T14:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/hungary-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-for-second-month-on-inflation-risk.html

          
          
             Hungary’s central bank left the
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged today for a second month and
urged the government to reveal details of its fiscal plan to
help improve the country’s risk assessment.  
 The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  in Budapest kept the  benchmark two-
week deposit rate  at 5.25 percent, the lowest since communism
ended 20 years ago. The outcome matched the forecast of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. One predicted a reduction to 5
percent. The decision was backed by an “overwhelming” majority
of policy makers, central bank President  Andras Simor  said.  
 Hungary halted 10 months of rate cuts in May after the
forint weakened on concern that Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
new government will loosen fiscal policy. The cabinet reversed
course and pledged to meet the country’s creditor-approved
budget-deficit target. The central bank increased its  inflation 
forecast on May 31 to reflect rising energy prices.  
 “In light of inflationary risks and the deteriorating risk
assessment, the Council has decided to leave rates unchanged and
prefers not to give any indications regarding the future,” Simor
told reporters today after the decision.  
 The forint has weakened 1.2 percent against the euro since
the last rate meeting on May 31 and traded at 278.15 at 4:46
p.m. today. It dropped as low as 290.52 on June 7 after
officials from the ruling party compared Hungary with Greece and
said that the previous government lied about public finances.  
 ‘Increased Political Risks’  
 The government should unveil the details of its economic
action plan as Hungary’s risk assessment deteriorated
“significantly due to uncertainties surrounding fiscal policy,”
the central bank said in a statement.  
 “Increased political risks help explain why the” central
bank “has turned much more hawkish in recent months,”  Neil Shearing  and  David Oxley , economists at Capital Economics Ltd.,
said in an e-mail. “All told, it is looking increasingly likely
that the final 25 basis point rate cut, needed to take rates to
our long-held forecast of 5 percent, will not arrive.”  
 The central bank last month raised its  inflation  forecast
to 4.9 percent from 4.4 percent for this year and to 3 percent
from 2.3 percent in 2011. The bank estimates consumer-price
growth will slow to its 3 percent target in the first half of
2011, instead of the second half of this year, with a 2.9
percent average rate in 2012.  
 Investors’ rate-cut expectations were erased after the
increased inflation forecast and the forint’s drop following the
comments comparing Hungary with Greece.  
 Rate Outlook  
 The six-month forward-rate agreement was 0.01 percentage
point higher than the current benchmark, rising above it on June
4 for the first time since April 2009. On the day of the last
rate decision, the forward rate was 0.23 percentage point lower
than the key rate, signaling a bet for a reduction of a quarter-
point by November.  
 “We expect to see market conditions as the key factor
behind today’s vote but risks on inflationary expectations are
also starting to surface,” Diana Gesheva, a Sofia-based
economist at 4Cast Ltd., said in an e-mail after the decision.  
 Budget Cuts  
 The comments about Hungary’s public finances fed concerns
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may be spreading. Germany, France
and Spain were among countries that announced budget cuts to
shore up investor confidence.  
 Orban on June 9 said he plans to raise 187 billion forint
($825 million) this year from a special tax on financial
institutions to plug budget holes and reduce the shortfall to
3.8 percent of gross domestic product from 4 percent last year.
He plans to cut public spending while reducing taxes on personal
income and small businesses to boost growth.  
 The government is freezing 40 billion forint in state
spending at all eight ministries and several public agencies,
according to the official gazette Magyar Kozlony’s issue for the
period through July 18. Orban plans to save 120 billion forint
this year by freezing public spending and reducing aggregate
state wages by 15 percent.  
 Investors are now looking for the government to start
implementing the plans,  Gyorgy Barta , an economist at Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA in Budapest, said in a research note. The target
was approved by the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union, which gave the bulk of a 20 billion-euro bailout ($25
billion) to Hungary in 2008 to help it avert default.  
 “Domestic risks such as risks related to the economic
policy of the new cabinet and also fiscal risks due to weak
economic performance still loom and may diminish only gradually
as the new government’s program progresses,” Barta said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        