-- Turkey Plans $9.6 Billion Debt Restructuring at Government-Run Utilities
-- Ercan Ersoy
-- 2010-06-21T07:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/turkey-plans-9-6-billion-debt-restructuring-at-five-state-run-utilities.html

          
          
             Turkey’s parliament will pass a law
before parliament’s summer recess to restructure debts of five
state energy utilities that have risen to 15 billion liras ($9.6
billion) and hurt the budget, Energy Ministry Undersecretary
 Metin Kilci  said.  
 “About 4 billion liras of debt will be settled
completely,” Kilci said in an interview at his office in Ankara
on June 18. “This is mostly debt to the Finance Ministry for
unpaid tax and from guaranteed electricity purchases from power
producers.”  
 Turkey kept household power prices unchanged between 2002
and 2008, even as international prices surged, building up
losses at state-run generators, distributors and at natural gas
importer Boru Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS, known as Botas. The
International Monetary Fund on May 26 called for “uniform
application” of a pricing formula in the energy industry.  
 The companies involved are Botas, state power producer
Elektrik Uretim AS, or Euas, transmission company Turkiye
Elektrik Iletisim AS, known as Teias, power trading company
Turkiye Elektrik Ticaret AS, or Tetas, and grid operator Turkiye
Elektrik Dagitim AS, known as Tedas.  
 “The remaining 11 billion will be extended to maturities
of at least 15 years at  Treasury borrowing interest rates ,”
Kilci said. “We expect parliament to pass the law before the
summer recess.” Parliament may extend its legislative term
beyond the normal start of its summer break on July 1, Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said June 18.  
 Renewable Energy Law  
 Kilci said he expects parliament this session to pass
legislation to encourage wind and solar energy producers by
increasing the price at which the government will buy from them.
“The price is not yet clear and keeps changing during the draft
law’s parliamentary debate,” he said. “We will increase the
price by means of this law.”  
 None-state wind power producers sell electricity to private
wholesale buyers or to the government through a government-
brokered market at around 5.5 euro cents per kilowatt-hour,  Zeki Eris , chief executive of the  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA  unit
 Polat Enerji Sanayi & Ticaret AS , said in an interview June 16.
The price that justifies wind investments should be at least 7.5
euro cents, he said.  
 IPO Plans  
 A government plan to split Botas’s gas distribution and
transmission arms is key to selling its gas contracts with
Russia and Iran, Turkey’s main gas suppliers, to non-government
companies, Kilci said. The split would also open the way to
divestment of part of the transmission unit, possible through an
initial public offering, Kilci said.  
 A share sale “is not a near-term plan,” he said. “But it
should be done over the medium term for a liberal gas market.”  
 Botas sold 4 billion cubic meters of its contracts with
 Gazprom OAO , which total about 30 billion cubic meters a year,
to local companies that have Royal Dutch Shell Plc and  OMV AG  as
partners. The sales were made over the past five years.  
 The government also plans “in the medium and long-term”
initial public offerings at Turkiye Petrolleri AO, the state-
owned upstream oil and gas company known as Tpao, and Teias,
Kilci said. “We need to work on this with the Privatization
Administration before we can do any asset sale,” he said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Turkey’s economy: NI TUECO <GO>
Turkish economic snapshot: ESNP TU <GO>
Top Emerging Market Stories: EMTOP <GO>
Top Energy Stories: NRGTOP <GO>  
          
          


  


        