-- Valeant, Canada's Biovail to Combine in Stock Deal
-- Phil Serafino
-- 2010-06-21T20:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/valeant-pharma-canada-s-biovail-corp-agree-to-merge-in-stock-transaction.html

          
          
             Biovail Corp. , Canada’s largest
publicly traded drugmaker, will merge with  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International , creating a company with annual
sales of $1.75 billion.  
 Valeant  shareholders  will receive a one-time cash dividend
of $16.77 a share before the deal closes, plus Biovail stock
valued at $29.69 a share at closing, the companies said today in
a statement. Biovail holders will own about 50.5 percent of the
new company and holders of Aliso Viejo, California-based Valeant
will have 49.5 percent, the companies said.  
 The combined businesses will focus on treatments for
central nervous system illnesses and skin ailments, the Canadian
market, and branded generic medicines in developing countries,
according to the statement. The transaction will add to per-
share  earnings  within 12 months after the deal closes, and will
yield at least $175 million in annual cost savings in the second
year, Biovail and Valeant said.  
 In addition to creating a more-diversified company, the new
business “will also benefit from limited patent exposure,”
said Biovail Chief Executive Officer  Bill Wells  on a conference
call today. “This generates strong cash flows that will be used
to support future growth and strengthen the combined company’s
balance sheet.”  
 Job Cuts  
 Job cuts from combining the companies may total 15 to 20
percent of all positions, J.  Michael Pearson , chairman and CEO
of Valeant, on the call. Biovail had 1,291 employees as of Dec.
31 and Valeant had 3,100 employees, according to regulatory
filings. Valeant spokeswoman  Laurie Little  and Biovail spokesman
 Nelson Isabel  weren’t immediately available to comment on the
size of the combined workforce.  
 Valeant rose $1.03, or 2.3 percent, to $46.90 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , giving the company
a market value of $3.55 billion. Biovail rose $2.07, or 14
percent, to $16.67, valuing the company at $2.6 billion. The
gain is the stock’s biggest since September 2005. Valeant
holders will get 1.7809 shares of Biovail for each Valeant
share.  
 The new company’s headquarters will be in Mississauga,
Ontario, where Biovail is based, with listings on both the
Toronto and New York stock exchanges. The company will keep
Biovail’s main operating subsidiary in Barbados.  
 End of Year  
 The deal probably will close by the end of the year, the
companies said. After the merger, the combined business, to be
called Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc., will pay a
$1-a-share dividend to all stockholders, after which the new
company won’t pay  dividends , according to the statement.  
 “With Biovail’s favorable tax structure and Valeant’s
international reach, this deal would create a specialty
pharmaceutical company with broad global reach (operations in
the Americas, Europe and Australia), combined revenues of close
to $1.8 billion annually, and limited patent exposure,” said
 Chris Schott , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, in a research note
today. The firm rates Biovail shares “overweight.”  
 Both companies’ founders,  Eugene Melnyk  of Biovail and
 Milan Panic  of Valeant, departed in the past decade amid fights
over board control.  
 Melnyk said in March he had sold “substantially all” of
his stock in the company. Melnyk, the owner of the Ottawa
Senators of the National Hockey League, resigned from Biovail in
June 2007 and lost a vote to install his own board nominees in
2008. The company, founded in the late 1980s, has marketing
rights to the Wellbutrin XL antidepressant and also sells
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s Zovirax herpes drug.  
 Name Change  
 Valeant, which changed its name from ICN Pharmaceuticals
Inc. in 2003, has done 15  acquisitions  since 2008 to add new
medicines, mostly in dermatology, according to its website. The
company discovered ribavirin, a drug used to treat respiratory
infection and hepatitis C. Panic stepped down as chairman and
chief executive in 2002 after losing a proxy fight with
dissident shareholders. He served as prime minister of his
native Yugoslavia from 1992 to 1993.  
 Pearson will be CEO of the merged company, residing in
Barbados, the companies said.  Wells  will be non-executive
chairman, they said.  
 Goldman, Sachs & Co., Morgan Stanley and Jefferies & Co.
have agreed to provide a $2.8 billion loan facility to finance
the deal. Valeant’s existing 7.625 percent and 8.375 percent
senior unsecured notes will be refinanced, the companies said.  
 Goldman and Jefferies served as Valeant’s financial
advisers, while Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and
Ogilvy Renault LLP provided legal advice. Biovail’s advisers
were Morgan Stanley and two law firms, Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP and Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP.  
 Had the companies been combined on March 31, revenue growth
for the previous year would have been above 10 percent, they
said.  Cash flow  from operations in the year ended in March would
have been $575 million had the companies been combined then,
they said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Phil Serafino  in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Biovail's Headquarters  
                       
                         
                           Biovail/Bloomberg 
                         
                         
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Source: Biovail/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     William Wells, chief executive officer of Biovail Corp. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
