-- Visa, MasterCard Climb as Congress Weighs Debit Card Deal
-- Peter Eichenbaum
-- 2010-06-21T21:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/visa-mastercard-climb-as-congress-weighs-compromise-on-debit-fee-limits.html

          
          
             Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the
world’s biggest payments networks, climbed more than 4 percent
as the U.S. Congress worked toward a compromise that would
protect transaction fees they charge to banks.  
 The House will seek to maintain the Senate’s proposed cap
on debit-card interchange, or “swipe” fees, according to
Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat leading
talks to produce a final regulatory overhaul bill. The plan from
Senator  Richard Durbin  would empower the Federal Reserve to set
fees charged to merchants that are “reasonable and
proportional” to the cost of processing debit transactions.  
 “If the counter-proposal becomes law, Visa and MasterCard
still may have to cope with some business-model changes, but
these would likely be less than had been feared,”  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst at UBS AG in New York, said today in a
note to clients.  
 The compromise prevents the Fed from regulating “network
fees” that Visa and MasterCard  charge to banks  on each
transaction as long as the fees aren’t used to “circumvent”
 interchange  regulation, according to Durbin, the Illinois
Democrat and majority whip. Reloadable prepaid cards, including
those used to disburse government benefits, would be exempt.  
 The House version also would allow the Fed to consider
fraud-related costs in setting interchange rates.  
 “We were able to reach an agreement which makes minor
changes to strengthen consumer protections and bring competition
to a market where there is none,” Durbin said in a statement.
“We’ve addressed the concerns of states regarding their ability
to provide services to the unemployed and the concerns of small
financial firms regarding their ability to provide services to
the unbanked.”  
 Shares Rise  
 Visa rose 5 percent to $80.90 at 5:37 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard advanced 4.2 percent to $223.34. Shares of both
companies had fallen about 14 percent from May 3 through June 18
after Durbin said he would seek interchange limits.  
 The proposed compromise, which the payments industry
opposes, may fail to survive a bipartisan conference committee
that is scheduled to debate the interchange amendment tomorrow.  
 “We continue to have concerns that the ultimate outcome of
this legislation would be the passing of merchant acceptance
costs to consumers at a time when Americans can least afford
it,” MasterCard spokesman James Issokson said in an e-mailed
statement. Visa spokesman  Will Valentine  declined to comment.  
 $20 Billion in Fees  
 MasterCard and San Francisco-based Visa set interchange
fees and pass the money to card-issuers including  Bank of
America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Interchange is the
largest component of the fees U.S. merchants pay to accept Visa
and MasterCard debit cards. The fees totaled $19.7 billion and
averaged 1.63 percent of each sale last year, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.  
 The Senate voted 64-33 on May 13 to include the debit-
interchange caps after Durbin agreed to exempt banks with assets
of less than $10 billion, or 99 percent of all U.S. lenders.
That failed to win the support of groups representing credit
unions and community banks, who said the exemption would make
their cards more expensive to accept than those issued by bigger
banks.  
 ‘Severe Disadvantage’  
 The proposed compromise “falls far short of safeguarding
consumers’ best interests,” Fred Becker, president of the
National Association of Federal Credit Unions, said today in a
statement. “This legislation would still put credit unions at a
severe disadvantage compared to large credit-card issuers.”  
 On June 16, after 131 House members signed a letter urging
the conference committee to strip the debit-cap amendment from
the bill, Durbin said he would work to exempt reloadable prepaid
cards used to distribute government benefits. At least 10 state
treasurers including  Shane Osborn , a Nebraska Republican, had
said the legislation could hurt those government programs and
their beneficiaries.  
 The industry escaped previous attempts to regulate
interchange on credit cards, which average about 2 percent per
transaction, saying the fees are needed to  compensate  banks for
the risk of lending money. That argument isn’t relevant to
interchange on debit cards, which tap funds held in consumer
checking accounts.  
 Durbin said in a June 17 interview that he’s determined to
push through his amendment and counteract the “unregulated
power” wielded by Visa and MasterCard. The companies accounted
for 91 percent of global purchase transactions made with
general-purpose cards last year, according to the Nilson Report.  
 Network Competition  
 The compromise legislation would allow merchants to set
minimums and maximums for credit-card purchases and offer
discounts based on the form of payment. A provision that would
have allowed merchants to tailor discounts by card brand was
removed and replaced with a measure that directs the Fed to
issue rules preventing networks from requiring that their debit
cards can only be used on one network.  
 “Merchants will have the choice of at least two networks
upon which to run debit transactions,” Durbin’s statement said.
The measure “provides additional competition to a previously
non-competitive part of the market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Visa rose 6.2 percent in New York Stock Exchange composite trading and MasterCard advanced 5.1 percent. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
