-- Vonage Banks On IPad After Surviving 33-Cent Stock
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-06-21T20:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/vonage-chief-banks-on-ipad-application-after-surviving-33-cent-stock-price.html

          
          
             Vonage Holdings Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Lefar , a year after his company’s stock
hit a low of 33 cents, said he is looking to devices like Apple
Inc.’s iPad to speed the digital phone company’s recovery.  
 Lefar, 46, took over in 2008 as Vonage was telling
investors that patent lawsuits and hundreds of millions in debt
threatened to drive it to bankruptcy. Since the March 2009 low,
the company’s  stock  has rebounded to more than $2 and will
probably be included in the Russell 3000 index.  
 Lefar, an  AT&T Inc.  veteran who helped that company score
its exclusive deal for the iPhone, is betting on similar devices
to help Vonage grow and has an application planned for the  iPad 
tablet computer. The company also has the ability to add video
and messaging to its service, he said in an interview June 18.  
 “Our legacy is one of replacing the home-phone service and
giving it enhanced features,” he said. “We’ve got plenty of
additional work to do to get the business growing.”  
 Lefar also said a software or phone company may seek to
combine with Vonage to gain access to its technology. He
declined to comment on whether the company is in talks about a
partnership or acquisition.  
 Last month, Vonage hired  Amichay Oren  as vice president of
research and development, tapping into his experience running
startups to step up creation of new services. Oren founded the
software company Expression Inc., which was acquired by SAP AG.  
 Russell 3000  
 Vonage offers phone service over the Web, using voice-over-
Internet-Protocol technology. It charges as little as $9.99 a
month, competing against larger phone carriers such as AT&T.  
 Vonage has also branched out to international calls and
data-based voice features for mobile phones. Lefar said the
company is planning a service that lets family members share a
phone number over different devices and locations.  
 “He has really put them on the smart growth program,
because before, they were growing to the point of bankruptcy,”
said  Roger Entner , an  analyst  at Nielsen Co. “Hats off. Not a
lot of people would have thought that would have happened.”  
 Vonage said last week it will probably be added to the
Russell 3000 stock market index this month. That listing would
increase demand for the  stock  as investors add it to their index
funds, said Entner, who is based in Boston.  
 To become eligible for the Russell index, Vonage had to
pull its stock price up to over $1, as the index requires. The
company also had been in danger of being delisted from the New
York Stock Exchange after its stock fell below $1.  
 Vonage  fell  23 cents to $2.46 at 4:04 p.m. on the New York
Stock Exchange.  
 Reducing Costs  
 The company, based in Holmdel, New Jersey, reported its
first-ever profit in the first quarter of 2009. Net income more
than doubled to $14 million in the first quarter of this year.  
 Lefar invested in customer service to reduce defections and
added new products to win customers. He cut marketing spending
by 15 percent last year and also slowed hiring.  
 Lefar took the reins from founder  Jeff Citron , who was
serving as interim CEO. Citron, who owns about a fifth of
Vonage’s shares, had initially chosen  Mike Snyder  to lead the
company. Snyder left shortly after Vonage lost a patent suit to
 Verizon Communications Inc.  that threatened to bar the company
from using technology for making calls to standard phones.
Patent fights with AT&T and Sprint Nextel Corp. followed.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission alleged that Citron,
39, and others participated in a fraudulent use of the Nasdaq
Stock Market’s small-order execution system as part of a company
called Datek Securities, according to Vonage’s regulatory
documents. Citron and his associates settled with the SEC in
2002 and 2003.  
 ‘Out of Steam’  
 In 2008, Vonage said in a  regulatory filing  it believed
some financial institutions and accounting firms had refused to
do business with the company because of Citron’s past.  
 Vonage still gets the majority of its  earnings  from home-
phone customers, according to Lefar, and competes with larger
cable and phone operators that offer subscribers discounted
packages of Web and TV service. Vonage’s stock price, after
almost doubling this year, is still a fraction of the $17 for
which it was first sold to the public in 2006.  
 “The inherent risk, though, is how long does our industry
need standalone voice-over-IP providers. More and more people
are cutting their landline,” said  Zeus Kerravala , an analyst at
Yankee Group in Boston. “There is a risk that they’re going to
run out of steam.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Vonage has an application planned for the iPad and can add video and messaging to its service. Photographer: Gary Gardiner/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
