-- Won Leads Asian Currencies Higher as China Signals End to Currency's Peg
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-06-21T10:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/won-leads-asian-currencies-higher-as-china-signals-end-to-currency-s-peg.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s
ringgit led Asian currencies higher on optimism demand for the
region’s exports will increase after China ended the yuan’s two-
year peg against the dollar.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose to its
strongest level in a month as regional shares climbed. The yuan
rose the most since its 2005 revaluation after the People’s Bank
of China pledged on June 19 to make the currency’s exchange rate
more flexible. The “upturn in the Chinese economy has become
more solid,” it said.  
 “A stronger yuan will mean stronger purchasing power for
Chinese consumers,” said  Nizam Idris , a Singapore-based
currency strategist at UBS AG, the world’s second-largest
foreign-exchange trader. “Some currencies will gain more than
others,” he said, adding that the economies that will benefit
the most include South Korea, Indonesia and Taiwan.  
 The won strengthened 2.6 percent to 1,171.95 per dollar at
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ringgit appreciated 2.1 percent to 3.1855.
Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.6 percent to NT$31.999, the Indian
rupee climbed 1.1 percent to 45.6937 and the Singapore dollar
rose 0.8 percent to S$1.3753.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, touched 111.97, the strongest
level since May 18. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional
shares gained 2.6 percent.  
 Competitive Edge  
 China’s currency advanced 0.42 percent to 6.7976 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan’s 12-month
non-deliverable forwards strengthened 1 percent to 6.6430 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That implies
traders are betting on a 2.3 percent appreciation from the spot
rate of 6.8128.  
 South Korea’s currency climbed the most in two weeks and
central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today a strengthening
yuan may spur gains in the won. Shipments to China surged 50
percent in the first 20 days of May, helping drive the 42
percent increase in overall exports reported for the whole month,
official figures show.  
 “A stronger yuan will give Korean goods a competitive
edge,” said  Sang Hoon Huh , a currency researcher at Korea
Exchange Bank in Seoul. “Foreign investors will also buy the
won on bets the currency may also have to strengthen because of
the yuan.”  
 Policy makers are likely to reiterate warnings that they
will take action to stabilize the market in the event that herd
behavior leads to volatility,  Oh Suk Tae , an economist at SC
First Bank Korea Ltd. said in Seoul yesterday.  
 Spur Inflows  
 Taiwan’s dollar pared gains in the final minute of trading
as the central bank intervened to curb appreciation that may
hurt exports, according to two traders familiar with the central
bank’s operations who declined to be identified.  
 The currency climbed as much as 1.5 percent earlier on
optimism foreign funds will buy the island’s assets after China,
Taiwan’s biggest overseas market, said it was resuming exchange-
rate reforms because its economy was on a more solid footing.  
 A government report today showed export orders increased 34
percent from a year earlier in May, an eighth monthly increase,
according to the median  estimate  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Taiex  index  of shares advanced 1.9 percent.  
 “The market expects the Taiwan dollar will appreciate a
lot after news from the mainland,” said  Tarsicio Tong , a
currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in Taipei. “People
think lots of money will flow into Asia and maybe the capital
inflows will be intense.”  
 Overseas investors bought $660 million more of Taiwan’s
equities than they sold today, the biggest net purchases since
April 26, according to stock-exchange data.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.9 percent to 9,018,
the Philippine peso advanced 1 percent to 45.458, while the Thai
baht gained 0.4 percent to 32.29.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        