-- Yuan Policy Likely to Buoy Chinese' Developers Bonds, Morgan Stanley Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T05:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/yuan-policy-likely-to-buoy-chinese-developers-bonds-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             Foreign currency bonds issued by
Chinese property companies may receive a “terrific boost”
after China signaled the end of a two-year currency peg to the
dollar, reducing the chance of higher borrowing costs, Morgan
Stanley said.  
 “The policy change paves the way for less aggressive
policy hikes,” Morgan Stanley analyst  Viktor Hjort  wrote in a
note to clients today. The move “would suggest a shift in the
balance of policy tightening away from the domestic towards the
external sector. This would in our view represent a terrific
boost.”  
 The currency move may be an “inflection point” in policy
that signals an improvement in the prospects for Chinese
property companies, said Morgan Stanley. The People’s Bank of
China pledged to make the yuan more flexible on June 19 at 7 p.m.
Beijing time in a posting on its website. A stronger yuan, also
known as the renminbi, would increase the purchasing power of
households in China, help to control inflation and lift pressure
to raise interest rates.  
 In a separate move, the New York-based firm on June 18
upgraded its outlook for bonds of China’s property companies to
“neutral” from “underweight” compared with high-yield bonds
issued by companies elsewhere in Asia, citing the industry’s
success in weathering market-cooling measures, and on
expectations that moves in monetary policy will be more gradual.  
 Chinese property companies have strong cash positions and
better debt maturity profiles than at any point since a large
volume of bond issuance in 2006, wrote Hjort in the e-mailed
note, who recommended focusing on companies with the biggest
market capitalizations, such as Country Garden Holdings Co.  
 Agile, Country Garden  
 Agile Property Holdings Ltd.’s $650 million of 8.875
percent bonds due 2017 rose to 96 cents on the dollar today from
94.875 cents on the dollar on June 18, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. prices on Bloomberg. Country Garden Holdings Co.’s
$550 million of 11.25 percent bonds due 2017 rose to 95.5 cents
on the dollar from 94.5 cents.  
 “It’s increasingly clear this sector has defied the more
bearish expectations,” Hjort wrote, when upgrading the outlook.  
 China’s real-estate prices jumped 12.4 percent across 70
cities in May, adding to the 12.8 percent surge in April that
was the most since the data series began in 2005. The government
instituted measures ranging from a ban on loans for third-home
purchases to higher mortgage rates and downpayment requirements
for second-home purchases.  
 -- Henry Sanderson , Katrina Nicholas . Editors:  Hugh Chow ,
 Tom Kohn   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        