-- Yuan Policy Change Returns Focus to Currency Basket, Bank of America Says
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-21T06:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/yuan-policy-change-returns-focus-to-currency-basket-bank-of-america-says.html

          
          
             China’s decision to scrap the yuan’s
fixed exchange rate puts the focus back on the composition of
its currency basket, according to Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.  
 The People’s Bank of China two days ago said it’s
abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the
global crisis to protect exporters. The central bank said while
there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the
exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.”  
 “China signals an exit from its crisis regime, but without
a big bang,” a team of analysts including  T.J. Bond , a Hong
Kong-based economist, wrote in a note to clients today. “The
key change, in our view, is the increased emphasis on a basket
of currencies. This implies more day-to-day volatility in the
key dollar-renminbi exchange rate, a shift which has long been a
core element of our renminbi view.”  
 The yuan climbed 0.4 percent to 6.8015 per dollar as of
1:45 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trading System.  
 The analysts, who also include Singapore-based currency
strategist  Christy Tan , Hong Kong-based economist  Ting Lu , and
Hong Kong-based researcher  Xiaojia Zhi , said they did not expect
the yuan to strengthen significantly against the greenback.  
 “The renminbi could even depreciate against the dollar if
the euro declines.” they wrote. “Gradual moves will be
tolerated, similar to post 2005 revaluation when dollar-renminbi
merely fell 0.6 percent in the six-month period to end 2005. Our
end-2010 forecast remains unchanged at 6.80 versus the dollar,
not far from current levels.”  
 China’s currency is likely to see stronger gains on a
trade-weighted basis, they wrote.  
 “Our foreign-exchange forecasts imply that the nominal
effective exchange rate could appreciate some 6 percent by end-
2010, and 12 percent by end-2011.”  
 China’s decision is likely to prove positive for Asian
currencies such as South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, and
may cause a decline in the central bank’s reserves, which could
lead to reduced purchases of U.S. Treasuries, the analysts wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        