-- Yuan to Spur Dollar Gains Versus Non-Asian Currencies, Morgan Stanley Says
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-21T00:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/yuan-to-spur-dollar-gains-versus-non-asian-currencies-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             The dollar may strengthen against
non-Asian currencies after China signaled an end to the yuan’s
two-year-old peg to the greenback, Morgan Stanley said in a
research note yesterday.  
 The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s
abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the
global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while
there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the
exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.”  
 “The initial implication for the foreign exchange market
would be for the dollar to trade stronger against non-Asian
currencies, especially versus those that benefit from reserve
diversification such as the euro,” analysts led by  Stephen Hull , London-based global head of currency strategy, wrote in
the note.  
 The dollar fell to $1.2428 per euro as of 9:35 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.2387 in New York on June 18, after earlier
dropping to $1.2487, the lowest level since May 24. The U.S.
currency has weakened 1 percent versus the euro this month.  
 The central bank’s decision suggests less demand for euros
as accumulation of reserves slows, the analysts wrote.  
 “China’s move is likely to weigh on euro sentiment, as
markets price the likely reserve reduction by China, even before
we see physical reduction in reserves themselves,” they wrote.  
 Morgan Stanley reiterated that it remains short the euro,
the British pound and the Australian dollar, while staying long
the U.S. dollar, the South Korean won and the Singapore dollar.
A short position is a bet that a currency or security’s price
will decline.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        