-- Yuan Move Spurs Demand for Ringgit, Won
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-06-22T06:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-21/yuan-move-spurs-demand-for-ringgit-won-on-prospects-asian-trade-will-grow.html

          
          
             Asian currencies from the won to the
ringgit are luring two of the region’s largest investors on
speculation China’s decision to end the yuan’s peg will increase
demand in the world’s third-biggest economy.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s
largest bank, says Asian central banks will allow appreciation
by reducing dollar purchases. AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
Australia’s second-biggest money manager, predicts the region’s
currencies will gain as much 15 percent in the next year as
China’s move underscores the strength of the global recovery.  
 The yuan rose the most in five years yesterday after the
central bank said June 19 it would increase the currency’s
“flexibility,” scrapping a two-year peg against the dollar
aimed at shielding exporters from the global financial crisis.
The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed 0.7 percent,
the most in six weeks. Policy makers from the Philippines to
Thailand said the change would spur regional trade.  
 “Asian central banks will probably ease their grip on
intervention as competitiveness becomes less of an issue,” said
 Hideo Shimomura , who helps oversee the equivalent of $55.4
billion at Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ Asset. “Authorities in
Asia see the move as confidence by the Chinese authorities in
its economic state.” Shimomura said he may add to holdings of
Asian currencies including the Singapore dollar.  
 The yuan strengthened 21 percent in the three years before
policy makers halted gains at about 6.83 per dollar in July 2008.
It fell 0.2 percent to 6.8095 as of 12:36 p.m. in Shanghai after
rising 0.4 percent yesterday. South Korea’s won gained 2.6
percent yesterday, the ringgit appreciated 2 percent and
Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.6 percent.  
 Won Gains  
 China, including Hong Kong, is the biggest export market
for economies such as Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore,
South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.  
 “This is a good opportunity for Thai exports to China,”
Deputy Governor Bandid Nijathaworn told reporters in Bangkok
yesterday.  Spencer Lin , the head of foreign-exchange at Taiwan’s
central bank, said today that yuan’s appreciation “will be good
for countries selling goods to its domestic market.”  
 The yuan policy change signals that “the recovery in the
Chinese economy is on a more solid footing,” Philippine central
bank Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in a June 20 interview.
“This bodes well for intra-Asian trade and consequently growth
for our economies.”  
 Solid Recovery  
 China’s central bank said it was prepared to resume
appreciation because the “upturn in the Chinese economy has
become more solid” and that a stronger yuan would help curb
inflation. Gross domestic product expanded 11.9 percent in the
first quarter from the same period of 2009.  
 “The move by Chinese authorities has given investors more
confidence on China’s growth trajectory as it has reduced the
need for aggressive tightening,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-
based strategist at AMP, which has more than $90 billion of
funds under management in Sydney. “Asian currencies are
leveraged to China’s growth profile. We are increasing our
allocation.”  
 AMP’s favors the Taiwan dollar, the Korean won, the
Singapore dollar and the Malaysian ringgit.  
 Floating Rate  
 People’s Bank of China said that a floating exchange rate
will help the nation to focus its economy on domestic demand,
curb  inflation  and reduce  trade  imbalances, according to a
question-and-answer document published June 20. The bank ruled
out “large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will
prevent “excessive” fluctuations.  
 The won led declines in Asian currencies today, falling 1
percent, on speculation policy makers will seek to limit
appreciation as they assess the economic impact of an expected
rise in the yuan.  
 Regional currency rallies may prove short-lived, as China’s
central bank will limit gains while Europe’s debt crisis worsens,
according to DBS Asset Management Ltd. and Daiwa SB Investments
Ltd.  
 “If you ask me if this yuan news will make me specifically
load up on Asian currencies over and above what we already own,
then the answer is no,” said  Desmond Soon , a portfolio manager
at DBS Asset Management Ltd., which oversees the equivalent of
S$7 billion ($5.1 billion) in Singapore. “The yuan is not
substantially undervalued in its trade-weighted basket.”  
 ‘Gradually, Slowly’  
 Asian currencies have already priced in yuan appreciation
and may not keep rising, said  Kenichiro Ikezawa , who oversees
about $3 billion at Daiwa in Tokyo.  
 “It is very clear that China will only let the yuan move
gradually and slowly,” Ikezawa said. “So, when the yuan rises
only gradually, the rest of Asian currencies won’t keep
strengthening.”  
 After China abandoned a peg and revalued the yuan on July
21, 2005, the Taiwan dollar and South Korean won rallied to
peaks by mid-August of that year and dropped 4.7 percent and 0.8
percent, respectively, in the third quarter.  
 Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said a rising yuan
may pose difficulties for South Korea by spurring gains in the
won, which advanced the most in two weeks yesterday.  
 Demand from China has supported exports during the global
recession. South Korea’s shipments to China surged 50 percent in
the first 20 days of May, helping drive the 42 percent increase
in overall exports reported for the whole month, official
figures show.  
 “The other central banks will be more relaxed in letting
their currencies move, because their competitiveness with China
will change,” said  Endre Pedersen , who manages about $16
billion of Asian bonds at MFC Global Investment Management.
“It’s going to encourage other assets to come in Asia. People
who were shaking their heads in May are now getting back in
again.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chinese 100 yuan bank notes  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chinese 100 yuan bank notes are arranged for a photo in Beijing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chinese 100 yuan bank notes are arranged for a photo in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about changes to China's currency policy.
     China’s yuan gained the most in five years yesterday after the central bank pledged on June 19 to make the currency more flexible. Schlossberg also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Washington-based Economic Strategy Institute and a former Commerce Department international trade official, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy and its implications for the U.S. economy.
     President Barack Obama called China’s decision to increase the flexibility of the exchange rate of the yuan "a constructive step that can help safeguard the recovery and contribute to a more balanced global economy."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
