-- Washington Needs Back-to-Work Program of Its Own: Albert Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-03-14T15:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-14/washington-needs-back-to-work-program-of-its-own-albert-hunt.html

          
          
             A veteran senator, in a
private conversation last week, was despondent: “This
place is dysfunctional, and it’s not going to get any
better,” he said. It could have been a Democrat or a
Republican from the North, South, Midwest or West.  
 Washington  doesn’t work these days; on that there is a
rare bipartisan consensus. Many conservatives relish that
reality with President  Barack Obama  in office, reveling in
government gridlock.  
 They felt less enamored with political paralysis
during the George W. Bush years. The Democrats are no more
consistent in their situational view.  
 To be sure, the U.S. goes through periodic bouts of
anxiety that the country is ungovernable -- 30 years ago,
one of the wisest men in Washington, the lawyer Lloyd Cutler, proposed adopting a parliamentary system of
governance. And a meanness and pettiness have been
prevalent from the Founding Fathers through the McCarthy
witch-hunting era of the 1950s to contemporary times.  
 Yet those reminders don’t lessen the reality that
government, at least on the federal level, responds to big
challenges only if there’s a crisis. This is obvious to
foreign observers such as the Chinese, who believe their
authoritarian system is better able to take bold action in
the global economy.  
 Brazil  Model  
 It is also clear to emerging powers such as Brazil.
 Eike Batista , the billionaire Brazilian businessman,
decried the “political gridlock” in the U.S. political
system in an interview with  Charlie Rose  published in
Bloomberg BusinessWeek last month.  
 “In Brazil, our president can implement emergency
measures for six months,” he said, adding that’s why
Brazil “came out of [the financial crisis] so much faster
than everybody else.”  
 The argument that Washington rarely has put aside
partisan considerations when the stakes are big is wrong.
In 1978, a weakened president,  Jimmy Carter , proposed an
unpopular pact, a treaty turning the Panama Canal over to
Panamanian control. The Senate Republican leader, Howard Baker of  Tennessee , knowing the stakes, supported the
president, securing passage of a treaty that has been vital
for U.S. relations with that hemisphere. Can anyone imagine
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  doing
that today?  
 ‘Random Writings’  
 “People say there’s always been incivility in public
life, citing the Washington or Jefferson times, without
measuring the density of those comments,” says Walter Dellinger, a former U.S. solicitor general. “They pick out
random writings from papers or historians; it’s not
anything approaching the drumbeat we have today of
accusations and counteraccusations.”  
 Much of this emanates from the media; one night, watch
 Fox News  for three hours in primetime and the next night
try  MSNBC . Liberals increasingly focus on left-wing blogs,
conservatives rely on right-wing blogs. There’s little that
can be done about that.  
 The problem will be aggravated when the effects of the
 Supreme Court ’s January ruling vastly expanding the
influence of special interests money in political campaigns
are fully felt. This is an illustration of why the Court,
ever since the resignation of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor,
needs someone who’s actually faced a voter. The majority
simply have no idea of the practical effects of this
decision.  
 Party-Line Votes  
 One place where constructive change is possible is
Congress, the greatest source of dysfunction. It’s tough to
argue that as divisive as the issues are, the stakes are
higher than a generation ago. Yet polarization has
increased. Congressional Quarterly, which tracks such data,
reports that in the 1960s and 1970s almost party-line votes
used to account for about one-third to 40 percent of the
tallies in the House; in the last couple years it’s between
50 percent and 60 percent.  
 Nolan J. McCarty, a Princeton University political
scientist who’s written a book on polarization, found,
based on Congressional votes, that Democrats are more
liberal than 40 years ago and Republicans are much more
conservative.  
 “Party polarization has increased dramatically,”
McCarty says. “It is at the highest level ever under the
Democratic- Republican party  system going back to the Civil
War.”  
 Parties, Not Issues  
 It’s the politicians and parties, not the issues.
Since the  Civil Rights Act  of the 1960s, the South has had
a  Democratic Party  dominated by black liberal
representatives, and a Republican Party consisting almost
exclusively of staunch conservatives. Southern middle-of-
the-roaders in either party are a small force. Likewise, on
both the West and East coasts, moderate Republicans are
almost extinct.  
 A major cause is redistricting, which overwhelmingly
creates heavily partisan districts to the benefit of the
politicians who are drawing these boundaries; incumbency
protection is the priority. If pressure were built
nationally and locally for independent redistricting
commissions, it might produce both better results and
Congress with more members willing to reach across the
political aisle.  
 Filibuster Explosion  
 The same polarization is true in the Senate, with an
added impediment: the filibuster. It was in 1919 that the
Senate first required a two-thirds vote to cut off
unlimited debate, with the expectation that it would be
used only for issues of great import. For most of the
ensuing 50 years, that was the case; during the entirety of
President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal, 12 years, there
were only four cloture votes to cut off a filibuster. Last
year there were 39 cloture votes, and more  filibusters .  
 The limit was changed to 60 votes in 1975, and the
Senate today is governed by a supermajority, not a simple
majority. Over the last couple years, Republicans in the
Senate have abused this process to routinely filibuster
Obama’s nominations and any legislation of any consequence.  
 There probably is a case to be made that would weaken
the reality that a supermajority is necessary to do
business in the Senate. That will take a while.  
 In the meantime, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
 Nevada  should start worrying less about the convenience and
fundraising and travel plans of his members and call the
Republicans’ bluff on these incessant talk-a-thons. Maybe
then they can talk around the clock and on weekends.  
 Soon, even these politicians might get embarrassed.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington
at Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        