-- `Guns & Hoses,' Toilet Paper Makers Mingle as Tradeshows Rebound
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-12-07T00:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/-guns-hoses-tissue-makers-shake-hands-as-businesses-hit-the-road-again.html
From poker-table salesmen rubbing
shoulders with piano makers at the “ Cruise Shipping Miami ”
event to buyers of toilet paper gathering at “ Tissue World ” in
Nice, France, more businesses are hitting the road again.  “We’re expecting a strong cruise shipping show come March,
better than the last few years,”  Simon Foster , chief executive
officer of  UBM Live , the events unit of London-based United
Business Media Plc, said in an interview. The show drew 10,800
people in March this year, 7 percent more than in 2009.  Reed Elsevier Plc ,  United Business Media  and  Informa Plc ,
all of which recorded double-digit revenue drops last year, are
starting to see a rebound in attendance and exhibitors. The
hundreds of global tradeshows, events and conferences carry an
economic value of about $300 billion a year, and showed growth
in the three months ended September after nine quarters of
declines, according the International Association of Exhibitions
and Events in Dallas, Texas.  Events including “Guns and Hoses” in San Francisco for
the police and fire departments; the “New You Expo” in Texas;
“Guangzhou Beauty Expo”; the “ Cranky & Nasty Live Crocodile
Show ” in Queensland, Australia; and the “International
Conference for Paints and Varnishes” in Moscow may be a
barometer of the global economy. As companies ease travel
restrictions and revive face-to-face deal-making, event
organizers expect to return to pre-recession growth levels.  “Over the past few years the business community collapsed
and now the revenue environment is as good as it’s been for
three years,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst in London at
Panmure Gordon & Co. “People are more likely to travel, go on
courses or attend exhibitions now.”  Monaco Yacht Show  Informa , which puts on the “ Monaco Yacht Show ,” “Russian
Wood & Timber” and “Salvage & Wreck Removal,” is seeing
swelling demand, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Rigby  said in an
interview. Although the Monaco show, catering to the rich and
famous, remained largely recession-proof, it drew an even
stronger crowd this September, Rigby said.  “Monaco is the main yacht show with 50-meter yachts,” he
said. “This year, we even had 100 yachts sitting outside Monaco
who couldn’t find berths.”  “Modern Bakery Moscow,” a baked goods tradeshow held
every October, recorded a 32 percent increase in attendance with
15,770 visitors, according to organizer OWP Ost-West-Partner
GmbH. Visitors at United Business Media’s “Hong Kong Jewellery
& Gem Fair” rose by 13 percent to 44,274 in September. UBM said
revenue at “Furniture China Fair,” “Black Hat USA” and “All
China Leather Exhibition” rose “significantly.”  Buying Spree  The growth prospect for tradeshows and conferences is
drawing companies including Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, and The Washington Post into the events market.
It is also prompting companies to snap up smaller competitors.  United Business Media, the publisher of InformationWeek, in
October completed the purchase of U.S. tradeshow company Canon
Communications LLC for $287 million and bought a 65 percent
stake in a Turkish operator.  “We see our growth position in live events, face-to-face
events,” said Foster. “The events we are looking at now are
more bolt-on acquisitions.”  Reed Elsevier, the world’s biggest tradeshow organizer with
about 450 shows including “Aqua-Therm,” the “PGA Merchandise
Show” and TV industry conference “MIPTV,” this year acquired
a golf event in China and is looking to buy more organizers in
emerging markets like Brazil, India and Russia, said Nick
Forster, group commercial director at Reed Exhibitions.  Informa  is also seeking bolt-on acquisitions of mainly
smaller country event providers, CEO Rigby said.  “We’ve seen an improved performance, but it’s still hard
in southern Europe and sluggish in North America,” he said.  Earnings Bounce  Results at the companies are improving after a grim 2009.
United Business Media said in October that bookings for its top
20 tradeshows in the next 12 months are up more than 16 percent.
In 2009, UBM’s revenue at constant exchange rates fell 12
percent to about 287.5 million pounds ($450.6 million). Most
revenue from UBM shows comes from stand and booth sales to
exhibitors, followed by sponsorships. In North America, UBM Live
also charges entrance fees, Foster said.  Informa’s events and training business, excluding effects
from acquisitions, fell 27 percent in 2009 to 559 million
pounds. Rigby said much of that was the result of the scrapping
of 2,000 smaller shows.  Reed Exhibitions’s Forster said bookings in 2009 were hit
“severely.” The unit’s 2009 revenue fell 21 percent and
adjusted operating profit sank 28 percent at constant
currencies. He said bookings are now looking up.  ‘Virtual Handshakes’  At FT Global Conferences and Events, the conference
division of the Financial Times, growth is forecast at 22
percent next year, driven by sponsorships and delegate fees,
said Jayne Van Hoen, managing director of the division.  The company, which puts on conferences such as “The
Business of Luxury” and “Digital Media & Broadcasting,”
charges delegates between 500 pounds and 2,500 pounds. It
typically gets 70 percent from sponsors and 30 percent from
delegates, she said.  “While the world is changing, there still aren’t any
virtual handshakes out there at the moment,” she said. “For a
lot of people doing business face-to-face is still the route.”  The Washington Post Live, the conference division of The
Washington Post newspaper group, held its first conference this
year when “The Business of the Beltway” event hosted Virginia
Governor  Robert McDonnell , Hilton Worldwide CEO  Christopher Nassetta  and Pulitzer-prize winner  Steven Pearlstein .  ‘More Valuable’  The company wants to “extend the reach of the Post’s
journalism,” said Jenny Abramson, general manager of Washington
Post Live. Its conferences “connect newsmakers across
government, business and academia with audiences.”  Washington Post events have included a Washington, D.C.
mayoral debate and a conference with government officials and
oil executives on energy. It will host an event on the business
of sports early next year.  Bloomberg LINK, the conference arm of Bloomberg LP, began
staging invite-only conferences a year ago to strengthen
relationships, promote content from its news, product and
research departments and develop access to sources, said  Robert Bierman , who heads the division. The unit’s target is to be
self-funding and profitable, he said.  For long-time event organizers, technology notwithstanding,
the demand for conferences and tradeshows can only grow.  “In an electronic environment like we live now, the
opportunity to meet your peers or suppliers once a year becomes
more valuable,” said Reed’s Forster. “And I think that will
only increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 