-- Abbott, Two Drugmakers Pay $421 Million to Settle U.S. Overpayment Charges
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-07T21:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/abbott-among-drugmakers-agreeing-to-421-million-settlement-in-u-s-case.html
Abbott Laboratories  and two other
drugmakers agreed to pay $421.2 million to settle claims they
overcharged the U.S. for medicines, the Justice Department said.  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH ’s Roxane Inc. will pay $280
million, Abbott will pay $126.5 million and B. Braun Melsungen
AG will pay $14.7 million. Boehringer and B. Braun are closely
held. The settlements resolve civil claims that the companies
inflated the average wholesale prices for drugs reported to the
federal health programs Medicare and Medicaid.  The government reimbursed doctors and pharmacists at those
higher prices, and the companies actually sold the drugs at a
fraction of those stated prices, U.S. officials said. The scheme
let doctors and pharmacists pocket more profits, and the
drugmakers kept them as customers, U.S. officials said.  “This practice was widespread in the pharmaceutical
industry -- so widespread in fact that average wholesale price,
AWP, it was jokingly said, really stood for ‘Ain’t What’s
Paid,’”  Tony West , assistant attorney general for the Justice
Department’s civil division, said today at a news conference in
Washington. “Indeed, the only purchasers who paid the full
inflated reported drug price were you, the American taxpayers.”  The settlement resolves lawsuits under the False Claims
Act, which lets private citizens sue on behalf of the government
and share in any recovery. A Florida company that administers
drugs at patients’ homes, Ven-A-Care Inc., will get $88.4
million as whistleblowers.  ‘The Spread’  The difference between the inflated government payments and
the price paid by health-care providers for a drug was known as
“the spread,” and profits for doctors or pharmacists increased
as the spread widened, U.S. officials said.  “The government alleges that Abbott, Roxane and Braun
created artificially inflated spreads to market, promote and
sell the drugs to existing and potential customers,” according
to a Justice Department statement.  Roxane, a generic drugmaker based in Columbus, Ohio, said
it settled the “expensive and disruptive litigation” and “at
all times” complied with U.S. laws and regulations.  “The expense of protracted litigation adds to the cost of
producing Roxane medicines and therefore impacts the
competitiveness of our business,” Roxane said in a statement.  Abbott spokeswoman  Adelle Infante  said in a telephone
interview: “We continue to believe that we have complied with
all laws and regulations and have entered into this agreement to
eliminate the uncertainty associated with continued
litigation.”  The settlement won’t affect fourth-quarter financial
results and will be covered by reserves set aside earlier this
year, Infante said. She declined to say whether Abbott had
changed its pricing policies as a result of the case.  Abbott Shares  Abbott, based in Abbott Park, Illinois, fell 5 cents to
$46.87 at 3:48 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Representatives of Ingelheim, Germany-based Boehringer
didn’t immediately return voice-mail messages left after regular
business hours.  A person who answered the phone at B. Braun’s headquarters
in Melsungen, Germany, said no one was available to comment
until tomorrow and hung up.  The U.S. intervened in a False Claims case against Roxane
and filed a lawsuit on Jan. 18, 2007. The U.S. sued Abbott in
May 2006, according to the Justice Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 