-- Madagascar Vanilla Output May Fall on Prices, Low Crop Cycle
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-12-07T09:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/madagascar-vanilla-output-may-fall-on-prices-low-crop-cycle.html
Vanilla output in  Madagascar , the
world’s second-biggest producer of the flavorant, may drop 29
percent this year as plummeting prices cut plantings and amid
disease and a low crop cycle, an industry official said.  Output may decline to 1,000 metric tons this year and
remain at that level in 2011, compared with 1,400 tons last year
and 2,000 tons in 2008, said Nissi Randriamanana, a director of
Vanille Mad SA. The company is a unit of  Trimeta , the
Antananarivo-based vanilla-trading company that handles 30
percent of shipments of the crop, according to Randriamanana.  International prices have slumped to as low as $15 per
kilogram (2.2 pounds) on international markets, compared with
$500 per kilogram in 2004, leading the country’s 80,000 vanilla
growers to plant other crops such as rice, Randriamanana said in
an interview on Dec. 1.  “Growers have been discouraged from planting vanilla due to
weak prices,” he said. “The market is very uncertain.”  Madagascar produces a third of the world’s vanilla,
according to the Food and Agricultural Organization’s  website .
The crop comes from the only edible fruit produced by the orchid
family of plants. Companies including  Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s
largest soft-drink company, and  Danone , the biggest yogurt
maker, use vanilla from the Indian Ocean island nation. The
flavorant is also used in perfume.  Madagascar is at the end of a four-year crop cycle when
production usually declines, Randriamanana said. Plantings have
also been curbed by fusarium, a disease that contaminates the
soil around plants and prevents cultivation of crops, he said.  Artificial Vanilla  The U.S. accounts for 70 percent of Madagascar’s vanilla
shipments, while Europe imports about 20 percent and Japan 10
percent, Claude Andreas, head of the country’s Vanilla Grower’s
Association, said in an interview. The group is lobbying for
more regulation of the industry to stop “a phenomenal quantity
of products” using artificial vanilla, while claiming they use
natural ingredients, he said.  “The challenge will be to promote natural vanilla and point
the trend toward quality,” Andreas said. “Everyone says they use
100 percent natural vanilla, but this is a masquerade; either
they don’t use any or they use very little.”  In September, Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc., a unit of
 Unilever , agreed to phase out the use of the term “All Natural”
for ice creams and frozen yogurts that use processed or
artificial ingredients, the Washington Post reported in
September.  Trimeta wants the authorities in Madagascar to start
branding the country’s output “to protect the geographical
identity of Madagascar’s vanilla so that other countries stop
claiming they are using it in their products when they don’t,”
Randriamanana said.  Vanilla makes up 4.2 percent of Madagascar’s exports,
according to the Trade Ministry. Shipments generated 84.8
million ($40.9 million) ariary in 2009, compared with 90.8
million ariary a year earlier, according to the ministry.  Indonesia is the world’s biggest vanilla producer,
according to the FAO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  