-- Madoff Investor to Forfeit $625 Million to U.S.; Trustee Sues Mets Owners
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/madoff-investor-agrees-to-forfeit-625-million-on-deposit-at-jpmorgan.html
One of  Bernard Madoff ’s first
clients, along with 19 family members, settled potential
lawsuits by agreeing to forfeit $625 million in profits from the
con man’s investment fraud.  Carl Shapiro , a Boston-based philanthropist, held an
account with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
beginning in 1961. His son-in-law,  Robert Jaffe , is the former
vice president of Cohmad Securities Corp., a feeder fund that
shared offices with Madoff’s firm.  “This agreement represents a financially rewarding outcome
and it is a strong example of the progress we are making in
assembling the largest fund possible for the benefit of BLMIS
customers with valid claims,”  Irving Picard , the court-
appointed trustee overseeing the liquidation of Madoff’s firm,
said yesterday in a statement.  With this settlement, Picard, who also yesterday sued the
owners of the New York Mets baseball team for the return of
profits earned from their Madoff investments, has recovered
about $2.5 billion for victims of the fraud. Yesterday’s actions
come as Picard faces a Dec. 11 deadline to file claims for money
to return to Madoff investors.  Under the Shapiro settlement, the family agreed to turn
over $550 million to Picard for distribution to Madoff
creditors. They will pay as much as $75 million more to the U.S.
Justice Department, which appointed Picard as a special master
to distribute those funds, New York prosecutors said yesterday
in a statement.  ‘Substantial Funds’  “The Shapiro family is pleased to have concluded this
settlement with the Department of Justice and the trustee,”
Stephen Fishbein, the family’s lawyer, said in a statement.
“The settlement will allow substantial funds to be distributed
to those hurt most by Madoff’s fraud.”  The Shapiros have cooperated with the authorities
investigating the Madoff fraud, Fishbein said. They don’t admit
any liability in the settlement.  The settlement resolves any civil claims that might have
been made by Picard, U.S. prosecutors and Madoff creditors. It
doesn’t remove the possibility of criminal charges. U.S.
District Judge  Thomas Griesa  in New York approved the settlement
yesterday.  The $625 million deal exceeds the net worth of Carl Shapiro
and his wife, Ruth, according to prosecutors. Fishbein declined
to say how much money the family will have after paying the
settlement.  Cohmad Claim  Part of the settlement, $38 million, is full payment of
Picard’s claim against Jaffe in a claim the trustee filed
against Cohmad in June 2009.  The Shapiro funds, held in accounts at  JPMorgan Chase Bank
NA , are traceable to money invested by victims of Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme, the largest in U.S. history, according to prosecutors.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March 2009 and is serving a
150-year sentence at a federal prison in North Carolina. At the
time of Madoff’s arrest, his firm’s account statements reflected
4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent investments.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  In a separate lawsuit filed under seal yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, Picard seeks the return of Madoff
profits from Sterling Equities Inc., a real estate investment
firm that is the owner of the Mets, Mets LP and Fred and  Jeff Wilpon . The amount of money Picard is seeking in that case
wasn’t disclosed.  Settlement Talks  In an e-mailed statement, Sterling said yesterday that it
and its co-defendants are in settlement negotiations with
Picard. Picard confirmed the talks in a statement.  “The New York Mets will have all the necessary financial
and operational resources to fully compete and win,” Gregory
Nero, general counsel for Sterling, said in the statement.
“That is our commitment to our fans.”  Picard has said in court papers that Mets LP invested
$522.7 million in two accounts with Madoff and withdrew $570.5
million during an unspecified period. Yesterday’s complaint
names about 100 defendants connected to Sterling and the Wilpon
family.  The trustee has rejected claims by the Sterling investors
that their losses should be valued using the final account
statements that Madoff sent customers in November 2008. Picard
claims investors shouldn’t be credited with nonexistent profits
fabricated by Madoff.  Facing the Dec. 11 deadline for filing so-called clawback
lawsuits, Picard has sued hundreds of investors that withdrew
more from their accounts than they invested.  The cases are: U.S. v. $625,000,000 on Deposit at JPMorgan
Chase Bank N.A., 10-CIV-9116, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan); Picard v. Katz, 10-ap-5287,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 