-- Adrian Gonzalez Traded to Red Sox, Says He Is `Ready to Beat the Yanks'
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-07T02:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/adrian-gonzalez-traded-to-red-sox-says-he-is-ready-to-beat-the-yanks-.html
Adrian Gonzalez  joined the Boston Red
Sox today and immediately said he was “ready to beat the
Yanks.”  The 28-year-old first baseman, who has hit 30 home runs in
each of the past four Major League Baseball seasons, was traded
to the Red Sox from the San Diego Padres for three minor
leaguers and a player to be named.  Gonzalez will earn $6.2 million next season in the final
year of his contract, and the Red Sox are confident that they
will agree on an extension before he becomes a free agent in
2011, the team said on  its website .  “I’m very excited to be here in Boston and ready to beat
the Yanks,” Gonzalez said on the website.  In other transactions at baseball’s Winter Meetings, the
Milwaukee Brewers acquired pitcher  Shaun Marcum  from the Toronto
Blue Jays, while the Arizona Diamondbacks signed reliever  J.J. Putz  to be their closer and traded third baseman  Mark Reynolds 
to the Baltimore Orioles for two pitchers.  Gonzalez joins a Boston team that failed to make the
playoffs last season for the first time since 2006. The Red Sox
finished third in the American League East behind the Tampa Bay
Rays and Boston’s biggest rival, the New York Yankees.  No. 1 Draft Pick  Gonzalez was the No. 1 pick in the 2000 draft and spent his
past five seasons with the Padres. The three-time All-Star and
two-time gold Glove winner hit .298 with 31 home runs and 101
runs batted in last season.  The Red Sox scored 818 runs and hit 211 homers in 2010,
both second-most in the American League. The Red Sox, plagued by
injuries to 2008 AL Most Valuable Player  Dustin Pedroia  and All-
Stars  Josh Beckett ,  Kevin Youkilis  and  Mike Cameron , finished
89-73 last season, seven games behind the Rays in the AL East.  “I’m just very excited to start this new phase,” Gonzalez
said on the website. “I look forward to a lot of
championships.”  The Padres receive pitcher Casey Kelly, outfielder Raymond
Fuentes and first baseman  Anthony Rizzo  in the deal. The three
players were ranked No. 2, No. 7 and No. 8 on Baseball America’s
list of Boston’s  top 10 prospects  last December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 