-- Advantest May Pay $729 Million in Unsolicited Bid for Singapore's Verigy
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-12-07T03:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/advantest-may-pay-729-million-in-unsolicited-bid-for-singapore-s-verigy.html
Advantest Corp. , the world’s biggest
maker of machines used to test memory chips, bid $729 million
for  Verigy Ltd.  to expand its product line-up, in a deal that
would be the Japanese company’s biggest in more than a decade.  Advantest  offered $12.15 a share, a 33 percent premium over
the closing price on Dec. 3, for the company’s 60 million
outstanding shares, according to a statement from Verigy. Verigy
rejected the unsolicited offer and was open to continued talks,
the Singapore-based company said.  The proposal pits Advantest against  LTX-Credence Corp.  in a
bidding war for a company that makes testing gear for logic
devices and the flash memory chips that store songs and photos
in products such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone. The acquisition would
help Tokyo-based Advantest, which has lost money in each of the
past two fiscal years, reduce its reliance on computer memory.  “This is a good idea,” said  Tetsuya Wadaki , a Tokyo-based
analyst at Nomura Securities Co. who has a “reduce” rating on
Advantest’s shares. “There isn’t much potential for growth in
the PC memory market that Advantest has focused on.”  Advantest rose 3.9 percent to 1,870 yen, set for the
highest closing price since Aug. 6, as of the 11 a.m. break on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Verigy  surged  42 percent yesterday on
the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest jump since shares were sold
to the public in June 2006. LTX, based in Milpitas, California,
 dropped  12 percent, the most since October 2009.  The proposed deal is about five times the $143 million
average of 411 overseas acquisitions announced by Japanese
companies this year. It would also be Advantest’s largest
acquisition since at least 1998, when Bloomberg started
collecting comparable data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  