-- Aegon Expects Lower Interest Rates in U.S. to Decrease Profit Through 2011
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-12-07T23:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/aegon-expects-lower-interest-rates-in-u-s-to-decrease-profit-through-2011.html
Aegon NV , the bailed-out Dutch
insurer and owner of Transamerica Corp., said a slide in
interest rates in the U.S. may reduce earnings next year.  The company expects a “negative impact” of $20 million
pretax each quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Alex Wynaendts  said
yesterday at an  investor conference  in New York. “Most of
Aegon’s interest-rate exposures are in the U.S.”  Aegon is seeking to reduce reliance on the U.S. by
expanding in faster-growing markets such as China and India.
Insurers, which invest premiums in fixed-income securities
before paying claims, are facing lower returns on new holdings
amid monetary easing by the Federal Reserve and the  decline  in
bond yields this year.  The yield  on 10-year Treasuries fell to
3.13 percent yesterday from 3.84 percent on Dec. 31.  “We felt our exposure to the credit market in the U.S. was
too big,” Wynaendts said. “We want to reduce our exposure to
financial markets.”  MetLife Inc., the biggest U.S. life insurer, said in
September that lower rates would hurt profit.  Wynaendts is cutting costs at Aegon’s U.K. life and pension
operations to boost return on capital. Aegon is reorganizing
Asian businesses and named  Douglas Henck  CEO of the region,
working out of Hong Kong. In the U.S., Wynaendts is considering
selling Aegon’s Transamerica Reinsurance unit.  “We’re pleased by the strong interest,” Wynaendts said of
efforts to find a buyer for the life reinsurer. “When we have
something more specific to share with you, I will do so.”  Aegon took 3 billion euros ($4 billion) of aid from the
Dutch state in 2008. Repaying the state by the end of June
“remains a priority,” Wynaendts said. The company  still owes 
1.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 