-- Aetna Will Acquire Health-Data Network Medicity for About $500 Million
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-12-07T21:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/aetna-agrees-to-buy-health-information-company-medicity-for-500-million.html
Aetna Inc. , the third-largest U.S.
medical insurer, agreed to buy closely held  Medicity Inc.  for
about $500 million to expand its health-information services.  The acquisition should have no effect on 2011 financial
results and will be funded with “available resources,”
Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna said in a statement today.
Medicity, based in Salt Lake City, offers technology that helps
760 hospitals and 125,000 physicians in the U.S. exchange
medical data, according to the statement.  Aetna is entering the “new frontier” of information
technology to help doctors and clients control costs, Chief
Financial Officer  Joseph Zubretsky  said on Nov. 11 at an
investor conference. Today’s deal follows similar moves by
UnitedHealth Group Inc., the biggest insurer by sales, as
insurance companies diversify to cope with the U.S. health-care
overhaul law passed in March, said  Jason Gurda , a Leerink Swann
& Co. analyst in New York.  “Aetna is looking to provide a broader product offering
and be heavily involved in the nuts and bolts of building and
modernizing the health-care system,” Gurda said in a telephone
interview.  Aetna fell 13 cents to $30.17 in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading  at 4 p.m. The shares have fallen 4.8 percent
this year.  The acquisition is “very strategic,” said  Fred Laberge ,
an Aetna spokesman, in a phone interview “We’re very pleased to
be able to enhance our capabilities and accelerate our growth in
health-information technology.”  In August, UnitedHealth said it had agreed to acquire
Axolotl Corp., a health-data network based in San Jose,
California, to continue diversifying beyond medical benefits.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Axolotl would be combined with Ingenix, the information
technology and services company, Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth said at the time. Indianapolis-based WellPoint Inc.
is the second-largest U.S. health insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  