-- AGL Resources to Buy Gas Distributor Nicor for $2.4 Billion in Cash, Stock
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-12-07T21:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/agl-resources-to-buy-gas-distributor-nicor-for-2-4-billion.html
AGL Resources Inc. , the owner of
Atlanta’s natural-gas utility, agreed to buy Illinois-based
 Nicor Inc.  for $2.4 billion in cash and stock, almost doubling
the number of customers it serves.  Nicor holders will receive $21.20 in cash and 0.8382 share
of AGL for each share they own, the companies said in a
statement today. That values Nicor at about $53 a share, a 13
percent premium to yesterday’s share price and 22 percent more
than the stock value on Dec. 1, before news of the company’s
potential sale was first reported.  The transaction is the biggest for Atlanta-based AGL and
the largest among U.S. gas utilities this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Nicor, based in Naperville, hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. a few months ago to auction itself, people
with knowledge of the matter said last week.  The price is about 2.24 times Nicor’s book value and
“looks like an expensive acquisition,” said  Gordon Howald , a
Happauge, New York-based analyst for East Shore Partners Inc.
who owns no AGL shares and today cut his rating to “neutral.”
“That’s usually a harbinger of challenges.”  Under an existing agreement with Georgia utility
regulators, AGL can claim half of any savings from combining the
two companies, Howald said. The rest would go to customers.  Comparing Premiums  Nicor  rose  $2.03, or 4.3 percent, to $48.79 at 4:01 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. AGL  fell 
$2.15, or 5.8 percent, to $34.98, its biggest drop in two years.  The 22 percent premium, based on the $53 per-share offer
using AGL’s 20-day moving average price, compares with a 23
percent average premium for U.S. gas-distribution companies
purchased during the past five years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Including about $700 million in assumed debt, AGL is paying
6.8 times profit before interest, taxes depreciation and
amortization, compared with a median of 8.68 for seven of the
129 deals announced in the last five years, according to the
data.  “It’s tough to say if this is cheap or expensive because
we don’t have the strategy for the combined businesses,
particularly the regulated side,” said  David Parker , a Tampa,
Florida-based analyst for Robert W. Baird & Co. who rates Nicor
shares “neutral” and owns none. “The regulated side is the
dog here, not the tail.”  Benefits of Scale  Standard & Poor’s said it may lower its rating on AGL debt
to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade. Moody’s Investors
Service said it has no plans to lower AGL’s Baa1 rating, the
third-lowest investment grade.  AGL will be the largest U.S. company by market value to get
at least half its revenue from delivering gas, if the purchase
is completed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
combined company will deliver about 4.7 billion cubic feet of
gas a day, about 7.5 percent of  total U.S. consumption , based on
2009 figures from the Energy Department.  “There are benefits to that kind of scale, scope and
diversification of regulatory and weather risk,” Nicor Chief
Executive Officer  Russ M. Strobel , 58, said today in an
interview.  Nicor’s gas storage may enable expansion of a wholesale
business that manages supply for utilities, said AGL CEO  John W. Somerhalder  II, 53. Somerhalder will serve as CEO, chairman and
president of the combined company.  “We’re paying a fair price for a very good company with a
very good set of assets,” Somerhalder said today in an
interview.  Lighting Lincoln Debates  The combined company will have an enterprise value of $8.6
billion, according to the release. AGL shareholders will own 67
percent and the board will include four Nicor directors. The
corporate headquarters will be in Atlanta, with headquarters for
the gas-distribution unit in Naperville.  AGL owns Atlanta Gas Light and five other gas utilities
with about 2.3 million customers in six U.S. states, according
to the company’s  website.  AGL’s biggest acquisition before
today’s announcement was in 2004 when it purchased Bedminster,
New Jersey-based NUI Corp., a gas distributor, for $684.6
million including debt.  Nicor’s natural-gas distribution unit has more than 2
million customers in northern Illinois and the Chicago suburbs.
One of its predecessor companies provided gas to light one of
the debates between future U.S. President Abraham Lincoln and
Stephen Douglas in 1858, according to the company’s  website .  Breakup Fee  The takeover is expected to be completed in the second half
of 2011 and won’t affect AGL’s per-share earnings in the first
full year following the close, the company said. It requires
approval from shareholders, Illinois regulators and the Federal
Communications Commission.  The purchase includes a $36 million breakup fee if it’s
abandoned in the first 45 days and $67 million after that, AGL
Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Evans  said on a conference call
today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will finance the $1 billion cash
payment to Nicor shareholders and advised AGL on the
transaction, the companies said. JPMorgan Chase advised Nicor.  Law firms Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP advised AGL, Latham & Watkins
LLP advised Nicor and Sidney Austin LLP advised Nicor’s board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 