-- Air France-KLM Faces EasyJet to Retake Marseille After Ryanair Cuts Routes
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-08T11:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/air-france-klm-scrambles-jets-to-retake-marseilles-from-discount-rivals.html
Air France-KLM Group ’s plan to regain
lost market share on short-haul routes may pitch Europe’s
largest carrier into a battle with  EasyJet Plc  over the
Mediterranean seaport of Marseille.  Air France may begin services from the second-largest
French city to towns such as Marrakesh and Tangier in Morocco,
which  Ryanair Holdings Plc  will quit in January,  Bruno Matheu ,
the Paris-based company’s network chief, said in an interview.  “Our objective is to win back some of the point-to-point
market,” Matheu said. The exit of Ireland’s Ryanair, Europe’s
largest discount carrier, is “an argument in favor of opening
the Marseille base first.”  Under the regional-base project unveiled last month, Air
France aims to operate from provincial cities with a low-cost
fleet of 40 aircraft split equally between Bordeaux, Nice,
Marseille and Toulouse. Flights will commence from one city on
June 1, with all four bases due to be operational nine months
afterwards, Matheu said.  The new model will involve running part of the single-aisle
fleet from the regional sites instead of Paris and flying each
plane for 12 hours a day rather than the current eight or nine
hours, with faster turnarounds. Staff will work longer and be
based locally, cutting travel time and accommodation expenses.  ‘Test Case’  “Air France took their sweet time figuring out that low-
cost was a competitive threat,” said  Penny Butcher , an analyst
at Morgan Stanley in London. “EasyJet is now their biggest
domestic challenge and Marseille will be a test case.”  Air France is targeting the city after  Ryanair  said on Oct.
13 it would withdraw four planes there following legal action
for alleged breaches of French employment law. The Dublin-based
airline will retain just 10 of its 23 Marseille routes, dropping
13 destinations including the French cities of Lille and Nantes,
Eindhoven in the Netherlands and four Moroccan towns.  EasyJet  is also looking at routes from Marseille abandoned
by Ryanair and aims to triple its market share in France, where
discount carriers claim 20 percent of sales, half the European
average, regional manager  Francois Bacchetta  said. The company
is also adding services from Lyon and Paris Charles de Gaulle,
where it took advantage of the economic slump to grab takeoff
and landing slots.  Air France’s share of home traffic, measured in domestic
and international passenger numbers, fell to 34 percent last
year from 39 percent in 2002, when EasyJet opened its first
French base at Paris Orly. Over the same period, the U.K.
carrier more than quadrupled its market share to 7.6 percent.  ‘Defected’  EasyJet said last month it will begin selling pricier
flexible tickets through professional booking platforms as
competition for short-haul business passengers intensifies. Air
France will respond with incentives targeting smaller companies
that don’t qualify for its corporate discounts, Matheu said.  “Big corporate clients may have stuck with Air France, but
a lot of small businesses have defected to EasyJet on shorter
routes,” said  Yan Derocles , an Oddo Securities analyst in Paris
with a “buy” recommendation on Air France and “add” ratings for
EasyJet and Ryanair. “Air France may be able to get some of them
back, especially on routes where they can add frequencies.”  Rail Threat  French short-haul air travel is also under pressure from
high-speed trains as journey times fall. The Paris-Amsterdam
service run by Thalys International SCRL increased its market
share by 3.4 points to 78.5 percent in the first nine months, La
Tribune reported today, partly by winning passengers from Air
France-KLM’s strategic shuttles between its two main hubs.  Air France-KLM was trading up 0.9 percent at 14.13 euros as
of 12:08 p.m. in Paris, while EasyJet was down 0.7 percent in
London. The French carrier’s shares have advanced 29 percent
this year, compared with a 23 percent gain at EasyJet. The
eight-member  Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index  is up 27 percent.  Air France is already holding its own in direct competition
with EasyJet on the Lyon-Toulouse and Lyon-Bordeaux routes,
Matheu said in the Dec. 2 interview.  “We’re not very far from breakeven, despite their
presence,” he said, adding that the carrier will still avoid
opening any new routes to the hubs of a low-cost competitor.  While Air France probably can’t cut operating costs to the
levels of EasyJet and Ryanair, it won’t need to if passengers
are prepared to pay more, said  Jonathan Wober , an analyst at
Societe Generale in London with a “buy” rating on the stock.  “The question is whether the fares can be sustained at a
sufficient premium because there’s still some product
advantage,” Wober said, citing Air France’s brand, frequent-
flyer program, baggage allowances and on-board offerings.  EasyJet already has 20 bases among 500-plus destinations, a
reason the Luton, England-based carrier won’t be dislodged by
Air France, according to EasyJet regional manager Bacchetta.  “We’re too big for them to kill us now,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  