-- Thaksin, Facing Thai Terror Charge, Doesn't Fear U.S. Arrest, Lawyer Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-12-07T04:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/thaksin-facing-thai-terror-charge-doesn-t-fear-u-s-arrest-lawyer-says.html
Thaksin Shinawatra , a former Thai
prime minister who faces a terrorism charge in Thailand, is
unconcerned about a possible arrest during a planned visit to
the U.S. next week, spokesman  Noppadon Pattama  said.  “We appreciate the risk but he decided to go” and testify
before a U.S. government human rights commission, Noppadon said
by phone today. “There shouldn’t be any problem.”  Thaksin has lived overseas since 2008, when he fled a two-
year jail sentence in Thailand for abuse of power stemming from
his five years as prime minister that ended when the military
ousted him in 2006. Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has
sought his extradition.  The testimony before the committee of U.S. congressional
representatives gives Thaksin a platform to explain protests
from his supporters earlier this year that led to at least 89
deaths. Thailand’s government has charged him with terrorism for
his role in supporting the protests.  “This is an independent U.S. entity, not part of the U.S.
government as such,”  Thani Thongpakdi , Thai foreign ministry
spokesman, said by phone. “We’re confident that the U.S. will
understand what happened at the time.”  Thaksin plans to present evidence to the commission about
human rights violations during the protests and detail his views
on reconciliation, Noppadon said.  “We hope that with fuller evidence and details given by
our side, U.S. congressmen and Senators will know the truth and
understand the present political situation better,” he said.
“We hope that we would gain some support and sympathy.”  The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also
known as the Helsinki Commission, encourages compliance with
commitments of the 56-member  Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe . The commission consists of nine Senators,
nine members of the House of Representatives, and officials from
the departments of State, Defense and Commerce, according to its
 website .  Last month, Thailand extradited accused Russian arms dealer
 Viktor Bout  to the U.S. after a two-year legal battle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  