-- Taleb of `Black Swan' Mocks `Boring' Bernanke, Suckers, Wage Slaves: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-12-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/taleb-of-black-swan-mocks-boring-bernanke-suckers-wage-slaves-books.html
Why do hedge-fund traders seek to be
seen as philosopher kings?  George Soros  set the pace with his “theory of
reflexivity.” Then came  Nassim Nicholas Taleb , who became a
professor at New York University and gave us the catchphrase
“black swans.”  In his writings and publicity photos, Lebanese-born Taleb
strikes a pose. His biographical sketch says he “spends most of
his time as a flaneur, meditating in cafes across the planet.”  Now, in time for the holidays, Taleb has brought out a slim
volume of aphorisms, “The Bed of Procrustes.” Laced with
contempt for all kinds of people -- including  Robert Rubin  and
 Ben Bernanke  -- the book makes for a provocative and frostily
charming collection of sophistry.  The title refers to a sadistic thug from Greek mythology
who abducted travelers and forced them to lie in a special bed.
If a hostage was too short, Procrustes stretched him to fit the
furniture. If too tall, his legs got lopped off. The bed came to
symbolize any arbitrary standard ruthlessly used to produce
conformity. The theme speaks to Taleb’s preoccupation with how
humans handle the unknown and unexpected.  “Every aphorism here is about a Procrustean bed of
sorts,” he writes. “We humans, facing limits of knowledge, and
things we do not observe, the unseen and the unknown, resolve
the tension by squeezing life and the world into crisp
commoditized ideas, reductive categories, specific vocabularies
and prepackaged narratives, which, on the occasion, has
explosive consequences.”  Procrastination and Hatred  What we get, then, are epigrammatic distillations revolving
around the issue of “how we deal, and should deal, with what we
don’t know,” a topic he explored in “The Black Swan” and
“Fooled by Randomness.”  In some of these aphorisms, Taleb captures the human
condition with terse precision: “Procrastination is the soul
rebelling against entrapment,” he writes.  Elsewhere, he tries a little too hard: “Hatred is love
with a typo somewhere in the computer code, correctable but very
hard to find.”  Hatred is a recurring motif in these pages, along with
slavery, suckers and Taleb’s disdain for consultants,
economists, journalists and  Harvard Business School  professors.
After every brush with people engaged in such “depraved
pursuits,” he takes “a ritual bath” to purify himself from
the profane, he says.  Nabokov and Boxes  Taleb can be funny in an acerbic way, as in this gem: “For
pleasure, read one chapter of  Nabokov . For punishment, two.”  All too often, though, the peripatetic sage leaves the
creepy feeling that he’s sneering at you from a great height.
Here’s how he sees his fellow men:  “They are born, then put in a box; they go home to live in
a box; they study by ticking boxes; they go to what is called
‘work’ in a box, where they sit in their cubicle box; they drive
to the grocery store in a box to buy food in a box; they go to
the gym in a box to sit in a box; they talk about thinking
‘outside the box’; and when they die they are put in a box,” he
writes. “All boxes, Euclidian, geometrically smooth boxes.”  This is a savage dismissal from a man who, flaunting his
own celebrity and freedom, suggests that most humans are serfs:
“Those who do not think that employment is systemic slavery are
either blind or employed,” he says. Does he derive pleasure
from rubbing it in?  ‘Bankster’ Rubin  To be fair, Taleb challenges us to think for ourselves, a
job too many shirk. He’s as severe with the high and mighty as
he is with the plebs.  At one point, for example, he voices concern about “the
growing separation of the ethical and the legal.” A footnote
reads: “Former U.S. Treasury secretary ‘bankster’ Robert Rubin,
perhaps the biggest thief in history, broke no law.”  As for Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke, he inspired this
line: “How superb to become wise without being boring; how sad
to be boring without being wise.”  After reading the book twice, I got to wondering if Taleb
hadn’t built his own Procrustean bed: Here lies the money man
stretching himself into Plato.  “The Bed of Procrustes: Philosophical and Practical
Aphorisms” is from  Random House  in the U.S. and from  Allen Lane 
in the U.K. (112 pages, $18, 14.99 pounds). To buy this book in
North America, click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 