-- Half of Americans Say Housing Recovery at Least Two Years Away
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-12-07T19:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/half-of-americans-say-housing-recovery-at-least-two-years-away.html
Almost six in 10 U.S. adults say a
housing recovery is at least two years away, and more than a
third say flawed lender practices are partially to blame,
according to a survey by Trulia Inc. and RealtyTrac Inc.  Half of respondents in the poll had less faith in banks and
the government following disclosures that lenders may have used
false documents and signatures in taking back property, a
practice known as robo-signing, the real estate data companies
said today in a report. More than a third of respondents said
the rebound won’t happen until 2014 or later.  “American homeowners, sellers and buyers are tamping down
their expectations for a swift recovery in the housing market
and bracing themselves for a long, slow climb back to a healthy
real estate market,”  Pete Flint , chief executive officer of San
Francisco-based Trulia, said in the report.  Mounting foreclosures and an unemployment  rate  close to 10
percent are delaying a recovery in the industry that triggered
the worst recession since the 1930s. Home sales tumbled 21
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier and half of
U.S. metropolitan areas showed price declines, the National
Association of Realtors reported last month.  Demand  is unlikely to pick up soon amid a “catastrophic
drop in confidence,”  Robert Shiller , a Yale University
economist and co-creator of the  S&P Case-Shiller Index , said in
a Nov. 30 Bloomberg Television interview. The home-price gauge
has dropped 29 percent since peaking in 2006.  Pending Sales  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses unexpectedly jumped
by a record 10 percent in October, after a 1.8 percent drop the
previous month, the National Association of Realtors said Dec.
2. Low mortgage rates and private payroll growth are stabilizing
the housing market, according to  Dean Maki , chief economist at
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.  Two-thirds of mortgage holders said they would consider
trying to modify loan terms if they couldn’t afford their
payment, Trulia and RealtyTrac said. Almost half would think
about halting payments altogether if their home value fell below
the loan amount. That’s an increase from the 41 percent who said
in a May poll that they would “walk away.”  Almost half of U.S. adults said they would consider buying
a  foreclosed property , up from 45 percent in May, according to
the survey. Distressed homes accounted for a quarter of all
sales in the third quarter, Irvine, California-based RealtyTrac
said in a report last week.  Foreclosed Property Risks  The number of Americans who said there were negative
aspects to such purchases rose to 81 percent from 78 percent,
today’s survey shows. Those who saw risk in buying foreclosed
properties rose to 54 percent from 49 percent.  “The recent robo-signing controversy has added more
confusion to an already complicated process,” said  Rick Sharga ,
senior vice president for RealtyTrac.  About 35 percent of survey respondents said the foreclosure
documentation issue will delay the housing recovery. Loan
servicers including  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Ally Financial Inc. halted some home seizures as they
investigated their practices.  Attorneys general from all 50 states opened a joint inquiry
in October. The most likely outcome will be “massive fines”
against loan servicers, with a minimal effect on the recovery,
Sharga said on a conference call discussing the survey results.  “Americans clearly look at mortgage lenders as the primary
guilty parties,” Flint said on the call. “The scandal has left
a lingering bad taste.”  Decline in Filings  Foreclosure filings in November dropped as much as 25
percent from October because of the flap, Sharga said in an
interview after the call. Lenders probably will resume default
and auction notices and home seizures in the first quarter, he
said.  The Trulia and RealtyTrac survey of 2,034 people was
conducted Nov. 2-4 online within the U.S. by polling firm Harris
Interactive. The sample included 1,329 homeowners, 1,000 of them
with a mortgage, and 652 renters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  