-- Algebris Plans Hedge Funds Betting on Banks' CoCos Debt, Emerging Markets
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-12-07T04:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/algebris-plans-hedge-funds-betting-on-banks-cocos-debt-emerging-markets.html
Algebris Investments LLP, a $1.4
billion global financial hedge fund, is starting a fund focusing
on capital securities that regulators insist banks must issue.  The London-based firm plans to start Algebris Coco Credit
Fund in January to trade contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos,
that regulators have earmarked as a vital part of bank buffers
against future losses, said  Ivan Vatchkov , chief investment
officer of Algebris’s Asian unit. It plans to cap the size of
the fund at $1 billion, he said.  Algebris’s global financials hedge fund gained 57 percent
after fees in the past four years since inception in October
2006, compared with a 47 percent decline in the  MSCI World
Financials Index  in the same period. The Algebris Global
Financials Fund is a long/short equity and credit fund focused
on banks, insurance, diversified financials and real estate.  The manager will invest in a “new and complex asset
class” with its CoCos fund, Vatchkov said. Contingent
convertibles automatically become equity when there’s a
triggering event such as a decline in an issuer’s capital ratio
or its stock falling to a pre-arranged price. The capital
instruments would force investors in bank debt to help bear the
cost of a bailout.  The manager, which opened its Asian office in Singapore in
October, also plans to raise as much as $500 million for a fund
focusing on emerging markets, Vatchkov, 32, said in an interview.  ‘Appreciation Potential’  Conditional convertible capital is “going to be quite big
because regulators will require it,” Vatchkov said. “It’s
going to be attractive because the yields are going to be
relatively high and early inefficiencies in pricing due to
investor unfamiliarity will likely offer capital appreciation
potential.”  Swiss regulators proposed in October that the country’s two
largest banks, UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, both based in
Zurich, consider issuing CoCos. Lloyds Banking Group Plc in the
U.K. and the Netherlands’ Rabobank Groep NV have sold similar
debt instruments.  Algebris was set up in 2006 by  Davide Serra , former head of
equity research for European banks at Morgan Stanley, and  Eric Halet , previously global industry analyst at Wellington
Management Co., a Boston-based investment firm.  Algebris’s emerging-market fund, which started trading with
$15 million of the partners’ own money in January, has returned
more than 30 percent this year, Vatchkov said. The firm started
marketing the Algebris Emerging Markets Financials Fund to
investors last month, he said.  Asia Bets  The firm opened an office in Singapore because it wanted to
be close to India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam and
Thailand, said Vatchkov.  “The most attractive opportunities are in the companies
that have a market cap of under $2 billion,” he said. “They
don’t tend to be very well researched because the investment
banking fee potential is low and the trading volumes aren’t high
enough to justify detailed research coverage.”  The fund plans to increase its trades in Asia, Vatchkov said.
The region currently accounts for at least a third of Algebris’s
portfolio, he said.  “A lot of the growth in the new economies translates into
phenomenal growth for financial services providers which is
where our expertise is,” he said.  The fund has been heavily invested in India this year, he
said. It has a “strong preference for India over China because
of the financial penetration opportunity versus the policy risk
in China,” he said. While the fund also has a “strong long
bias” in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines, it’s kept its
“risk exposure low” in Japan, Taiwan and Australia.  Singapore Move  Vatchkov relocated to Singapore from London at the end of
September. He joined the hedge fund in 2008 from Credit Suisse,
where he was a director on the finance and strategy team at its
investment banking unit.  Maria Gabriela Bianchini , a partner at
Algebris, also moved from London to Singapore.  Algebris will offer in January versions of its global
financials and CoCos funds that conform with Europe’s
Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable
Securities, a regulated fund format known as UCITS III, Vatchkov
said. The UCITS funds will be targeted at individuals and
institutions seeking easier trading, transparency in underlying
investments and protection from increased regulatory scrutiny.  Algebris lost about 32 percent in 2008, posting most of the
losses in September and October that year as Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy caused global credit markets to seize
up. The fund returned almost 31 percent in 2009 and 9.3 percent
this year through October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  