-- Allen Stanford Too Drugged in Prison for Trial, Lawyer Says in Bail Bid
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-12-07T19:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/allen-stanford-too-drugged-in-prison-for-trial-lawyer-says-in-bail-bid.html
Jailed financier R. Allen Stanford is
too heavily medicated to prepare for or testify at his January
trial on charges he led a $7 billion investment fraud, his
lawyer claimed in a bid for bail.  Stanford, 60, has been held as a flight risk in a Houston
federal lockup since June 2009, when he was charged in an
indictment with selling bogus certificates of deposit at his
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  “Mr. Stanford’s mental, emotional and physical health are
drastically deteriorating,’’ Ali Fazel, the financier’s co-lead
lawyer, said yesterday in papers in federal court in Houston
seeking Stanford’s release. “These medications have left Mr.
Stanford in an unfocused and numbed state of mind’’ and have
“created a condition where the accused can no longer assist
counsel or invoke basic constitutional rights.’’  Before his arrest, Stanford wasn’t taking any prescription
medications, the lawyer said. “Currently, due to his
incarceration,” Stanford is prescribed “a variety of
medications,’’ he said.  Fazel said Stanford’s medications cause “tremors of the
limbs, diminished range of facial expression, slowness of
speech, drowsiness and fatigue.’’ The lawyer claims such
symptoms prevent Stanford from adequately reviewing documents
and helping in trial preparation. They may keep him from
testifying or participating at the trial, the attorney said.  Impact on Jury  “At all stages of the proceedings, the accused’s behavior,
manner, facial expressions and emotional responses, or their
absence, combine to make an overall impression’’ on jurors,
Fazel said, “an impression that can have a powerful influence
on the outcome of the trial.’’  Fazel in an interview declined to comment on Stanford’s
medications or condition, citing his client’s privacy and a
court order against attorneys’ public discussion of the case.  The types and dosage of medications Stanford is receiving
in prison were described in a sealed list submitted to U.S.
District  Judge  David Hittner, who has three times denied
Stanford’s requests to be released on bail. The trial is to
begin Jan. 24.  In September 2009, Stanford was beaten by another prisoner,
leaving him with broken facial bones and lingering numbness and
disorientation, according to his lawyers’ previous statements.
In earlier court filings, Stanford was described as severely
depressed and occasionally confused in dealings with lawyers.  Wrongdoing Denied  Stanford has denied any wrongdoing in connection with
allegations he ran a Ponzi scheme that took funds from later
investors to pay above-market returns to earlier buyers of
certificates of deposit issued by his Caribbean bank.  In addition to 21 criminal counts, Stanford faces parallel
civil fraud accusations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Fazel and his partner, Robert Scardino, both of Houston, 
were appointed Stanford’s lawyers in October after the financier 
lost a lawsuit over access to $100 million in legal defense 
insurance funds.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 