-- Halliburton Worker on Smoke Break Missed BP Well Data
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-12-07T21:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/halliburton-worker-was-on-a-smoke-break-when-bp-spill-began-panel-is-told.html
A  Halliburton Co.  technician missed
key signals that BP Plc’s doomed Macondo well was on the verge
of blowing out because he was taking a smoking break, a federal
investigative panel heard.  Joseph E. Keith, a senior unit manager for Halliburton’s
Sperry subsidiary, told the U.S. Coast Guard-Interior Department
panel in Houston today that he left his post aboard the
Deepwater Horizon for about 10 minutes on the night of the April
disaster to drink coffee and smoke half a cigarette.  While he was away from his monitors, pressure data
indicated the well was filling up with explosive natural gas and
crude, according to charts entered into evidence today by the
panel in Houston. Keith said that had he seen the pressure data,
he would have “called the rig floor” to warn fellow workers
they were in danger.  The April 20 catastrophe killed 11 employees, injured 17,
sank the $365 million  Transocean Ltd.  vessel and triggered the
worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Millions of barrels of
crude gushed into the ocean for almost three months, fouling
beaches, fishing grounds and marshes, and bringing deep-water
oil exploration in the Gulf of Mexico to a halt.  “Without someone watching those crucial data points, the
people working on the rig had no way of knowing something was
awry,” Robert L. Cavnar, former chief financial officer for  El
Paso Corp. ’s oil-drilling business and author of “Disaster on
the Horizon: High Stakes, High Risks and the Story Behind the
Deepwater Well Blowout.”  Halliburton fell 44 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $40.38 at
4:05 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Screens Bend  By the time Keith came back from his break, the readings on
the monitors had returned to normal. Keith told the panel he
realized something was wrong later when the screens he used to
monitor drilling fluid used in the well began to bend and
stretch, and an air-conditioning unit in the ceiling melted.  An internal investigation by BP, the majority owner of the
well, found that the rig crew failed to notice signals of
impending doom as long as 40 minutes prior to the explosions and
fire. The report, released in September, didn’t single out
individuals.  After escaping from the 6-foot-by-20-foot trailer where he
worked, Keith found the body of a dead colleague on the deck.
Keith was one of 115 workers who survived the disaster by
boarding life boats or jumping overboard.  More Hearings Set  Keith told the panel that there were multiple maintenance
operations underway on the rig as the crew prepared to move the
vessel to another project. Under normal circumstances, rig crews
limit themselves to one job at a time to avoid confusion, said
Cavnar, who has worked on offshore and land-based rigs during 30
years in the oil industry.  “Those poor guys were put in an untenable situation by
having so much going on around them at one time,” Cavnar said
today in a telephone interview from Tokyo. “The more things you
have going on, the harder it is for anyone to keep track of all
the moving parts.”  The federal panel began a sixth round of hearings this
week. The eight-person board is scheduled to hear testimony from
Transocean and BP employees tomorrow and on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Houston at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  