-- Alstom, Chinese Partners May Jointly Bid on U.S. Rail Contracts
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-12-07T18:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/alstom-chinese-partners-may-jointly-bid-on-u-s-rail-contracts-ceo-says.html
Alstom SA  may bid with Chinese
partners for high-speed rail contracts in the U.S., Brazil and
Argentina under an agreement to boost cooperation, according to
 Patrick Kron , chief executive officer of the French trainmaker.  “We have a two-prong approach, both to cooperate on the
Chinese market where there are massive needs, and on export
markets,” Kron said today in a telephone interview from
Beijing. Joint bids in the Americas are “among the things we
will study,” he said.  Alstom  signed a long-term cooperation agreement with
China’s Railway Ministry to develop infrastructure in the
country and elsewhere, the Levallois-Perret, France-based
company said today in a  statement . Alstom and Chinese companies
“will accelerate new areas of the cooperation on a wide
spectrum,” including intercity rolling stock, high-speed
trains, locomotives and signaling, it said.  The French manufacturer, the world’s second-largest
trainmaker by revenue, is trying to grow in China, the world’s
biggest market for rail infrastructure, as budget constraints
may hurt sales in Europe. Orders at its transport unit fell 16
percent in the six months through September from a year earlier.  Alstom and Chinese companies including  China CNR Corp.  will
discuss partnerships and investments, and see which markets they
can target together, Kron said. The talks could translate into
“tangible projects” within three months, he said.  Design, Efficiency  “We could co-design” high-speed trains and other
equipment “to provide more efficient offers,” the Alstom CEO
said. “This framework agreement is the opportunity to create a
real step-change in our business in China.”  Alstom, which is also the world’s third-largest maker of
power equipment and power-transmission gear,  rose  4.5 percent to
34.09 euros in Paris trading today. That pared the stock’s  drop 
this year to 31 percent, valuing the manufacturer at 10 billion
euros ($13.3 billion).  The French company’s expansion outside its home country
includes teaming up with Russian railway-equipment maker
Transmashholding to tap markets in the former Soviet Union.  Both Alstom, whose products include France’s high-speed TGV
train models, and the Chinese ministry have separately expressed
interest in the past three years in a railway project to link
Los Angeles and San Francisco.  Alstom has held off from some Chinese orders because it has
refused to transfer bullet-train technology to Chinese
manufacturers. Contracts won by competitors include a $4 billion
order for 80 high-speed trains awarded in September 2009 to
Montreal-based Bombardier Inc. and a 750 million-euro, 100-train
purchase from Siemens AG.  Alstom  is the second-largest maker of rolling stock by
sales after Munich-based  Siemens , according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 