-- Alstom, China to Cooperate on Railway Infrastructure
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-12-07T14:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/alstom-china-s-railway-ministry-plan-domestic-international-cooperation.html
Alstom SA , the world’s second-largest
trainmaker by revenue, signed a long-term cooperation agreement
with China’s Railway Ministry to develop infrastructure in the
country and abroad.  Alstom , the ministry and unidentified Chinese industrial
partners “will accelerate new areas of the cooperation on a
wide spectrum,” including intercity rolling stock, high-speed
trains, locomotives and signaling, the Levallois-Perret, France-
based company said today in a  statement . The company didn’t
specify which markets besides China will be targeted.  The French manufacturer, which is also the world’s third-
largest maker of power equipment and power-transmission gear, is
looking to grow in China, the world’s biggest market for rail
infrastructure, to make up for a lack of contracts in other
markets. Orders at Alstom’s transport division fell 16 percent
from a year earlier in the six months through September.  Alstom  rose  as much as 5.3 percent to 34.34 euros and was
up 4.8 percent as of 3:08 p.m. in Paris trading. That pared the
stock’s  drop  this year to 30 percent, valuing the manufacturer
at 10 billion euros ($13.5 billion).  The French company’s expansion outside its home country
includes teaming up with Russian railway-equipment maker
Transmashholding to tap markets in the former Soviet Union. Both
Alstom, whose products include France’s high-speed TGV train
models, and the Chinese ministry have separately expressed
interest in the past three years in a railway project to link
Los Angeles and San Francisco.  Alstom has held off from some Chinese orders because it has
refused to transfer bullet-train technology to Chinese
manufacturers. Contracts won by competitors include a $4 billion
order for 80 high-speed trains awarded in September 2009 to
Montreal-based Bombardier Inc. and a 750 million-euro, 100-train
purchase from Siemens AG.  Alstom  is the second-largest maker of rolling stock by
sales after Munich-based  Siemens , according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 