-- ‘Birds of America’ Book Fetches Record $11.5 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-12-07T18:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/aristocrats-seeking-cash-boost-119-million-old-master-auctions-in-london.html
A copy of  John James Audubon ’s early-
19th-century illustrated “Birds of America” sold in London
tonight for 7.3 million pounds ($11.5 million), a record for any
printed work.  The book was estimated at 6 million pounds at Sotheby’s.
Its price exceeded the $8.8 million paid in March 2000 by Sheikh
Saud al-Thani of Qatar at  Christie’s International  for another
copy.  The work was bought by London-based art dealer  Michael Tollemache , who said, “I think it’s priceless, don’t you?”  Earlier, a copy of  William Shakespeare ’s 1623 First Folio
had an estimate of as much as 1.5 million pounds at hammer
prices and made 1.5 million pounds with fees, bought by an
unidentified U.S. dealer in the room.  Ferrari, Poussin and King Arthur were among the eclectic
Christmas offerings at other London auctions today that were
estimated to raise as much as 67 million pounds.  The Rochefoucauld Grail, narrating the adventures of the
legendary British king Arthur, was first on the block at
Sotheby’s. It was bought for 2.4 million pounds with fees by the
London-based dealer  Sam Fogg . It was valued at between 1.5
million pounds and 2 million pounds.  This evening, David Manners, the 11th Duke of Rutland, was
among several U.K. aristocrats seeking to raise cash by selling
Old Master paintings.  Nicolas Poussin’s  “Ordination” hung for more than 200
years at the Duke’s home, Belvoir Castle in Leicestershire. It
is offered by Christie’s, with an estimate of 15 million pounds
to 20 million pounds, and failed to find a buyer.  Museum Money  “It was a difficult picture to sell,” London based dealer
 Jean-Luc Baroni  said. “Poussin is an intellectual artist and 
not everyone likes him. It's hard to find a museum with that 
kind of money at the moment.”  A very different rarity offered tonight was a 1958 
Ferrari 250GT LWB “Tour de France.” It had an upper estimate 
of 1 million pounds, the most valuable of 141 cars being sold
by the London-based auction house  Coys . The car failed to 
sell, with dealers saying it wasn't original enough for some 
buyers. It had been extensively restored after a crash.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 