-- Asia Should Consider Regional Exchange-Rate Cooperation, ADB Unit Proposes
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-12-07T02:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/asia-should-consider-cooperating-on-exchange-rates-fund-flows-adb-says.html
Asian economies should cooperate on
exchange rates to manage capital inflows and boost regional
trade as faltering recoveries in advanced economies threaten
demand for exports, an  Asian Development Bank  unit said.  “Greater regional cooperation may allow the region’s
economies to be more willing to appreciate currencies without
fear of losing competitiveness to other economies, thus helping
global rebalancing,” The Manila-based ADB’s Office of Regional
Economic Integration said in its December Asia Economic Monitor
released today.  Asian currencies have climbed in a range of 1.7 percent to
11.5 percent against the dollar this year, except for the Hong
Kong currency, which is pegged to its U.S. counterpart. “Weak”
growth in advanced economies in the next several years will lead
to a difference in growth rates between Asia and the U.S. and
Europe, sustaining the region’s currency gains and resulting in
“long-lasting” capital inflows, according to the ADB report.  The ADB raised the 2010 growth forecast for developing Asia
to 8.6 percent from its September estimate of 8.2 percent, the
bank said in a separate note today. It kept the 2011 forecast at
7.3 percent.  While weak demand in the U.S., along with the sovereign
debt crisis in Europe and deflation in Japan, is hurting
prospects for Asian exports, efforts by the U.S. Federal Reserve
to bolster growth also increases the risks of asset price
bubbles and higher inflation in the region, the ADB office said.  Cheap Money  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the economy is
barely expanding at a sustainable pace and it’s possible the
central bank may buy more bonds beyond the $600 billion
announced last month to spur growth. Additional easing by the
Fed may cause the dollar to weaken and spur capital flows to
emerging economies, the Philippine central bank said yesterday.  “Commodity prices are rising due to cheap money, which
could be inflationary and hurt consumption,” the ADB unit said.
“Giving investors incentives to seek higher yields in riskier
assets could create asset bubbles. Inflationary expectations
could accelerate. And abundant liquidity could once again lead
to inordinate capital flows, particularly to emerging economies,
with possible destabilizing effects.”  Southeast Asian nations and Japan, South Korea and China
can explore the possibility of regional exchange-rate
cooperation and coordination “to effectively manage surging
capital inflows to the region and better rebalance the sources
of growth,” the ADB unit said.  Monitoring Zones  While “maintaining flexible exchange rates inter-
regionally is an essential tool to manage potentially volatile
capital flows and external shocks,” stable rates between Asian
currencies would promote trade within the region, the ADB office
said.  Regional exchange rate cooperation could start with less
ambitious goals than the monetary union adopted in Europe, the
unit said, suggesting an “informal reference or monitoring
zones” for the region’s exchange rates to reduce
“variability” over time.  Export growth will slow in Asia in 2011 on “subdued”
demand from the U.S. and Europe, helping to reduce current-
account surpluses in the region, the report showed.  China’s growth will moderate to 9.1 percent in 2011 from
10.1 percent this year as property prices cool and stimulus is
withdrawn, the ADB office said.  Japan’s recovery will also ease as a strengthening yen and
“persistent deflationary pressures” are hurting exports and
weakening consumer spending, the ADB unit said. Economic growth
will slow to 1.4 percent next year from this year’s 3.2 percent,
it projected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  