-- Asian Teens Ace Global Achievement Test Besting U.S. as Shanghai Excels
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2010-12-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/asian-teens-ace-global-achievement-test-besting-u-s-as-shanghai-excels.html
Fifteen-year-olds in Asia topped the
charts on an international test, raising concern in the U.S.
that the nation’s students lag in economic competitiveness.  The Organisation for Economic Co-operation & Development,
which represents 34 countries, released yesterday the 2009
 Programme for International Student Assessment . For the first
time, the triennial test broke out China’s Shanghai region --
which topped every country, in all academic categories. South
Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan all outpaced the U.S.  Asian countries and regions benefit from a cultural
emphasis on education, investments in teacher quality and
equitable funding of schools regardless of family income,
Andreas Schleicher, who oversees the test for the Paris-based
OECD, said in a telephone interview.  “It is striking,” Schleicher said. “These countries are
improving very rapidly.”  China’s success in Shanghai stemmed from the government’s
abandonment of a system of “key schools” for elites, and the
institution of “a more inclusive system in which all students
are expected to perform at high levels,” the OECD said in
yesterday’s report.  China also raised teacher pay and standards and reduced
rote learning, while giving students and local authorities more
choice in curriculum.  Universal Education  Shanghai was the first city in China to achieve universal
primary and junior-secondary education. More than 80 percent of
Shanghai students of college age are admitted into higher-
education institutions, beating the national figure of 24
percent, according to the report. China’s Hong Kong is also a
top performer.  The OECD test, first administered in 2000 and given every
three years, aims to measure skills achieved near the end of
compulsory schooling.  In all, 470,000 students worldwide took the exam. The test
measured countries and regions both inside and outside the OECD,
or a total of 65 countries and economies. In the U.S., 165
public and private schools and 5,233 students participated in
the two-hour paper-and-pencil assessment, given in September and
November 2009. It consisted of multiple-choice and open-response
questions.  In math, Shanghai 15-year-old students scored 600 on
average on a 1,000-point scale; Singapore, 562; Hong Kong, 555;
and South Korea, 546. U.S. students scored 487. Those Asian
countries also surpassed U.S. averages in reading and science.  Lessons for U.S.  The success of education systems in Asia and elsewhere
holds lessons for U.S. policy, according to the report.
Successful countries offer autonomy to individual schools in
terms of curriculum and prioritize teacher pay over smaller
classes, the authors wrote.  Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates  urged U.S. public-
school officials to overhaul teacher pay, saying on Nov. 19 that
instructors should be rewarded for results rather than seniority
or advanced degrees. Gates, whose Seattle-based Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation funds education programs, said the U.S. may
also find money for merit pay by increasing class size. Asian
countries will often have as many as 40 or 50 students in a
classroom, Schleicher said.  The results show that U.S. students must improve to compete
in a global economy, Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 6. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is promoting national curriculum standards and a
revamping of teacher pay that stresses performance rather than
credentials and seniority.  “The brutal fact here is there are many countries that are
far ahead of us and improving more rapidly than we are,” Duncan
said. “This should be a massive wake-up call to the entire
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  