-- WikiLeaks’ Assange Denied Bail in U.K. Extradition
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-12-07T18:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/assange-arrested-in-u-k-on-international-warrant-for-swedish-rape-probe.html
Julian Assange , founder of the
 WikiLeaks  website that leaked thousands of secret U.S. military
and State Department documents, was denied bail by a U.K. judge
at an extradition hearing over rape allegations in Sweden.  Assange, 39, will remain in custody at least until his next
hearing on Dec. 14, Judge Howard Riddle ruled today at City of
Westminster Magistrate’s Court in London. Assange told the court
he will fight the extradition.  “These are serious sexual offenses” and Assange has
“weak community ties” and access to significant funds, Riddle
said of his reasons for denying bail. He said the case isn’t
about WikiLeaks, where Assange is editor-in-chief.  WikiLeaks drew condemnation for posting classified
documents on its website, including U.S. embassy communications
and a military video of a July 2007 helicopter attack in Iraq
that killed a Reuters television cameraman and his driver.
Created in 2006, WikiLeaks receives confidential material and
posts it on the Internet “so readers and historians alike can
see evidence of the truth,” according to its website.  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said at a news conference
on Nov. 29 that the Justice Department was conducting a criminal
investigation into the release of government documents, saying
such leaks put lives at risk. The U.S. embassy in London said it
didn’t send a representative to today’s hearing.  ‘Exotic Position’  Mark Stephens , Assange’s lawyer with the firm Finers
Stephens Innocent LLP in London, told reporters outside court
that the bail ruling was “unfortunate” and that many people
believe the allegations are politically motivated.  “We are in the rather exotic position of not seeing any of
the evidence” against Assange, Stephens said. “It’s very hard
to prepare a bail application under those circumstances.”
Stephens regularly represents media organizations, including
Bloomberg News.  Assange was arrested “by appointment” today at 9:30 a.m.
after Swedish police issued a European arrest warrant. His
surrender to police followed a warrant on one count of unlawful
coercion, two counts of sexual molestation and one count of rape
allegedly committed in August 2010, police said.  Prosecutors at the hearing said some claims relate to
whether Assange failed to use condoms during sex and may have
exploited a woman while she was sleeping. The alleged crimes
took place in Stockholm and Enkoeping, while Assange was
lecturing about the publication of classified U.S. military
documents related to the war in Afghanistan.  Payments Suspended  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s second-biggest payments
network, and London-based Visa Europe Ltd. are suspending
payments to WikiLeaks via their systems, the companies said.
MasterCard and Visa Europe are following the lead of  EBay Inc. 
unit PayPal, which recently cut access to WikiLeaks for
violating the online payment processor’s acceptable use policy.  Stephens, Assange’s lawyer, said the website will continue
operating and release more documents.  “Assange’s likelihood of success in fighting extradition
is very low,” said Peter Watson, a lawyer with Allen & Overy
LLP in London. “The European arrest warrant is a deliberately
speedy process, free from political interference and with very
narrow grounds on which to challenge.”  Watson said Assange’s prospects for winning bail next week
are equally low because the U.K. would likely want Sweden to
decide on bail, rather than risk losing a prisoner.  Flight Risk  “In an extradition proceeding, flight risk concerns are
even greater,”  Helen Malcolm , a lawyer with  Three Raymond
Buildings  in London, said in an interview. “Nobody can be
unaware that he may be wanted in America, if not now then soon,
which gives him a strong impetus to escape.”  Gemma Lindfield , a lawyer for the U.K. government, argued
in court against bail for Assange citing his “nomadic
lifestyle.”  “This is somebody who is unable to provide an address that
he will stay at for the proceedings,” Lindfield said.  John Pilger , a journalist and documentary filmmaker, joined
 Jemima Khan  and other celebrities at court offering to guarantee
Assange’s surety.  “I have a very high regard for him,” Pilger told Riddle.
“I’m here today because the charges against him in Sweden are
absurd, and were judged as absurd by the chief prosecutor”
until a “senior political figure intervened.”  The arrest warrant was sought by prosecutor  Marianne Ny ,
who started her investigation on Sept. 1 after a Stockholm-based
prosecutor dropped the rape charge and reduced the molestation
charges. A lawyer for the two alleged victims appealed that
decision.  Sex-Crime Cases  Ny, who heads an office in Gothenburg that handles appeals
involving prosecutor decisions in sex-crime cases, said today’s
arrest was a prerequisite for her case to move forward.  “I want to make it clear that I haven’t been subjected to
any kind of pressure, political or otherwise,” Ny said in a
statement on the office’s website. “I am prosecuting based on
suspicions of sex crimes that were committed in Sweden.”  Assange, born in Townsville, Australia, began as a computer
hacker in his native country and pleaded guilty in 1996 to 24
counts of violating the Crimes Act by accessing and inserting
information into computers, including those of  Nortel Networks
Corp.  He received a fine and three years probation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 