-- Latvia's Sovereign Rating Raised by S&P on Lower Deficit, Return to Growth
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-12-07T14:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/latvia-s-debt-rating-raised-one-step-at-standard-poor-s-outlook-stable.html
Latvia’s credit rating was raised one
step by Standard & Poor’s, which cited public debt remaining at
“moderate levels” and the economy “rebalancing quickly.”  S&P raised the rating to BB+, one level below investment
grade, analyst  Frank Gill  said in a statement from London today.
The grade has a stable outlook, meaning the credit evaluator is
more likely to keep it unchanged than to cut or raise it. The
rating is on a par with Azerbaijan, Romania and Greece.  Latvian  gross domestic product  grew an annual 2.7 percent
in the three months through September, the first expansion in 10
quarters. The country has passed austerity measures equal to
about 14 percent of GDP since the crisis began in 2008 and plans
more in the 2011 budget to comply with its 7.5 billion-euro ($10
billion) international bailout from a group led by the European
Commission and the  International Monetary Fund .  “Continued commitment to fiscal discipline and further
strengthening in economic activity could lift the country to
investment grade in 2011 or in early 2012,” said  Yarkin Cebeci ,
an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., in an e-mailed comment.  The yield on Latvia’s Eurobond due 2018 fell 13 basis
points today to 5.36 percent, which compares with a yield of
almost 12 percent in March last year.  ‘Marked Improvement’  Asking rates for three-month loans at the Riga interbank
offered rate, or  Rigibor , was little changed at 0.83 percent
today, about 20 basis points below the euro-area rate, known as
 Euribor . The difference, or spread, between the rates reached
2,868 basis points in June 2009 when speculation mounted that
the lats, which has a fixed rate to euro, would be devalued.  The ratings changes “reflect a marked improvement in
Latvia’s current account,” S&P said. “Confronted with sharply
tighter credit conditions, past imbalances have rapidly unwound.
The process has helped to restore competitiveness.”  Five-year credit-default swaps on Latvian debt, which
investors use to protect against default or speculate on a
borrower’s credit worthiness, fell about 6 basis points today to
277.4, according to data provider CMA. Latvian CDS prices had
reached almost 1,200 basis points in March 2009.  Economic Recovery  The economy is recovering after shrinking about 25 percent
through nine quarters of declines, the International Monetary
Fund estimates. S&P estimates that Latvia’s deficit will fall to
below 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, a key
requirement to adopt the euro in 2014.  Latvian net general government debt levels are projected to
peak at 35 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, S&P said
in the statement.  “The rating news shows that the measures are clearly
paying off,” said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market
analyst at Danske Bank A/S, by phone. “It’s helpful for the
efforts to return to the markets. It’s a sign of approval from
the rating agencies and from the markets further down the road
of what Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  has been doing.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates the country Baa3, its
lowest investment grade, with a stable outlook. Fitch Ratings
has a BB+ rating for Latvia, one level below investment grade,
with a stable outlook. Fitch places Estonia at A, its fifth-
highest investment grade, while Moody’s has the country at A1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  