-- Tax Accord to Fuel Growth, Put Pressure on Bonds, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-12-07T16:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/tax-accord-to-fuel-growth-put-pressure-on-bonds-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Mohamed El-Erian  said that the U.S. tax agreement worked out by
the Obama administration is good for growth as reflected in
gains in stocks and commodities and declines in bonds.  “It puts pressure on the fiscal situation so bonds are
selling off,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer of the firm that runs the world’s biggest bond fund,
said in an interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It is very important that the market is interpreting it
as good for growth, so risk assets are rallying across the
board.”  The yield on the 10-year note rose to 3.10 percent, the
highest since July as President  Barack Obama  said he would agree
to extend his predecessor’s tax cuts for two years. Stocks rose,
sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a two-year high.
Metals and energy producers rallied, sending gold and copper
prices to all-time highs. Crude oil climbed above $90 a barrel
to the highest price in 26 months.  President Obama agreed to accept lower rates on high
earners’ income, dividends, capital gains and multimillion-
dollar estates for the next two years to break a stalemate over
extending the  George W. Bush  administration’s tax cuts for
middle-class taxpayers before Congress adjourns. The current tax
rates, enacted in 2001 and 2003, are set to increase Dec. 31.  ‘Short of Expectations’  “We are opting for short-term stimulus in the hopes that
we will get growth,” El-Erian said. “This is not a
destination. This is a bridge. The last thing we need right now
is gridlock in Washington. Up to this point, the Fed was being
asked to do all the heavy lifting with imperfect instruments.
The results of which is that policy effectiveness was falling
short of expectations.”  The Federal Reserve announced following its Nov. 2-3 policy
meeting the plan to buy an additional $600 billion in U.S.
government debt through June to sustain the economic recovery
and prevent deflation. In the Fed’s first round of asset
purchases, which ended in March, the central bank bought $1.75
trillion in securities, including $300 billion in  Treasuries .  El-Erian said that the tax compromise omitted a few key
components to sustainable growth. “It’s not enough to boost
demand,” he said. “You also need structural reforms to ensure
that there’s a handoff to competitive high growth.”  ‘Dependent on China’  The latest tax compromise will boost inflation in the
medium term and the effects will also impact other economies,
El-Erian said.  “People recognize the stimulus will leak out of the real
economy into commodities, into other countries and therefore it
will push inflation higher, including food inflation, which is a
major problem in China,” he said. “With Europe having opted
for austerity and likely to slow down even more, the global
economy is very dependent on China both as a provider of growth
and as a buyer of assets. If China slips, the outlook for the
global economy would worsen significantly.”  Chinese inflation will accelerate past 4 percent in 2011, a
three-year high, according to a Bloomberg survey. Gross domestic
product will rise 9.2 percent in 2011, the median projection
shows, compared with the 10 percent gain estimated by the World
Bank for 2010.  Consumer prices in the U.S., excluding food and fuel
increased 0.6 percent in October from a year earlier in the
smallest gain in year-over-year figures going back to 1958, the
Labor Department reported Nov. 17.  “There’s a limit to how much stimulus we can afford,” El-
Erian said. “This is a temporary shift in the hopes you will
trigger animal spirits that the cash that’s on the sidelines is
put to work in terms of investments in equipment and in
people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  