-- Tax-Cut Accord Gives In to `Moneyed Interests,' AFL-CIO Chief Trumka Says
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2010-12-07T21:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/tax-cut-accord-gives-in-to-moneyed-interests-afl-cio-chief-trumka-says.html
The leader of the largest U.S. labor
federation portrayed the deal President  Barack Obama  cut with
Republicans to extend all of the Bush-era tax cuts as caving in
“to Wall Street and moneyed interests.”  “Two years ago, working Americans had high hopes that we
would ultimately emerge from the deep, punishing financial
debacle,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said today in an e-
mailed statement. “Today, that vision has dimmed.”  The tax-cut deal announced by Obama yesterday rewards
Republican obstructionism by giving rich people tax breaks they
don’t need, Trumka said.  “It throws away precious resources needed for investments
in jobs,” said Trumka, who has called on the Obama
administration to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on a
second economic-stimulus measure.  Unions spent a record $450 million in 2008 to help elect
Obama to the White House and Democrats to Congress and have
remained close allies with the administration. Union members
have expressed frustration that Democrats haven’t delivered on
organized labor’s full policy agenda. They continued to hold
back from criticizing the president by name.  Mary Kay Henry , president of the Service Employees
International Union, said Republicans have “held our country
hostage until we give in to another bailout for the rich.”  Obama said today his compromise with Republicans, who
gained in the Nov. 2 election, was necessary to meet his top
priorities of helping middle-income Americans and spurring job
creation. The proposal faces resistance from some Democrats in
Congress.  “Because of this agreement, middle-class Americans won’t
see their taxes go up on Jan. 1,” Obama said at a White House
news conference. “It’s a good deal for the American people.”  Two-Year Extension  The agreement calls for a two-year extension of current tax
rates -- including those for high-income taxpayers -- in
exchange for adding 13 months of federal unemployment insurance
for the long-term jobless and cutting the payroll tax by $120
billion for one year.  Obama ran for president pledging not to extend the cuts for
the wealthiest Americans. Labor unions, while focusing the bulk
of their criticism today on Republicans, also suggested that
Obama and Democrats didn’t need to compromise.  “The issue we face today is not the lack of power or
opportunity,” Trumka said. “The question we have to answer is
this: How do we use our power to escape caving in to Wall Street
and moneyed interests?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 