-- Tax Cuts May Spur Economy, Limit Need to Extend Fed Purchases
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/tax-cut-extension-may-bolster-economy-limit-need-for-fed-to-go-beyond-qe2.html
President  Barack Obama ’s agreement to
prolong Bush-era income-tax cuts may reduce pressure on the
Federal Reserve to extend its $600 billion bond-purchase program
while spurring U.S. economic growth.  Obama’s deal with congressional Republicans may raise gross
domestic product next year by as much as half a percentage point
to about 3.1 percent, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  Tom Porcelli , a senior
economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in New York, is raising
his growth forecast for 2011 by one point, also to 3.1 percent.  The agreement goes beyond what economists were expecting by
including a 2 percent cut in payroll taxes, which fund Social
Security and Medicare. The proposal also sets the estate tax at
a top rate of 35 percent, extends aid for the long-term
 unemployed  by 13 months and would allow companies next year to
deduct the full cost of investments in equipment.  “I think it does reduce the odds that the Fed does more
purchases,” Feroli said. “You’re going to have a pretty nice
increase in disposable income and that should lift consumer
spending.”  Stocks rallied after the agreement was announced, sending
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  to the highest level since the
financial crisis in September 2008. Gains were erased in the
final hour of trading after Obama said he’ll push to overhaul
the tax code in two years. Treasuries fell and copper rose to a
31-month high.  Payroll Tax  The payroll-tax cut would apply to all wage earners, an
administration official told reporters on a conference call Dec.
6. That would be an $800 savings for individuals with an income
of $40,000. Those who earn salaries of more than $106,800 would
save a maximum of $2,136. The proposal would cost the government
$120 billion, another official said.  The S&P 500 rose 0.1 percent to 1,223.78 at 4 p.m. in New
York after surging 1 percent earlier. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average was little changed at 11,359.16.  “This is a big deal for the stock market,” said  Allen Sinai , chief global economist at Decision Economics in New York.
The S&P 500 may rise from 15 percent to 20 percent next year,
compared with his earlier forecast for a gain of 13 percent to
15 percent, he said. Sinai raised his economic growth forecast
for next year by half a point, to a range of 2.75 percent to 3
percent.  The tax cuts would amount to a $115 billion increase in
wage and salary income, Deutsche Bank Securities economists
 Joseph LaVorgna ,  Carl Riccadonna  and  Brett Ryan  said in a note
to clients. As a result, Americans would spend $108 billion more
than the three had previously forecast.  Inflation-Adjusted Growth  That would boost gross domestic product by 0.7 percentage
point, bringing inflation-adjusted growth for the fourth quarter
of next year to a 4 percent annual rate, LaVorgna said in an
interview.  Obama said this week he would accept lower rates on high
earners’ income, dividends, capital gains and multimillion-
dollar estates for the next two years to break a stalemate over
extending the  George W. Bush  administration’s tax cuts for
middle-income taxpayers before Congress adjourns. The current
tax rates, enacted in 2001 and 2003, are set to increase Dec.
31.  The extension, and the economic improvement it brings, may
reduce pressure on the Fed to extend its program of asset
purchases beyond the $600 billion planned through June.  The tax plan takes “some of the pressure off the Fed” and
means the central bank “may not need to do more,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS Inc. in Lexington,
Massachusetts.  ‘Mutually Supportive’  “Any tax deal and current Fed policy are mutually
supportive,”  Drew Matus , senior economist at UBS Securities LLC
in Stamford, Connecticut, said in an e-mail.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on Dec. 5 said “it’s
certainly possible” the central bank may increase purchases
beyond that amount approved by the Federal Open Market Committee
last month. Policy makers next meet Dec. 14.  Some economists said the Fed is still likely to expand its
asset-purchase program. The purchases are intended to reduce
long-term interest rates, making it cheaper for firms to buy new
equipment or consumers to purchase houses and cars.  “I am not sure that even with the added stimulus the Fed
forecast will be where Bernanke wants it to be in June,” said
 Roberto Perli , a managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington and a former Fed Board economist.
“The new fiscal measures certainly help, but there is a
probability the Fed will want to do more than $600 billion.”  ‘Better Than Even’  There are “better than even odds that the Fed buys more
assets” in the second half of 2011, said  Ethan Harris , head of
developed-markets economic research in New York at BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research. Harris said the cuts could boost his 2011
forecast by 0.3 to 0.6 percentage point from a current estimate
of 2.3 percent.  Bernanke, in a Dec. 5 interview on CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes” program, defended the central bank’s efforts to spur
the recovery, saying it may take four or five years for the
jobless rate to return to a “more normal” level of 5 percent
to 6 percent. The rate last month rose to 9.8 percent, the
highest level since April.  Some Republican lawmakers, including prospective House
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio, have said the Fed’s policy of
“quantitative easing” may do little to help unemployment and
risks weakening the dollar and fueling asset-price bubbles.  Marginal Rates  The tax deal would leave in place marginal rates created in
2001, ranging from 10 percent to 35 percent. It would also
preserve for two years the 15 percent rate on most capital gains
and dividends, and would temporarily index the alternative
minimum tax for inflation. The plan, if approved by Congress,
would extend aid for the long-term unemployed for an additional
13 months.  One benefit for companies would be an expensing proposal.
Under the agreement, companies in 2011 could deduct the full
cost of investments in equipment instead of following typical
depreciation schedules. The tax benefit will be available even
for planned investments.  Obama yesterday called the agreement a “a good deal for
the American people” and said he will fight to end the tax cuts
for the wealthiest taxpayers in two years, when the new
extension expires.  “A long political fight that carried over into next year
might have been good politics but it would be a bad deal for the
economy and it would be a bad deal for the American people,”
Obama said at a White House news conference.  Little Benefit Seen  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said the extension of the top
tax rates would widen the deficit with little benefit to the
economy. The estate-tax provision adds “insult to injury,” the
California Democrat said.  The plan would set the estate tax at a top rate of 35
percent, which applies after a $5 million tax-free allowance per
individual. That rate would be the lowest since 1931 -- not
counting 2010, when the rate was zero and replaced with a
capital gains tax that applies when inherited assets are sold.  House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  said a continued tax
break for the wealthiest Americans “is not warranted.” House
Democrats haven’t decided whether they will support the
compromise, said Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat.  “The last thing we need right now is gridlock in
Washington,”  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive and co-chief
investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said
yesterday in an interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, runs the Total
Return Fund, the world’s biggest bond fund.  “Up to this point, the Fed was being asked to do all the
heavy lifting with imperfect instruments,” El-Erian said. “The
results of which is that policy effectiveness was falling short
of expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net  