-- Obama Tax Deal Wins Praise From Business-Lobby Critics (Update1)
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-07T21:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/tax-deal-draws-praise-from-business-groups-that-criticized-obama-policies.html
President Barack Obama won praise
from business groups that have criticized his labor, health and
financial regulatory policies after he agreed to extend tax cuts
for all Americans and cut workers’ payroll taxes.  Obama’s deal with Republicans in Congress to maintain for
two years the Bush-era tax cuts that are to expire this month
and give businesses more write-offs on research and machinery
costs will boost the economy by removing uncertainty that led to
the complaints from executives, Bruce Josten, chief lobbyist for
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said today.  The agreement “is one of the best steps Washington can
take to eliminate the uncertainty that is preventing our
employers from hiring, investing, and growing their
businesses,” Josten said in an e-mail. It will “go a long way
toward helping our economy break out of this slump and begin
creating American jobs.”  The Chamber, the largest Washington lobbying group, spent
more than $30 million on political advertising in this year’s
election, mostly to support Republican candidates. The Chamber
said a “tsunami” of regulations from Obama on health care,
labor and the environment have undercut economic growth and cost
the American economy jobs.  “The president made the right decision for the country and
the economy by not increasing taxes in what is still the worst
recession and jobs crisis since the Great Depression,” said
Daniel DiMicco, chief executive officer of steelmaker Nucor
Corp.  ‘Incent Businesses’  AT&T Inc. Chief Financial Officer Rick Lindner said the
economy is too fragile to resume tax rates in place before the
Bush cuts took effect. “You need to incent businesses to
grow,” Lindner said today.  After almost a week of negotiations with lawmakers led by
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and budget director Jack
Lew, Obama announced last night he’ll accept a deal that would
keep current tax rates for high-income taxpayers for two years
in exchange for extending federal unemployment insurance for the
long-term jobless and cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion
for one year.  Executives credited the Republican victories in the Nov. 2
election, in which they won control of House and added to their
seats in the Senate, for forcing a shift in strategy by an
administration they blamed for undercutting companies.  “He is anti-business,” Mike Jackson, chief executive
officer of AutoNation Inc., said in an interview. “He had to be
dragged kicking and screaming. It took a shellacking to get him
here.”  Obama Vow  Obama had sought to maintain the lower tax rates on the
first $200,000 of an individual’s annual income and first
$250,000 in yearly earnings for married couples filing joint
returns. The president now faces criticism for abandoning his
pledge to extend tax cuts only for middle-income Americans. The
tax cuts were adopted during the George W. Bush administration.  Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, a member of
the Democratic leadership, said today on Bloomberg Television
that he had “serious reservations,” and House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi faulted extending the top tax rates.  The deal “gives us the time to have this political battle
without having the same casualties for the American people that
are my No. 1 concern” Obama said today at a White House news
conference.  The compromise, if approved by Congress, will boost the
economy, help stock markets and signal a pullback from
Washington’s mounting interference in the economy since Obama
took office in 2009, Thomas Lee, chief equity strategist for
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail.  ‘Something Sensible’  “The most important thing is that Washington is going to
do something sensible, rather than all the crazy things we’ve
seen” in the past two years, William Dunkelberg, the chief
economist of the Nashville, Tennessee-based National Federation
of Independent Business, said in an interview.  The group, representing U.S. small-business owners, fought
Obama’s health-care legislation and sought to head off
legislation that passed the House of Representatives to regulate
carbon emissions. In early 2009, Dunkelberg said he advocated a
full suspension of the payroll tax, which funds Social Security
and Medicare, in place of Obama’s stimulus package of tax cuts
and government infrastructure projects.  Obama’s deal with the Republicans includes a 2 percentage
point cut in the payroll tax, representing a savings of about a
third on the 6.2 percent share of the tax workers normally pay.  ‘Little More Stimulus’  “The consumer will get a little more stimulus, and they
will spend it,” Dunkelberg said in an interview.  Obama also endorsed allowing full deduction for equipment
purchases that now are written down over time. The proposal
would accelerate $200 billion in tax savings for companies in
the first year and benefit 1.5 million companies and several
million individuals who run businesses, according to White House
estimates.  Such a reduction will help both the companies investing in
new machinery and the makers of that equipment, said Dorothy
Coleman, the vice president for tax policy at the Washington-
based National Association of Manufacturers.  “That’s a two-for for manufacturers,” Coleman said in an
interview.  Some business leaders say they are worried that the tax
deal will add to the U.S. deficit.  “It seems that we will have less revenue and higher
expenditures,” Peter Huntsman, the chief executive of Huntsman
Corp., said in an e-mail. “This will lead to a path to economic
destruction. I can only hope their next battle will be
addressing our growing imbalance of revenues and expenditures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  