-- Obama Tax-Cut Winners Include Companies; Muni Borrowers Could Be Losers
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-07T21:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/tax-deal-creates-more-winners-thans-losers-as-u-s-companies-workers-gain.html
A tax framework announced by
President  Barack Obama  creates more winners now than losers by
boosting workers’ pay, aiding the jobless, rewarding companies
for investing in equipment and saving wealthy families billions
of dollars in capital gains, dividend and estate taxes.  The potential losers include cities and states poised to
give up the Build America Bonds program, technology and energy
companies that may forgo a manufacturing tax credit, and future
generations of Americans that will be faced with as much as $1
trillion in debt as a result of the legislation.  Obama yesterday announced a compromise with congressional
Republicans that sustains all of the Bush-era tax cuts through
2012 and sets the federal estate tax at 35 percent for two
years. Obama said he secured a 13-month extension of federal
jobless aid, a 2 percentage-point cut in payroll taxes for one
year, and accelerated tax benefits for companies that buy
equipment.  The deal “is primarily dictated by politics,” said former
Texas Representative  Bill Archer , a Republican who was chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee from 1995 to 2000. “This
is the first concrete pillar for Obama’s re-election. I think he
took a long look at this and decided it was a hell of a lot more
positive than doing nothing.”  In the long run, Archer said, “the only real loser is the
amount of debt we’re going to have to face in the future.”  Expiring Tax Breaks  While Obama identified many areas of agreement, the fate of
dozens of expired or soon-to-expire tax breaks, about 80 percent
of which benefit businesses, remained uncertain.  Senior administration officials who briefed reporters
yesterday said tax provisions that are often temporarily
extended are likely to be in the package. That includes a
research credit used by thousands of companies and a provision
allowing tax deferral of profits from overseas lending
activities that benefit U.S.-based multinational corporations
such as  General Electric Co.   Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has asked for a
detailed review of those tax breaks, which include subsidies for
restaurant renovations that help companies such as  McDonald’s
Corp. , builders of Nascar stock-car racetracks, and producers of
rum such as Diageo PLC. Most expired Dec. 31, 2009. If included
in the final measure, such provisions likely would be renewed
for this year and 2011, Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley  said
today.  A renewal decision would mean a one-year extension for
business provisions expiring at the end of this month, including
a 45-cent per gallon tax credit for ethanol production.  Build America Bonds  Other soon-to-expire provisions, including the Build
America Bonds program, are still being negotiated, said Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus . The program has been the
fastest-growing segment of the U.S. municipal bond business and
has been a source of underwriting fees for companies including
 Goldman Sachs & Co.  and  Bank of America Corp.   Also uncertain is the future of the advanced energy
manufacturing program, which has provided tax credits to
companies investing in battery technology. The administration
has been seeking a $5 billion infusion into the program.  Companies including Dow Corning Corp., EI DuPont de Nemours
& Co., GE and  United Technologies Corp.  took advantage of an
initial $2.3 billion for the program in the stimulus
legislation. GE was selected for $90 million in tax credits,
according to White House records.  Expensing Benefit  One of the biggest benefits for companies would be an
expensing proposal. Under the proposal, companies in 2011 could
deduct the full cost of investments in equipment instead of
following typical depreciation schedules. The tax benefit will
be available even for planned investments.  Caroline Harris, chief tax counsel at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said the expensing item “itself is not going to
affect demand, but people’s economic situation is going to
affect demand.” Lower tax rates would likely spur consumer
spending.  Campbell Fittings Inc., a Boyertown, Pennsylvania,
manufacturer of industrial hose couplings and fittings, would
benefit from the expensing provision, said executive vice
president Joe McGlynn. Its inclusion in Obama’s plan was a “bit
of a surprise for me, a pleasant surprise,” he said. If
included in a tax package, it would allow his firm to buy four
machines and hire up to 12 workers in the first quarter of 2011,
he said.  The tax agreement lacks revenue-raising offsets. Among
other things, it doesn’t include higher taxes on the carried
interest earned by private-equity fund managers and certain real
estate investors. Many Democrats had been seeking to tax this
compensatory income as ordinary income, not capital gains.  The deal would preserve tax rates reduced in 2001 and 2003
for all Americans. The temporary reduction in payroll taxes
would be worth a maximum of $2,136 per worker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 Rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  