-- Patriots Hand Jets Their Worst Defeat in 24 Years to Take Lead in AFC East
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-07T06:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/baltimore-ravens-ngata-mcclain-fined-55-000-for-hits-on-two-steelers.html
The New England Patriots tied for the
National Football League’s best record and seized control of
their division by sending the rival New York Jets to their worst
loss in 24 years.  Tom Brady  threw for 326 yards and four touchdowns in the
Patriots’ 45-3 rout last night at Gillette Stadium in
Foxborough, Massachusetts. The fourth “Monday Night Football”
game in 40 years between teams with records of 9-2 or better was
one-sided from the start, as New England scored on its first
four possessions.  The Patriots improved to 10-2 on the season, tying the
Atlanta Falcons for the NFL’s best record, and moved a game
ahead of the Jets (9-3) in the American Football Conference’s
East Division. There are four games left in the regular season
and the AFC East winner likely will get a first-round bye in the
playoffs and at least one home game in the postseason.  “All in all, it was a fun night,” said Brady, whose
touchdown passes went to four different receivers.  The Patriots intercepted New York quarterback  Mark Sanchez 
three times in avenging a 28-14 road loss to the Jets on Sept.
19. New England is 9-1 since then.  It was the Jets’ worst defeat since 1986, when they lost by
the same score at Miami after a 10-1 start and finished the
regular season with a five-game losing streak.  “It was the biggest butt whipping I’ve ever taken as a
coach,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said during a news conference. “We
got outcoached and we got outplayed.”  ‘Overrated’ Chant  The Jets’ 9-2 start was their best since the 1986 season,
and as the final minutes ticked off the clock those remaining
from the crowd of 68,756 chanted “overrated.” The Patriots
have won the AFC East six of the past seven years.  The Jets’ defense, which had surrendered the third-fewest
yards in the league entering the game, allowed the most points
in Ryan’s two seasons as coach.  “This humble pie tastes like a car tire and it goes down
like peanut butter,” Jets defensive tackle  Sione Pouha  said in
the team’s locker room.  The Patriots’ defense, which had given up the most yards in
the NFL coming into the game, limited the Jets to a second-
quarter field goal by  Nick Folk .  “It’s frustrating, but it’s a good lesson for us -- you’ve
got to play well in these big games,” said Sanchez, who had 164
yards passing. “You never imagine this.”  The Jets lost for the first time in six road games this
season. They had won eight straight regular-season road games
dating back to a Nov. 22, 2009, loss at New England, when
Sanchez threw four interceptions as a rookie.  “Our preparation was great,” Ryan said. “I thought we
were going to have a huge game and it was just the opposite.”  Early Lead  The Patriots opened the scoring with a 41-yard field goal
by  Shayne Graham  less than four minutes into the game. After a
missed 53-yard field goal by Folk on the Jets’ first possession,
the Patriots went ahead 10-0 on a 1-yard run by  BenJarvus Green- Ellis .  The touchdown came two plays after a 36-yard pass
interference penalty on Jets safety  Eric Smith  put the ball on
the New York 1-yard line.  A career-low 12-yard punt by the Jets’  Steve Weatherford 
preceded the Patriots’ next scoring drive, which was capped by
Brady’s 25-yard touchdown pass to  Deion Branch  on a 4th-and-3
play. Branch caught a quick slant pass, slipped a tackle and
raced to the end zone for a 17-0 first-quarter lead.  After Folk’s 39-yard field goal, Brady answered with his
250th career touchdown pass on the Patriots’ next drive, hooking
up with  Brandon Tate  from four yards out for a 24-3 halftime
lead.  Touchdown Drives  Brady led scoring drives of 93 and 94 yards on the
Patriots’ first two possessions of the second half.  He threw an 18-yard touchdown pass to  Wes Welker  with 4:47
left in the third quarter and a 1-yard score to  Aaron Hernandez 
on the first play of the fourth quarter.  The Patriots’ final touchdown -- a 5-yard run by Green-
Ellis -- came after Sanchez was intercepted for the third time
and  James Sanders  returned the ball to the Jets’ 28-yard line.  “It was the best 60 minutes of football we’ve played all
year,” Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  said. “We just got a lot
of solid play from everybody.”  The Patriots next play Dec. 12 at Chicago, which leads the
National Football Conference’s North Division at 9-3. The Jets
host the 6-6 Miami Dolphins the same day.  “We’ll fight another day,” Ryan said. “As bad as this
loss was -- and it feels like three losses -- it only counts for
one. We’ll roll our sleeves up and get back at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  