-- Bank of Canada Keeps Key Lending Rate at 1% on Weak Exports, Global Risks
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-07T16:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/bank-of-canada-keeps-key-lending-rate-at-1-on-weak-exports-global-risks.html
The Bank of Canada kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent for a second consecutive time, and
said it will remain careful about future increases as falling
exports and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis hinder the economic
recovery.  Governor  Mark Carney ’s decision was anticipated by all 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after the bank paused
Oct. 19 following three rate increases earlier this year. The
decision “leaves considerable monetary stimulus in place” at a
time of “significant excess supply in Canada,” the bank said.  Canada’s economy “appears slightly weaker” than expected
in the second half of this year and exports “continued to exert
a significant drag on growth,” the bank said. The Canadian
dollar’s 29 percent gain against the U.S. dollar since March
2009 is curbing orders for companies such as forest-products
firm  Tembec Inc . and encouraging imports of equipment to boost
productivity.  “They put a little bit more emphasis on some of the
negatives that have evolved over the past six weeks and
downplayed some of the positives or ignored them” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto. “It’s fairly clear cut that we need a better recovery
in the U.S. before the bank changes policy,” said Porter, who
predicts no rate increase until July.  The U.S. Federal Reserve, Japanese and European central
banks are still relying on asset purchases to revive demand and
are keeping their interest rates close to record lows.  European Crisis  The  Canadian dollar  weakened 0.3 percent to C$1.0086 per
U.S. dollar at 11:07 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0057 yesterday.
One Canadian dollar buys 99.15 U.S. cents.  Investors have  priced in  a 20 percent chance of a rate
increase in January, according to a calculation by Credit Suisse
based on overnight index swap rates. The three-month swap rate,
which measures what investors think the bank’s rate will average
over that period, rose 0.03 percentage point to 1.04 percent.  “This statement is consistent with a very patient central
bank that does not want to take the Canadian dollar to new
heights by aggressively hiking before the Fed is prepared to
move,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC World
Markets in Toronto.  European finance ministers have ruled out immediate aid for
Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-euro ($1
trillion) crisis fund, counting on European Central Bank bond
purchases to calm markets a week after handing Ireland an 85
billion-euro lifeline.  ‘Increased Risk’  “There is an increased risk that sovereign debt concerns
in several countries could trigger renewed strains in global
financial markets,” the Ottawa-based bank said in a statement
today. “Any further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would
need to be carefully considered,” the bank said, repeating a
phrase it used at the last announcement.  Companies such as Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. , the
world’s third-biggest planemaker, are being hurt by weaker
global orders. Canadian economic growth slowed to a 1 percent
annualized third-quarter pace, less than the bank’s 1.6 percent
October prediction, as exports fell and imports rose.  “A combination of disappointing productivity performance
and persistent strength in the Canadian dollar could dampen the
expected recovery of net exports,” the bank said.  Exports, which equaled 32 percent of Canada’s economy in
2009, declined by 1.3 percent between July and October,
Statistics Canada said Nov. 30. About three-quarters of those
shipments went to the U.S. last year. Imports of goods and
services rose 1.6 percent.  Slowing Growth  Canada’s economy  grew at a 5.6 percent pace in the first
quarter of this year, boosted by government stimulus and
housing. By the third quarter, the drag from trade slowed
Canada’s expansion to less than half the 2.5 percent rate in the
U.S.  Canada’s central bank led the Group of Seven earlier this
year with three rate increases from June through September.  The Reserve Bank of Australia today also kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent, as the country’s growth
slows and risks to the global economic recovery persist, saying
inflation likely will be contained through mid-2011.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  last week extended a
deadline for construction linked to government stimulus money by
seven months to Oct. 31, and said that he was concerned about a
“fragile” global recovery.  The European Central Bank increased its bond purchases last
week after President  Jean-Claude Trichet  pledged to fight
“acute” financial market tensions. U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Dec. 5 it’s possible the Fed may
expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion announced last
month.  ‘Ongoing Volatility’  “It’s the worries about ongoing volatility in the debt and
foreign exchange markets that would support some caution in
terms of communicating interest rate hikes,” said  Derek Burleton , a senior economist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank  in
Toronto, who predicts no rate increase until July.  There are signs domestic spending is still gaining,
including a report last month showing inflation advanced at a
2.4 percent annual pace in October, the fastest in two years.
Burleton said that gain, half of which came from gasoline costs,
was probably a “blip.” The bank sets interest rates to keep
inflation at 2 percent.  “Inflation dynamics in Canada have been broadly in line
with the Bank’s expectations and the underlying pressures
affecting prices remain largely unchanged,” the bank said
today.  The Bank of Canada should extend its stimulus as the
federal government has done, said  Mike Pratt , president of the
Canadian unit of Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer-
electronics retailer.  “Anyone looking to fuel more demand and consumer
confidence would hope that the Bank of Canada keeps interest
rates low in sync with the stimulus extension timetables that
were just announced” by Harper, Pratt said before the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 