-- Bank of Montreal Profit Tops Estimates on Loan Losses, Trading Revenue
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-07T21:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/bank-of-montreal-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-14-on-consumer-lending-unit.html
Bank of Montreal , Canada’s fourth-
biggest bank by assets, reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates on better-than-expected capital markets fees and
declining loan losses.  Net income for the quarter ended Oct. 31 climbed 14 percent
to C$739 million ($737 million), or C$1.24 a share, from C$647
million, or C$1.11, a year earlier, the Toronto-based bank said
today in a statement. Revenue rose 8 percent to C$3.23 billion.  Bank of Montreal benefited from a 5.5 percent rise in
Canadian consumer lending and a decline in loan-loss provisions.
The bank set aside C$253 million for bad loans, down 34 percent
from a year earlier, following the trend reported by Canada’s
other lenders.  “The banks just keep plugging along,” said  John Kinsey ,
who helps manage C$1 billion at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto. “The first half was good, the second half was
sluggish, but on balance they all did pretty well.”  Bank of Montreal said adjusted earnings were C$1.26 a
share, beating the average  estimate  of C$1.22 a share from 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Given what we have seen from its peers, we would be
surprised if BMO’s earnings did not receive a very warm
reception from the market,”  John Aiken , a Barclays Capital
analyst, wrote in a note.  Bank of Montreal  rose  C$1.87, or 3.1 percent, to C$61.87 at
4 p.m. close of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the
biggest increase since May 27. The stock has risen 11 percent
this year, outperforming the 5.8 percent increase of the 10-
company  S&P/TSX Banks Index .  Streak Unmatched  Bank of Montreal has reported six consecutive quarters of
 profit growth,  a streak unmatched by Canada’s five other large
banks. The bank kept its dividend unchanged at 70 cents a share.  “Capital markets and private client had stand-out
quarters,” Aiken said. “Although retail banking on both sides
of the border held in, they did both report modest sequential
declines in earnings.”  Canadian consumer banking  profit  rose to C$420 million from
C$398 million a year earlier on revenue increases in personal
and commercial loans and credit cards. Profit from its Chicago-
based Harris consumer bank fell 24 percent to C$38 million on
costs for its Amcore Bank purchase.  The BMO Capital Markets investment-banking unit earned
C$216 million, down 17 percent from a year earlier on higher
provisions and costs from expanding.  Trading Fees  The bank’s fees from trading and underwriting topped
expectations from Morgan Stanley analyst  Cheryl Pate . Trading
revenue was C$276 million, ahead of her estimate of C$254
million.  Profit from the private-client group, which includes
brokerage, insurance, investing services and mutual funds, rose
25 percent to C$131 million.  Bank of Montreal increased its medium-term financial
 performance  objective to 12 percent annual growth in earnings
per share, up from 10 percent. The bank said it has a Tier 1
capital ratio of 13.45 percent, and its levels already exceed
2019 requirements drawn up by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  Chief Executive Officer  William Downe  said during a
conference call with analysts that he expects consolidation
among U.S. banks in 2011, and that Bank of Montreal may consider
more small takeovers.  ‘Tuck-in Acquisitions’  “Over the last two or three years we’ve made some nice
tuck-in acquisitions that have been complementary to the
business, and I would foresee them continuing,” Downe, 58,
said.  Bank of Montreal is the last of the country’s biggest banks
to report fourth-quarter results. Last week, Royal Bank of
Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce reported lower net income as costs rose and trading
revenue fell. Bank of Nova Scotia and National Bank of Canada
posted higher profits, and National raised its dividend.  Bank of Montreal, National, Scotiabank and CIBC beat
analysts’ profit estimates.  Canadian Western Bank today posted its 90th straight
profitable quarter. The Edmonton, Alberta-based lender said net
income rose 29 percent to C$39.1 million, or 48 cents a share.
The bank raised its quarterly dividend to 13 cents a share from
11 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  or
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  