-- Bank of America to Pay $137 Million in Muni Cases
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-08T04:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/bank-of-america-agrees-to-pay-137-million-in-sec-muni-bond-fraud-cases.html
Bank of America Corp.  agreed to pay
$137 million in restitution for its involvement in a conspiracy
to rig bids on 88 municipal bond contracts, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and Justice Department said.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, agreed
to pay $36 million to settle an SEC case. The bank will pay an
additional $101 million to resolve investigations by other
federal and state agencies, the  SEC said.   Bank of America has been aiding a nationwide Justice
Department antitrust probe of the $2.8 trillion municipal market
since at least 2007 in return for leniency. The investigation
has ensnared more than a dozen banks, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co .,  UBS AG,  and Wachovia Corp, which was acquired by  Wells
Fargo & Co.  in 2008, according to documents filed in federal
court.  The company’s “cooperation has led to an aggressive,
ongoing investigation by the Department of Justice into
anticompetitive activity in the municipal bond derivatives
industry,”  Christine Varney , who heads the Justice Department’s
Antitrust Division, said in a statement.  Bank of America won’t be prosecuted as long as it continues
to cooperate with the government.  The settlement also involves 20 states, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the Internal Revenue Service and
the Federal Reserve Board,  Connecticut  Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal  said in a release.  Remediation Efforts  “Bank of America is pleased to put this matter behind it
and has already voluntarily undertaken numerous remediation
efforts,” the company said in a statement. The bank, which is
still facing civil antitrust cases filed by Baltimore,
Virginia’s Fairfax County and others won’t be subject to triple
damages in those cases if it cooperates with plaintiffs.  Eight one-time bankers and financial advisers, including
former employees of UBS, JPMorgan and Bank of America, have
pleaded guilty in connection with the municipal bond investment
bid-rigging probes.  In a case against one broker, CDR Financial Products Inc.
of Los Angeles, prosecutors say the conspiracy included more
than 200 deals involving state agencies, local governments and
nonprofit groups from California to Massachusetts, according to
documents filed in federal court. The scheme may have cost
taxpayers more than $1 billion, according to Steven Feinstein, a
finance professor at Babson College in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  ‘Looking Carefully’  The agreement with Bank of America for its conduct from
1997 to 2002 is the antitrust division’s first in the case,
Varney said in a conference call with reporters. The Justice
Department is still “looking carefully” at the amount
municipalities lost, Varney said. She declined to comment on the
probe saying it was ongoing.  “We will use any and all tools at our disposal to
prosecute corruption in the municipal bond market,” Varney said
in the teleconference. “These are taxpayer dollars that are
being defrauded and we will not tolerate it.”  Bank of America, which wasn’t the leader or organizer of
the bid-rigging conspiracy, according to the Justice Department,
agreed to pay disgorgement and interest ranging from $8,418 to
Missouri’s development finance agency to $6.2 million to
Massachusetts, according to the SEC.  “This settlement means that government agencies facing
lower budgets will recover millions of dollars in restitution
for money that they were deprived of by some unscrupulous bond-
derivative investment advisers,” said  Jerry Brown , California
attorney general and governor-elect, in a news release today.  UBS Arrest  On Dec. 1,  Peter Ghavami , the former co-head of UBS’s
municipal derivatives group, was arrested as part of the four-
year investigation after arriving in John F. Kennedy
International Airport.  Ghavami, a Belgian national living in Moscow, faces a fraud
charge tied to a $100,000 kickback for steering an investment
agreement with a U.S. state to another bank.  Former JPMorgan banker  James L. Hertz  on Nov. 30 admitted
to participating in bid-rigging and fraud conspiracies and
agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.  The Justice Department’s criminal investigation centers on
investment agreements that municipalities enter with money
raised through bond sales.  Guaranteed Contracts  The so-called guaranteed investment contracts let them earn
a return until the cash is needed for schools, roads or other
public works. The U.S. Treasury Department encourages
competitive bidding to ensure that localities get market rates.  Prosecutors have said that favored bankers got inside
information from brokers who handled bidding for the contracts
so they could carve up the market. In some cases, bankers
admitted paying kickbacks to brokers.  In a $65.2 million bond issue for the Beacon Tradeport
Community development district in Florida handled by Bank of
America, the bank recommended the broker who was handling the
investment bids. Bank of America told the broker what it planned
on bidding, allowing the broker to advise other banks where they
shouldn’t bid, the SEC said.  Bank of America paid the broker a $50,000 kickback for
steering the bids by disguising it as a fee in another deal.  The bank neither admitted nor denied the SEC’s findings in
agreeing to settle a related securities-fraud complaint, the
agency said.  In September,  Douglas Lee Campbell , a former municipal
derivatives executive with the bank, pleaded guilty and agreed
to cooperate. In May,  Mark Zaino , who worked for UBS’s municipal
bond and derivatives trading desk from 2001 to 2006, pleaded
guilty to participating in a conspiracy to rig bids for the
contracts.  Shown Leniency  Bank of America’s cooperation is an example of a Justice
Department program under which the first company in a cartel to
inform prosecutors about the illegal collusion is shown
leniency. The program had been renewed on an annual basis until
Varney earlier this year successfully lobbied Congress to extend
the program until 2020.  “Any time you have a law that automatically sunsets every
year, you create a lot of uncertainty,” she said in an
interview last month. “If you’re a lawyer counseling a client,
you’re not so sure you want to recommend that they take
advantage of the leniency program when you’re not sure the
leniency program is going to be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  