-- Berkshire to Sell $500 Million in Notes to Repay Debt
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-12-07T16:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/berkshire-plans-to-sell-500-million-of-five-year-notes-as-soon-as-today.html
Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. plans to sell $500 million of notes to
repay debt used by its Clayton Homes manufactured housing unit.  The five-year senior notes may be issued through Berkshire
Hathaway Finance Corp. as soon as today and may pay about 87.5
basis points more than Treasuries maturing at about the same
time, according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds
will repay the finance arm’s existing 4.2 percent senior notes,
the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said in a regulatory filing.  Buffett’s firm  sells bonds  in part to finance mortgages for
people who buy Clayton’s factory-built housing. In  a letter 
accompanying Berkshire’s 2009 annual report, Buffett said
Berkshire will continue backing the home-loan program.  “Even today, though job-loss troubles have grown,
Clayton’s delinquencies and defaults remain reasonable and will
not cause us significant problems,” Buffett  wrote .  The housing crisis and U.S. unemployment spurred Standard &
Poor’s to cut its outlook on Clayton in April.  Installment loan balances held by Berkshire’s finance and
financial products division, which includes Clayton, declined
about 2 percent last year to $12.3 billion, according to
Berkshire’s  annual report .  Notes Coming Due  The finance arm issued $500 million of the 4.2 percent
notes in December 2003, and then exchanged the debt for freely
tradable securities in May 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The notes due on Dec. 15 traded on Nov. 12 at 100.32 cents
on the dollar to yield 0.122 percent, or 3.8 basis points less
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is managing today’s offering,
according to today’s regulatory filing. The filing didn’t
specify the size, timing or maturity of the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  