-- Biggest Bond Slump Since '04 Not Over, Top Fund Manager Says: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-12-08T07:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/biggest-bond-slump-since-04-not-over-top-fund-manager-says-china-credit.html
China’s  bonds  are unlikely to recover
from the biggest slump in six years until at least March as the
government raises interest rates to curb inflation, according to
the manager of the country’s best-performing fixed-income fund.  “The current wave of selling is justified given inflation
is such a big concern,” said  Zeng Gang , who manages 3.4 billion
yuan ($507 million) at Harfor Fund Management Ltd. in Shanghai.
“Yields will remain high in the next three months. The market
is reflecting the right level of pessimism.” His $332 million
 Huafu Income Growth Fund  has returned  14.9 percent  this year,
the most among 138 China bond funds tracked by Bloomberg.  Yuan-denominated government notes dropped  1.5 percent  in
November, their worst performance since April 2004, according to
an index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The securities gained
1.2 percent this year, the least among BRIC-nation debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The yield on China’s
benchmark 10-year  bonds  reached 4.02 percent on Nov. 29, the
highest level since September 2008.  The People’s Bank of China raised lenders’ reserve
requirements twice last month and announced in October the first
interest-rate increase since 2007, seeking to tame inflation as
prospects for yuan appreciation attract funds from abroad. The
central bank will lift its one-year lending and deposit rates by
a percentage point before the end of 2011, according to the
median forecasts of economists surveyed Dec. 2 by Bloomberg.  10-Year Yields  Borrowing costs may be raised two or three times by March,
Harfor’s Zeng said in a Dec. 3 interview, declining to provide
yield forecasts. Local-currency government bonds in  Brazil  have
handed investors a 12.2 percent return this year, while notes in
Russia gained 10.5 percent and India’s 4.5 percent, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes show.  The yield on China’s 10-year government debt is likely to
climb to 4.5 percent by mid-2011, from 3.91 percent yesterday,
according to HSBC Private Bank and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. HSBC
forecast a percentage point of policy-rate rises by the end of
next year and DBS, Southeast Asia’s largest lender, predicted
1.25 percentage points of increases.  “Chinese inflation will peak somewhere close to 6 percent
and it will probably keep rising in the first half of next
year,” said  Arjuna Mahendran , the Singapore-based head of
investment strategy for Asia at HSBC Private Bank, which
oversees $460 billion globally. The “bearish trend” for bonds
will continue  in coming months as policy makers tighten
monetary policy, said  Jens Lauschke , a fixed-income strategist
at DBS in Singapore.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices  in the world’s second-largest economy
probably increased 4.7 percent last month, the most since August
2008, according to the median forecast of 29 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before government data on Dec. 11. December’s gain
will be below 5 percent and less than November’s level, the
China Securities Journal reported Dec. 6, citing  Zhou Wangjun ,
deputy director of the pricing department at the National
Development and Reform Commission.  China may hold its annual economic work conference on Dec.
10-12, which will set guidelines on monetary and fiscal policies
for 2011, the Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 3. The  NDRC  may
meet Dec. 14 to set economic growth and inflation targets for
next year, the 21st Century Business Herald reported yesterday,
citing a person familiar with the matter it didn’t identify.  Cash Injections  Ten-year  yields  dropped 10 basis points last week, the most
since July, as the central bank reined in bill sales to help
ease a cash shortage stemming from increases in lenders’ reserve
ratios. The People’s Bank of China  injected  166 billion yuan
into the financial system in the last three weeks via open-
market operations.  “Some investors have started trading on the opportunity
after yields rose recently to relatively high levels,” said
Diao Yu, who co-manages a 3 billion-yuan bond fund at Fullgoal
Fund Management Co. “I think there are still risks from
economic fundamentals and liquidity conditions.”  Fullgoal, based in Shanghai, oversees China’s second- and
fourth-best funds of this year, which have delivered returns of
 14 percent  and  13.4 percent , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China’s onshore bond funds posted a 1.1 percent loss in
November, ending a four-month winning streak, based on average
returns of the 138 funds tracked by Bloomberg. That was their
worst month since a 3.1 percent decline in August 2009. For the
year, the funds are up 6.9 percent.  Swaps, Yuan  One-year interest-rate  swaps  based on the floating seven-
day repurchase  rate  were 3.03 percent as of 3 p.m. in Shanghai,
36 basis points lower than a two-year high of 3.39 percent
reached on Nov. 29, according to Bloomberg data. The rate surged
by a record 83 points in November.  The yuan weakened 0.3 percent today to 6.6628 per dollar,
its biggest loss in a month. The currency has strengthened 2.5
percent since a two-year peg ended on June 19, and 12-month non-
deliverable forwards reflect bets for a 2.2 percent advance in
the coming year.  Five-year contracts on the nation’s debt climbed one basis
point yesterday to 71, according to CMA prices in New York.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Guangdong-based E Fund Management Co. Ltd., which had 200
billion yuan of assets at the end of March, aims to add to its
holdings of Chinese bonds in the next three months.  ‘Overly Pessimistic’  “Bond prices are already reflecting an overly
pessimistic” view on monetary policy, said Xide Ma, a Beijing-
based fund manager whose  E Fund Monthly Income Fund  was China’s
best performer in November. “We are looking to buy. We think
the government bond market will get better and we like the five-
to 10-year bonds.”  The Communist Party’s Politburo, meeting Dec. 3, signaled
it plans to tighten monetary policy in the coming year while
sustaining economic growth. Officials “will adopt proactive
fiscal policies and prudent monetary policies,” the state-run
Xinhua News Agency said. Policy makers had previously used the
term “moderately loose” for the central bank’s stance.  Speculation that interest rates will rise by year-end will
likely damp demand for bonds, making any rebound in December
fleeting, according to Zhou Ming, who manages about 300 million
yuan of bond funds at SYWG BNP Paribas Asset Management Co. in
Shanghai.  “A big decline in bond yields is impossible in December
because of tight cash conditions at banks,” said Zhou, whose
 SYWG BNP Paribas Bond fund  has gained 12.1 percent this year.
“Ten-year yields at 4 percent may indicate value for buy-and-
hold investors, but it doesn’t signal a trading opportunity.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 