-- Prokhorov Plans 2011 Merger to Create Top-3 Gold Miner
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e ,   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-07T21:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/billionaire-prokhorov-seeks-to-create-top-3-gold-producer-in-2011-merger.html
OAO Polyus Gold , Russia’s largest
producer of the metal, plans to merge with a global rival as
early as 2011 to become one of the world’s three-biggest miners
of the commodity, billionaire owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  said.  “We’ll need to be in the world’s top three,” he said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday in Moscow. Polyus will
“make a merger with one of the leading gold companies in the
world” after it completes plans to gain a primary listing in
London, he said, declining to name acquisition candidates.  Russian producers are seeking to extend their reach after
gold prices rose about 30 percent this year. OAO Polymetal aims
to change its domicile to Jersey, U.K., to get more investors
and  OAO Severstal ’s Nord Gold unit plans a London initial public
offering. Polyus has sought a primary listing in London by
combining with its Jersey-based unit  KazakhGold Group Ltd.   Polymetal, a Russian producer of gold and silver, surged as
much as 20 percent in  Moscow trading , the most in two years,
after Prokhorov’s comments. The company, which also operates in
Kazakhstan, advanced 0.4 percent to 624.95 rubles in Moscow.  Polyus  rose 7 percent to 1,927.28 rubles, the highest since
May 2008, valuing the company at 367 billion rubles ($11.8
billion).  Polyus’s market worth will jump 20 percent after it gains a
U.K. listing, Prokhorov, 45, said in the interview.  “We don’t need acquisition cash,” he said. “As soon as
we have a London listing, we can merge with any international
company because it’s the same as money.”  Merger Blocked  Barrick Gold Corp. ,  Newmont Mining Corp.  and  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd.  were the largest gold miners last year, according
to London-based researcher GFMS. They are followed by South
Africa’s  Gold Fields Ltd. , U.S.-based Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc., and Goldcorp Inc. and  Kinross Gold Corp.  of Canada.  “Among the senior producers, Kinross is the most likely
candidate to tie up with Polyus,” George Topping, a Toronto-
based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said today in a
telephone interview. “Kinross has Russian gold production and
is in Russia to stay.”  Polyus  canceled a planned merger with  KazakhGold  after
failing to resolve a shareholder dispute over the so-called
reverse takeover before an Oct. 29 approval deadline. The
company said on Oct. 26 that despite stopping the transaction,
it still aimed to complete a deal allowing London-listed
KazakhGold to take over Polyus, increasing the parent’s access
to global investors.  Gold Fields was little changed at 124.65 rand in
Johannesburg trading, while  AngloGold  declined 1.4 percent to
339.90 rand.  Gold Reserves  Polyus spent almost a decade amassing the world’s fifth-
largest  gold reserves . Prokhorov, who controls the Moscow-based
company with fellow billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov , plans to keep
a minority stake. Prokhorov and Kerimov each own 37 percent,
according to Polyus.  Polyus previously abandoned a proposal to combine with Gold
Fields in 2004. The Russian company was then a unit of OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel, which bought a 20 percent stake in Gold Fields
to expand abroad before selling the holding in 2006.  Gold Fields is “the most likely candidate” for a merger
with Polyus,  Mikhail Stiskin , an analyst at Troika Dialog, said
in Moscow.  Sven Lunsche , a spokesman for Johannesburg-based Gold
Fields, said he wasn’t aware of any approach.  ‘Less International Experience’  An international merger “would be complementary as Polyus
has a large amount of gold reserves but less international
experience and transparency,” said  Alexander Pukhaev , an
analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow.  Polyus also studied a merger with Kinross “several years
ago,” Chief Executive Officer  Evgeny Ivanov  said in February.  Kinross owns a 75 percent stake in the Kupol mine in
eastern Russia, according to the company’s  website . The deposit
has proven and probable gold reserves of 2.57 million ounces.
Topping estimates Kupol represents about 14 percent of Kinross’s
net-asset value.  Kinross also holds 100 percent of the high-grade Dvoinoye
gold deposit, 90 kilometers (56 miles) north of Kupol, according
to the website. Kinross is currently exploring the area near
Dvoinoye.  Steve Mitchell, a Kinross spokesman, declined to comment
today when contacted by e-mail.  ‘Political Risk’  “Most investors would be unlikely to accept Polyus paper,
even if the shares are traded in London,” Stifel Nicolaus’s
Topping said. “The political risk in Russia is just too high.”  Kinross fell 53 cents, or 2.7 percent, to C$18.84 at 4:25
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  AngloGold, seeking to add 3 million ounces of new projects
in the next decade, expects industry consolidation, Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said on Nov. 30.  Alan Fine , a
spokesman in Johannesburg for AngloGold, declined to comment.  Forbes magazine this year ranked Prokhorov as Russia’s
second-richest man, after OAO Novolipetsk Steel Chairman
 Vladimir Lisin .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow at  rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 