-- Blackstone Said to Team Up With China's Bright Food Group to Purchase GNC
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-12-07T15:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/blackstone-said-to-team-up-with-china-s-bright-food-to-buy-gnc-holdings.html
Blackstone Group LP  is teaming up
with  Bright Food Group Co. , Shanghai’s biggest food and dairy
company, to acquire vitamin and supplement retail chain  GNC
Holdings Inc. , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The deal may be announced as early as this month, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks
are confidential. It may be the largest U.S. takeover by a
Chinese buyer, eclipsing  Lenovo Group Ltd .’s $1.25 billion
purchase of International Business Machines Corp.’s personal
computer business in 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bright Food  is attempting its biggest acquisition as
Chairman  Wang Zong Nan  expands overseas. Pittsburgh-based GNC,
with more than 7,100 stores globally, may fetch about $2
billion, people familiar with the matter said in October. The
Chinese company is close to an agreement to buy GNC for $2.5
billion to $3 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported earlier
today, citing unidentified people.  There have been about 550 announced acquisitions this year
involving food companies globally, which sold for a median
multiple of 6.1 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to Bloomberg data. GNC
had ebitda of $227.7 million in 2009, according to a regulatory
filing.  Joint Venture  Bright Food tried and failed to buy CSR Ltd.’s Australian
sugar unit in July. The company’s talks to purchase the U.K.’s
United Biscuits from  Blackstone  and PAI Partners have stalled,
the people said today.  Chen Chunshan, a Shanghai-based spokesman for Bright Food,
didn’t respond to a text message seeking comment. Helen Winning,
a spokeswoman for Blackstone in London, couldn’t immediately
comment. Greg Miller, an external spokesman for GNC, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  GNC hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to help search for a buyer, people familiar with the matter said
in October. GNC and Bright Food agreed this year to form a joint
venture to help the U.S. company enter the Chinese market.
Bright Food unit Bright Dairy & Food bought a 51 percent stake
in New Zealand dairy farm owner Synlait Milk Ltd. in July.  The largest acquisition of a food company this year was
when a KKR & Co.-led group agreed to acquire  Del Monte Foods Co .
in a $4 billion transaction that valued the target at about 6.3
times ebitda last month.  Previous Owners  Blackstone is among buyout firms planning to bid for  Pfizer
Inc. ’s Capsugel business, three people with knowledge of the
matter said in October. The New York-based fund bought Catalent
Pharma Solutions Inc., maker of a vegetable-based soft gel shell
system called VegiCaps, for $3.3 billion in 2007.  Ares Management LLC and the investment arm of the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan bought GNC in 2007 for $1.65 billion from
private-equity fund  Apollo Management LP . Apollo twice tried to
take GNC public and withdrew its plans amid faltering sales and
unfavorable market conditions.  GNC was founded in 1935 as General Nutrition Cos. It was a
publicly traded company until 1999 and has since had owners
including private-equity funds and Royal Numico NV. The chain’s
largest market outside the U.S. is Mexico, where it has 352
stores.  Net income rose to $51.1 million in the first six months of
the year from $37.4 million in the same period a year earlier,
according to a GNC filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Revenue increased 5.5 percent to $920.7 million.  Bright Food was established in August 2006 by the Shanghai
municipal government and Shanghai DaSheng Holdings Co.,
according to information on its  website . It controls four
publicly traded companies, including  Bright Dairy & Food .  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  