-- BlackRock May Lose Massachusetts Pension Assets Because Firm Not `Focused'
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-07T22:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/blackrock-may-lose-massachusetts-pension-assets-because-firm-not-focused-.html
BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest
money manager, is set to lose assets it oversees for the $42.9
billion  Massachusetts  state pension fund because of concern that
the firm isn’t adequately focused on some fixed-income markets.  The pension’s board voted unanimously today to shift about
$1 billion invested in BlackRock’s actively managed bond
portfolio to its passive fixed-income fund pending an asset-
allocation review and finding a new manager.  BlackRock  manages
$3.6 billion for the plan, including $1.3 billion already in the
passive fund and a similar amount in inflation-protected
securities, according to a memo released at a board meeting.  There’s been a “diminished emphasis on core fixed income”
at New York-based BlackRock, which the state hired in 1999, the
plan’s investment committee said in the memo to the  Pension
Reserves Investment Management Board , or PRIM. “PRIM staff
lacks confidence that the firm is adequately focused,” the memo
said. It estimated a fee savings of $1.1 million a year.  Laurence D. Fink  helped start BlackRock in 1988 as a fixed-
income investment firm. It has grown through a series of
 acquisitions , including Barclays Global Investors a year ago.
The firm had $3.45 trillion of  assets under management  at the
end of the third quarter, up from $165 billion in 1999, the
state memo said.  High-Level Change  “BlackRock has had considerable high-level turnover over
the last three years” in its bond group, further undermining
the state’s confidence, the memo said.  Scott Amero  stepped down
in January as co-head and chief investment officer of the firm’s
fixed-income division. In August,  Curtis Arledge , the deputy
head of fixed income, left for Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  “Mass. PRIM is a valued client and we’re pleased they
chose BlackRock’s Passive Core Bond Strategy while evaluating
alternatives to the Active Core Bond account,”  Brian Beades , a
BlackRock spokesman, said in an e-mail.  State pension officials met with  Peter Fisher , BlackRock’s
head of fixed-income, twice, including on Nov. 2 in the plan’s
Boston headquarters, and he failed to dissuade them from seeking
a new manager, according to the report. The firm’s active core
fixed-income portfolio has trailed its benchmark, the Barclays
Capital U.S. Aggregate Index, in the past three-, five- and 10-
year periods, according to the memo.  The BlackRock fund gained 5.48 percent over the past five
years while the Barclays index returned 6.2 percent, the memo
said. For the calendar year through September, it trailed by
just 0.01 percentage point, at 7.93 percent to 7.94 percent,
according to the memo.  “Our active core bond strategy has shown marked
improvement since the end of 2008,” Beades said in another e-
mail. “We have continued to enhance our fixed-income platform
globally -- including the hiring of a number of senior
investment professionals this year alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  