-- BMW, Mizuho Tap Sex Appeal of Tokyo’s Middle-Aged Marathon Men
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-12-07T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/bmw-mizuho-back-tokyo-marathon-men-as-middle-aged-runners-seek-sex-appeal.html
Bruce Ikemizu , head of commodities
trading at Standard Bank Plc in Tokyo, wakes most days at 3 a.m.
to run as much as a  half marathon  before logging on to Twitter
to check how his 80 running club mates are doing.  “This is my favorite part of the day,” said Ikemizu, 48,
who has dropped 15 kilograms and three pants sizes since he
began the sport in 2007. He’s part of the running fad that’s
spreading across Japan, fueling spending on sportswear and shoes
at a time when  overall consumption  in the nation is slowing.  Two decades of  deflation , an aging population and the
world’s largest public  debt  have hampered growth in Japan and
boosted the popularity of low-cost sports such as jogging and
hiking. The increasing number of middle-aged men looking to get
in shape has caught the attention of  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG 
and  Mizuho Financial Group , which are sponsoring the Tokyo
Marathon for the first time in February.  “There’s no doubt that this running boom pushed us to be a
sponsor,” said Masahiko Maeda, a public relations manager at
BMW Japan in Tokyo. “Our customers want to age in a cool way.”  Japan’s $5.6 trillion  economy  is about the same size as it
was 20 years ago and average monthly household spending fell 1.4
percent last year, according to the statistics bureau. Bucking
that trend, nationwide running shoe shipments rose 7.7 percent
in 2009, Tokyo-based Yano Research Institute said in October.  “The idea of running just to be healthy is extraordinarily
outdated,” said Tad Hayano, the 52-year-old chief operating
officer of the Tokyo Marathon Foundation. “We are targeting
sexy and rich older men.”  New Shoes  Asics Corp. , which gets 74 percent of revenue from athletic
shoes, aims to double sales to 400 billion yen ($4.8 billion) in
the next five years by targeting new runners, said  Toshiyuki Sano , a finance executive at the Kobe, Japan-based company.
Shares of  Asics  have risen 14 percent this year, compared with a
3.8 percent decline in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average .  Mizuno Corp. , an Osaka-based sporting goods maker, on Nov.
10 raised its net income forecast by 25 percent in the year
ending in March, citing sales of running shoes.  More than 27 percent of the nation’s 127 million people
jogged last year, up from 23 percent in 2008, according to the
Japan Productivity Center.  Naoko Takahashi  won the women’s
marathon at the 2000 Olympics, and  Mizuki Noguchi  took gold in
2004.  Marathon Monks  Running to get fit or build endurance is nothing new in
Japan. The monks of  Tendai , known as the marathon monks, run 40
kilometers per day for a hundred days in a row. During the
popular Hakone Ekiden, groups race in relays covering more than
200 kilometers over two days during the New Year. Now the sport
is attracting people for its trendy image as well.  “The marathon craze is helping consumer spending,” said
 Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo. “Targeting sexy older men is a good
strategy to help the economy as their purse strings are much
looser than those of young people.”  World record holder  Haile Gebrselassie  is scheduled to join
35,000 runners at the Tokyo Marathon on Feb. 27, after more than
335,000 people applied for the slots. Other cities including
Nara, Osaka, Nagoya and Kobe are starting their own marathons.  Yoshio Kuno , a 57-year-old managing director of Chicago
Mercantile Exchange’s Tokyo office, has run the 100-kilometer
race in Hokkaido six times, completing three of the races.  “I advise beginners to keep running so they can wear a
slim Italian suit,” Kuno said. “No one wants to look uncool
even when they get older.”  Palace Parade  Ikemizu, who logged 860 kilometers in October, runs
regularly around the Imperial Palace, one of the most popular
routes for Tokyo joggers because the 5-kilometer (3-mile) course
has no traffic lights and offers scenic views of the moat and
 Tokyo Tower . Kuno said he stopped running there because of the
crowds.  Another highlight on the trail is a public bath a few
hundred meters from the palace. The Inariyu bath has been
reporting a 15 percent increase in customers every year for the
past five years, according to owner Hirofumi Hasegawa.  “I don’t want any more people coming in because many think
this is a locker room,” said Hasegawa. His wife buys monthly
running magazines for resting joggers.  Adidas AG , Asics, and other companies have opened 18 rest
stations for runners around the palace, providing rental jogging
clothes and shoes, showers and a cafeteria, according to the
 Chiyoda Ward Tourist Association .  The jogging fad has also started matchmaking events such as
the “Running Connection” organized by Chisako Matsui, who held
the gathering near the Imperial Palace in October. Her next
event, on Dec. 19, is Christmas-themed.  Running Partner  “Running makes finding marriage partners easier,” said
Matsui, director of planning at Media Communications Inc. in
Tokyo. “You can tell a lot about a person by jogging with
them.”  More than a fifth of the nation’s females jogged last year,
the Japan Productivity Center reported in July. Women in their
20s were the keenest runners, with a 30 percent participation
rate, the center said.  For Hayano, the organizer of the Tokyo Marathon, that’s the
perfect match.  “Once we succeed in grabbing the attention of sexy older
men, like we did with women, running will rock the nation,”
Hayano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 