-- BofA Moves Salespeople to Modify Mortgages, CEO Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-07T16:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/bofa-says-shifting-workers-to-modify-mortgages-may-put-pressure-on-revenue.html
Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, said the reassignment of salespeople to
modify mortgages for struggling borrowers may pressure  revenue .  “We have recently moved a couple more thousand people from
our sales side, our centralized sales group, over to our
servicing areas,” Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
said at an investor conference today in New York. “In addition,
we continue to hire externally. Thereby we have elevated costs
in this platform. These costs will stay elevated for the next
several quarters and may impact our market-share momentum.”  Bank of America modified about 25,000 mortgages in October,
a 52 percent increase from the previous month, the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based company said Nov. 18. A U.S. unemployment
rate near 10 percent is forcing borrowers to miss payments, and
regulators pressured lenders to minimize foreclosures.  “If the borrower qualifies for either a private
modification or a government modification, then we complete
that,” Moynihan said. When that’s not possible, the bank
 forecloses . “All of this work is requiring more associates,
more teammates,” he said.  Bank of America, with 284,000 full-time workers at the end
of 2009, employed more than 26,000 “helping customers who are
delinquent,”  Barbara Desoer , president of the firm’s home-loan
and insurance unit, said at a Nov. 16 congressional hearing.  “We’re completing permanent modifications at a rate of no
one else in the industry,” Moynihan said.  New Hires  The company will also add  employees  in its wealth
management and corporate investment banking units, while
reducing headcount in technology and operations, he said.  Bank of America posted three unprofitable  quarters  since
the beginning of 2009 as new regulations pressured fee income
and borrowers fell behind on loans. The company, which cut its
quarterly dividend to a penny a share in 2009, will boost the
 payout  “as fast as we can,” Moynihan, 51, said today.  Asked if he could increase the payout next year, Moynihan
responded, “I don’t see anything that would stop us.”  The lender slipped 6 cents to $11.58 at 10:44 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The company has dropped
about 23 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  at   nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  