-- Bonus Pay Gains at Canada Banks Slow to 1.1% as Trading, Merger Fees Drop
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-07T14:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/bonus-gains-at-canadian-banks-slow-to-1-1-as-trading-merger-fees-decline.html
Bonuses at Canada’s six-biggest banks
were little changed this year after a 16 percent gain in 2009 as
revenue from trading, equity sales and mergers declined.  The country’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the World Economic Forum, set aside C$8.9
billion ($8.9 billion) in incentive compensation, according to
earnings reports this month. That’s a gain of 1.1 percent from
the previous year’s combined total of C$8.8 billion.  “Last year, at a lot of places, people hit it out of the
park,” said  Jim Beqaj , founder of Toronto-based consulting and
recruitment firm Beqaj International Inc. This year “you’re
still looking at some pretty healthy numbers.”  Capital markets profits fell at five of the six banks this
fiscal year, as trading revenue slid from record highs in 2009
and stock sales and mergers slowed. Canadian equity financings
are down about a third to $26.3 billion this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Completed takeovers involving
Canadian companies fell 20 percent from last year.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , the No. 5 bank, boosted
bonus payouts 11 percent for the year to C$1.1 billion, the
highest increase among the banks, after a 5.6 percent increase
in 2009. The pools reflect the amount reserved, not paid out,
and don’t include base salaries and other compensation. Bonuses
are typically paid out this month for the fiscal year that ended
Oct. 31.  Royal Bank Bonuses  Royal Bank of Canada , the biggest bank, set aside C$3.38
billion for variable compensation this year, the highest among
the country’s lenders. That’s 5 percent less than in 2009, which
was 32 percent higher than in 2008.  “Our compensation plans are appropriate, market based and
reflect the results,”  Barbara Stymiest , group head of strategy,
treasury and corporate services, said in a Dec. 3 interview.  Bank of Montreal set aside C$1.46 billion for bonuses, up
8.7 percent from 2009. Bank of Nova Scotia’s performance-based
compensation rose 5.1 percent to C$1.09 billion, adding to last
year’s 13 percent rise.  The bonus payouts for Toronto-Dominion Bank and National
Bank of Canada were little changed at C$1.34 billion and C$535
million.  U.S. firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  cut the funds they set aside to pay bankers and
traders at the end of the third quarter, partly due to a
business slowdown, according to company reports. Wall Street
traders suffered the biggest pay cuts.  Traders Decline  Overall, Wall Street financial-services professionals are
forecast to receive “slightly” bigger year-end incentive
payouts compared with last year, according to a Nov. 4  report  by
New York-based compensation consultants Johnson Associates Inc.
Payouts are projected to rise by about 5 percent.  Staff in asset management, high net worth and alternative
investments may get the largest increases, up to 15 percent,
while traders will be hardest hit, with incentives forecast to
fall by 20 percent or more.  Vlaad and Co., a Toronto-based recruitment firm, forecast
in June that Canadian investment bankers, some of whom had pay
raises of as much as 25 percent last year, would see little
change in their compensation in 2010.  Royal Bank’s earnings from its investment-banking unit, RBC
Capital Markets, fell 6.8 percent this year to C$1.65 billion,
while at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit profit fell 7
percent. Investment-banking profits were also down this year at
Toronto-Dominion and Bank of Montreal.  “All of the Canadian banks have had pretty solid
performances from their wholesale banking operations,” Royal
Bank’s Stymiest said. “Over the last three, four years we did
pretty much miss the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  