-- BP Said to Weigh Sale of Some North Sea Assets to Fund Gulf Spill Cleanup
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-12-07T11:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/bp-said-to-weigh-sale-of-some-north-sea-assets-to-fund-gulf-spill-clean-up.html
BP Plc , seeking to cover clean-up
costs from its Gulf of Mexico oil spill, is weighing the sale of
some North Sea assets that may raise as much as $1 billion,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  BP may sell some fields and infrastructure in a region
where it has operated for more than 40 years, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private and no decision has been reached.  Sheila Williams , a
spokeswoman for BP, declined to comment on any North Sea
disposals.  “The North Sea remains important to BP globally,”
Williams said in a telephone interview. “We intend to be a part
of that region for a long time.”  The British oil company is raising capital after the spill
at its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico left it facing a bill
projected to reach $40 billion and cost Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward  his job. BP last month agreed to sell its 60
percent interest in Pan American Energy to Argentinean oil and
gas company Bridas Corp. for $7.06 billion, taking asset sales
this year to about $21 billion.  BP rose to the highest since May 28 today, climbing as much
as 2.4 percent to trade at 459 pence as of 11:06 a.m. in London.
The stock is still down 30 percent since the April 20 accident.  North Sea Fields  After operating in the North Sea since the mid 1960s, BP
has 50 joint ventures with 40 companies and runs more than 30
fields in the U.K. Continental Shelf and the Norwegian sector,
according to its website.  BP  also operates 10 pipeline systems,
the Sullom Voe oil terminal on the Shetland Islands and two gas
terminals at Teesside and Dimlington in England. About 60
percent of U.K. oil production flows through BP infrastructure,
the company says.  BP aims to divest as much as $30 billion in assets by the
end of next year to shore up its finances. It has set aside $40
billion for cleanup and compensation for the disaster in which
almost 5 million barrels of crude spewed into the Gulf of Mexico
from April to July.  The explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig killed 11
workers and triggered the worst U.S. oil spill. The blast sank
the $365 million vessel leased by BP from  Transocean Ltd. , shut
a third of the Gulf to fishing, and halted deep-water oil
exploration. In an agreement brokered with the U.S. Obama
administration, BP set aside $20 billion to pay damage claims.  Colombia, Vietnam, Venezuela  BP, Europe’s largest oil producer by volume, in July agreed
to sell assets in North America and Egypt to  Apache Corp . for $7
billion, while in August the company disposed of fields in
Colombia to  Ecopetrol SA  and  Talisman Energy Inc . for $1.9
billion. BP has also sold operations in Vietnam and Venezuela to
its Russian joint venture partner TNK-BP for $1.8 billion.  The company agreed in November to sell its fuels marketing
businesses in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia to Puma Energy, as
well as 50 percent interests in BP Malawi and BP Tanzania to a
Trafigura Beheer BV unit for $296 million in cash.  In October, BP sold stakes in four Gulf of Mexico deepwater
oil and gas fields for $650 million, following the sale of its
role as operator of the Tubular Bells fields.  The Daily Telegraph reported the possible North Sea assets
sale earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 