-- Brady Bond Swap Offer Paves Way for International Sale: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-12-07T23:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/brady-bond-swap-offer-paves-way-for-international-sale-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s offer to exchange $335
million of defaulted Brady bonds moves the government closer to
selling international debt for the first time in a decade.  The yield on Argentina’s dollar bonds due in December 2033
slid to a one-week low of 9.23 percent yesterday. Warrants
linked to gross domestic product rose to 13.73 cents, the
highest since Nov. 10.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is seeking to
lower the third-highest borrowing costs among major emerging-
market economies six months after restructuring $12.2 billion in
defaulted loans. The proposed swap would remove from the market
the last of the debt issued in a 1990s restructuring and named
after former U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady.  “It’s a step forward,” said  Daniel Marx , a former finance
secretary who helped sell Argentina’s Brady bonds in 1993 and
now runs Quantum Finanzas, a Buenos Aires-based research firm.
“The Brady bonds have fulfilled their role.”  Argentina, which stopped making payments on $95 billion of
bonds in 2001 in the largest-ever sovereign default, is offering
to exchange the Brady debt for benchmark 2033 bonds, GDP
warrants, dollar notes due in June 2017 and a cash payment.  The swap involves $263 million of dollar notes and 54.2
million euros of deutsche mark debt. The government listed the
terms at  http://www.bondcom.com/argentina .  Accelerating Payment  The transaction would allow the country to accelerate the
payment of debt originally due in 2023 as Argentina’s  borrowing
costs  slump, the economy grows at the fastest pace in five years
and foreign reserves climb to a  record  $52 billion.  The remaining Argentine Brady bonds use U.S. Treasuries and
German debt as collateral, making them more expensive over time
than sovereign debt, Marx said in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires yesterday.  The bonds were issued under the so-called Brady Plan in
which 21 developing countries, including Poland, Brazil and the
Philippines, restructured foreign debt they defaulted on after
the Federal Reserve drove up U.S.  interest rates  in the 1980s.
Argentina issued about $30 billion worth of Brady bonds.  “Brady bonds served a purpose at first, but once credit is
re-established, it’s more convenient to retire them,” Marx
said. “The plan from the first day was that they would be
retired early.”  Legal Claims  Argentina is making the offer to “manage its external
liabilities” and reduce the prospect of legal claims from
creditors, the government said in a statement yesterday. The
country is among a group of nations including Poland and Albania
that still have Brady debt. Brazil tapped central bank reserves
in 2006 to buy back its remaining $6.6 billion of the notes.  While Argentina previously exchanged the debt in 2005,
Brady bonds were excluded from the June restructuring on concern
creditors would use them as leverage to try to block a
settlement, said Marx.  Sergio Poggi , an Economy Ministry spokesman, didn’t return
a call to the press office seeking a comment.  The offer is more likely to help Argentina’s reputation
among investors than improve its balance sheet, said  Bret Rosen ,
a Latin America debt strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in
New York.  ‘Cleaning Up’ Debt Issues  “It’s not a huge amount” of money, said Rosen in a
telephone interview from New York. “The Argentines have been
clearly looking to essentially clean up a variety of different
sovereign debt issues that they’ve had to deal with.”  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt slid
18 basis points today to 622. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 3.9797 per dollar.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 31 basis points, or 0.31
percentage point, to 497 basis points, according to JPMorgan.
That’s the highest among major emerging market economies after
Venezuela and Ecuador.  South America’s second-biggest economy after Brazil also
plans to start negotiations with the Paris Club group of
creditor nations over about $7 billion next week, the Economy
Ministry said.  Paris Club Talks  Economy Minister Amado Boudou will lead talks with the
informal association, whose members include the U.S., Germany,
Japan and Italy. Boudou said Nov. 24 that an agreement with the
Paris Club would help companies lower borrowing costs and boost
investment.  Argentina is also working with the International Monetary
Fund to improve its inflation data amid concern that the
nation’s consumer price reports are flawed. Prices are rising 26
percent annually, according to Buenos Aires-based research
company Ecolatina, compared with the government’s  estimate  of
11.1 percent in the 12 months through October.  These steps along with the Brady offer will help Argentina
in the long run, said  Sara Zervos , who helps oversee about $10.5
billion in emerging-market assets including Argentine bonds at
Oppenheimer Funds Inc. in New York.  “All of these things in isolation aren’t an enormous big
deal, but when you add them up it means they are clearly trying
to pave the way for borrowing abroad,” said Zervos. “That
overall is bullish for Argentina and Argentine assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at   bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  