-- Brady's Four Touchdown Passes Lead Patriots to 45-3 Rout Against NY Jets
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-07T04:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/brady-s-four-touchdown-passes-lead-patriots-to-45-3-rout-against-ny-jets.html
The New England Patriots routed the
rival New York Jets 45-3 to take sole possession of first place
in the division and tie for the National Football League’s best
record.  Tom Brady  threw four touchdown passes in winning his 26th
straight game at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Massachusetts,
breaking  Brett Favre ’s record for most consecutive home wins by
a quarterback.  The Patriots improved to 10-2 on the season, tying the
Atlanta Falcons for the NFL’s best record, and moved a game
ahead of the Jets (9-3) in the American Football Conference’s
East Division. There are four games left in the regular season
and the AFC East winner will likely get a first-round bye in the
playoffs and at least one home game in the postseason.  “We just executed pretty well tonight,” Brady, who passed
for 326 yards, said in a televised interview. “That’s a good
team that we played, it wasn’t their best night. It was an
important game, but we’ve got another big game next week.”  The Patriots intercepted New York quarterback  Mark Sanchez 
three times in avenging a 28-14 road loss to the Jets during
Week 2 on Sept. 19. New England is 9-1 since then.  The game marked the fourth time in 40 years that teams with
9-2 records or better met on “Monday Night Football.”  The Jets lost for the first time in six road games this
season. They had won eight straight regular-season road games
dating back to a Nov. 22, 2009, loss at New England, when
Sanchez threw four interceptions as a rookie.  It was the Jets’ worst defeat since 1986, when they lost by
the same score to Miami after a 10-1 start and finished the
regular season with a five-game losing streak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  