-- Tombini Approved by Senate Committee as Next Brazilian Central Bank Chief
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-12-07T16:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/brazil-must-create-conditions-for-inflation-target-to-fall-tombini-says.html
A Brazilian Senate committee
recommended confirmation of  Alexandre Tombini  as the country’s
next central bank president after he pledged to fight inflation
and act to prevent the formation of credit bubbles.  Lawmakers voted 22-1 to recommend that the full Senate
approve President-elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s nominee to succeed
 Henrique Meirelles , the country’s longest-serving bank chief.  Tombini, at his confirmation hearing, told lawmakers that
the increase in capital and reserve requirements announced by
the central bank Dec. 3 would have an impact on demand, and slow
the expansion of credit to a “safe” pace.  “We recognize they will have an impact on the economy, on
aggregate demand, and consequently affect the conditions in
which monetary policy is processed and defined,” Tombini said.
“They are not substitute mechanisms, they are different.”  The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate future
contract due January 2012 fell as much as four basis points to
12 percent, as some investors took Tombini’s remarks to indicate
a preference for tighter banking regulations and fiscal policy
over increases in the interest rate, said  Zeina Latif , a senior
economist with RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo.  “Markets are reacting to this perception that other non-
conventional instruments will be used,” said Latif. “The Selic
would not rise significantly, because the preferred instrument
is macro-prudential measures and fiscal policy.”  The increase in reserve requirements for time deposits and
non-interest bearing accounts damped speculation that the
central bank would raise the benchmark rate tomorrow to bring
 inflation  down from the highest since April 2009. Rate-futures
yields due in January show traders expect policy makers to keep
the Selic unchanged tomorrow at 10.75 percent. A day before the
Dec. 3 announcement, they were betting on an increase of at
least 25 basis points.  University of Illinois  Rousseff pledged “total operational autonomy” for the
central bank after she nominated Tombini to head the
institution. Policy makers are appointed and removed by the
country’s president and aren’t limited by set terms.  The 46-year-old economist, who has worked over a decade at
the central bank and currently sits on the bank’s eight-member
board, earned his doctorate at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.  At his confirmation hearing today, Tombini said that Brazil
needs to create the conditions so its inflation target,
currently at 4.5 percent a year, can fall to levels seen in
other major emerging markets. The country’s real interest rates,
the highest in the Group of 20 nations, should continue on their
long-term, downward trend, he said.  Lower Rates  “It’s reasonable to expect that in the future the interest
rates in the economy will be lower than they are today,”
Tombini said. “In the last few years, we brought inflation to a
lower and more stable level, and now we need to consolidate this
conquest.”  A fiscal policy that reduces Brazil’s debt-to-gross
domestic product ratios also helps the central bank fight
inflation, Tombini said.  A combination of a tighter fiscal policy, and a further
increase in banks’ reserve requirements could mean that interest
rates will rise less than traders were expecting next year, said
 Luiz Eduardo Portella , a partner of Banco Modal SA.  “Instead of 200 basis points, we could have 100 or 150 in
total,” Portella said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Currency Reserves  Brazil’s record $286 billion in foreign currency reserves
are “moderate” compared with the size of the country’s economy
and other emerging markets including China, South Korea and
Russia, Tombini said.  The reserves accumulation policy over the past few years
hasn’t affected the direction of Brazil’s real, which has
fluctuated in response to market and economic forces, Tombini
said.  Traders are betting Tombini will raise rates 0.5 percentage
point at his first monetary policy meeting in January, Bloomberg
estimates based on interest-rate futures contracts show. Policy
makers increased  borrowing costs  this year by 200 basis points,
or 2 percentage points, to 10.75 percent from a record low.  Consumer prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA-15 index
rose 5.47 percent in the year through mid-November. Inflation
expectations in 2011 have accelerated to 5.2 percent, from 4.8
percent in August, according to the median forecast in a Dec. 3
central bank survey of about 100 economists.  Tombini was born in Porto Alegre, in the southern state of
Rio Grande do Sul. Before joining the central bank, he was
senior adviser to Brazil’s executive director at the
International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  