-- Broadway’s Bloody Winter Sees Closings as ‘Elf,' Picard Depart
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/broadway-s-bloody-winter-sees-19-closings-as-elf-jean-luc-picard-depart.html
Some 20 Broadway shows are likely to
close by early February. In January alone, 16 theaters plan to
go dark, the most since at least the late 1980s, according to
the  Broadway League , a trade group.  The axe is scheduled to fall not only on a seasonal show
with a limited run such as  “Elf,”  but on critically acclaimed
musicals like  “Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson.”  Even star-driven
revivals such as “A Life in the Theater” with  Patrick Stewart 
and T.R. Knight have not been spared.  “Everyone is surprised that it has been such a tough
season,” said  Tony Ponturo , a producer of “ Lombardi .” The
drama about the  Green Bay Packers  coach is the only new fall
show currently scheduled still to be running at the end of
February. “We’re not on the other side of this economy.”  While Thanksgiving week brought in $2.2 million for
“ Wicked ,” the best week for a show in Broadway history, 10
others saw declines.  “Thanksgiving wasn’t very good compared with other
Thanksgivings,” said Martin Markinson, co-owner of the Helen
Hayes Theatre. He said many tourists “would rather spend their
money on gifts and toys.”  Successful Runs  Slow growth, 9.8 percent national unemployment and
attendant choosy theatergoing is only part of the picture. Some
star-driven shows may not extend, including the top-selling
 “The Merchant of Venice”  with  Al Pacino . Other departing shows
have had profitable multiyear lives, such as “In the Heights”
and “Next to Normal” and are simply coming to the end of
successful runs.  The flops, which include the adaptation of the Norwegian
comedy “Elling” with Brendan Fraser, David Hirson’s “La Bete”
and the bleak Kander & Ebb musical  “The Scottsboro Boys,”  may
have failed even in better times.  “The small, quiet musicals are not capturing audiences
when there are flashier things to see,” said producer  Robyn Goodman , who will present “Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo” with
 Robin Williams  in the spring.  “Plays have to have big themes and big stars, or be
hilariously funny with big stars,” she said. “A musical has to
capture people’s imagination enough so that they’ll tell others
to see it.”  Logical Audience  “Lombardi” is selling tickets through Feb. 20 and may
extend sales until at least March, said Ponturo. He and partner
Fran Kirmser have been selling it to university alumni groups.  “We’re reaching out to the people we know and the logical
community connected with Lombardi, to create group sales,” he
said.  The closings will create a bonanza for stagehands, as
demand for theaters remains robust. That means more hours for
striking sets and moving in new shows.  “If a building sits dark at this point, it would be
because there wasn’t a show coming in at that exact time,” said
 Jordan Roth , President of  Jujamcyn Theatres . “Taking a snapshot
of a January transition does not get the full picture.”  Comedians will be out in force: in addition to Williams,
audiences can expect to see  Chris Rock  in Stephen Adly Guirgis’s
“The Motherf*cker with the Hat,”  Jim Gaffigan  performing
alongside  Kiefer Sutherland  and  Chris Noth  in Jason Miller’s
“That Championship Season,”  Ben Stiller  in “The House of Blue
Leaves” and  Trey Parker  and  Matt Stone  of “South Park” behind
the musical “The Book of Mormon.”  Other shows include “Catch Me if You Can,” “Sister Act”
and that musical for devotees of the arachnid empire currently
in previews called “Spider-Man: Turn off the Dark.”  Musical revivals to watch are “How to Succeed in Business
Without Really Trying” starring  Daniel Radcliffe , and
“Anything Goes” with  Sutton Foster .  “The big question is whether the shows coming in have the
wherewithal to last,” said Markinson. “You have a heck of a
lot of musicals coming in, and that’s what the tourists favor --
unless the musicals are dogs.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 