-- Build Americas Left Out of Deal to Extend Bush-Era Tax Cuts, Officials Say
-- B y   R y a n   D o n m o y e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-07T18:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/build-americas-left-out-of-deal-to-extend-bush-era-tax-cuts-officials-say.html
An extension of the Build America
Bond program was omitted from a compromise that President  Barack Obama  struck with congressional leaders to prolong tax cuts
enacted in 2001 and 2003, White House officials said.  The president said last night that he agreed to extend all
expiring income-tax cuts two years, as Republicans wanted, in
return for advancing jobless benefits and cutting payroll taxes.
The Build America program, which subsidizes state and local
borrowing costs, was left out, according to two officials
briefed on the plan who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the details haven’t been released.  The omission hinders efforts to prolong the program, which
is set to expire at year end. More than $174.1 billion of the
taxable securities have been sold since April 2009, making them
the fastest-growing segment of the $2.8 trillion municipal
market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. pays
35 percent of the interest on the debt.  “We would be disappointed if the bonds didn’t make it into
a tax package,”  Janet Kavinoky , director of infrastructure and
transportation for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said today in a
telephone interview. “The bonds have done a lot of good for
communities who have not had the capacity to keep infrastructure
projects going.”  Significant Challenges  Brian Turmail , spokesman for the Arlington, Virginia-based
Associated General Contractors of America, said the bonds are
crucial to the nation’s recovery from the longest recession
since the Great Depression.  “That we would make it harder for private-sector dollars
to flow into infrastructure projects just astounds the mind,”
he said in a telephone interview. “This is a key part of
addressing what we consider to be pretty significant
infrastructure challenges that our nation is facing and will,
long-term, undermine our economic competitiveness.”  The construction industry has lost 5,000 jobs since
October, driving unemployment in the sector to about 19 percent,
the group said in a Dec. 3  statement .  Build Americas were created by Obama’s 2009 economic-
stimulus plan.  Senate Finance Committee  Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat,  included an extension  in a bill to keep
middle-income tax cuts passed under President  George W. Bush .
That bill was defeated Dec. 4 in the Senate, opposed by some
lawmakers because it would have let taxes on the wealthy
increase.  Bonds in Limbo  The fate of the Build America program, which Obama has
sought to extend, may be determined by a six-member panel headed
by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , the White House
officials said. Panel members were appointed by Obama and
congressional leaders to negotiate tax issues.  The bonds have bolstered the economy, Baucus said in an
interview in the Capitol. He said he didn’t know whether the
program would be in a final bill, which he said would likely be
the only tax measure considered before the new Congress is sworn
in next month.  “There are provisions that are not yet negotiated, and
that’s one of them,” he said.  Because they carry taxable rates comparable to similar
corporate debt, state and local issuers have marketed Build
America securities to pension funds, offshore investors and
others who don’t typically buy municipal securities. That has
curbed the supply of tax-exempt bonds and buoyed prices.  Hurrying to Market  Concern that the program would lapse has weighed on the
tax-exempt bond market since an end may boost the amount of
money state and local governments borrow with tax-exempt debt.
Issuers have also rushed to sell Build America securities.  With Republicans poised to take control of the House of
Representatives in January, local governments, banks and other
advocates are pressing to have the program extended in the
current, so-called lame-duck session. Under the Baucus bill, it
would have been extended for a year with the subsidy cut to 32
percent of interest costs.  Republicans -- including U.S. Representative  David Camp  of
Michigan, who is in line to become chairman of the tax-writing
Ways & Means Committee -- have been critical of spending under
Obama’s $814 billion stimulus package. Democrats, who now
control the House, have passed measures to prolong the Build
America program, only to see the bills stall in the Senate.  Obama spoke about the tax compromise in Washington after a
meeting with Democratic congressional leaders yesterday. They
and the Republican leadership still have to sell the plan to
their caucuses. Obama called it a “framework” for a deal.  Allowing the Build America program to expire “would just
be another blow to the already embattled construction sector of
the economy,” the Chamber of Commerce’s Kavinoky said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  