-- Buyout Bets Wane as Swaps Show Economy Keeps LBOs in Check: Credit Markets
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-07T17:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/buyout-bets-wane-as-swaps-show-economy-keeps-lbos-in-check-credit-markets.html
Buyout speculation that sent credit
derivatives on companies from Cardinal Health Inc. to Dell Inc.
soaring two months ago is waning as rising unemployment keeps
the takeover revival in check.  The average cost of  credit-default swaps  on 15 companies
including the Dublin, Ohio-based drug distributor and the
computer maker founded by  Michael Dell  has declined 38 basis
points to 143 basis points since Oct. 25, compared with a drop
of 4.9 for a benchmark swaps index. Contracts on Cardinal Health
have plunged to 58 basis points from 148 on Oct. 25.  Bets on a surge in leveraged buyouts are diminishing as the
sluggish recovery limits private-equity and bank deals. While
the LBO pace has more than tripled to $133 billion this year
from 2009, a record $1.6 trillion of deals were announced from
2005 to 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Acquirers
have to put up more equity, and the amount of debt that targets
take on relative to earnings is less than during the buyout boom
four years ago.  “Credit spreads are pricing very high chances of LBOs, yet
the feared LBO boom has yet to ignite,” said  Alberto Gallo , a
credit strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York, who
last month recommended investors sell protection on companies
with credit swaps that jumped on the speculation. “We are in an
environment where growth is accelerating, but remains at a low
level. Leverage is scarce and expensive.”  Seagate Talks Collapse  Seagate Technology Plc, the world’s largest maker of disk
drives, said last month it ended talks with private-equity firms
for a leveraged buyout and instead authorized the repurchase of
as much as $2 billion of its stock. Talks collapsed with buyout
firm TPG Capital after the suitor wasn’t able to find other
partners to raise enough equity financing, a person familiar
with the matter said last month.  Private equity firms are typically borrowing 4.7 times the
company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization costs, compared with 5.5 times earnings in 2006,
according to Goldman Sachs analysts.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 175 basis points, or 1.75
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate index. Spreads reached a 12-week
high of 177 basis points on Nov. 30. Yields averaged 3.76
percent yesterday.  Corporate bonds worldwide have returned 0.59 percent this
month, bringing this year’s gain to 5.6 percent, according to
the Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Corporate Index.  Merck Offering  Merck & Co., the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, may sell as
much as $2.5 billion of senior unsecured bonds today as yields
on U.S. investment-grade company debt hover below 4 percent.
Standard & Poor’s expects the Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-
based drugmaker’s offering “to not significantly exceed $2.5
billion,” the ratings company said today in a statement.
Moody’s Investors Service said Merck may offer $2 billion of
senior unsecured notes.  The global speculative-grade default rate fell to a two-
year low of 3.3 percent last month at Moody’s, as junk-rated
borrowers tapped the bond market at a record pace. The rate
declined from 3.7 percent in October and 13.6 percent a year
ago, Moody’s said in a report today. Defaults will fall to 2.9
percent by year-end and 1.8 percent by November 2011, according
to the report. That compares with a forecast last month of 2.8
percent by year-end and 1.9 percent by October 2011.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
fell for a fifth day, reaching the lowest since Nov. 8.  Default Swaps Fall  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.2 basis points to a
mid-price of 88.5 basis points as of 12:16 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index has declined from 99.4 basis points on Nov. 30
amid speculation that European Central Bank policy makers will
ramp up measures to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis
and following comments Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
made on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program on Dec. 5. The
unemployment rate last month was 9.8 percent, the highest level
since April, the Labor Department said on Dec. 3.  “We’re not very far from the level where the economy is
not self-sustaining,” Bernanke said in the CBS interview.
“It’s very close to the border. It takes about 2.5 percent
growth just to keep unemployment stable and that’s about what
we’re getting.”  Cardinal Health  The Fed Chairman indicated U.S. unemployment may take five
years to fall to a normal level and Fed purchases of government
debt beyond the $600 billion announced are “possible.”  Contracts on Cardinal Health more than doubled over six
days from 59.8 basis points on Oct. 14 on speculation it could
be acquired by private-equity firms. The swaps reversed after
the company said Oct. 26 that it wasn’t in talks.  McKesson Corp.’s credit swaps have dropped to 48 basis
points from as high as 96.6 on Oct. 25 as speculation cooled
that the San Francisco-based drug distributor, which has a stock
market value of $16.8 billion, could be acquired in a debt-
fueled takeover. McKesson spokeswoman  Ana Schrank  declined to
comment.  Contracts on Round Rock, Texas-based Dell jumped to as high
as 129 basis points on Oct. 29 from 86 basis points on June 2,
the day before its chief executive officer said he’s considered
taking the company private. Swaps on Dell, which has a market
capitalization of more than $26 billion, have dropped back to 98
basis points.  Face Value  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  The swaps rise if a company is deemed a buyout risk because
the debt added to its balance sheet to fund the takeover erodes
its credit quality and leads to ratings downgrades. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Large jumps in swaps are typically unwarranted for
companies with an enterprise value -- the sum of its stock and
debt minus cash -- of more than $15 billion, said  Nicholas Pappas , co-head of flow credit trading in the Americas at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York. Companies that large, he said, are
more likely to pursue mergers or acquisitions or buy back
shares.  The number of acquirers teaming up on a bid has shrunk,
according to Pappas. “We are not seeing five sponsors in one
deal as we did in the past,” he said.  No ‘Big Credit Event’  Buyouts “haven’t been a big credit event for portfolio
managers as of yet,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a credit strategist
at Morgan Stanley in New York. “You should expect to see more
in 2011, but it doesn’t seem to me you could have particularly
aggressive leveraged events.”  Bank of America strategists are still recommending
investors buy protection on potential buyout targets with market
values of $10 billion to $20 billion whose swaps are cheap
relative to the rest of the market.  Contracts on a company that’s acquired in a leveraged
buyout can jump 300 basis points,  Hans Mikkelsen , an analyst at
the bank in New York said in an interview yesterday.  “The conditions are still there for LBOs, so it’s just a
matter of time,” Mikkelsen said. “The market will tend to run
with any kind of speculation that comes up because the downside
is so big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  