-- Cameron Says Advances in Afghanistan Show NATO Pullout Plan Is Achievable
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-12-07T09:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/cameron-says-advances-in-afghanistan-show-nato-pullout-plan-is-achievable.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
made an unannounced visit to Afghanistan and said recent
progress by allied forces suggests  NATO ’s plan to hand control
of the country’s security to its own army by 2014 is achievable.  The addition of about 20,000 international troops in
Helmand Province is underpinning social and economic
reconstruction while an increase in Afghan army numbers to
140,000 from 97,000 a year ago is helping improve security,
Cameron said late yesterday. A North Atlantic Treaty
Organization summit in Lisbon last month embraced the 2014
target date set by Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .  “There’s a lot to do but we are going in the right
direction,” Cameron told reporters. “What NATO was talking
about around the table is doable.”  Britain may begin pulling troops from Afghanistan as soon
as next year amid public disquiet at home about the military
campaign’s objectives. The prime minister said the allies aren’t
seeking to build a “Swiss-style democracy in the Hindu Kush.”
The aim instead is to restore political stability in most of the
country and rid it of insurgents, he said.  Cameron landed at Camp Bastion in Helmand yesterday for a
stop of just under 24 hours that included meetings with military
officials, a Chinook helicopter ride to a U.K. patrol base in
Nahr-e-Saraj near Lashkar Gah, and an inspection of newly
arrived Warthog armored vehicles.  ‘Tragic’ Death  The prime minister spoke of the “tragic” case of a
British soldier killed in a presumed friendly-fire incident over
the weekend and said that “there needs to be an inquiry.”  General  David Richards , Britain’s most senior military
commander, backed Cameron’s view that troops may begin returning
home by next year and said a withdrawal timetable was helping
“focus the mind” on getting the job done.  “There’s been an astronomical rate of progress,” Richards
said, speaking alongside the prime minister. “The resources are
in and things are coming together well.”  The Afghan economy expanded by 22 percent in 2009 and 5.3
million children attended school compared with 1 million under
Taliban rule, according to U.K. government figures.
Parliamentary elections in September were the first to be run by
Afghans since the 1960s, while four of the 34 provinces of the
country account for about 70 percent of the violence.  ‘Deradicalize the People’  “We’re long-term partners,” Cameron told a joint press
conference in Kabul with Karzai today. “We want to be your
friends. We want to help with the aid, the education, the
development, the economy. It’s these things that will help to
deradicalize the people.”  He announced an extra 33 million pounds ($39 million) in
aid to refurbish police stations, control posts and checkpoints.  The prime minister’s visit came three days after President
 Barack Obama  made a surprise visit to  Bagram Airfield , north of
Kabul. The U.S. president plans to announce during the week of
Dec. 13 the outcome of an administration review of the Afghan
war strategy he outlined a year ago.  Cameron’s trip took place after confidential diplomatic
cables obtained by WikiLeaks.org cited Karzai as questioning
Britain’s commitment to the war effort.  “Of course there are frustrations,” Cameron said. “We
all know now that there weren’t enough troops in Helmand but the
relationship between the last prime minister, this prime
minister and Hamid Karzai is strong.”  Karzai said the leaks “have some truth, some not so truth
in them.”  He agreed with Cameron that the focus of the criticism had
been on the numbers of troops in Helmand province. The U.K. sent
an extra 500 soldiers to the country last year to support
Obama’s troop surge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Kabul at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  