-- Canada Companies Plan to Boost Employment in First Quarter, Manpower Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/canada-firms-plan-to-add-jobs-in-first-quarter-manpower-says.html
Canadian employers plan to increase
hiring in the first quarter, led by wholesalers, transportation
companies and finance companies, according to a survey by
 Manpower Inc.   The net employment outlook, which subtracts the percentage
of companies planning to cut jobs from the percentage that say
they’ll hire, was positive for a sixth straight quarter. The
outlook posted a seasonally adjusted reading of 14, the same as
in the fourth quarter, the survey by Milwaukee-based employment-
services firm Manpower showed.  The indicator suggests employers plan to increase
production even after growth slowed to a less-than-expected
annualized 1 percent rate in the third quarter. Canada has
created about 318,000 positions since November 2009, Statistics
Canada said Dec. 3.  The survey “predicts a hopeful employment climate in the
first quarter,”  Lori Procher , vice president and general
manager at Manpower’s Canadian unit in Toronto, said in an
interview. “Everything is trending in the more positive
direction than in the past couple of years.”  Employers in all industries and all regions expect to hire,
Procher also said.  The country’s  unemployment rate  was 7.6 percent in
November, down from last year’s 8.4 percent, and economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predict it will average 7.8 percent
next year.  Wholesalers and retailers are most likely to hire in the
first quarter with an employment reading of 17, the survey
showed. Transportation companies and public utilities will also
add to payrolls, with a reading of 16. Finance, insurance and
real estate companies had a reading of 14.  Service companies were least likely to hire, with an
outlook of 7, according to the report.  The survey of more than 1,900 employers has a margin of
error of 2.2 percentage points, and was taken Oct. 14 to Oct.
27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 