-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Gold Drops From Record; Oil Shares Gain
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-12-07T22:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/canadian-stocks-rise-after-washington-agrees-on-tax-cut-deal.html
     Dec. 7 (Bloomberg) --  Canadian stocks  fell for the first
time in seven days as declines by gold producers outweighed a
rise in oil and base-metal shares after U.S. President Barack
Obama agreed to extend tax cuts.  Kinross Gold Corp., Canada’s  third-biggest  gold producer,
dropped 2.7 percent as the metal retreated from a record. Suncor
Energy Inc., the country’s largest oil company, gained 1.6
percent as Obama agreed to support a two-year extension of Bush-
era tax rates for high-income taxpayers. Bank of Nova Scotia,
Canada’s third-largest lender by assets, declined 2 percent
after surging 4 percent over the previous two days.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  slipped 25.34
points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,250.67. The Canadian equity
benchmark’s six-day streak was the longest stretch of advances
since September.  “Copper versus gold is the trade,” said  Marcus Xu ,
director of equity investments at Genus Capital Management in
Vancouver, which manages C$1.7 billion ($1.69 billion). “The
market is net down because gold is a very big weight in the
index now. Plus, gold was trading at an all-time high. Whenever
you have a new high come up, people always want to take a step
back and take some profits.”  The Canadian benchmark has gained 2.3 percent this month as
the U.S. dollar has fallen  1.5 percent  against a basket of world
currencies, boosting commodity prices. S&P/TSX gold stocks
jumped 3.2 percent during the period as the U.S. reported a
smaller increase in jobs than most economists forecast, raising
the prospect of more government or central-bank stimulus.  Gold Shares Slump  The  S&P/TSX Gold Index  slumped the most in four weeks today
as the metal decreased 0.5 percent from a record close.  Kinross lost 2.7 percent to C$18.84. Goldcorp Inc., the
world’s second-biggest producer by market value, retreated 1.7
percent to C$47.36.  Centerra Gold Inc. and European Goldfields Ltd. slumped
after analysts reduced their ratings on the shares.  Centerra, which mines in Kyrgyzstan and Mongolia, fell 7.1
percent from a record close to C$21.35 after  Sabrina Grandchamps , an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, cut her rating on
the company to “underweight” from “neutral.” European
Goldfields, which explores for precious and base metals in
Greece and Romania, tumbled 9.4 percent to C$13.27 after a
downgrade to “sector perform” from “outperform” by  Stephen D. Walker , an analyst at Royal Bank of Canada.  Energy Stocks Gain  Energy companies gained the most of 10 industry groups in
the S&P/TSX today after President Obama said he’ll accept a deal
to extend current tax rates for high-income taxpayers for two
years in exchange for extending federal unemployment insurance
for the long-term jobless and cutting the payroll tax by $120
billion for one year.  Suncor advanced 1.6 percent to a 10-month high of C$36.66.
TransCanada Corp., owner of Canada’s largest pipeline system,
increased 1.1 percent to C$38.02.  An  index  of base-metal and coal producers gained for a
sixth day after Toronto-Dominion Bank raised its price estimate
for copper by 17 percent for 2011.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd., Canada’s second-largest
publicly traded copper producer, rallied 5.8 percent to C$105.30
after  Greg Barnes , an analyst at TD, boosted his rating on the
stock to “buy” from “hold.” Inmet Mining Corp., which
produces copper, gold and zinc, advanced 4.1 percent to C$72.86
after Barnes raised his 12-month share-price estimate to C$86
from C$76.  Coal Producer  SouthGobi Resources Ltd., which produces coal in Mongolia,
plunged 8.3 percent to C$12.78. Shares of the Vancouver-based
company had jumped 15 percent yesterday after it announced its
biggest-ever sales contract.  The S&P/TSX Banks Index climbed for the first time in four
days. TD, Canada’s second-largest lender by assets, rose 1.9
percent to C$72.17. The shares gained after Chief Financial
Officer  Colleen Johnston , when questioned about a possible bid
for U.S. auto-loan company Chrysler Financial Corp., said the
bank is looking at more “modest-sized” deals.  Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-biggest bank, rallied 3.1
percent to C$61.87 after reporting fourth-quarter earnings that
beat the average of 13 analyst  estimates  by 3.7 percent,
excluding certain items.  Scotiabank fell 2 percent from a record close to C$55. The
shares had rallied after the company said on Dec. 3 it will aim
to pay out 40 percent to 50 percent of its profits in  dividends ,
up from 35 percent to 45 percent.  Scotiabank’s price per dollar of analysts’ estimated profit
over the next 12 months reached the highest level in two years
of Bloomberg records yesterday relative to Canada’s six largest
banks.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, slipped 1.8 percent to
C$143.23. Wheat futures fell the most in three weeks after
Australia raised its forecast for domestic production.  To contact the reporters on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  