-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Crude Oil Drops, Central Bank Keeps Rates Steady
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-07T22:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/canada-s-dollar-appreciates-as-crude-oil-exceeds-90-a-barrel-stocks-rise.html
Canada’s dollar slid from near the
strongest level in more than three weeks after commodities
including crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, reversed
gains, diminishing the appeal of growth-linked currencies.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, also fell after
the Bank of Canada held interest rates steady at 1 percent for a
second straight meeting, highlighting threats to the nation’s
economic recovery.  “Equities reversed late in the day, as well as
commodities, led by crude, and that brought the Canadian dollar
down,”  Michael Leavitt , an institutional-derivatives broker at
MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Montreal, said via e-mail.  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.7 percent to C$1.0124
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0057
yesterday. It touched C$1.0003 on Dec. 3, the strongest level
since Nov. 11. One Canadian dollar buys 98.80 U.S. cents.  Demand for assets of resource-exporting countries earlier
pushed the loonie as high as C$1.0012, tracking global stocks
and commodities higher. Crude for January delivery exceeded $90
a barrel in New York for the first time in more than two years
before dropping to $88.18, down 1.3 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s/TSX  Composite Index  in Toronto rose 0.7 percent before
ending the day down 0.2 percent.  Crude retreated after failing to maintain a break through a
resistance level at $90 a barrel, spurring sales by investors.
Resistance is an area on a chart where orders to sell may be
clustered.  Greenback Gains  The U.S. dollar also gained, curbing the investment appeal
of commodities. The greenback rose against 13 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts after earlier falling against most of them.  Gold for immediate delivery fell 1.5 percent to $1,402.05
an ounce after earlier rising to $1,431.25. The Reuters-
Jefferies  CRB Index  of raw materials fell 0.5 percent after
gaining as much as 1.1 percent to touch 320.74, a 26-month high.  The Bank of Canada said in statement it will remain careful
about future interest-rate increases as falling exports and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis hinder the economic recovery.  “A combination of disappointing productivity performance
and persistent strength in the Canadian dollar could dampen the
expected recovery of net exports,” the bank said.  The bank’s decision to hold its  overnight lending rate 
steady was anticipated by all 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “The more balanced outlook from the Bank of Canada I don’t
think had any real cause and effect on the Canadian dollar
compared with equities and commodities,” MF Global’s Leavitt
said.  Three Increases  The central bank kept borrowing costs steady in October
after three successive increases of a quarter-percentage point
each beginning June 1, when it became the first among the Group
of Seven nations to raise interest rates since July 2008. In
October it cited a weaker economic outlook for the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trading partner.  The bank’s statement today “does choke off any talk of the
Bank of Canada bringing a rate hike sooner,”  David Watt , senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit,
said by phone from Toronto. “If anything, it suggests they may
want to potentially stay on hold a little bit longer.”  The loonie has rallied 4 percent this year, partly on
demand for the nation’s raw materials, including gold, crude,
copper, timber and wheat, which account for about half its
export revenue.  Loonie Rose  The Canadian currency rose earlier today against the
greenback as investor demand for safety diminished after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  said he would agree to sustain tax cuts
for high-income taxpayers enacted during the administration of
former President  George W. Bush . In return, Obama would get an
extension of unemployment insurance and a reduction in the
payroll tax by $120 billion for a year.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  cut spending and
raised taxes by 6 billion euros ($8 billion) to deal with what
he called the “worst crisis in our history” as the government
seeks to seal an international aid package designed to help stop
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis from spreading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  