-- U.S. Automakers, UAW Explore Expanding Profit Sharing
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s ,   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/carmakers-uaw-said-to-study-expanding-profit-sharing-before-contact-talks.html
General Motors Co .,  Ford Motor Co. 
and Chrysler Group LLC, in advance of next year’s labor contract
negotiations, are exploring with the United Auto Workers changes
that could give workers a bigger piece of growing profits.  “We want to find the best possible bang for all of the
employees, across the board, not a program that would pay some
and not the others,” said  General Holiefield , head of the UAW’s
Chrysler department under President  Bob King .  While formal negotiations haven’t begun, union leaders and
executives from the automakers have broached profit-sharing
changes, said two people familiar with the efforts. High-level
discussions began months ago because it was deemed a significant
issue that would require more time, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  All of the companies have been “hinting” at profit-
sharing changes, Holiefield said in an interview Dec. 6.  It was “not just within Chrysler but the Big Three,” he
said. “ Bob King  has got to get his arms around it.”  The union made mid-contract concessions last year, such as
giving up full pay for idled workers, before the bankruptcies of
Chrysler LLC and General Motors Corp. The  UAW’s  four-year labor
agreements with three automakers expire Sept. 14, 2011, the
union has said. Formal negotiations typically begin several
weeks before the contracts expire.  GM,  Ford  and Chrysler go into next year’s negotiations
seeking a deal that keeps the companies’ competitive with
foreign rivals, while the union aims to ensure workers share in
the upswing after making sacrifices, labor experts said.  Worker Rewards  “The companies want to try and reward the hourly workforce
without bringing back some of the cost items that made them non-
competitive,” said  Art Schwartz , a former GM negotiator now
doing labor management consulting based in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  Chris Lee , a GM spokesman, and  Shawn Morgan , a Chrysler
spokeswoman, declined to comment yesterday.  “At this point, it’s premature to talk about 2011
negotiations seeing that they are several months away,”  John Stoll , a Ford spokesman, said in an interview yesterday. “We
believe all stakeholders should benefit from the company’s
success.”  Ford, the world’s most profitable automaker, in October
reported a third-quarter net income of $1.69 billion and GM,
which went public again in November, reported a third-quarter
net income of $2.16 billion.  While Chrysler reported a net loss of $453 million through
three quarters, the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker’s
results have been improving and the company has said it will be
profitable in 2011.  Pattern Bargaining  The UAW is probably having similar conversations with the
three automakers, said Arthur Wheaton, a Cornell University
labor expert.  “It’s been the historical trend,” said Wheaton, who is
based in Buffalo, New York. “For basically the last 60 years
it’s been pattern bargaining, so whatever one gets, the others
follow along. There have been some minor exceptions.”  Companies like profit sharing because it’s a cost only if
they’re making money, Wheaton said.  “The current profit-sharing formula has been pretty
ineffective,” he said in a telephone interview.  Payments have been small and sporadic because the companies
haven’t been consistently profitable. “Part of it’s also the
formula and how they base it,” Wheaton said.  Payout History  The union reached profit-sharing agreements with the three
automakers in the 1980s, the UAW said.  Ford, which earned $2.72 billion last year, paid UAW
members an average of $450 in profit sharing this year, Stoll
said. That was the first for the union since Chrysler paid
workers an average of $650 in 2006, the Detroit Free Press has
reported.  “Around 2000, they were bringing home profit-sharing
checks like $7,000,” Wheaton said of Chrysler workers.  Both GM and the UAW want to change the profit-sharing plan
to make it more consistent, said one person familiar with the
discussions. GM’s plan has paid out very little over the past 10
years, so the union wants to lower the profit threshold that
allows workers to get paid, the person said.  At the same time, there is no maximum payout, so management
wants to limit how much the company will pay workers in good
years, the person said. Management also wants to link the
profit-sharing plans to hourly and salaried workers so that
neither side feels unfairly compensated, the person said.  Fairness Issue  One of the hourly workers’ concerns with profit sharing is
that they must bear the brunt of cost-cutting while not seeing a
large return, said  Gary Chaison , a professor of industrial
relations at Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts.  “The fear of profit sharing to the UAW has always been one
of: You’re the junior partner in success and senior partner in
failure,” he said  A comment made at a Ford factory last week underscores the
desire of workers to avoid further givebacks.  “It is time to turn the page on concessions and get back
the sacrifices of the past,” Grant Morton, a UAW official at
Ford’s Chicago assembly plant, told a cheering crowd at a
ceremony Dec. 1 to celebrate the start of Explorer production.  Union and company leaders talk to each other regularly,
they have said.  “These are just exploratory discussions,” Chaison said.  ‘Surface Talk’  Chrysler and the union are discussing a variety of issues
beyond profit sharing, Holiefield said.  “There’s been nothing written in concrete, just surface
talk,” he said. “Not just that,” he said of profit sharing.
“We talk about improving everything. That’s just one element of
our discussion.”  He didn’t specify those discussions or say how the profit-
sharing formula might be changed to benefit all stakeholders.  “They’re always thinking about ways to improve the
processes, about ways to improve the products and about what it
would take to naturally keep the company afloat,” Holiefield
said. “How the state of Michigan would benefit from that and
how the employees would benefit from everything we do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ; 