-- Bank of Canada Keeps Key Lending Rate at 1% on Weak Exports, Global Risks
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-07T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/carney-may-keep-canada-interest-rates-unchanged-as-exports-hamper-recovery.html
The Bank of Canada will probably keep
its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent for a second
consecutive time and say it will remain careful about future
increases as falling exports slow the economic recovery.  Governor  Mark Carney  will keep the target rate for
overnight loans between commercial banks unchanged in a decision
scheduled for 9 a.m. New York time today, according to all 24
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Economic  growth  slowed to a 1 percent annualized third-
quarter pace, less than the bank’s 1.6 percent prediction, as
exports fell and imports rose. The bank may say that any rate
increases would be “carefully considered,” echoing its Oct. 19
statement, and note the “drag to the economy” from trade, said
 Charles St-Arnaud , an economist and currency strategist at
Nomura Securities International.  “The tone will again be on the dovish side,” he said in a
telephone interview from New York. “There isn’t much to be
bullish about since the last meeting,” St-Arnaud said, adding
“the weakness in exports was really dramatic.”  The U.S., Japanese and European central banks are still
relying on asset purchases to revive demand and are keeping
their interest rates close to record lows. Companies such as
Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. , the world’s third-biggest
planemaker, are being hurt by weaker global orders.  Investors have priced in just a 4 percent chance of a rate
increase, according to a  calculation  by Credit Suisse based on
overnight index swap rates.  Falling Exports  Canada’s economy grew at a 5.6 percent pace in the first
quarter of this year, boosted by government stimulus and
housing. By the third quarter, the  drag from trade  slowed
Canada’s expansion to less than half the 2.5 percent in the U.S.
Canada’s central bank led the Group of Seven earlier this year
with three rate increases from June through September.  Exports, which equaled 32 percent of Canada’s economy in
2009, declined by 1.3 percent between July and October,
Statistics Canada said Nov. 30. About three-quarters of those
shipments went to the U.S. last year. Imports of goods and
services rose 1.6 percent.  The Canadian dollar has strengthened 28 percent against the
U.S. dollar since March 2009, curbing exports by companies such
as forest-products firm  Tembec Inc . and encouraging companies to
import equipment to boost productivity.  Trade will subtract 1.9 percentage points from Canada’s
economic growth rate this year, and add 0.3 percent in 2011, the
Bank of Canada predicted in October.  Deadline Extended  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  last week extended a deadline
for construction linked to government stimulus money by seven
months to Oct. 31, and said that he was concerned about a
“fragile” global recovery.  The European Central Bank increased its bond purchases last
week after President  Jean-Claude Trichet  pledged to fight
“acute” financial market tensions. U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Dec. 5 it’s possible the Fed may
expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion announced last
month.  “It’s the worries about ongoing volatility in the debt and
foreign exchange markets that would support some caution in
terms of communicating interest rate hikes,” said  Derek Burleton , a senior economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in
Toronto, who predicts no rate increase until July.  There are signs domestic spending is still gaining,
including a report last month showing  inflation  advanced at a
2.4 percent annual pace in October, the fastest in two years.
Burleton said that gain, half of which came from gasoline costs,
was probably a “blip.” The bank sets interest rates to keep
inflation at 2 percent.  The Bank of Canada should extend its stimulus as the
federal government has done, said  Mike Pratt , president of the
Canadian unit of Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer-
electronics retailer.  “Anyone looking to fuel more demand and consumer
confidence would hope that the Bank of Canada keeps interest
rates low in sync with the stimulus extension timetables that
were just announced” by Harper, Pratt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 