-- Cathay Pacific Plans $128 Million Business-Class Refit on A380 Competition
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-08T09:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/cathay-pacific-to-spend-hk-1-billion-on-business-class-revamp.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  unveiled
a new business-class seat to about 3,000 customers as it begins
a HK$1 billion ($129 million) cabin upgrade to fend off
competition for lucrative premium travelers.  The carrier put on a laser show, paraded new cabin-crew
uniforms and hired  Lady Gaga ,  Tina Turner  and  Marilyn Monroe 
look-alikes to entertain frequent fliers attending the event at
Hong Kong’s convention center late yesterday. The seats, which
are longer and wider than Cathay’s current units, will be rolled
out across 50 long-haul aircraft from March.  “I really like the extra space,” Helen Au, managing
director at Hong Kong-based German Wines Ltd., who takes about
four long-haul flights a month, said after trying a seat mock-
up. “It’s much more convenient.”  Incoming Chief Executive Officer  John Slosar  will oversee
the revamp as Emirates Airline and Singapore Airlines Ltd. woo
Hong Kong travelers with Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos, while U.S.
carriers add China flights.  British Airways Plc  and Deutsche
Lufthansa AG have also unveiled new first-class cabins this year
as travel rebounds from the global recession.  “The premium carriers in this region have to be very
mindful of what’s going on in the Middle East,” said  Derek Sadubin , chief operating officer at consultants Centre for Asia-
Pacific Aviation. “And, there’s obviously some very strong
trans-Pacific rivals.”  Slosar Sleeps  Cathay , which generates about half of its sales in China
and Hong Kong, fell 2.3 percent to HK$23.55 at the 4 p.m. close
of trading in Hong Kong. The stock has surged 63 percent this
year, the  best performance  on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The airline, Hong Kong’s biggest, will install the new
seats in 30  Boeing Co.  777-300ERs and 20 Airbus SAS A330-300s by
February 2013, according to a statement. The planes will fly to
 markets  including Europe, North America, Australia and India.  The new lie-flat  business-class seats  have a 75-inch (1.9
meter) usable bed length, 4 inches more than the current units.
Slosar told reporters he slept “very well” on mock-ups of the
new leather-covered seats.  The seats feature storage compartments for personal
possessions, such as mobile phones. They will be arranged in
straight lines across the cabin, with the center two seats
facing slightly inward, rather than the current outward diagonal
layout resembling a fishbone.  “These seats will be more interactive, as I’ll be able to
talk to friends when we travel together,” said Ed Ng, director
at design company AB Concept, who flies about twice a week with
Cathay. “I love the little cabinets.”  Emirates, Singapore Air  The lowest fare for a return business-class ticket between
Hong Kong and Sydney for March is HK$36,920, according to
Cathay’s ticketing  website .  In September, Cathay also opened  The Cabin , its fourth
airport lounge in Hong Kong, which offers Apple Inc. iPads and a
health bar. The airline is also working on renovating its main
lounge, The Wing.  “Business class is an important and challenging market for
us,” Slosar said. He declined to comment on whether the airline
planned to overhaul coach class or add premium-economy seating.  Dubai-based  Emirates , which is building up a fleet of 90
A380s, offers superjumbo business-class passengers a seat that
reclines into a 79-inch long bed, as many as 1,200 channels of
inflight entertainment and access to onboard lounges.  Singapore
Air  touts lie-flat seats and access to 120 movies that can be
viewed on personal 15.4-inch liquid crystal display screens.  Korean Air, United  Korean Air Lines Co., which competes with Cathay on China-
U.S. routes, will also begin flying A380s next year as it seeks
to boost premium-class sales to 50 percent of overall revenue.
United Continental Holdings Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc. are
adding China services, lured by growth that’s three times the
pace in the U.S.  Cathay may eventually consider adding A380s, outgoing CEO
 Tony Tyler  said in a Bloomberg Television interview last month.
Tyler will leave at the end of March to become director general
of the International Air Transport Association.  The airline will begin flying to Chicago and Abu Dhabi next
year, as well as boosting services to New York and Toronto, as
the economic pickup spurs business and leisure travel. Overall,
it will boost passenger capacity about 11 percent.  Globally, first and business-class passenger traffic rose
9.2 percent in the first nine months of the year, according to
IATA. Overall passenger traffic jumped 8.5 percent through
October, with a 10 percent increase in the Asia-Pacific region,
the trade group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  