-- China Needs a U.S. Lesson: Alberto Alesina and Luigi Zingales
-- B y   A l b e r t o   A l e s i n a   a n d   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2010-12-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/china-needs-a-u-s-lesson-alberto-alesina-and-luigi-zingales.html
Tear down this Chinese wall.  In his famous 1987 speech in Berlin, U.S. President  Ronald Reagan  delivered the exhortation to Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev : “Tear down this wall.” Contrary to everybody’s
expectation, the wall started to come down only two years later.  It is about time to give the same directive to communist
China. The Chinese wall is metaphorical, but equally hideous: It
limits freedom of expression, assembly and movement. It prevents
the Chinese from pursuing their happiness and choices freely. If
there weren’t enough moral and humanitarian reasons to make that
exhortation, here is an economic one: The lack of freedom in
China is the main cause of imbalances in the world.  It is well-known that the Chinese trade surplus, or the
excess of its exports over its imports, is the counterpart of
too much saving, which leads to unfair advantages and possibly
deflationary pressure on a global scale.  The causes of this imbalance, and the potential remedies,
are disputed. The prevailing view is that it is due to China’s
undervalued currency. By keeping the yuan artificially low, the
argument goes, the Chinese are dumping underpriced products on
Western markets, wiping out the competition unfairly. It is
incumbent upon the Chinese government, the reasoning continues,
to stop manipulating its currency and let it strengthen.  Cost Advantage  This theory doesn’t explain two facts. First, the Chinese
cost advantage in the products they export exceeds the 20
percent to 30 percent difference that a stronger yuan could
achieve. In this situation, a currency revaluation may mean
Americans will pay more for Chinese imports, without reducing
the amount imported by very much. The dollar’s real effective
exchange rate is now almost as low as it has ever been since the
end of the Bretton Woods currency-exchange system.  Why then does China export so much more than it imports?
The answer comes from simple accounting. For every country, the
current account is equal to the difference between the income
produced and the sum of domestic investment and consumption.
When a country consumes and invests less than it produces, it is
bound to have a current-account surplus.  In the case of China, a country that grows 9 percent a year
and invests 43 percent of its gross domestic product, it is hard
to argue that it invests too little. But it is very easy to
argue that it saves too much: 54 percent of GDP versus an
average of 33 percent among developing countries and 17 percent
among Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
economies. So China’s surplus is due to its excessive saving,
not to its undervalued currency.  Citizen Preferences  How can we deem Chinese savings excessive? In a free
country, the aggregate consumption-saving decision is the result
of individual choices, which reflect the preferences of its
citizens. It would be very paternalistic of us to argue that
savings are excessive.  The point, though, is that China isn’t a free country and
the economic decisions of Chinese aren’t driven by market
forces. They are influenced by political decisions made by a
small self-appointed elite. This group has decided that the
accumulation of claims on the rest of the world is more
important than the standard of living of the current generation.  The excess savings don’t reflect the will of the Chinese
people. Most of it doesn’t come from household savings, but from
the corporate sector, especially government-owned enterprises.  American Steaks  At the same time, Chinese wages are kept low by preventing
labor from organizing and limiting the flow of information. Not
only does this provide an unfair advantage to Chinese producers,
but it prevents Chinese workers from having the resources to buy
American steaks and iPods.  A redistribution of income would benefit the Chinese people
and the world alike. Income inequality in this workers’ paradise
is among the highest in the developing world. In addition, some
more generous social-security system -- now almost non-existent
-- for Chinese families would lower their precautionary savings.  The U.S. government should stop bashing China for its
currency policy, while the Federal Reserve engages in massive
quantitative easing. It’s hypocritical and leaves the Chinese
with an easy way to respond. Instead the U.S. should regain the
high ground and lecture them on what’s best in America: freedom.  Accusing communist China of keeping workers’ salaries
artificially low and not being pro-workers would embarrass the
nation’s government. Learning from Reagan, we can stand on our
beliefs. If we do, the Chinese wall will come down sooner than
we expect.  ( Alberto Alesina  is a professor of economics at Harvard
University.  Luigi Zingales  is a finance professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Alberto Alesina at  aalesina@harvard.edu 
Luigi Zingales at  luigi.zingales@chicagogsb.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  