-- China Brands Nobel Prize a Farce Awarded by `Clowns'
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T11:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/china-calls-nobel-committee-clowns-for-giving-peace-prize-to-liu-xiaobo.html
China’s government branded members of
Norway’s Nobel Peace Prize committee as “clowns” for giving
this year’s award to jailed writer  Liu Xiaobo , and derided the
decision as a “farce.”  “Cold War practices” were at play during the selection
process,  Foreign Ministry  spokeswoman Jiang Yu told reporters in
Beijing today. Such efforts to change China’s political system
will fail, Jiang said.  Since the Oslo-based committee’s Oct. 8 decision to award
the prize to Liu -- a writer jailed by Chinese authorities on
charges of plotting to subvert the ruling Communist Party --
relations between Norway and China have deteriorated. Jiang said
last week it will be difficult to repair ties. Chinese officials
have yet to tell the Nobel committee whether they’ll allow Liu
to attend a Dec. 10 award ceremony in the Norwegian capital.  “We are against anyone making an issue out of  Liu Xiaobo 
and interfering in China’s internal affairs and judicial
authority,” Jiang said. “We will not change because of
interference by a few clowns; we will not change our path. We
will stick to the path of ruling the country by law and its
national conditions.”  While the Nobel committee’s decision drew denunciation from
the Chinese government, U.S. President  Barack Obama  called for
Liu’s immediate release from prison. Nineteen countries have
declined invitations to be represented at the award ceremony
“for various reasons,” the committee  said today .  Russia  China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Colombia, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia,
Pakistan, Serbia, Iraq, Iran, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Venezuela,
the Philippines, Egypt, Sudan, Ukraine, Cuba and Morocco won’t
attend the ceremony, according to the committee’s website. In
2008, when former Finnish President  Martti Ahtisaari  received
the prize, 10 embassies weren’t represented at the ceremony.  The Russian ambassador’s decision to stay away is “not a
political decision,” spokesman Vladimir Isupov said in
November. Ambassador Vyacheslav Pavlovskiy will be out of the
country that day, he said.  Forty-four embassies have indicated they will send a
representative to this year’s ceremony, the committee said.  Liu was awarded the prize “for his long and non-violent
struggle for fundamental human rights in China,” the committee
said in October. He was taken into custody in December 2008 for
his role in organizing Charter 08, an open letter calling for
direct elections and the freedom of assembly in China. More than
300 Chinese academics, lawyers and activists signed the letter.
He was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Christmas day last
year.  Charter 08 drew inspiration and its name from Charter 77, a
1970s group that included former political dissident and Czech
President  Vaclav Havel , urging the then Communist regime to
respect human rights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net 
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net 
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  