-- China's Stocks Drop on Concern Central Bank May Raise Rates This Weekend
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T07:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/china-s-stocks-drop-on-concern-central-bank-may-raise-rates-this-weekend.html
China’s stocks  rose, led by gold
producers and consumer companies, as speculation that the
Federal Reserve will buy more Treasuries spurred a rally for
bullion and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended liquor makers.  Zijin Mining Group Co. , the largest gold producer, jumped
the most in almost three weeks after bullion prices surged to a
record. Kweichow Moutai Co. and Wuliangye Yibin Co. gained at
least 1.6 percent after Goldman Sachs said the two spirits
makers have strong pricing power.  China Vanke Co.  advanced to
the highest in almost a month after Citigroup Inc. said property
speculation has been curbed in some major cities.  “The preference for these non-cyclical stocks will carry
on for quite a while amid the backdrop of  government policy
tightening,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun
Investment Management & Consulting Co. “Inflation pressure is
there and the market is waiting for the next shoe to drop.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 18.68, or 0.7 percent, to 2,875.86
at the 3 p.m. close, erasing a 1.7 percent loss. The  CSI 300
Index  added 1.1 percent to 3,200.34. Stocks fell earlier after
the China Securities Journal reported the “window” for China
to increase borrowing costs rates may be this weekend.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 9 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that monetary
tightening will curb economic growth. The central bank last
month ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the second
time in two weeks after raising interest rates in October, the
first increase since 2007. The measure is down 12 percent this
year, Asia’s worst performer.  QE Boost  Zijin Mining jumped 5.1 percent to 8.85 yuan, the most
since Nov. 18.  Zhongjin Gold Corp. , the country’s second-largest
bullion producer by market value, soared 5.9 percent to 42.54
yuan. Shandong Gold Mining Co., the third biggest, gained 5.1
percent to 57.93 yuan. Gold prices climbed to an all-time high
of $1,427.55 yesterday and rose to a record in euro today.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast
yesterday by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program that Fed
purchases of Treasuries beyond the $600 billion announced are
“possible” given that U.S. unemployment may take five years to
fall to a normal level.  “The Fed’s remarks on further quantitative easing will
help commodity prices,” Wu Kan, Shanghai-based fund manager at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million, said
yesterday.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
rose 2.4 percent to 36.92 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group
Co., the second biggest, climbed 4.1 percent to 28.08 yuan.
Copper futures rose 0.2 percent yesterday in New York, after
reaching the highest for a most-active contract since Nov. 12.  Rate Increase  China’s central bank may raise rates around the time set
for the release of November’s inflation data, which has been
scheduled for Dec. 13, the newspaper reported, citing  Li Huiyong ,
an analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co, who forecast
consumer prices may rise 5.1 percent last month.  Lu Zhengwei , an
economist at Industrial Bank Co., sees a rate increase as being
likely between today and Dec. 18, it said. Consumer prices rose
4.4 percent in October, the fastest pace in two years, because
of higher food costs.  A gauge of consumer staples in the CSI 300 added 2.1
percent, the second most among the 10 industry groups. Kweichow
Moutai, China’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor by market
value, advanced 2.4 percent to 197.56 yuan while Wuliangye, the
second biggest, climbed 1.6 percent to 37.80 yuan. Goldman Sachs
said Kweichow Moutai and Wuliangye have strong pricing power and
low policy risk.  Property Speculation  A measure of developers in the Shanghai Composite rose 1.4
percent, the most among the five industry groups.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer,
gained 2 percent to 8.66 yuan, the highest since Nov. 11. Poly
Real Estate, the second largest, added 1.4 percent to 12.76 yuan.  China’s property speculation has been curbed in some of the
nation’s “red hot” cities and industry sentiment is recovering,
according to Citigroup. The real estate market is also being
sustained by the lack of investment channels,  Oscar Choi  and
 Marco Sze , analysts at Citigroup, wrote in a report to clients
dated yesterday.  Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong  will outperform
mainland stocks in the first half of next year as U.S. stimulus
measures drive funds into the city and China policy tightening
intensifies, according to Robeco Hong Kong Ltd.  “H shares may outperform in the first half and A shares
may outperform in the second half,”  Victoria Mio , senior
portfolio manager at Robeco, which oversees $196 billion, said
in a phone interview from Hong Kong yesterday. “The markets
will be quite similar to this year, up-and-down market, but
overall going up.”  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Irene Shen  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  