-- Christie Seeking to Erase New Jersey Budget Deficits by End of First Term
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-07T21:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/christie-says-goal-is-to-erase-new-jersey-budget-gap-by-end-of-first-term.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said his goal is to erase the state’s chronic budget deficits by
the end of his first term.  Christie, a Republican who took office in January, spoke to
Bloomberg News after a speech to business leaders in Newark that
was closed to the press. The governor declined to say how he
would end the deficits.  “I don’t have a crystal ball,” Christie said. “It’s my
goal. It’s aspirational.”  Christie, 48, is campaigning to fix the finances of a state
that has battled nine straight deficits. He cut more than $10
billion of spending to help close a $10.7 billion deficit
without raising taxes in his budget for the fiscal year that
began July 1. He faces a deficit of as much as $10.5 billion
next fiscal year, the non-partisan Office of Legislative
Services estimated in July.  Assembly Budget Committee Chairman  Louis Greenwald  said
Christie’s moves to reduce aid to schools and towns by $1.2
billion and skip the state’s $3 billion pension payment in his
current budget didn’t address recurring shortfalls.  Targeted Tax Cuts  Greenwald, a Democrat from Cherry Hill, is one of several
sponsors of a jobs-creation package the party proposed last
week. The lawmaker also said the governor should have extended a
tax surcharge on the state’s highest earners.  “What we need is this approach that helps working-class
New Jerseyans and the businesses that employ them with targeted
and productive tax cuts and incentives that will grow jobs and
stimulate the economy,” Greenwald said in an e-mail statement.  Dennis Bone , president of Verizon New Jersey and chairman
of a public-private partnership called Choose New Jersey, said
balancing the budget would help convince the business community
that state finances are stable and they won’t face more tax
increases.  “New Jersey doesn’t seem to have its house in order as far
as its financials, and businesses see the steps he’s taking
right now to reduce and eliminate deficits,” Bone said of
Christie. “It has a signal value.”  Businesses are pleased to have a governor talking about
efforts to keep them here and help them prosper, rather than
just viewing them as a source of tax revenue, said Kurus Elavia,
chief executive officer of Newark-based Gateway Group One, which
provides private security guards to area airports.  “Job growth is ultimately a private initiative, and
finally we have someone to represent that,” Elavia said. “He’s
on the right track. He needs the three years and probably
more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  