-- Cigarette-Smuggling Gangs Sap Lithuania Budget, Spark Crackdown
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-12-07T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/cigarette-smuggling-gangs-targeted-by-lithuania-in-struggle-to-cut-deficit.html
A man in a black wetsuit straps nine
boxes to his body in the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad, wades
into the Nemunas River and swims 200 yards to Lithuania and the
European Union.  He drops his cargo as officers close in and 4,500 packs of
cigarettes sink to the bottom of the river, according to
 photographs  from the state  Border Guard Service . The authorities
aren’t always so successful, with the government estimating 110
million packs are smuggled into the country each year, costing
it 500 million litai ($193 million) in lost taxes.  Lithuania declared war on smuggling to boost revenue in the
2011 budget under review tomorrow after the deficit swelled to
9.2 percent of  economic output  during the global recession. The
so-called grey economy has grown to 30 percent of gross domestic
product as people look for bargains and gangs flood the country
with untaxed tobacco, alcohol and fuel from Russia and Belarus.  “Everyone must realize that by smoking illegal cigarettes
you not only harm your health as it says on the pack but you
also harm your parents and your children,” Prime Minister
 Andrius Kubilius  said Nov. 9 in an interview with  Ziniu Radijas .
“You take away money from the school your children attend or
you take away money from the pension your parents get.”  Baltic neighbors  Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia experienced
the world’s deepest recessions last year. All three border on
Russia, while Latvia and Lithuania also share frontiers with
Belarus, making them a gateway into the EU.  Prison Sentences  Lithuania plans to collect an additional 1.2 billion litai
next year, or about 1 percent of GDP, by curbing illicit
activity, according to the draft budget. The government has
pledged to cut the deficit to the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP
by 2012.  The government on Nov. 17 approved tougher penalties for
smugglers, replacing fines with prison sentences of as much as
eight years. Lithuania also plans to increase spending on
customs enforcement by 15 percent next year, including 8 million
litai to install X-ray scanners at border crossings.  The crackdown is fueling tensions. One smuggler was killed
and two officers injured in a June shootout. Last month, a
border patrolman found a rag doll hanged from a wooden cross
stuck in his driveway less than two weeks after his sauna was
set on fire, according to the Border Guard Service.  Targeting smuggling may be the easiest avenue left to rein
in the deficit after the government implemented austerity
measures equal to 14 percent of GDP in the past two years, said
 Vilija Tauraite , a Vilnius-based economist at  SEB AB , the
second-biggest bank in the Baltic countries.  “Fighting smuggling is a rather realistic and effective
measure, given how widespread the illegal imports are,”
Tauraite said. “The illegally imported fuel, tobacco products
and alcohol are no secret to anyone living in Lithuania.”  Excise Taxes  The growth in smuggling led to faltering excise-tax income,
the second-biggest source of state budget revenue after the
value-added tax. Consumption of taxed cigarettes fell 53 percent
from a year earlier in the first nine months of the year,
according to the  Finance Ministry , which missed its revenue
target for the excise  category  by 8.3 percent in the period.  “Alcohol and tobacco consumption are falling,” said
 Violeta Klyviene , chief Baltic economist at Copenhagen-based
 Danske Bank A/S . “This doesn’t mean people resolved to
healthier lifestyles, but rather shows booming smuggling.”  Tomas, from Klaipeda, Lithuania’s third-largest city, says
he buys illegal cigarettes at half price, saving about 180 litai
a month, “a very substantial sum” compared with his monthly
income of 1,200 litai from self-employment.  “Nobody in my family buys cigarettes from a shop,” said
Tomas, 26, who asked to be identified by his first name because
buying smuggled goods is a crime. “I don’t remember the last
time I filled up my tank at a gas station. You simply pre-order
and get Russian products delivered in a day or two.”  ‘No Easy Solution’  Forty-nine percent of the cigarettes smoked in Lithuania
this year carried foreign-language, mostly Russian, warning
labels, according to the  Lithuanian Free Market Institute , a
Vilnius-based researcher whose motto is “If you don’t create a
free market, a black market will emerge.”  The grey economies of the three Baltic states are the
biggest in the EU behind Romania and Bulgaria, according to
 Friedrich Schneider , a professor at Austria’s Johannes Kepler
University of Linz, who studies illegal economies.  The shadow economy accounts for about 30 percent of GDP in
Lithuania and Estonia and 27 percent in Latvia, Schneider
 estimates . The EU average is 20 percent.  The growing reliance on smuggled goods makes people more
tolerant of the grey economy, raising concern the crackdown
won’t work, said  Jekaterina Rojaka , a Vilnius-based economist at
DnB Nord Bank, the Baltic unit of  DnB NOR ASA . About 64 percent
of Lithuanians approve of buying smuggled goods, according to a
 survey  of 1,009 people conducted July 28-Aug. 6 by local
pollster  Spinter Tyrimai .  “There’s no easy solution,” Rojaka said. “To succeed
with the plan, the state will have to stitch up the borders and
fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  