-- Citigroup Targets 100 China Branches in 2-3 Years
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-12-07T03:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/citigroup-to-triple-its-china-outlets-to-100-within-three-years-bird-says.html
Citigroup Inc. aims to triple the
size of its branch network in China to about 100 outlets within
three years as the U.S. bank vies with HSBC Holdings Plc for a
bigger slice of the nation’s banking market.  “We are very excited about China,”  Stephen Bird ,
Citigroup’s co-chief executive officer for the Asia-Pacific
region, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “For us, this is
still the beginning of the China story.”  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, trails London-based
HSBC, which operates 105 outlets in the world’s second-largest
economy. The company is drawing closer to severing government
ties as the U.S. Treasury Department starts selling its
remaining stake, the result of a $45 billion bailout in 2008.  The bank, based in New York, currently has 31 outlets in
China. Bird said Citigroup will add outlets in Changsha in Hunan
province and Nanjing in Jiangsu province. Standard Chartered Plc
has 61 outlets in China.  Citigroup plans to triple its workforce in China to as many
as 12,000 people in the next three years, Bird said in August.  Foreign banks’ operations in China are dwarfed by those of
competitors like  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the
world’s largest lender by market value. Beijing-based ICBC has
more than 16,000 outlets in China and generated 106.5 billion
yuan ($16 billion) of pretax profit in the country in the first
half, almost double the global total for Citigroup.  Asia Expansion  “The combined market share of foreign banks in China is
less than 2 percent,” said  Victor Wang , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd. “They can’t go
into head-to-head competition with mainland lenders.”  The China expansion is part of Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit ’s bet on Asia, where economies have rebounded
faster than the U.S. and Europe from the global financial crisis.
Citigroup generated $1 billion of profit from the region in the
third quarter, almost half the bank’s total net income.  In the next six months, Citigroup aims to boost its number
of branches in the Greater China region to 150 from 139 now,
spokesman  James Griffiths  said. The company has 65 outlets in
Taiwan and 43 in Hong Kong.  Bird said China’s government is taking “prudent and
sensible” measures to cool the economy. Chinese regulators have
sought to limit credit expansion after record lending in 2009
stoked a surge in property prices and raised the risks that bad
debts will balloon.  “They are more aware of the potential bubbles,
particularly in housing, than anyone else,” Bird said.  China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency said on Dec. 3 that
the country will shift to a “prudent” monetary policy next
year as the government seeks to rein in liquidity, combat
accelerating inflation and limit the risk of asset bubbles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  