-- Citigroup's Pandit Sees Africa as New Growth Driver
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-12-07T16:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/citigroup-s-pandit-makes-african-visit-as-banks-seek-new-market-for-growth.html
Citigroup Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  said Africa is a major new driver of
growth as consumer spending slows in the U.S.  “Africa has a major role to play in this new world,”
Pandit told reporters in Johannesburg today. “The most
important thing we are seeing is an exponential rise in trade
between emerging markets.”  Pandit is paying his first business visit to Africa this
week as global banks seek deals in emerging markets to
compensate for slower growth in developed economies. After South
Africa, the continent’s largest economy, he will visit Nigeria,
the second biggest.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  CEO  Jamie Dimon  made a
similar visit last month.  While Citigroup will focus on providing corporate and
investment banking services, the bank is also looking at
opportunities to service Africa’s growing middle class, Pandit
said. The lender, which has 200 million customer accounts, has
no plans to make acquisitions in Africa, and hasn’t identified
any specific countries for expansion.  “Expansion in Africa isn’t as easy as it sounds,” Pandit
said. “Things don’t happen that much faster” than they used
to, he said.  Citigroup and JPMorgan, both based in New York, have
previously announced their intention to expand in Africa, where
growth is forecast to outstrip that of developed nations. With
trade growing between the continent and Asia, banks are also
looking for opportunities to boost earnings by financing trade
deals and facilitating mergers and acquisitions.  Dimon said he was “incredibly impressed” by the
opportunities in South Africa and the rest of the continent
after a visit that also included meeting Nigerian president,
 Goodluck Jonathan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  