-- Citigroup's Friedlander Gets `Aggressive' on Build Americas: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-07T22:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/citigroup-s-frieldlander-gets-aggressive-on-build-americas-muni-credit.html
Citigroup Inc. ’s  George Friedlander 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s  Chris Holmes  lead bank strategists
advising investors to buy Build America Bonds after yields on
the debt climbed to an eight-month high.  “‘Grab for yield’ will be one of the predominant themes in
2011, and with only a few pockets of value remaining, we feel
that investors will be well-served by aggressively adding to
their BAB positions now,” Friedlander said in a research note.  Yields on the taxable securities this month have jumped
 more than 19 basis points , or 0.19 percentage point, to 6.26
percent on Dec. 3, the highest since April 8, according to a
Wells Fargo index. States and local governments are set to
borrow about $12.6 billion this week, including $4.2 billion in
Build Americas, both the highest in three weeks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rising yields, which move inversely to prices, make
Build Americas a relatively good value for investors now, as an
anticipated lack of supply of the debt in the first three months
of 2011 will likely drive rates back down, according to
Citigroup.  With issuers looking to lock in the 35 percent federal
subsidy for interest costs on the securities before the program
expires Dec. 31, sales have climbed to more than 35 percent of
 total municipal issuance , compared with about 23 percent a week
since the program began in April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Overweight’  “We’ve been overweight on Build America Bonds because of
the yield advantage over corporates,” Holmes said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “At the current levels that are being
offered, Build America Bonds should be appealing to investors
right now.”                           The extra yield investors demand for Build Americas rather
than 30-year U.S. Treasuries  increased to 194 basis points  on
Dec. 3 from 173 basis points on Nov. 3, according to a Wells
Fargo index, whose components have an average maturity of about
29 years and an average rating of AA- from Standard & Poor’s.  The so-called spread on corporate debt rated AA and
maturing in 15 or more years has narrowed to 152 basis points
from 157 basis points in the same period, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  A 30-year bond from Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. , rated AA, yielded 5.17 percent yesterday, 93 basis
points above federal debt.  Excluded From Deal  A one-year extension of the Build America program wasn’t
included in a deal reached yesterday by President  Barack Obama 
and congressional negotiators to continue tax cuts enacted
during President  George W. Bush’s  first term, according to two
officials briefed on the plan who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the details haven’t been released. Party
leaders still have to sell the agreement to Democrats and
Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate.  Obama called it a “framework” for a compromise to prevent
taxes from rising next month. The agreement also includes a 13-
month extension of unemployment benefits and a cut in payroll
taxes for Medicare and Social Security, to spur hiring.  With the likelihood of an extension of the taxable Build
America program waning, the average yield on top-rated tax-free
municipal bonds maturing in 30 years rose 1 basis point to 4.35
percent today, according to a  Bloomberg BVAL index .  The Build America program was created by Obama’s $814
billion economic-stimulus package. More than $174 billion of the
securities have been sold since April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The subsidy would have been scaled back
to 32 percent under a Senate bill to extend it by a year. That
bill was defeated Dec. 4.  Panel May Decide  The fate of the Build America program, which Obama has
sought to extend, may be determined by a six-member panel headed
by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , the White House
officials said. Panel members were appointed by Obama and
congressional leaders to negotiate tax issues.  “If there is no extension, then the less-visible deals
would not trade well,” Friedlander said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Better names will continue to trade even
if there is no BABs market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  