-- Citigroup Stake Is Sold for About $10.5 Billion as U.S. Unwinds Investment
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-12-07T18:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/citigroup-to-shed-government-handcuffs-as-treasury-prepares-stake-sale.html
The U.S. Treasury Department sold its
remaining stock in  Citigroup Inc.  for $10.5 billion, bringing
the country’s third-biggest bank a step closer to independence
from the government following a $45 billion bailout in 2008.  The Treasury said it disposed of 2.4 billion shares at
$4.35 each, compared with yesterday’s closing price of $4.45 on
the New York Stock Exchange. The sale raises the profit for
taxpayers on the rescue to about $12 billion, including the
share gain, dividends and proceeds from other securities.  The sale helps Citigroup exit the 2008 bailout, which was
provided to keep the New York-based bank from collapsing as its
stock sank below $5 and some depositors started withdrawing
their money. Citigroup also had to get $301 billion of
government guarantees on its riskiest assets, making the bailout
the biggest among U.S. banks.  “We’re seeing a form of governmental handcuffs being
released,”  Bill Bradway , founder of  banking consultant  Bradway
Research LLC in Framingham, Massachusetts, said before the
announcement. “Citi will be basically disentangling itself from
direct ownership from the government, and the government is
cashing out.”  Citigroup shares  advanced 15 cents to $4.60 at 12:57 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They rallied 34
percent this year through yesterday, though remain down about 92
percent from their December 2006 high of $56.41.  Bank of America
Corp. , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, has declined 23 percent
this year while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest, fell
about 4 percent.  ‘Substantial Profits’  “We had an opportunity to lock in substantial profits for
the taxpayer and avoid future risk,”  Tim Massad , acting
assistant secretary for financial stability, said in the
government statement.  The Treasury said its average price for selling 7.7 billion
Citigroup shares was $4.14. The government acquired the shares
at a conversion price of $3.25. The share increase produced a
gain of about $6.85 billion.  The U.S. has been winding down bank-bailout and emergency-
lending programs while trying to recoup the money it provided to
bolster private companies including General Motors Co. and
 American International Group Inc.   The Treasury received $13.6 billion from last month’s
initial public stock offering by Detroit-based General Motors,
and still holds about 33 percent of the automaker. The
government said in September it plans to convert $49.1 billion
of AIG preferred shares into common stock that would eventually
be sold in the open market.  Government’s Stake  The government stake in Citigroup came from converting $25
billion of money from the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program into common stock at $3.25 a share. The 7.7 billion
shares equated to a 27 percent stake. Morgan Stanley, which had
been selling down Citigroup’s stake in the open market since
April, underwrote the sale of the final installment, according
to the Treasury.  “This sale marks the end of the assistance given to Citi
by the government through TARP,” Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 53, wrote today in a memo to staff. “In a year full of
milestones in the transformation of our bank, this one may be
the most important.”  In an appearance today in Johannesburg, Pandit also said he
was “thankful” for the assistance of U.S. taxpayers.  Warrants Held  The Treasury still owns warrants on 465.1 million Citigroup
shares, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. holds $800
million of the bank’s trust-preferred securities on behalf of
the Treasury, according to a  regulatory filing .  In October, the Treasury sold another $2.2 billion of the
trust preferreds, which Citigroup had delivered to the
government as compensation for the asset guarantees. The bank
also paid about $3 billion of dividends to the government on its
preferred shares.  Because of the new stock Citigroup issued to raise capital
and satisfy the government, the number of shares outstanding
ballooned to about  29 billion  from about 5.5 billion, diluting
shareholders by more than 80 percent.  This week’s offering may help lure back investors who were
worried that the stock might be pressured by the Treasury’s
sales or leery of investing alongside the government, said  Gary Townsend , president of the investment firm Hill-Townsend Capital
LLC in  Chevy Chase , Maryland.  Profit Expected  “This now puts the shares into hands that are not
obviously committed to selling them, so this removes an
overhang,” Townsend said. “And of course, no one really wants
the U.S. Treasury as one of its principal partners.”  Pandit  had told Congress in February 2009 that taxpayers
were right to expect a return on their investment. He pledged to
take a $1 salary until Citi returned to profit.  Citigroup may post an $11.7 billion profit this year,
according to the  average estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, following two straight years of losses totaling $29
billion.  “In addition to repaying the government and achieving
three consecutive profitable quarters, I believe we have put all
the elements in place for sustained profitability,” Pandit said
in the memo to staff.  Next year, Citigroup’s board “intends to compensate Vikram
commensurate with the job of CEO,” the company said in a
statement in September. Pandit received $165 million from
Citigroup in 2007 as his share of the proceeds from Citigroup’s
purchase of his hedge fund, Old Lane LP, which was closed the
next year.  Citigroup isn’t likely to see an immediate reprieve from
regulatory oversight that followed the bailouts, said  Nancy Bush , an independent bank analyst based in Annandale, New
Jersey.  “These companies are going to get a level of scrutiny from
the government that will continue to be extraordinary,” Bush
said. “Treasury and the Federal Reserve and everybody else,
they’re not going to go through this again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  