-- City of London's Construction Lull Ends as Rising Rents Drive Developments
-- B y   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/city-of-london-construction-lull-ends-as-increase-in-rents-fuel-a-revival.html
City of London office construction is
set for a resurgence after a lull of more than a year as the
first of at least four projects breaks ground in 2011.  Bloomberg LP’s plan to build its new European headquarters
in the financial district is the biggest City development to be
announced since UBS AG agreed in August to add a property to the
Broadgate complex. Bloomberg, the New York-based parent of
Bloomberg News, said yesterday that the project will comprise
one building with more than 500,000 square feet (46,000 square
meters) of space and another “speculative” property.  City of London real estate  is becoming attractive again to
developers such as Land Securities Group Plc and  British Land
Co. , both of which revived office projects in October to take
advantage of rising values and rents. Prices have recovered
since August 2009 as the weak pound fueled demand from overseas
investors and financial-services companies competed for a
dwindling amount of new office space becoming available.  “A little bit of confidence is returning,” Elaine
Rossall, head of central London research at U.S. broker Cushman
& Wakefield Inc., said in an interview. “Those companies seeing
their prospects improving are starting to accommodate that
growth.”  UBS, the largest Swiss lender by assets, will initially pay
annual rent of 54.50 pounds ($86) a square foot to lease its new
700,000-square-foot  building at Broadgate, the City of London’s
largest office property. Average rents in the district will
increase about 9 percent next year to 60 pounds, according to
 DTZ Holdings Plc , a London-based property broker.  Aon’s Offices  Aon Corp. , the world’s largest insurance broker, occupies
five office buildings in the City and aims to move into a single
building in the district, said Katherine Conway, a spokeswoman
for the Chicago-based company.  Work on Bloomberg’s new property, to be built on the
Walbrook Square site close to the Bank of England, is scheduled
to start in 2012 and the project is expected to be completed
three years later, yesterday’s statement showed.  Bloomberg, which has about 150 offices around the world, in
most cases is a tenant. The company owns its facilities near
Princeton, New Jersey, as well as a stake in its current London
building. It leases its New York headquarters from  Vornado
Realty Trust .  ‘Vote of Confidence’  The decision to build new City of London offices is “a
vote of confidence in London and an expression of our desire to
get exactly what we want on the site itself,” Bloomberg
President  Daniel Doctoroff  said in an interview.  Work on most City of London office projects was halted two
years ago. As a result, the smallest number of properties since
at least 1980 will be completed this year, U.K. property adviser
Drivers Jonas Deloitte said in a report last week.  British Land, the U.K.’s second-largest real estate
investment trust, revived a plan to build the Cheesegrater tower
in the City on Oct. 25. A week earlier,  Land Securities  -- the
country’s largest REIT -- announced that the  Walkie-Talkie tower 
development would proceed.  The Bloomberg and UBS projects will increase the amount of
new leasing agreements in the City this year to about 6.5
million square feet, DTZ estimates. That would be the highest
since 2007 and 20 percent more than the 25-year average of 5.4
million square feet, the company said.  Demand for office space may be fueled by a hiring spree in
the financial-services industry. The number of jobs in the City
will increase 9.5 percent to 345,000 in 2015 from 315,000 this
year, the Centre for Economics and Business Research Ltd.
estimated in an  October report .  The strengthening demand may drive an increase in building
that goes too far, Drivers Jonas Deloitte said in its report.  “We are approaching a tipping point in the City office
market recovery,” the London-based company said. “Without a
strong economy driving healthy demand, there is a real danger
that the market swings from too little new space today to too
much” in 2014 and 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Blackman in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh News at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  