-- Clegg Tries to Head Off U.K. Liberal Democrat Rebellion Over Tuition Fees
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-12-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/clegg-tries-to-head-off-u-k-liberal-democrat-rebellion-over-tuition-fees.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
will try to persuade his Liberal Democrat lawmakers this week to
back a policy they oppose, seeking to assuage concerns that
they’re the fall guys for unpopular measures by  David Cameron ’s
Conservative-led coalition.  The House of Commons votes on Dec. 9 on plans to let
universities charge students as much as 9,000 pounds ($14,000) a
year for tuition, almost triple the current level. While it’s
one of many measures being taken by the government to cut the
 record budget deficit , it goes directly against a pledge signed
by Clegg and other Liberal Democrat lawmakers before elections
in May to “vote against any increase in fees.”  The vote highlights the difficulties faced by the Liberal
Democrats as they get used to being in government for the first
time since 1945. Their lawmakers are having to walk a line
between keeping pre-election commitments, satisfying party
supporters they have not become adjuncts to Cameron’s
Conservatives, and taking the tough decisions that come with
sharing power. That’s hitting the party’s support.  “The Liberal Democrats have been forced to act as human
shields for unpopular policies,”  Andrew Russell , a lecturer in
politics at the University of Manchester, said in a telephone
interview. “They are now facing up to the fact that this is a
Conservative government with some Liberal Democrat ministers.”  ‘Mass Lobby’  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper conducted
Dec. 3-5 showed support for the Liberal Democrats at 10 percent.
The party took 23 percent of the vote in the May 6 elections.  Students opposed to the increase in fees plan a day of
marches and demonstrations tomorrow followed by a “mass lobby”
of lawmakers on Dec. 9. Previous marches turned violent. On Nov.
10, activists among 50,000 protesters broke windows at the 27-
story complex in central London that houses the headquarters of
the Conservative Party and burned effigies of Cameron and Clegg.  “The reality is many more students from poorer backgrounds
will simply choose not to go into higher education,”  John Leech , a Liberal Democrat who represents a Manchester district
with a large student population and who intends to oppose the
increase, said in a statement. “Inevitably those from poorer
backgrounds will be put off from going to university.”  Liberal Democrat lawmakers meet in London tonight and again
tomorrow to discuss how to vote.  “The government will win on Thursday, but it is almost
certainly going to be a three-way split within the Liberal
Democrats, with ministers voting in favor and others abstaining
or voting against,” said  Philip Cowley , professor of politics
at Nottingham University and an expert on parliamentary revolts.  The Conservatives have 305 lawmakers in the House of
Commons, while there are 57 Liberal Democrats. The 253-stong
main opposition Labour Party has instructed its lawmakers to
vote against the planned rise.  Duty to Vote  The changes to university funding are being overseen by
Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat. After first
suggesting he might abstain on the plans, he told his local
newspaper, the  Richmond and Twickenham Times , last week he had a
duty to vote for his own policy.  “I think this delicious difficulty that the party’s in
over this issue is testament to the Tories’ cleverness in
putting Cable in charge of pushing through a policy that was
bound to cause them trouble,”  Tim Bale , professor of politics
at Sussex University, said in a telephone interview.  Russell said he predicts “trouble ahead if the Lib Dems
don’t have any impact on policy in future,” citing the
speeding-up of public-spending cuts by the Conservative
chancellor of the exchequer,  George Osborne , as one area where
the Liberal Democrats have already made concessions.  According to Cowley, though, the vote will not have a
direct impact on the stability of the coalition government, even
if there is short-term damage to the Liberal Democrats.  ‘Can’t Pull Out’  “Events such as these actually make the coalition more
stable,” he said. “Because the Liberal Democrats have taken a
hit, they can’t pull out of the coalition early before the
election planned for 2015.”  Still, Clegg may benefit from looking decisive, Cowley
said. “The decision to vote this way may be right, it may be
wrong, but it is a brave decision nonetheless.”  About a dozen Liberal Democrat lawmakers have said they
plan to vote against the plan, though numbers may alter
depending on Clegg’s success at the meeting tonight. The
government gave him some ammunition to tempt waverers on Dec. 5
when it said it will pay the fees of the poorest students.  For individual lawmakers, taking a stand against the
government may not prove beneficial in the long run, Bale said.  “Those Liberal Democrats who think a vote against or even
an abstention is going to make much difference to how they’re
regarded by their constituents at the next election are
indulging in wishful thinking,” he said. “There’s very little
evidence to suggest that taking a stand against one’s own
government earns you brownie points with voters, most of whom
aren’t paying attention now and won’t remember what you did in a
few years’ time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 