-- Coal Prices May Rise After Floods Disrupt Output in Top Exporter Australia
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-12-07T07:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/coal-prices-may-rise-after-floods-disrupt-output-in-top-exporter-australia.html
Coal prices may rise after flooding
and rainfall in Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of the
commodity, disrupted production from mines in Queensland owned
by companies including  Rio Tinto Group  and Macarthur Coal Ltd.  “We may see January to March contract pricing react to the
tightness of supply,” said  Andrew Harrington , an analyst at
Patersons Securities Ltd. in Sydney. “Right now it’s some small
force majeure here and there. If there’s any major flooding then
it’ll be a big problem.”  Macarthur, Aquila Resources Ltd. and Vale SA last week
declared force majeure, while Xstrata Plc shut part of its rail
system and said it would use stockpiles to supply customers.
Force majeure is a legal clause invoked by companies when they
can’t meet obligations because of circumstances beyond their
control. Rio Tinto has partially resumed operations.  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. Rainfall of
between 25 millimeters (1 inch) and 100 millimeters may extend
from eastern South Australia to southern Queensland in the four
days ending Dec. 9, it forecast. Flood warnings are current for
rivers in New South Wales, its northern neighboring state
Queensland and Victoria to its south.  Heavy rain in 2008 helped drive spot prices for power-
station coal and the type used in steelmaking to a record after
producers in Queensland’s Bowen Basin, including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. , had to declare force majeure.  Production Cuts  “Export coal sales are worth A$100 million ($99 million) a
day to Queensland, so it doesn’t take very long for supply
disruptions to start adding up,”  Michael Roche , chief executive
of the Queensland Resources Council, said in e-mailed comments.
“Some open-cut pits are now looking more like dams than mines,
and rapidly running out of room to hold more water.”  BHP, Rio Tinto,  Macarthur  and Whitehaven Coal Ltd.’s coal
production may be lower than forecast because of the heavy rain,
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty said in a report today.
The deluge in Australia is being caused by a La Nina event that
cools the Pacific Ocean and increases rainfall.  Fiona Martin , Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP, declined
to comment on the potential impact. The BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi
Alliance, known as BMA, is the world’s biggest exporter of coal
for steelmaking and operates  seven mines  in the Bowen Basin.  QR National Ltd., Australia’s largest coal transporter by
rail, said all of its network systems affected by weather have
been reopened and are operational, according to a statement.
Spokesman  Paul Cronin  wasn’t available for further comment.  Prices of power-station coal at  Newcastle Port , the world’s
largest export harbor for the fuel, rose $2.90, or 2.7 percent,
to $109.80 a metric ton in the week ended Dec. 3, according to
data from researcher IHS McCloskey. That’s the highest price
since Oct. 10, 2008, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Canberra at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 