-- Cocoa Gains on Supply Concerns in Ivory Coast; Sugar, Coffee Futures Rise
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-12-07T13:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/cocoa-reaches-three-month-high-as-ivory-coast-supply-disrupted-by-election.html
Cocoa rose to a three-month high in
London as processors and exporters in Ivory Coast, the world’s
biggest producer, said supplies were disrupted by unrest after a
disputed election and the imposition of a curfew.  Work at some plants slowed because employees were sent home
for their safety, according to three industry officials in the
commercial capital Abidjan, who asked not to be named because
they aren’t authorized to speak to the press. The borders were
sealed off Dec. 2 and people were reported to have died in
clashes in the city since the disputed elections Nov. 28.  “The question for the cocoa industry is whether there will
be a physical disruption in the arrival of beans to the ports,”
 Emmanuel Jayet , head of agricultural commodity research at
Societe Generale SA in London, said today by phone. Many of the
country’s farmers also may “wait for the situation to
stabilize” before delivering the crop, he said.  While cocoa prices declined 9 percent this year in London
as traders anticipated more supply, they rallied 9.6 percent in
the last week because of unrest in the West African nation. More
output in Ghana, Indonesia and Brazil should mean a “modest”
surplus this year, limiting the potential impact of the Ivory
Coast disruptions, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report Dec. 3.  Cocoa for March delivery gained 16 pounds, or 0.8 percent,
to 2,061 pounds ($3,252) a metric ton at 12:44 p.m. on NYSE
Liffe in London, after earlier today rising 1.8 percent to 2,081
pounds, the highest since Aug. 25. Prices surged 4.5 percent
last week, the biggest gain since the week to June 4.  ‘Political Situation’  “We continue to harvest the beans and stock them in our
warehouse, but we haven’t sold anything since Dec. 3,” Koffi
Kanga, secretary-general of a farmer’s cooperative in Gabiadji,
a town in the southwest cocoa-growing region of San Pedro, said
yesterday by phone. “People are very worried about the
political situation.”  Ivory Coast extended a nighttime curfew by a week, the
country’s Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne reported on its
website yesterday. The curfew is from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. That’s
limiting operations at the port of Abidjan, said Pierre Blesson,
an official who monitors ship movements at the port. Vessels can
come in and out of the port from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Blesson said.  “We are continuing to try and operate as close to normal
as possible, but we are, like everybody else, experiencing some
challenges both in terms of delivery of beans and logistics on
the ground,” said Stephen Fairbairn, a spokesman for Cargill
Inc. in Cobham, England. The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company
has cocoa production facilities in Ivory Coast, as well as
Ghana, the Netherlands, France and Germany.  Bulk Chocolate  Barry Callebaut AG , the world’s largest maker of bulk
chocolate, said its production in Ivory Coast and exports from
the country are unaffected.  “We have taken some precautions in order to ensure the
safety of our employees,” Raphael Wermuth, a spokesman for the
company in Zurich, said by phone yesterday.  Alassane Ouattara  is backed by the United Nations as the
winner of the elections. The incumbent,  Laurent Gbagbo , was
sworn in as president on Dec. 4 after the Constitutional Council
rejected the Electoral Commission’s vote count. Hours later,
Ouattara said he had taken the oath of office. The European
Union and the U.S. have also backed Ouattara.  Ivory Coast has been divided between a rebel-held north and
the government-controlled south since an uprising in 2002.  “For the year the crop is excellent and nobody in Ivory
Coast has any interest in disrupting the cocoa trade,” Jayet
said. “You will have this short-term volatility, but eventually
these beans will likely reach the export position.”  Cocoa Production  Cocoa production may exceed demand by 100,000 tons in the
current season as rainfall increases and West African
governments invest in the industry, the International Cocoa
Organization said Oct. 13. Global output of the beans will be
3.8 million tons, compared with demand of 3.7 million tons,
Executive Director  Jean-Marc Anga  said.  Cocoa for March delivery gained $34, or 1.1 percent, to
$3,099 a ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Earlier today the
price jumped 2.4 percent to $3,140, the highest since Aug. 6.  In other agricultural markets, white sugar for March
delivery climbed 0.7 percent to $748.70 a ton on NYSE Liffe,
heading for a fifth session of gains. Raw sugar for March
delivery rose 1.7 percent to 29.49 cents a pound in New York.  Robusta coffee for March delivery added $30, or 1.6
percent, to $1,890 a ton on NYSE Liffe, reversing yesterday’s
decline. Arabica coffee for March delivery advanced for a fifth
session, rising 1.2 percent to $2.1140 a pound in New York.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 