-- Cocoa Rises to Four-Month High Gains on Supply Unrest; Sugar, Coffee Drop
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-07T20:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/cocoa-gains-as-vote-dispute-in-main-producer-ivory-coast-disrupts-supply.html
Cocoa rose to a four-month high as
supplies were disrupted by political unrest in Ivory Coast, the
world’s biggest producer. Sugar and coffee declined.  Work at some cocoa-processing plants slowed because
employees were sent home for their safety, according to
officials in Ivory Coast’s commercial capital, Abidjan. Cargill
Inc., a cocoa shipper in the country, said yesterday the unrest
is causing “challenges both in terms of delivery of beans and
logistics on the ground.”  “The question for the cocoa industry is whether there will
be a physical disruption in the arrival of beans to the ports,”
said  Emmanuel Jayet , head of agricultural-commodity research at
Societe Generale SA in London. Many farmers may “wait for the
situation to stabilize” before delivering the crop, he said.  Cocoa for March delivery gained $19, or 0.6 percent, to
settle at $3,084 a metric ton on ICE Futures U.S. at 2 p.m. in
New York, after touching $3,140, the highest since Aug. 6.
Prices surged 5 percent last week, the most since mid-July.  A 10 p.m.-to-6 a.m. curfew was extended by a week,
Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne reported on its website
yesterday. The curfew is limiting operations at ports.  Post-Election Standoff  Last month’s election, intended to unite the West African
country, has turned into a standoff, creating an increasingly
violent political crisis as both incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  and
challenger  Alassane Ouattara  claim victory.  Gbagbo  was sworn in as president on Dec. 4 after the
Constitutional Council rejected the Electoral Commission’s vote
count from the Nov. 28 runoff election, alleging vote rigging in
some northern states. The commission declared Ouattara the
winner with 54.1 percent of the votes. Ouattara said he had also
taken the oath of office and is backed by the UN, the European
Union and the U.S.  Ivory Coast has been divided between a rebel-held north and
the government-controlled south since an uprising in 2002. Six
people died and four were seriously wounded in the central
cocoa-producing town of Issia on Dec. 3, after pro-Gbagbo youths
attacked shops owned by Ouattara supporters and looted a cocoa-
bean warehouse, according to an opposition official who didn’t
want to be identified for fear of reprisals.  During previous periods of unrest, the cocoa supply wasn’t
disrupted for long because exports are vital to the country’s
economy, Jayet said.  World Production  World production may exceed demand by 100,000 tons in the
current season as rainfall increases and West African
governments invest in the industry, the International Cocoa
Organization said Oct. 13. Bean output will be 3.8 million tons,
compared with demand of 3.7 million tons, Executive Director
 Jean-Marc Anga  said.  Jayet said Ivory Coast’s crop is “excellent” and no one
wants to disrupt the cocoa trade. “At the end, you will have
this short-term volatility, but eventually these beans will
likely reach the export position,” he said. Prices in New York
are 8.7 percent lower than a year ago.  In London, cocoa futures for March delivery fell 7 pounds,
or 0.3 percent, to 2,038 pounds ($3,215) a ton on NYSE Liffe,
after earlier rising to 2,081 pounds, the highest level since
Aug. 25.  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery declined 0.6 cent, or
2.1 percent, to 28.41 cents a pound in New York. Earlier, it had
risen as much as 2.6 percent. In London, white-sugar futures for
March delivery retreated $11.50, or 1.5 percent, to $723.30 a
ton on NYSE Liffe, declining for the first time in five
sessions.  Arabica-coffee futures for March delivery dropped 1.05
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $2.079 a pound in New York. Robusta-
coffee futures for March delivery added $17, or 0.9 percent, to
$1,877 a ton on NYSE Liffe, rising for the fifth time in six
sessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  