-- Collahuasi Copper Miners Accept Offer to End Strike
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-12-07T18:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/collahuasi-copper-miners-accept-wage-offer-to-end-chilean-strike.html
Unionized workers at  Anglo American
Plc  and  Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi venture in Chile are set to
return to work after voting to end a month-long strike at the
world’s third-largest copper mine.  Miners packed up tents and television sets last night at
the abandoned school in the city of Iquique that served as the
union’s de facto headquarters during the 32-day stoppage. They
voted 521 in favor of the proposal and 398 against, the union
said on its website. The offer includes a bonus of 14 million
pesos ($29,000), said a union official briefed on the matter.  “It was a win for the union movement in Chile,” union
President Manuel Munoz told reporters after the vote.  The strike started Nov. 5 and became the longest recorded
at a major privately owned Chilean copper mine when it surpassed
a 26-day stoppage at  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  Escondida in 2006.
While the company used non-union workers and contractors to help
run the mine, prospects of an output cut helped drive copper to
a record on the London Metal Exchange last month.  Company and union representatives are reviewing the final
draft of a collective contract in Iquique today, said Bernardita
Fernandez, a company spokeswoman. Union members can start
returning to work once the document is signed, she said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  ‘Negotiating Table’  The company and union returned to the negotiating table
Nov. 29 after individual talks with workers didn’t garner enough
acceptances under Chilean law to end the strike. Chile’s Work
Inspectorate issued a resolution last month for talks to resume.  Cia. Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM, the mine’s
operating company, is “satisfied” with the result, Fernandez
said.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its
production is only surpassed by Escondida and  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. ’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia.  Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
Collahuasi. A group led by  Mitsui & Co.  holds the remainder.  While the strike supported copper prices, a return to work
probably won’t cause prices to plunge, said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty.  “We have very tight supply of the metal,” he said in a
telephone interview from Sydney. “If anything people will see
any negative reaction in the price as an opportunity to buy.”  Copper rose to a 31-month high in New York and reached a
record in London as an extension of U.S. tax cuts reduced
concern Europe’s debt crisis may spread.  Copper for March delivery added 7.95 cents, or 2 percent,
to $4.0875 a pound at 10:43 a.m. on the Comex in New York.
Prices reached $4.1315, the highest level since May 5, 2008,
when they touched a record $4.2605.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Iquique at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  