-- Locke Says Sprint’s Chief Was Called About Huawei Bid Concerns
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-12-07T22:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/commerce-s-locke-says-sprint-s-chief-was-called-about-huawei-bid-concerns.html
U.S. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke 
called  Sprint Nextel Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  to
express “deep concerns” that a Chinese company might win a
contract to upgrade the mobile-phone carrier’s network.  Sprint this week awarded work to companies from Sweden,
France and South Korea for the project worth as much as $5
billion to build a faster network. Huawei Technologies Co.,
China’s largest telecommunications equipment maker, was among
the bidders.  “We wanted to learn more of their transaction and sit down
with our intelligence folks and really understand what was
possibly being contemplated,” Locke said today in an interview
at Bloomberg’s Washington office. “I did make a phone call to
Mr. Hesse to relay some very deep concerns from the defense
sector and also even members of Congress.”  Sprint, the nation’s third-largest mobile-phone carrier,
said yesterday it had selected Paris-based  Alcatel-Lucent SA ,
 Ericsson AB  of Stockholm and  Samsung Electronics Co. , based in
Suwon, South Korea, for the project.  Huawei, founded in 1988 by former Chinese army officer Ren
Zhengfei, has struggled to expand in the U.S. after more than a
decade as the government considers whether the company’s phone
networks pose national-security risks. Members of Congress have
written at least two letters this year expressing concern.  Locke said he called Hesse a day or two before The Wall
Street Journal reported Sprint wouldn’t consider Huawei.  “We wanted to be able to have a conversation with the
company to really understand what might be involved in the
transaction and see if there were ways in which those concerns
could be mitigated,” he said.  Huawei isn’t barred from the American market, and is
selling equipment in the U.S., Locke said.  John Taylor, a Sprint spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 