-- Compellent Rises Amid Speculation It May Be Acquired
-- B y   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-08T03:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/compellent-shares-surge-as-conference-cancellation-fuels-takeover-talk.html
  Compellent Technologies Inc . surged
17 percent, setting a record, after it backed out of an investor
conference, fueling speculation it may be a takeover target.  The company’s chief financial officer, John Judd, was
scheduled to present tomorrow at the Barclays Capital Global
Technology Conference in  San Francisco . He won’t participate
because of a scheduling conflict, said Jenifer Kirtland, an
outside spokeswoman for Compellent. She declined to elaborate.  Compellent specializes in technology that helps companies
store, recover and manage large amounts of data. It might be
attractive to an acquirer, such as  Dell Inc ., that wants a
larger slice of the growing market for data centers, Roger Cox,
an analyst at Gartner Inc. in  Stamford , Connecticut, has said.
Trading of bullish Compellent options surged to a record today
as investors boosted bets that the stock will extend gains.  “These are bets on a relatively large move,” said Ophir
Gottlieb, head of client services at Livevol Inc., a San
Francisco-based provider of options market analytics. “It’s the
type of order flow that you’d see from a takeover rumor that
people believe, which of course doesn’t mean that it’s going to
happen.”  Dell lost a bidding war with Hewlett-Packard Co. for 3Par
Inc., a company that competes in the same market as Compellent,
on Sept. 2. David Frink, a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based
Dell, declined to comment.  More than 18,000 calls to buy the shares changed hands,
nine times the four-week average and five times the number of
puts to sell. The most active contracts were December $35 calls,
which soared 535 percent, for the biggest gain among all
contracts on the stock and accounted for almost quarter of all
of the transactions.  Compellent jumped $4.91 to $33.53 today on the  New York 
Stock Exchange. The shares climbed as high as $34.05, the
biggest gain since Oct. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fineman at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  