-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Increases for Second Month
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-12-07T21:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increased-in-october-for-second-month.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose in October for a second straight month, led by
an increase in non-revolving credit, including student loans
held by the federal government.  Credit climbed by $3.38 billion after increasing a revised
$1.23 billion in September, the Federal Reserve said today in
Washington. Non-revolving loans rose for a third month as
federal government education-related lending jumped an
unadjusted $31.8 billion.  The report showed credit-card debt fell for a 26th
consecutive time, showing Americans continue to pay down debt,
one reason spending has been slow to recover.  Car sales  last
month climbed to the highest level in a year and holiday
purchases have perked up, indicating households may soon start
borrowing again.  “Consumer finances are progressively improving, which is a
good thing, but maybe not as much as these numbers indicate,”
said Gregory Daco, a senior economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts. “We still have a lot of deleveraging
going on, but the rate is slowing down. The conditions for
consumers are slowly improving.”  Job  openings  rose in October for the first time in three
months, signaling gains in payrolls will accelerate in early
2011, figures from the Labor Department also showed today. The
number of positions waiting to be filled increased by 351,000 to
3.36 million, the most since August 2008. Excluding a drop among
government agencies, the 369,000 increase in openings at
companies was the biggest in four years.  Tax Cut Extension  Stocks ended the day little changed, depressed in the last
hour of trading by reports that a probe of insider trading had
widened and President Barack Obama’s comment that he’ll push to
overhaul the tax code in two years. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  rose 0.1 percent to 1,223.75 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. News that Obama had agreed to a two-year extension of
current tax rates sent the index up as much as 1 percent earlier
in the day.  Economists projected a $1 billion decline in credit,
according to the median of 33  estimates  in a Bloomberg News
survey. Projections ranged from a decrease of $5 billion to a
gain of $3 billion. The Fed revised the September reading to
$1.23 billion from a previously estimated $2.1 billion increase.  Credit Breakdown  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, dropped by
$5.64 billion in October, according to the Fed.  Non-revolving
debt , which in addition to student borrowing also includes loans
for cars and mobile homes, rose by $9.02 billion. The report
doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such as home-equity
lines of credit.  In the auto industry, General Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co.
reported sales gains that topped analysts’ estimates as
consumers returned to showrooms.  Auto sales in October increased to a seasonally adjusted
12.25 million annual rate, the best reading since the
government’s cash-for-clunkers program in  August 2009,
according to industry statistics. Ford, the second-largest
automaker, reported a 15 percent increase in car and truck
sales, and GM’s deliveries climbed 3.5 percent.  Car Sales  Demand kept improving in November. Light vehicles last
month sold at a 12.26 million pace, the best performance without
a government incentive program since September 2008.  Households cut debt in the third quarter, borrowing less
against homes and closing credit card accounts, according to a
Fed Bank of New York survey. Households slashed about $1
trillion from outstanding consumer debts since the peak in the
third quarter of 2008, the bank said.  In the credit card industry, write-offs as measured by
Moody’s Investors Service fell to 8.79 percent in October, the
lowest since January 2009, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. the
nation’s No. 1 issuer, reported its biggest quarterly profit
from cards in three years.  Some Americans are spending more.  MasterCard Inc. , the
world’s second-biggest payments network behind Visa Inc.,
reported said sales were picking up.  “Credit volumes were up in the low single-digits” in the
U.S.,  Chris McWilton , president of U.S. markets for MasterCard
Worldwide, said at a Dec. 1 conference in New York. “I think
you do see improved consumer confidence.” Retail sales figures
for the days following the Thanksgiving holiday showed “people
were spending.”  More Spending  Visa  said last week that U.S. credit-card spending climbed
9 percent in the first four weeks of November. Quarterly U.S.
credit spending at San Francisco-based Visa hasn’t grown at that
pace since 2007. Purchase, New York-based MasterCard, said
spending by cardholders traveling abroad surged an annualized 19
percent from Oct. 1 through Nov. 28.  Target Corp. , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
posted a 23 percent increase in third-quarter profit after
earnings at its credit-card unit more than doubled.  “We’re very pleased with our financial performance and our
momentum as we begin the fourth quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  said in a conference call on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  