-- Copenhagen Advances in Champions League; Tottenham Wins Group Over Inter
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-08T03:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/copenhagen-advances-in-champions-league-tottenham-wins-group-over-inter.html
Copenhagen advanced to the Champions
League round of 16 for the first time, as Tottenham, Manchester
United and Schalke finished atop their groups.  Copenhagen beat Panathinaikos 3-1 last night to finish
second in Group D to Barcelona, which had already qualified for
the knockout stage of European soccer’s elite club competition.
Barcelona defeated Rubin Kazan 2-0.  “We made history,” Copenhagen captain William Kvist told
reporters after his squad became the first Danish team to reach
the last 16. “Tomorrow we have our Christmas party with the
team and we’ll celebrate with a few beers.”  Tournament newcomer Tottenham tied FC Twente 3-3 to win
Group A over defending champion Inter Milan, which lost 3-0 at
Werder Bremen.  Manchester United finished top of Group C ahead of Valencia
after the teams drew 1-1 and Bursaspor tied Rangers 1-1. Schalke
topped Group B after beating Benfica 2-1, with Lyon second
following a 2-2 tie with Hapoel Tel-Aviv.  The top two teams in each of the eight groups advance to
the round of 16, with the group winners to be kept apart in the
Dec. 17 draw. The remaining three places will be decided today.  Goals from Martin Vingaard and  Jesper Gronkjaer , plus an
own goal from  Djibril Cisse  carried Copenhagen to the home win
last night. Andreu Fontas and Victor Vazquez scored in
Barcelona’s win over Rubin Kazan.  ‘Toughest Group’  Jermaine Defoe  scored two goals for Spurs, which also
benefited from an own goal by Peter Wisgerhof. Inter, which
began the day tied with Tottenham, settled for second place
after losing in Germany.  “It was the toughest group and to top it is brilliant,”
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  told Sky Sports.  Manchester United lost its perfect defensive record by
drawing with Valencia in a meeting of already qualified teams.  Pablo Hernandez scored the first goal allowed by United in
six group games in the 32nd minute, before Brazilian midfielder
Anderson tied it in the second half. Bursaspor earned its first
point in the group by rallying for the draw with Rangers.  Jose Manuel Jurado and Benedikt Hoewedes gave already
qualified Schalke the 2-1 win at Benfica to win Group G.
Alexandre Lacazette’s goal with three minutes left gave Lyon,
which had also already progressed, the home tie with Hapoel Tel
Aviv.  FC Twente, Benfica, Rangers and Rubin Kazan finished third
in their groups to qualify for the knockout stages of the
second-tier Europa League.  The final eight group games take place today, with Roma and
Basel vying to join Group E winner Bayern Munich in the last 16.
Group H, where Shakhtar Donetsk has a three-point lead over
Arsenal and Sporting Braga, is the only section where both spots
are still available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 