-- Copper May Average Near $4 Next Year as Demand Climbs, Codelco CEO Says
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-07T19:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/copper-may-average-near-4-next-year-on-growing-demand-codelco-chief-says.html
Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, expects prices to average near $4 a pound next year as
demand rises, Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said.  The Santiago-based company sees a deficit of about half a
million metric tons of copper in 2011 as demand gains between 4
percent and 5 percent, Hernandez said today in the Chilean
capital. That follows a 10 percent increase this year, he said.  “That scenario asks for prices probably going on the upper
level of 3 dollars and close to 4 dollars,” Hernandez said in
an interview. A further financial crisis in Europe or a slowdown
in China could change the prediction, he said.  Copper rose to a 31-month high in New York and reached a
record in London as an extension of U.S. tax cuts reduced
concern Europe’s debt crisis may spread. Supply will lag demand
for at least the next two years, with prices peaking at new
highs, according to Trafigura Beheer BV, which considers itself
the world’s second-largest trader of industrial metals.  Demand will outpace supply by 367,500 tons next year,
enough for wires, pipes and appliances in about 1.8 million U.S.
homes, according to the median forecast of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Stockpiles may drop to an all-time low of less
than one week’s usage, according to  Michael Widmer , a London-
based metals analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Copper for March delivery added 4.05 cents, or 1 percent,
to $4.0485 a pound at 1:52 p.m. on the Comex in New York. Prices
reached $4.1315, the highest level since May 5, 2008, when they
touched a record $4.2605.  Stockpiles Shrink  Copper stockpiles in London Metal Exchange warehouses have
shrunk 30 percent this year, dropping to 351,375 tons, the
lowest level since October 2009, exchange  data  show. Inventories
monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange fell last week for a
second week.  The start of exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, backed by
copper may deepen shortages next year by about 200,000 tons,
Hernandez said. Copper ETFs may keep pushing up prices,  Gu Liangmin , who heads China Minmetals Nonferrous Metals Co.’s
copper department, said Dec. 2 in Santiago.  The global shortage of copper is growing because new mines
are of lower quality that in previous decades and after
investments were delayed because of the 2008 global financial
crisis, Hernandez said.  Codelco is proceeding with a plan to spend $15 billion in
the next five years to ramp up production from its aging mines
based in Chile, Hernandez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net 
 Michael Smith  in Santiago at 
 mssmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  