-- Copper Premium Rises in London on Concern About Supply as Stockpiles Drop
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-07T15:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/copper-premium-rises-in-london-on-concern-about-supply-as-stockpiles-drop.html
The  premium  demanded for immediate
copper supplies rose for a second day after a drop in stockpiles
monitored by the London Metal Exchange increased concern about
the availability of metal.  The cash contract, for delivery in two days, traded at $50
a metric ton more than the benchmark three-month contract by
3:54 p.m. in London. The premium rose as high as $74 on Dec. 1,
the most since October 2008. That pricing structure, known as
backwardation, indicates concern about near-term supply.  One unidentified company holds 50 percent to 79 percent of
the LME-monitored stockpiles, data from the bourse shows. That
position appeared on Nov. 19. The three-month contract fell for
the next three days. Even at 79 percent of the LME  stockpiles ,
the holding would still only be equal to about 1.4 percent of
global refined supply estimated by the International Copper
Study Group at 19.28 million tons this year.  The dominant position “is supportive of prices, but I
don’t think it’s a major part,” said  Kevin Tuohy , a metals
trader at MF Global U.K. Ltd. in London. “There is a physical
shortage that everyone thinks is going to get worse before it
gets better.”  Inventory in warehouses monitored by the bourse declined
for a second day, heading for a 42nd consecutive weekly drop.
This year’s 30 percent decline in stockpiles, the most since
2004, is compounding anticipated shortages. Demand will outpace
supply by 367,500 tons next year, enough for wires, pipes and
appliances in about 1.8 million U.S. homes, according to the
median forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last week.  ‘Not Unusual’  The current situation in copper is “not unusual and the
exchange is exercising its well established procedures for
maintaining an orderly market,” the LME’s Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Diarmuid O’Hegarty  said in a comment e-mailed
by the exchange. Bourse rules oblige holders of dominant
positions in stockpiles to lend metal at fixed rates.  One party last held a position this big in copper for about
a month from Nov. 18, 2009, the data show. The cash contract
traded at a discount during that period.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is holding the dominant position in
copper, the Daily Telegraph reported on Dec. 3, citing
unidentified people.  “As one of the leading firms in base metals and as a
Category 1 ring dealing member of the LME, we are expected to
make markets for our clients,” said  Brian Marchiony , a London-
based spokesman for the bank. He declined to comment on specific
trading positions.  Physical Copper  JPMorgan said in October it planned to introduce a U.S.
exchange-traded fund backed by physical copper. BlackRock Inc.,
the world’s biggest money manager, also announced plans to start
such funds. ETF Securities Ltd. said funds backed by metals
including copper will start trading in London on Dec. 10.  Dominant positions also exist in other LME metals, bourse
data show. One unidentified firm holds 80 percent to 89 percent
of the aluminum alloy stockpiles and one party controls 50
percent to 79 percent of the nickel inventory. In tin, one
company has 40 percent to 49 percent of the metal and in zinc
one firm has 30 percent to 39 percent.  Copper prices on the exchange suggest the dominant position
is likely to be closer to 50 percent than 79 percent, said  Leon Westgate , a London-based analyst at Standard Bank. The spread
between the cash contract and the three-month benchmark would
indicate about 180,000 tons of available metal, or about half
the 351,375 tons reported today by the LME, he said.  “The LME is very experienced in handling these issues
discreetly and efficiently and we have little concern that this
current situation will dissolve in the same way as all the
others have in the past,”  Alex Heath , head of industrial-metals
trading at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in London, wrote in
a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 