-- Copper-Cable Demand Sustained Even as Prices Climb to Record, Nexans Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-12-07T10:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/copper-cable-demand-sustained-even-as-prices-climb-to-record-nexans-says.html
Nexans SA , the world’s largest cable
maker, said demand from customers will be sustained even as
copper soars to a record.  “Many of our cables represent a rather small portion of
end-market product costs,” Julien Catel, vice president, metal-
risk management, at the Paris-based company, wrote in an e-
mailed reply to Bloomberg questions. “In our industry, the
price of copper or aluminum has usually little or no direct
impact on demand.”  Copper climbed 2.7 percent today to a record $9,010 a
metric ton in London as supply trails demand led by China and as
investors buy commodities on concern currencies may depreciate
as governments pump more money into their economies. Copper has
jumped 22 percent this year as global exchange stockpiles
tumbled 23 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is usually no alternative” for the cable industry,
Catel wrote Dec. 3. “Investments in power grids for instance
are rather strategic for any country. It cannot be postponed for
an undetermined period based on metal price assumptions.”  Nexans represented 3 percent of global copper consumption
last year. The company used 546,000 tons in 2009, its  annual
report  said. World usage totaled 18.12 million tons, according
to the Lisbon-based International Copper Study Group.  Global consumption may be 100,000 tons less than expected
in 2011, and 250,000 tons below predictions in 2012, as rising
prices prompt replacement with other materials, according to
Credit Suisse Group.  ETF ‘Not a Worry’  ETF Securities Ltd., BlackRock Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are planning to introduce exchange-traded products backed by
copper. Such funds may attract $2 billion, equal to 250,000 tons
of copper, according to an estimate by Hamburg-based Aurubis AG,
Europe’s largest copper smelter.  Their introduction “is not a worry for Nexans,” Catel
said. “We do not expect it to have any impact on our supply
chain, as we buy most of the copper we process directly from
cathode producers.”  Traders “might have more difficulties in finding copper”
because of the ETFs, and LME stockpiles may fall to some extent
as a result, he said. LME-monitored copper stockpiles shrank 30
percent this year and are heading for their first annual decline
since 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  