-- Coty Pays $400 Million to Acquire Control of China Skin-Care Company TJoy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T23:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/coty-pays-400-million-to-acquire-control-of-china-skin-care-company-tjoy.html
Coty Inc., the seller of perfumes by
 Sarah Jessica Parker  and  Vera Wang , will pay $400 million to
acquire a majority stake in Chinese skin-care company  TJoy 
Holdings Ltd. as it expands in the world’s most-populous nation.  Coty will pay in cash and TJoy’s management will hold the
remaining shares in the company, Guo Yuanqing, General Manager
of TJoy’s Beijing operations, said yesterday. He said founder
Zhuang Wenyang will stay as TJoy’s chief executive officer.  The acquisition is the fourth that closely held Coty has
announced in the past month as it bolsters its cosmetics
business.  Coty , which said sales rose 3 percent to 3.6 billion
in its 2010 fiscal year, is increasing competition with  L’Oreal
SA  in China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “Coty’s purchase will give our distributors confidence,”
Guo in an interview at the Beijing offices of TJoy, which was
founded in 1995 in the eastern Chinese city of Suzhou. “We will
be able to sell some of the best  products  in the world and Coty
can utilize TJoy’s extensive network in China.”  The Chinese company, which sells moisturizers, face creams
and mud masks under the TJoy brand, has more than 500
distributors across China, he said. Coty will sell its products,
including Adidas perfume and Rimmel cosmetics, in TJoy’s stores,
Guo said.  Pure Plant Extract  TJoy sales this year will be about 1 billion yuan, little
changed from 2009, said Guo, who is in charge of the Pure Plant
Extract brand, a product developed by the two companies.  Coty’s involvement will help boost sales growth next year,
with sales for the Pure Plant Extract brand forecast to hit 100
million yuan, he said. There are no plans to publicly sell
shares, Guo said.  The companies entered into a share-purchase agreement,
according to a Dec. 5 statement that didn’t disclose the value
of the deal.  New York-based Coty agreed to buy nail-care company OPI
Products Inc., according to a Nov. 29 statement. The perfume
maker owned by Joh A. Benckiser SE is also buying beauty company
Philosophy from private equity firm Carlyle Group and agreed to
purchase German cosmetics firm Dr. Scheller Cosmetics AG.
Financial terms for the acquisitions weren’t disclosed.  Founded in 1904 in Paris by Corsican-born Francois Coty,
the company helped develop perfume into a mass product, with 36
million consumers two decades later, according to the company’s
 website .  Coty hired Baccarat glassmakers and other artists and
artisans to design packaging and established ownership of flower
fields, factories and printing plants. The company opened
subsidiaries in New York and London in 1912 and now employs
8,500 people.  TJoy employs more than 7,000 people and has four factories
in China, Guo said.  -- Michael Wei  in Beijing. Editor:  Frank Longid   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  