-- Daido to Triple China Rare Earth Magnet Output to Help Raise Market Share
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-12-07T04:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/daido-to-triple-china-rare-earth-magnet-output-to-take-on-rivals.html
Japan’s Daido Electronics, the
world’s fourth-largest rare-earth magnet maker, plans to triple
output in China so it can boost international sales and gain
ground on its three bigger domestic rivals.  The Nakatsugawa city-based unit of  Daido Steel Co.  is
investing in its two Chinese factories to boost their output to
1,000 tons of neodymium magnets a year in two or three years,
which may help double its global market share, Managing Director
Takashi Kamihara said in an interview in Tokyo.  Daido is accelerating expansion in China, which produces
more than 90 percent of the rare-earth minerals used globally in
products ranging from BlackBerrys to  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s hybrid
cars amid growing concerns over supplies after recent
disruptions to Chinese shipments and tightening export quotas.  “It’s very important carmakers secure long-term parts
supplies,” Kamihara said yesterday. “Being located in China
gives us an edge on raw-material procurement.”  Production in China will account for 50 percent of Daido
Electronics’ total output, up from 30 percent now, when the
expansion is complete, Kamimura said. The company will then look
into exporting magnets to emerging economies, such as India,
from China.  China wants rare-earths companies to add value by making
more technologically advanced products rather than exporting the
raw material. While it has cut foreign sale quotas of the
minerals, there are no restrictions on exports of finished
products.  Top Three Producer  Daido currently buys Chinese-made magnet powders, semi-
processed material used to make rare-earth magnets, from
Toronto-based Neo Material Technologies Inc, some of which are
exported to Japan, Kamihara said. Daido’s magnets are used in
vehicles built by companies including Toyota,  Ford Motor Co. ,
Nissan Motor Co.  Daido Electronics is aiming to become one of the top three
producers worldwide by expanding in China and attracting
customers with new magnets that cut or eliminate the use of
higher-priced dysprosium, an additive to the parts used in
hybrid cars to make them more heat resistant.  Rare-earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metal
elements including cerium, dysprosium, lanthanum and neodymium.
The price of dysprosium has nearly tripled to $400 per kilogram
over the past year, while neodymium is priced at $98.5, four
times the level of a year earlier, according to Daido.  The company estimates that based on revenue it ranks behind
 Hitachi Metals Ltd. ,  TDK Corp.  and  Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. , all
based in Japan, in the rare-earth magnet market.  Daido Electronics plans to grow in Japan and Thailand at a
slower pace. It will increase production in the two countries to
1,000 tons from 700 tons now, Kamihara said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 