-- Daikin Said in Talks to Buy Goodman Global After $3.6 Billion Bid Rejected
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-12-07T19:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/daikin-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-air-conditioner-maker-goodman-from-h-f.html
Daikin Industries Ltd. , Japan’s
largest air-conditioner maker, is in talks to buy Goodman Global
Inc. from buyout firm Hellman & Friedman LLC to expand in the
U.S., a person familiar with the matter said.  Hellman & Friedman is negotiating a revised proposal after
rejecting a bid of about 300 billion yen ($3.6 billion) from
Daikin, said the person, who asked for anonymity because the
details are private. Discussions could still fall apart, and an
agreement may not come until 2011, the person said.  “The amount is quite big for them,” said  Hidehiko Hoshino , an analyst at UBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo who
has a “neutral” rating on Daikin. “If you look at their
finances or balance sheet, and if the amount of about $3 billion
to $4 billion is correct, it’s not easy for them to do.”  Acquiring Houston-based Goodman would propel Daikin past
United Technologies Corp.’s Carrier unit to the top spot in the
global air-conditioning industry by revenue. San Francisco-based
Hellman & Friedman bought Goodman two years ago for $2.7
billion.  Brendan McManus, a spokesman for Hellman & Friedman,
declined to comment. A telephone message left for Goodman Chief
Financial Officer  Lawrence Blackburn  today wasn’t immediately
returned. Motoshi Hosomi, a spokesman for Osaka-based Daikin,
also declined to comment.  ‘Name and Reality’  “We want Daikin to be No. 1 both in name and reality,”
Chairman  Noriyuki Inoue  told reporters in Osaka on Sept. 28.
“If you want to be number one in the world you’ve got to be a
major player in the U.S.”  Inoue, 75, built Daikin into the world’s second-largest
air-conditioner maker after he led the purchase of Malaysia’s
OYL Industries Bhd. in 2006.  Sales  have more than doubled to
1.02 trillion yen since he became chairman in 1995.  Combined revenue for Daikin and Goodman would exceed those
of Carrier, in an industry worth $65 billion in 2009, according
to estimates at  BSRIA , a U.K.-based research firm. Farmington,
Connecticut-based Carrier, through its tie-up with Toshiba
Corp., held 11 percent of the market last year, according to
BSRIA.  Hoshino, the UBS analyst, said that while the U.S. is the
biggest market for air conditioners, Daikin should aim to
increase sales in China and developing countries where demand is
increasing.  Shares Decline  Daikin fell 3.8 percent to 2,993 yen as of the close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest decline since Aug. 31. The
shares have declined 18 percent this year, compared with a 3.1
percent drop for Japan’s benchmark Topix index.  Hellman & Friedman announced or completed seven deals this
year valued at $6.49 billion, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. The firm was part of a group that sold Intergraph
Corp., the business and government software provider based in
Huntsville, Alabama, to Stockholm-based Hexagon AB, the world’s
biggest maker of measuring instruments, for $2.13 billion.  The buyout firm this year also acquired Associated
Materials LLC, the Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio-based maker of exterior
residential building products, for $1.3 billion. Both deals were
completed in October.  Goodman, which posted profit of $101.8 million last year,
is the second-largest U.S. maker of residential air-conditioning
products, according to its  website . Daikin had net income of
19.4 billion yen in the 12 months ended March.  Founded in 1924, Daikin began as an aircraft radiator tubes
and fluorine refrigerants manufacturer, entering the air
conditioning business in 1951, according to the company’s
 website .  The deal may be the biggest acquisition of a foreign rival
since Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest bank,
bought San Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp. for $3.61 billion
in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 Jkelly14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 