-- German Stocks Rise to 30-Month High; Bayer, Porsche Shares Gain
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-12-07T17:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/dax-benchmark-rises-bayer-porsche-gain-henkel-shares-slide-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks rose to a 30-month high
after President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax cuts, the U.S.
government sold its remaining Citigroup Inc. holding and copper
rose to its highest price on record.  Bayer AG , Europe’s biggest drug and chemical maker, rose
0.9 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded its
recommendation on the shares, while  Porsche SE  climbed 4.4
percent after Barclays Plc raised its recommendation for the
carmaker.  Hochtief AG  jumped 3.4 percent after a report
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA will continue with
its bid.  The  DAX Index  gained 0.7 percent to 7,001.91 at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt, the highest since June 2008.
The gauge advanced 0.1 percent yesterday as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank may expand
its bond-purchase program beyond the $600 billion announced last
month. The broader HDAX Index also added 0.7 percent today.  “The U.S. government is placing the last bit of Citigroup
they own and the shares are likely to be snapped up,” said  Lex van Dam , fund manager at London-based Hampstead Capital LLP,
which oversees $500 million. “That, combined with the Obama tax
cuts and the continued rally in the commodity space, means many
bears are throwing in the towel today and jumping in.”  German factory orders rose in October as domestic demand
picked up, another sign the country’s economic recovery is
broadening.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 1.6 from September, when they fell 4 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. From a year earlier,
orders climbed 17.9 percent when adjusted for working days.  Tax Cuts  President Obama said he will agree to keep Bush-era tax
cuts for high-income taxpayers in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance and cutting the payroll tax by $120
billion for one year.  Obama said he will accept lower rates on high earners’
income, dividends, capital gains and multi million-dollar
estates for the next two years to break the stalemate over
extending the Bush administration’s tax cuts for middle-class
taxpayers before Congress adjourns.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold its remaining stock in
Citigroup Inc. for $10.5 billion, bringing the country’s third-
biggest bank a step closer to independence from the government
following a $45 billion bailout in 2008.  Spain, Portugal  European finance ministers ruled out immediate aid for
Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-euro ($999
billion) crisis fund, counting on European Central Bank bond
purchases to calm debt-spooked markets.  A week after handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro lifeline,
the finance chiefs voiced confidence that Spain and Portugal
will tame their budget deficits and said the existing credit
line is enough to defend them in an emergency.  Copper rose to a record in London as demand will outpace
supply by 367,500 tons next year, enough for wires, pipes and
appliances in about 1.8 million U.S. homes, according to the
median forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bayer climbed 0.9 percent to 58.12 euros, its third rise.
The drugmaker was raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at
Credit Suisse.  Porsche jumped 4.4 percent to 68.57 euros, the highest
price in over two years. The carmaker was raised to
“overweight” from “equalweight” at Barclays.  Hochtief, Siemens  Hochtief jumped 3.4 percent to 64.82 euros, the highest
since Oct. 27. Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA will
continue with its bid for Hochtief AG even after the German
construction company carries out a capital increase and sells
9.1 percent of its shares to Qatar Holding LLC, Expansion
reported, without citing anyone.  The capital increase will dilute the stake in Hochtief
owned by ACS to about 27 percent, making the goal of raising the
stake above 30 percent more expensive, the newspaper said.  Siemens AG  rose 1.7 percent to 91.59 euros, its second
gain. The engineering company has received authorization from
Germany’s Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) to
engage in banking operations. Siemens Bank GmbH will support
sales in the company’s three operating sectors, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Henkel slipped 2.9 percent to 46.86 euros, erasing two days
of gains. Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation to
“equalweight,” saying it “would look for a more attractive
entry point before adding to existing positions.”  Air Berlin Plc  increased 3.1 percent to 3.92 euros, paring
two days of losses. Germany’s second-biggest airline said
passenger traffic rose 8.4 percent to 2.5 million in November,
while the load factor rose 3.2 points to 74.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 