-- DBSD Bankruptcy Plan Partly Reversed by Court
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-12-07T21:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/dbsd-s-bankruptcy-reorganization-plan-is-partly-reversed-by-appeals-court.html
DBSD North America Inc. , a satellite-
communications company, lost part of an appeals-court fight over
its bankruptcy reorganization plan, which  DISH Network Corp.  and
 Sprint Nextel Corp.  fought to overturn.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York agreed with Sprint
that the DBSD plan violates bankruptcy law, according to an
order yesterday. The judges didn’t give reasons for the decision
and said an opinion “will follow in due course.”  DBSD, based in Reston, Virginia, filed for bankruptcy in
May 2009 with about $800 million in secured debt, according to
court papers filed last year in the bankruptcy case. The
bankruptcy plan calls for noteholders to receive most of the
stock of the company.  Christopher Doherty, DBSD spokesman, declined to comment.
The company sought permission from the appeals court on Dec. 1
to implement the plan because the scheduled termination date of
its bankruptcy financing was yesterday, according to a court
filing. DBSD said it has “mere weeks to survive before running
out of cash.”  In its order, the appeals court said it was reversing part
of a district court decision approving the plan and affirming
part of it.  The appeals court ruled against DISH, saying its vote
against the DBSD bankruptcy plan was properly disqualified. The
court said the case should be sent back to U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan for further proceedings.  ‘Very Bad’  The Loan Syndications and Trading Association, which
supported DISH’s appeal, was “disappointed” with the decision,
 Elliot Ganz , the group’s general counsel, said in a phone
interview.  The LSTA, which advocates for the interests of distressed-
debt investors that participate in bankruptcy cases, argued that
lower-court rulings approving the DBSD plan would punish
creditors such as DISH that acquire claims in a bankruptcy with
plans for a strategic transaction with a company.  The opinion’s impact won’t be known until it is released,
Ganz said.  “If they announce a broad principle like having a
strategic motive is per se bad faith that would be very bad,”
he said. “We’re hopeful this opinion is drafted very
narrowly.”  Dish Disqualified  In approving the plan last year, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Robert Gerber  disqualified DISH’s vote against the proposal,
saying the company’s motivation in the case wasn’t to maximize
its recovery as a creditor. Instead, it was seeking to block
DBSD’s plan and further its strategic interest in the company.  DISH sought to propose a rival bankruptcy plan for DBSD and
had a “long-standing interest” in acquiring the company, DBSD
said in court papers.  Paul Hessler, an attorney for DISH, didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment.  Sprint  said the reorganization plan violates the bankruptcy
law’s so-called absolute priority rule. DBSD’s parent,  ICO
Global Communications (Holdings) Ltd. , would receive a
distribution under the plan over the opposition of unsecured
creditors that would see a “fraction” of their claims paid,
according to a Sprint filing with the appeals court. Sprint said
in court papers it is owed $211 million.  Eric Moser , an attorney for Sprint, didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment.  The bankruptcy case is In re DBSD North America Inc., 09-
13061, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan); the appeals court cases are Dish Network Corp. v.
DBSD North America Inc., 10-1175, and Sprint Nextel Corp. v.
DBSD North America Inc., 10-1352, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
2nd Circuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 