-- Broncos Fire Coach McDaniels, Studesville Takes Charge for Rest of Season
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/denver-broncos-fire-josh-mcdaniels-as-coach-after-3-9-start-to-nfl-season.html
The Denver Broncos became the third
National Football League team to make a coaching change this
season, firing  Josh McDaniels  after losing 17 of their past 22
games.  Running backs coach  Eric Studesville  will take charge of
the team for the final four games of the season. Denver has a 3-
9 record and will miss the playoffs for the fifth straight year.  The Broncos have won one playoff game since Hall of Fame
quarterback  John Elway  retired 12 years ago. McDaniels, who
replaced two-time Super Bowl winner  Mike Shanahan  in Denver,
follows Minnesota’s  Brad Childress  and Dallas’s  Wade Phillips  in
being fired this season.  “I wasn’t satisfied with the results and the direction
this team was headed,” Broncos owner  Pat Bowlen  said yesterday
in a  statement . “Everyone, myself included, is accountable for
our disappointing season and is now responsible for restoring
the culture of winning that has been established by this
franchise.”  McDaniels, 34, won his first six games after being hired by
the Broncos in January 2009.  Since then, Denver has gone 5-17 and is in last place in
the American Football Conference’s four-team West Division. The
Broncos have lost seven of their past eight games.  “You never want to see anybody get fired,” Broncos
quarterback  Kyle Orton  told reporters. “As players you feel
bad. Obviously we haven’t played well enough all season.”  $50,000 Fine  McDaniels and the Broncos were fined $50,000 each on Nov.
27 because the team’s video director filmed a practice by the
San Francisco 49ers before their game in London last month,
violating an NFL rule.  Before becoming the fifth-youngest coach in NFL history,
McDaniels spent eight seasons as an assistant to  Bill Belichick 
in New England. Three months after joining the Broncos,
McDaniels traded starting quarterback  Jay Cutler  to the Chicago
Bears and a year later dealt Pro Bowl receiver  Brandon Marshall 
to Miami.  In the 2010 NFL draft, McDaniels used a first-round pick on
quarterback  Tim Tebow  even though the Broncos already had Orton
and  Brady Quinn  at the position.  The Broncos now turn to the 43-year-old Studesville, who
has spent the past 10 years as a running backs coach in the NFL.
He joined Denver in January after spending the previous six
seasons in Buffalo and three years with the New York Giants.
Studesville hasn’t been a head coach at any level.  “He’s kind of new, but I think he’s a really good coach,”
Orton said. “He’s a positive person and a good choice to right
the ship for the next four weeks and get this thing going in the
right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  