-- German Stocks Decline; Shares of Automakers, Carl Zeiss Drop in Frankfurt
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-08T16:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/deutsche-wohnen-duerr-gagfah-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks slid, after climbing to
a 30-month high yesterday, as losses in carmakers outweighed
gains in Allianz SE.  Porsche SE dropped after gaining for six days.  Carl Zeiss
Meditec AG  retreated 2 percent as CA Cheuvreux cut its rating on
the maker of medical lasers.  Duerr AG  climbed as Deutsche Bank
AG suggested investors to buy shares of the German maker of
painting robots for the auto industry. Allianz rose for a second
day, following insurers higher in Europe.  The DAX fell for the first time this week, dropping 0.4
percent to 6,975.87 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The
gauge, which is up 17 percent this year, rose to the highest
since June 2008 yesterday after President Barack Obama agreed to
extend tax cuts. The broader HDAX Index slid 0.3 percent today.  The China Securities Journal reported yesterday that the
central bank may raise rates around the time set for the release
of November’s inflation data, citing Li Huiyong, an analyst at
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  In Germany, a report showed today that industrial
production rose almost three times as much as economists
forecast in October, led by demand for investment goods such as
machinery.  Production jumped 2.9 percent from September, when it fell
a revised 1 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
That’s the biggest increase since May. Economists had forecast a
gain of 1 percent, the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey showed. From a year earlier, output increased 11.7
percent when adjusted for the number of work days, after rising
a revised 7.7 percent in September.  Porsche, BMW  Porsche’s preferred shares retreated 5.7 percent to 64.69
euros, dropping for the first day in seven.  “Today we are seeing sellers locking in profits,” said
Thomas Laschetti, a trader at Tullett Prebon Ltd. in London.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, lost 3.3 percent to 61.90 euros.  MAN SE , Europe’s
third-largest truckmaker, fell 4.5 percent to 92.09 euros.  Carl Zeiss Meditec declined 2 percent to 13.79 euros.
Cheuvreux cut its recommendation to “underperform” from
“outperform,” citing the stock’s “impressive performance”
since mid-September.  Wohnen, Duerr  Deutsche Wohnen AG  slumped 7.1 percent to 9.20 euros.
Germany’s second-largest publicly traded residential landlord
held preliminary talks with the owners of GSW Immobilien AG to
discuss a possible purchase of the Berlin-based real-estate
company, three people familiar with the discussions said.  Duerr advanced 3.8 percent to 23.42 euros, a third
consecutive gain. Deutsche Bank lifted its recommendation to
“buy” from “hold.”  The brokerage said in a note that “we see them strongly
benefiting from capacity expansion by OEMs in BRIC markets over
the coming years. This and an improved cost base could result in
peak earnings by 2012.”  Allianz, Europe’s biggest insurer, rose 2.2 percent to
88.09 euros, as insurance stocks were the best performers in
Europe today.  Deutsche Post AG increased for the first time this week,
rising 1.5 percent to 12.53 euros, as its DHL Express unit is
establishing two new air routes from Paris and Frankfurt to the
United States, as it expands its overnight Europe-U.S. service,
the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Separately, Merck Finck upgraded the stock to “buy” from
“sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 