-- Disease Images May Not Deter Smoking, Study Shows
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-07T21:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/diseased-lung-images-on-cigarette-labels-may-not-deter-smoking-fda-says.html
Cigarette packages carrying images
such as diseased lungs and oxygen masks may not discourage
smoking, according to a report released by U.S. regulators.  Graphic labels tested in surveys for the Food and Drug
Administration didn’t have a strong effect on whether smokers
planned to quit or non-smokers intended to start, the study
distributed today found. One exception was an image of a male
corpse with a stapled chest that appeared to boost adult
smokers’ intentions to quit.  Cigarette makers led by  Altria Group Inc.  and  Reynolds
American Inc.  must put images on packages starting in 2012 under
a law passed last year giving the FDA unprecedented regulatory
power. The FDA proposed last month that each cigarette package
carry one of nine images the agency will select from among 36
test  graphics , including photos of dead bodies, rotting teeth
and cancerous lungs.  “The graphic cigarette warning labels did not elicit
strong responses in terms of intentions related to cessation or
initiation,” according to the report. “One possibility is that
the observation period is too short to see any change in these
types of outcomes.”  More than 20 percent of U.S. adults, or  46 million people, 
smoke cigarettes, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  in Atlanta. Smoking is the biggest cause of
preventable death in the U.S., killing about 443,000 people a
year, according to the  CDC .  Expanded Labeling  The new labeling would cover 50 percent of the front and
back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print ads. The FDA
is reviewing the “substantial amount of data” in today’s
report, said Jeffrey Ventura, an agency spokesman.  “FDA will not only consider the results of this
experimental study to select a set of nine final graphic health
warnings, but also the public comments it receives on the
proposed rule published on Nov. 12, 2010, and relevant
scientific literature,” Ventura said in an e-mail. The agency
plans to accept comments until Jan. 11.  The study, conducted in October, consisted of an initial
survey and a follow-up taking 10 minutes each, administered
about a week apart. The adult, young adult and youth study
samples each included more than 4,500 people.  Canada , the U.K. and Brazil are among 38 countries that
require graphic cigarette warnings, according to data compiled
by the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids in Washington. One in five
Canadian smokers reported reducing intake as a result of the
labels, according to a 2004  study  of more than 600 people.  U.S. cigarette packs and ads now carry one of four  warnings 
under a federal law enacted in 1984. The messages include
“Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide” and “Smoking
Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, and May Complicate
Pregnancy.” The warning labels don’t include images.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  