-- Euro Erases Gain as Ireland Budget Vote Doesn't Ease Investors's Concerns
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-07T19:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/dollar-weakens-vesus-euro-yen-as-obama-tax-agreement-boosts-risk-appetite.html
The euro fell from near a two-week
high against the dollar as Ireland’s parliament neared a vote on
austerity measures that are required for the nation to qualify
for an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package.  Ireland’s Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the goverment
has an “absolute majority” to pass the budget as European
leaders continue to discuss how to contain the region’s debt
crisis from spreading to other nations. The dollar weakened
earlier after President  Barack Obama  broke a stalemate about
extending middle-class tax cuts introduced by the administration
of  George W. Bush . The yen fell from a three-week high against
the dollar as Japan’s finance minister said he will keep a
“close eye” on the nation’s currency as its recent increase is
“one-sided.”  The Irish budget’s “immediate ability to impact the euro
seems to have diminished,” said  Robert Lynch , head of currency
strategy for HSBC Holdings Plc in New York. “The broader issues
aren’t even close to being resolved.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3293 at 2.31 p.m. in New
York, from $1.3308 yesterday, after rising as much as 0.7
percent. The yen weakened 1 percent to 83.48 per dollar from
82.66 and the Japanese currency traded at 110.96 from 110
yesterday.  Irish Vote  Ireland’s parliament will vote on its budget around 7 p.m.
in Dublin. The budget must be passed for an 85 billion-euro aid
package to go into effect. The government was forecast to win
approval for austerity measures after independent lawmaker
 Michael Lowry  said late yesterday he will support the budget.  The euro has declined 9.2 percent this year in a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar is down 1.6
percent, while the yen has gained 11.5 percent.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said the European Union needs to find a
“comprehensive” solution to its debt crisis and not rely on a
“case-by-case” method.  “It’s not a good solution to find a solution for every
country,” Strauss-Kahn said at a press conference in Athens.
The crisis in the U.S. “started with certain banks, then we had
another bank, and then another and then Lehman Brothers and we
repeatedly said to the U.S. government that this case-by-case
approach is not a good one,” he said.  U.S. Fiscal Policy  Obama said he would accept lower tax rates on high earners’
income, dividends, capital gains and multimillion dollar estates
for the next two years in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance. The current tax rates, enacted in 2001
and 2003, are set to increase Dec. 31.  The increase in taxes may further widen the budget deficit,
said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  “These kinds of agreements ultimately don’t support the
idea of fiscal consolidation,” Ruskin said. “That’s a point of
particular caution.”  The U.S. reported on Oct. 15 its second-largest annual
budget deficit, $1.29 trillion, for the fiscal year ended Sept.
30.  Dollar Tracker  The  Dollar Index,  which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, gained 0.2 percent after falling as much as
0.5 percent.  The yen strengthened 1.3 percent so far this month versus
the greenback as of yesterday, prompting Japan’s finance
minister to warn about the currency’s rise.  “The yen’s movement has become one-sided again today and
yesterday,”  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a news conference in Tokyo
today. “I have to keep a close eye” on the markets, he said.  The yen earlier strengthened against the dollar and euro.
Noda ordered selling of more than 2 trillion yen ($24 billion)
on Sept. 15 in an attempt to stem the currency’s gains. The yen
has appreciated 3.1 percent since then.  Canada’s dollar dropped, erasing earlier gains, after the
Bank of Canada held the benchmark interest rate steady at 1
percent. It said it will remain careful about future interest-
rate increases as falling exports and Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis hinder the economic recovery.  The currency, known as the loonie, fell 0.3 percent to
C$1.0088 per U.S. dollar.  The pound rose against the dollar after U.K. manufacturing
expanded twice as much as economists forecast in October and
retail sales climbed, boosting demand for British assets.
Sterling appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.5780, the strongest since
Nov. 24.  Investors should bet the pound will rise against the
dollar, euro and yen in 2011, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Great Britain’s currency, which has fallen 20 percent
against the dollar since 2007, is set to rebound as the
likelihood lessens Bank of England policy makers will follow the
U.S. central bank in buying government debt, or so-called
quantitative easing, Nomura Holdings said. The company has
invested the pound against a basket equally weighted in euro,
dollar and yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  