-- Dollar Rises Near 10-Week High Versus Yen Amid Higher U.S. Yields, Growth
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-08T22:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/dollar-rises-from-3-week-low-on-bets-tax-cut-extension-to-boost-economy.html
The dollar rose to almost a 10-week
high versus the yen as speculation that extended U.S. tax cuts
will bolster the economy drove Treasury yields higher and
boosted demand for assets denominated in the greenback.  The U.S. currency gained against most of its other major
counterparts as 10-year Treasury yields surged the most during
two days since September 2008 after President  Barack Obama  late
Dec. 6 agreed to extend tax reductions for two years and a
payroll-tax cut. New Zealand’s dollar fell to a six-week low
versus the Aussie before its central bank left interest rates
unchanged.  “The market has been strongly driven by interest-rate
differentials,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-based analyst
at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The dollar gained 0.7 percent to 84.04 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, near the highest since Sept. 27, from 83.49 yen yesterday.
The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.3262 per euro. It
touched $1.3442 per euro on Dec. 6, the weakest since Nov. 23.
The euro appreciated 0.7 percent against the yen to 111.45.  Dollar, Yields  The  Dollar Index,  which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, rose 0.2 percent. The  yield  on the 10-year
Treasury reached 3.33 percent, the highest since June 4,
according to BGCantor Market Data.  The dollar has gained 2.3 percent during the past month in
a measure of the currencies of 10 developed nations, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has
dropped 1.9 percent, while the yen is down 0.6 percent. Year-to-
date, the indexes show the dollar down 1.1 percent, the euro
down 9.2 percent and the yen up 10.8 percent.  Obama said he would accept lower tax rates on high earners’
income, dividends, capital gains and multimillion dollar estates
for the next two years in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance and cutting the payroll tax by $120
billion for one year. The tax rates, enacted in 2001 and 2003,
were set to increase on Dec. 31.  Bond Spreads  Treasuries, Japanese bonds and German bunds all slid. The
 difference  between 10-year yields in the U.S. and Japan
increased to 2.06 percent today, the widest since June, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, enhancing the allure of U.S. assets.  The government today sold $21 billion of 10-year notes at a
yield of 3.34 percent, the highest in seven months, as demand
rose relative to the last auction of securities with the same
maturity. Yesterday’s $32 billion auction of three-year debt
drew the lowest demand since February, helping push down the
securities.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.9 percent to NZ$1.3103 per
Australian dollar, touching NZ$1.3097, the weakest since Oct.
27.  The nation’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged, saying increases in the next two years will be slower
than earlier indicated as the nation’s worst earthquake in 80
years curbs near-term economic growth.  “It seems prudent to keep the cash rate low until the
recovery becomes more robust and underlying inflation pressures
show more obvious signs of increasing,” Reserve Bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  said in a statement in Wellington after leaving the
official cash rate at 3 percent.  Won Weakens  South Korea’s won extended earlier losses after reports of
artillery fire from the North spurred demand for the refuge of
the dollar. An official at President  Lee Myung Bak ’s office said
none of the shells crossed the border into South Korean waters,
and the government is examining the incident.  The won dropped 1.3 percent to 1,146.10 per dollar. The
currency also weakened after the Bank of Korea said the nation’s
current-account surplus was less than previously reported.  Losses in the euro were limited after Irish Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  yesterday won the backing of lawmakers in
the first votes on his 6 billion-euro (7.9 billion) budget.  The government is under pressure to pass the legislation to
secure an 85 billion-euro bailout from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund as the fiscal squeeze threatens to
prolong a slump that has seen the economy shrink 11 percent over
the past three years.  ‘Far From Over’  The effects of the global financial turmoil “are far from
over,” IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said today
in Geneva, according to a copy of his prepared remarks. “The
situation in Europe remains troubling, and the future is more
uncertain than ever.”  Investors should short the euro at $1.3228, Citigroup Inc.
strategists led by chief technical analyst  Tom Fitzpatrick  in
New York wrote in a note to clients. A short is a bet a currency
will fall. The euro is likely to weaken to between $1.24 and
$1.26, with a chance of extending its decline to $1.21, in the
next three to six weeks, Fitzpatrick said. Investors should end
the wager if the currency rises to $1.3450, he wrote.  Canada’s dollar advanced versus the euro, yen and
Australian and New Zealand dollars. The Bank of Canada yesterday
left interest rates unchanged at 1 percent amid falling exports
and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, strengthened as much as 0.4
percent to C$1.0083 per U.S. dollar before trading at C$1.0112,
compared with C$1.0124 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  