-- Domestic Demand Spurs Rise in German Factory Orders as Recovery Broadens
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2010-12-07T11:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/domestic-demand-spurs-rise-in-german-factory-orders-as-recovery-broadens.html
German factory orders rose in October
as domestic demand picked up, another sign the country’s
economic recovery is broadening.  Orders , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 1.6 from September, when they fell 4 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists expected a 1.9
percent gain, according to the median of 40 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey . From a year earlier, orders climbed 17.9
percent when adjusted for working days.  Europe’s largest economy is benefitting from rising
consumption at home as companies step up hiring and investment
to meet export orders. The Bundesbank last week raised its 2010
growth forecast to 3.6 percent, which would be the fastest since
records for a reunified Germany began in 1992, even as the euro
area’s sovereign debt crisis curbs demand in markets such as
Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain.  “The rebound in orders is consistent with the German
industrial sector regaining some momentum in the final months of
this year,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro in
Amsterdam. “The sector is not only benefitting from robust
foreign demand, but also from accelerating domestic demand.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3359 at 12:13 p.m. in Frankfurt.  Domestic Orders  Domestic orders rose 2.4 percent in October, driven by a
3.9 percent jump in demand for investment goods, the Economy
Ministry said. Export orders gained 0.8 percent, driven solely
by demand from outside the euro area. Orders from within the
currency bloc fell 0.9 percent.  Belt-tightening by governments and consumers across Europe
may damp German exports. Ireland last month became the second
euro nation after Greece to get a bailout from the European
Union and International Monetary Fund, and investors are
speculating Portugal could be next.  Even so, German companies including  Bayerische Motorenwerke
AG  and  Daimler AG  are shortening Christmas breaks at factories
to meet surging orders.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said yesterday it
may add 50,000 jobs globally by 2015, with around 10 percent of
those in Germany. At 7.5 percent, the country’s  unemployment
rate  is the lowest in 18 years.  “With German employment at its highest level since
reunification and wages set to increase, all the conditions have
been met for private consumption to grow,” said  Frederik Ducrozet , an economist at Credit Agricole bank in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  