-- Dubai Airports May Postpone Opening Al-Maktoum Terminal to Passengers
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-12-07T10:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/dubai-airports-may-postpone-opening-al-maktoum-terminal-to-passengers.html
Dubai Airports may delay opening Al-
Maktoum International Airport to passengers by “months” as the
state-owned terminal and runway operator studies the project’s
progress, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Griffiths  said.  “We’re going to review the passenger-terminal capacity and
state of construction in a couple of months’ time and we’ll be
looking at a new date,” Griffiths said at a press conference
today in the emirate. “We’re talking months. We’re not talking
a huge amount of time.”  Passenger operations at Dubai World Central-Al-Maktoum
International, which opened to cargo carriers in June, were
scheduled to start in March 2011. The government-funded project
is aimed at setting up the world’s busiest airport, with
eventual capacity for 160 million travelers. Emirates, the
biggest Arab airline, aims eventually to shift its base to Al-
Maktoum from the existing Dubai International Airport.  Aviation generates as much as 25 percent of Dubai’s
economy, Griffiths estimated in January.  The airport operator has set a target of 2018 to expand
Dubai International’s capacity to 90 million passengers a year
“as the growth here is going to be very strong,” Griffiths
said today. “It will take the pressure off us having to
complete Al-Maktoum in the time scale we were looking at.” The
current 60 million-traveler capacity will rise to 75 million
when a third concourse opens at the end of 2012, he said.  Dubai International is located about 15 kilometers
(9 miles) east of downtown Dubai, while Al-Maktoum is sited
35 kilometers southwest of the city center. Traffic at Dubai
International increased 15 percent to 4.01 million passengers in
October, the airport operator said on Nov. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at   iersan@bloomberg.net . 