-- Dubai Needs 2.5 Million More Tourists to Match Hotel Growth, Deloitte Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-12-07T13:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/dubai-needs-2-5-million-more-tourists-to-match-hotel-growth-deloitte-says.html
Dubai will need to attract an
additional 2.5 million tourists annually to absorb an estimated
60 percent increase in hotel rooms over the next five years,
Deloitte LLP said.  Dubai, which has around 50,000 rooms, may struggle to
maintain occupancy and rates as a further 30,000 rooms are
likely to be added, said  Alex Kyriakidis , the New York-based
consulting company’s global managing director of Tourism,
Hospitality & Leisure.  The sheikhdom has spent billions of dollars to transform
itself into an international tourist destination. It built the
sail-shaped Burj Al Arab hotel and opened a 160-room  hotel 
designed by  Giorgio Armani  in the Burj Khalifa, the world’s
 tallest  tower. Horserace complex Meydan and Dubai Mall are also
among the attractions that have been built.  Even if half of the expected construction is canceled,
“15,000 rooms would be a fairly big increase for Dubai to
absorb,” Kyriakidis said in an interview yesterday. The number
of visitors will need to go up to about 12 million from 9.5
million now, he said.  Average hotel occupancy has fallen to 70 percent from 80
percent in 2007, while the revenue per available room is
estimated at $240, down from $300 in 2007, according to Dubai-
based Kyriakidis.  InterContinental Hotels Group PLC, owner of the Crowne
Plaza and Holiday Inn brands, has several properties in Dubai.
Kerzner International Ltd. opened the Atlantis resort in
November 2008, adding 1,500 hotel rooms at the foot of one of
Dubai’s palm-shaped islands. Jumeirah Group, the hotel
management company owned by Dubai’s government, manages eight
properties across the sheikhdom.  Airline Packages  Hotels must work with airlines such as Emirates and Etihad
Airways to develop packages that deliver lower prices for
tourists from emerging markets such as China and India, he said.
They should also try to attract some of the travelers who go
through Dubai’s airport to other destinations. Traffic at Dubai
International increased 15 percent to 4.01 million passengers in
October, the airport operator said on Nov. 24.  “Dubai airport numbers are increasing at an exceptional
rate, however one of every five people who land in Dubai comes
into Dubai,” he said. If only a small percentage of the transit
passengers stayed in Dubai, hotels would continue to have “very
healthy” occupancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 