-- U.S. Teens Lag as China Soars on International Test
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2010-12-07T17:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/teens-in-u-s-rank-25th-on-math-test-trail-in-science-reading.html
Fifteen-year-olds in the U.S. ranked
25th among peers from 34 countries on a math test and scored in
the middle in science and reading, while China’s Shanghai topped
the charts, raising concern that the U.S. isn’t prepared to
succeed in the global economy.  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation &
Development, which represents 34 countries, today released the
2009  Program for International Student Assessment . For the first
time, the test broke out the performance of China’s Shanghai
region, which topped every country in all academic categories.
The U.S. government considers the test one of the most
comprehensive measures of international achievement.  The results show that U.S. students must improve to compete
in a global economy, Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said
yesterday in a telephone interview. President Barack Obama’s
administration is promoting national curriculum standards and a
revamping of teacher pay that stresses performance rather than
credentials and seniority.  “The brutal fact here is there are many countries that are
far ahead of us and improving more rapidly than we are,” Duncan
said. “This should be a massive wake-up call to the entire
country.”  ‘Key Schools’  China’s success in Shanghai results from the government’s
abandonment of a system of “key schools” for elites and the
institution of “a more inclusive system in which all students
are expected to perform at high levels,” the OECD said in the
report.  China also raised teacher pay and standards and reduced
rote learning, while giving students and local authorities more
choice in curriculum.  Shanghai was the first city in China to achieve universal
primary and junior-secondary education, and more than 80 percent
of students of college age are admitted into higher-education
institutions, compared with the national figure of 24 percent,
according to the report. China’s Hong Kong is also a top
performer.  The OECD test, first administered in 2000 and given every
three years, aims to measure skills achieved near the end of
compulsory schooling. In the U.S., 165 public and private
schools and 5,233 students participated in the two-hour paper-
and-pencil assessment, given in September and November 2009. It
consisted of multiple-choice and open-response questions.  Beating the U.S.  In all, 470,000 students worldwide took the exam. The test
also measured countries and regions outside the OECD, or a total
of 65 countries and economies. Asian countries and regions,
including South Korea, Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong, all
outpaced the U.S., as did Finland.  U.S. 15-year-olds had an average score of 487 in math on a
1,000-point scale. Shanghai students scored 600, Singapore, 562;
South Korea, Hong Kong, 555; Finland, 541.  The U.S. is traditionally ranked against other OECD
countries. On an absolute basis, students from 24 of 34 OECD
countries had higher scores than U.S. students, and the
Education Department said 17 were better on a statistically
significant basis.  U.S. math scores rose from 474 in 2006, when they ranked
25th of 30 OECD countries.  The average U.S. reading score of 500 ranked 14th among
OECD countries, which were led by South Korea, Finland and
Canada. Only six had scores that were better statistically, the
Education Department said. Shanghai students scored 556. Because
of an error in printing test booklets, no U.S. reading results
were reported in 2006.  Science Score  The average U.S. science score of 502 ranks 17th in the
OECD nations, which were led by Finland, Japan and South Korea.
Twelve scores were statistically better, the Education
Department said. Shanghai students scored 575. The U.S., which
scored 489 in 2006, ranked 21st among 30 OECD countries that
year.  The U.S. faces educational challenges from its immigrant
and heterogeneous population, an OECD report said. In contrast
with the U.S., Finland benefited from relative homogeneity,
according to the report.  While the U.S. is wealthier than most of its OECD peers and
its parents are better educated, the country fails to put the
most-talented teachers in the most-challenging classrooms,
Andreas Schleicher, who oversees the test for OECD, said in a
telephone interview.  Policy Lessons  The success of top-scoring education systems holds lessons
for U.S. policy, according to the report. Successful countries
provide comparable opportunities to all students regardless of
wealth, offer autonomy to individual schools in terms of
curriculum and prioritize teacher pay over smaller classes,
according to the report.  Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates  urged top U.S. public-
school officials to overhaul teacher pay, saying on Nov. 19 that
instructors should be rewarded for results rather than seniority
or advanced degrees. Gates, whose Seattle-based Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation funds education programs, said the U.S. may
also find money for merit pay by increasing class size. Duncan
has also endorsed that approach.  “Great teachers and great principals elevate the entire
profession,” Duncan said yesterday. “There are huge lessons we
can learn from countries that are both doing better than we are
and improving more rapidly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  