-- Legal & General Fund Shuns Spanish Debt Until ECB Buys Bonds: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-07T16:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/legal-general-fund-shuns-spanish-debt-until-ecb-buys-bonds-euro-credit.html
Legal & General Investment Management
won’t lend more of its $500 billion to Spain unless the European
Central Bank takes the lead by buying the nation’s bonds.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
debt rather than German bunds climbed to a euro-era high on Nov.
30 as Ireland’s bailout stoked speculation that more nations
will seek aid from the European Union. The ECB has bought Irish,
Portuguese and Greek securities, though not Spanish, according
to traders with knowledge of the situation who declined to be
identified because the transactions are confidential.  “Spain has a lot of funding to do and its problems aren’t
going away any time soon,” said  Jonathan Cloke , an investment
manager at Legal & General in London. “We don’t believe the ECB
has bought any Spanish debt yet. Our strategy might change if we
were to see ECB become an aggressive buyer of Spanish bonds.”  A rescue for Spain, with an economy almost twice the
combined size of Greece, Portugal and Ireland, risks
overwhelming the region’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout
facility. The country has to repay about 45 billion euros of
bonds in 2011, up from 32 billion euros this year, with an
initial 15.5 billion euros due in April.  The ECB has stepped up  buying bonds  from the region’s most
indebted countries to prevent the market rout from spreading.
Last week it bought at least 1.965 billion euros ($2.61 billion)
of bonds, the most in 22 weeks, according to central bank data
published yesterday.  Shunning Spain  LGIM, the fourth largest U.K. investment fund according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, is more pessimistic about Spanish
bonds than Irish and Portuguese securities in which it has a
neutral position. That means the proportion of Irish and
Portuguese debt in the fund’s holdings matches the level in the
index it uses to measure performance. The fund has an
underweight position “mainly in Spain,” Cloke said.  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond had its biggest one-day drop
since the euro’s inception in 1999 on Nov. 29 as the Irish
bailout overshadowed Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s progress in curbing his country’s budget deficit.
Spain’s yield premium to German bunds was about 230 basis points
yesterday, triple the average level during 2009 and close to the
Nov. 30 high of 298. It was at 224 basis points today at 4:15
p.m. in London.  Any ECB purchase of Spanish bonds “is unlikely at the
present time because it would be a very large commitment,”
Cloke said. “At some stage, the market might want to push the
yield spread to test the ECB’s resolve to find out at what level
they really do care.”  Greek Disclosure  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis came to a head last year
after Greece’s newly elected socialist government said its
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
had disclosed. The sell-off of euro peripheral bonds accelerated
in October after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  called for
bondholders to share losses with taxpayers.  Spain’s deficit will be 9.3 percent of gross domestic
product this year, according to European Commission forecasts
published on Nov. 29. It’s the third largest in the euro area
after Ireland and Greece.  Spain stepped up efforts to reduce the deficit and gain
investors’ confidence last week. The government announced the
sale of almost half of its airport operator Aena-Aeropuertos and
a 30 percent stake in the state lottery business. Zapatero also
told lawmakers a one-time 420 euro-per-month subsidy for
 unemployed workers  will expire in February. Spain won’t need
international aid, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday
in Brussels.  Forced to Buy  Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said three days ago
that the region’s 750 billion-euro bailout fund could be
increased to stem contagion from the crisis, breaking ranks with
Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  said yesterday that European policy
makers “need to seriously discuss” proposals for joint
issuance of bonds.  The ECB will be forced to buy Spanish bonds as concern
mounts that the debt problem will worsen, according to analysts
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “That’s ultimately necessary,” said  Nick Matthews , an
economist at RBS in London. “While current ECB purchases calm
markets, there’s nothing to prevent contagion so the ECB will
end up supporting Spain. Given all the policy options available,
we think the most powerful remains bond purchasing.”  Europe’s debt crisis may result in bond restructurings in
Greece, Ireland and Portugal, even as policy makers say they
have weapons to avert default, Harvard University Professor
Kenneth Rogoff said.  ‘State of Denial’  “They can’t just be in a state of denial,” Rogoff said in
a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “They’ve tried to
guarantee everything, to say, ‘Well, Germany is behind it and
the IMF is behind it, it’s inconceivable for a euro zone country
to restructure.”  Spain’s efforts to cut costs will hurt the economy, capping
growth at 0.6 percent next year after contracting 0.3 percent in
2010 and 3.7 percent in 2009, according to the median forecast
of 19 economists compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 3.5
percent growth rate this year and 2.1 percent in 2011 for
Germany.  “Next year, we are going to focus on economic growth which
is important, especially for Spain,” Cloke said. “There remain
many doubts about the health of the banking system and growth is
likely to be mediocre next year. Growing out of its debt burden
is not going to be easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  