-- Emerging Stocks Gain for Fifth Day on Recovery Outlook, Metal Price Rally
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-12-07T11:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/emerging-stocks-gain-for-fifth-day-on-recovery-outlook-metal-price-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
lifting the benchmark gauge for a fifth day, after President
Barack Obama’s agreement to extend tax cuts fueled hopes of a
sustained recovery and as gold and copper set record highs.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.6 percent to
1,132.66 as of 10:45 a.m. in London, after rallying 4.7 percent
in the previous four days. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index 
climbed 0.7 percent. Russia’s Micex Index advanced 1.4 percent.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  added 2.4 percent in Hong Kong and
Shanghai and  KGHM Polska Miedza SA  gained in Warsaw as the metal
jumped to a record high in London. Obama’s move offset concern
that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may spread.  “Obama extending tax cuts should help support the economic
recovery,” said  Terrace Chum , who helps manage about $6 billion
at MFC Global Investment Management in Hong Kong. “Investors
are still mindful of policy tightening for China. That will set
the tone for the market.”  Obama said he’ll agree to a two-year extension on all Bush-
era tax cuts in a compromise deal he called “an essential step
on the road to recovery.” European Union countries are set to
give formal approval to the aid package for Ireland announced
Nov. 28 while the Irish parliament will vote today on its
budget, which must be passed for the aid to go into effect.  The Shanghai Composite earlier fell as much as 1.7 percent
after the China Securities Journal said a “window” for the
People’s Bank of China to increase borrowing rates may open this
weekend.  Jiangxi Copper gained for a fifth day in Hong Kong. Copper
for three-month delivery rose as much as 2.5 percent to a record
high of $8,988.25 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Poland’s  WIG20  stocks index gained 0.5 percent, buoyed by a
5 percent rise in  KGHM,  the country’s only copper producer.  Polymetal Jumps  OAO Polymetal , Russia’s largest silver producer, surged as
much as 20 percent, the most in more than two years, and last
traded 4.5 percent higher at 651 rubles, after billionaire
Mikhail Prokhorov said he may merge OAO Polyus Gold with a
global competitor as early as next year. Polyus gained 3.5
percent to 1,864.96 rubles.  The stocks were also buoyed by a jump in silver to a 30-
year high, while gold rose to a record $1,428.55 an ounce in
London, on concern that cash injections by policy makers to
boost the U.S. and European economies will weaken currencies,
increasing the appeal of precious metals as an alternative.  The Hungarian forint appreciated 0.7 percent against the
euro, retracing some of its 1.2 percent slump yesterday when
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the nation’s debt to one
step above junk.  The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 31.2225 per dollar.  Spreads Drop  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market debt and U.S. Treasury bonds narrowed 12 basis
points to 2.34 percentage points, according to the  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI+ index.   The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  retreated 0.2
percent.  State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest lender, led a
decline in financial stocks after increasing the rate it pays
customers for deposits by as much as 1.5 percentage points. The
nation’s economic expansion of 8.9 percent for a second straight
quarter is bolstering demand for credit amid a near-record funds
shortage in the banking system.  “Banks are stretching their balance sheets to the limit to
fund this credit growth,”  Suresh Ganapathy  and Mudit Painuly,
analysts at Macquarie Group Ltd, wrote in a report yesterday.
“Banks may become desperate for deposit growth and are likely
to enter into a deposit rate ‘war.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  