-- England `Exorcises' Adelaide Demons to Take 1-0 Ashes Cricket Series Lead
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-07T14:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/england-beats-australia-by-an-innings-and-71-runs-in-ashes-test.html
Four years after slumping to a final-
day defeat in Adelaide, England sent Australia’s cricket team to
its worst home loss since 1984 to go 1-0 up in the Ashes series.  Spin bowler  Graeme Swann  took three wickets and paceman
 James Anderson  got two on the final morning as England removed
Australia’s last six batsmen for 66 runs to win the second Test
by an innings and 71 runs at the Adelaide Oval.  “We need to enjoy this and savor it, because it was a
special victory for us, in some ways it exorcised some of the
demons from four years ago here,” England captain  Andrew Strauss  told reporters. “It’s important that we don’t let
Australia back in the series now.”  The victory, at a ground where England declared its first
innings at 551-6 four years ago before losing, means one more
win from the remaining three matches would be enough to retain
the Ashes. England last won a series in Australia 24 years ago.
The third Test starts Dec. 16 in Perth.  Australia took a 2-0 stranglehold on the 2006-07 series
after England’s last-day collapse in Adelaide led to a six-
wicket victory. The touring team never recovered and  Ricky Ponting ’s squad went on to complete only the second 5-0 sweep in
the 133-year-old rivalry.  ‘The good thing about last time is that we realized, no
matter what sort of position you’re in here in Adelaide, don’t
count your chickens,” Strauss said. “Once we got our noses in
front we had to make it count.”  ‘Very, Very Horrible’  In 2006, under  Andrew Flintoff ’s captaincy, England entered
the final morning at 59-1, with a lead of 97 and a chance of
victory. Flintoff’s team slumped to 129 all out.  “Four years ago was a very, very horrible dressing room to
walk into,” said England batsman  Kevin Pietersen , who was named
man of the match after hitting a career-best 227 and taking the
key wicket of  Michael Clarke . “The best feeling is walking into
the dressing room having won this Test.”  England will head to Perth as the bookmakers’ favorite to
win the series after dominating Australia since day three of the
opening match in Brisbane. The English have amassed 1,137 runs
for the loss of six wickets in their past two innings.  Strauss’s team is the 4-9 favorite to win the best-of-five
contest, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill, which rates
Australia a 5-1 outsider. A drawn series is a 10-3 chance.  Ponting, who led Australia to defeat in the past two Ashes
series staged in the U.K., said the eight-day gap between Tests
may help his players find a way to stage a comeback.  ‘Bad Loss’  “It’s a bad loss and a week off now will do the boys the
world of good just to get away and have a think about what they
need to do as individual players,” the Australian skipper told
reporters. “We need to win two of the next three games if we
want to win the Ashes.”  Australia’s last home series defeat in Test cricket’s
oldest international contest was in 1986-87, when  Mike Gatting 
led England to a 2-1 triumph.  After dismissing Australia for 245 on day one in Adelaide
and amassing 620-5 declared in reply, England bowled out the
home team again for 304 before lunch on day five to secure its
first innings victory on Australian soil since Gatting’s team
won in Melbourne.  The defeat was Australia’s  worst at home  since West Indies
won by an innings and 112 runs in 1984.  “Pure and simple we’ve been outplayed,” Ponting said.  Swann Strike  England beat the mid-afternoon thunderstorm that left the
Adelaide Oval covered in puddles to take the six wickets it
needed after Australia resumed on 238-4.  Steven Finn removed  Mike Hussey  for 52 before Swann and
Anderson got the next five wickets. Swann, the world’s top-
ranked spin bowler, finished with 5-91 as Australia slumped to
defeat in Adelaide for only the second time in 15 matches.  “We’re not going to get complacent because we know as soon
as complacency sets in, it bites you,” Pietersen said. “We’ve
got time to enjoy it for the next 24 hours or so, and then we’ve
got to get our heads on.”  England’s first-innings total, following its 517-1 declared
in Brisbane, was its second highest in Tests on Australian soil
behind 636 at Sydney in 1928-29.  That came after the bowlers rattled Australia with three
wickets in 11 minutes on day one after losing the toss.  “We never gave them a look in,” Strauss said. “We’ve got
some great momentum and we’ve got to keep it going. We know
Australia will come back at us hard, and if there’s any way back
into the series, they will take it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Adelaide through the Sydney newsroom at 
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  