-- Ashes Is Over for England Paceman Broad, Australia's Katich Is Doubtful
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-07T04:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/england-pace-bowler-stuart-broad-to-miss-rest-of-ashes-because-of-injury.html
England bowler  Stuart Broad  will miss
the remainder of the Ashes with a stomach injury, while
Australia opener  Simon Katich  is unlikely to play again in the
cricket series because of an Achilles problem.  Broad tore an abdominal muscle during the second Test in
Adelaide that England won today to take a 1-0 lead in the best-
of-five contest. Katich struggled with a torn Achilles tendon
that got more painful as the match progressed.  Broad was injured while bowling yesterday and will also
miss the one-day series between the teams, the  England and Wales
Cricket Board  said. He’ll return to the U.K. “to begin
rehabilitation and recovery” with a view to preparing for next
year’s World Cup in February, the board added.  “Playing for England in an Ashes series in Australia has
been something I’ve dreamed of for a long time so to have that
cut short by injury is devastating,” Broad said in a statement.  Katich, who was run out without scoring in Australia’s
first innings in Adelaide, hobbled to a score of 43 yesterday to
take his batting average for the opening two games to 24.25.  “It’s unlikely that he’ll be available to play any further
part in this Ashes series,” Australia Physiotherapist  Alex Kountouris  said in a statement.  One Win Away  England’s victory by an innings and 71 runs in Adelaide
leaves the touring team needing one win from the remaining three
matches to be sure of retaining the Ashes.  “I’m very disappointed only two games into the series to
not be able to have a chance to try to turn things around with
the team,” Katich, 35, told reporters. “It will be hard not
being a part of it.”  Australia captain  Ricky Ponting  said 22-year-old  Phillip Hughes  is “probably the first cab off the rank” to replace
Katich atop the order for the third match in Perth beginning
Dec. 16. Hughes averages 51.25 in seven Tests.  “I’ll be surprised if it’s not him who comes in,” Ponting
said in a news conference.  Broad, 24, helped England win the Ashes last year when he
took 5-37 in the final Test at the Oval in London as Australia
was skittled for 160. He finished the 2009 series with 18
wickets and 234 runs and had taken two wickets in the current
series at an average of 80.50.  Chris Tremlett , Ajmal Shahzad and  Tim Bresnan  are the
backup pacemen in England’s squad. They’ll get a chance to press
their claims to replace Broad during the three-day match against
Victoria at the Melbourne Cricket Ground starting Dec. 10,
England captain  Andrew Strauss  said.  “We’ll see which one is looking the most potent and the
most suited for Perth,” Strauss said. “What happens in
Melbourne will have some effect, but we’ve got to think what
bowler is likely to make an impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Adelaide through the Sydney newsroom at 
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  