-- Irish Lawmakers Back First of 2011 ‘Crisis’ Budget Measures
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-12-07T20:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/lenihan-wins-irish-lawmakers-backing-in-first-ballot-on-crisis-budget.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
won the backing of lawmakers in the first vote on his 6 billion-
euro budget ($8 billion) to deal with what he called the “worst
crisis in our history.”  Lawmakers voted by 82 to 77 in the parliament in Dublin
today to back increases in levies on petrol and diesel. The
ballot was the first on spending and taxation for 2011 and
voting on other resolutions is due to finish before midnight.  “This has been a traumatic and worrying time,” Lenihan
said, as he announced reductions to public-sector pensions and
government salaries, including a 14,000-a-year cut for the prime
minister. Ireland needs external support “to break the vicious
cycle that has threatened our national finances and our banking
system since the second quarter of the year,” he said.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s government is under pressure
to pass the budget to secure an 85 billion-euro aid package as
spending cuts threaten to prolong a slump that has seen the
economy shrink 11 percent over the past three years. While
investors remain concerned about contagion and governments’
ability to push down deficits, European finance ministers have
ruled out immediate financial support to Portugal and Spain.  “It’s going to be a grind to get domestic demand growth in
the short term,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin. “It is in everybody’s interest
to get this budget out of the way, get all the votes passed.”  ‘Unavoidable’  After today, the government faces at least three more votes,
including a separate ballot on cuts to welfare payments, before
the entire budget is approved.  The budget is the fourth since October 2008 and adds to
austerity measures of about 14 billion euros as the government
seeks to reduce the deficit. Lenihan said he’ll cut the salaries
of government ministers by 10,000 euros and cap state salaries
at 250,000 euros. Internet gambling will be taxed, and child
benefit payments will be cut by 10 euros per child.  A 10 percent reduction in employees’ tax credits will
increase their income-tax payments.  “Over the next four years, further reductions in social
welfare spending are unavoidable if we are to reduce the budget
deficit,” Lenihan said. “Everybody pays, and those who can pay
most, will pay most.”  Ireland agreed on the aid package with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund on Nov. 28 after its
borrowing costs soared on investor concern the cost of rescuing
lenders including  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  would swamp the state.
About 35 billion euros of the aid is earmarked for the country’s
banks, with the remainder for the state.  Four-Year Plan  Irish bonds have risen in the past week, narrowing the
 extra yield  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year bonds over
German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, to 509 basis points from a
euro-era record 680 basis points on Nov. 30. That’s still almost
10 times its average over the last decade.  The 2011 budget is part of a four-year plan the government
announced last month to reduce its deficit to the EU limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product. The shortfall will be about
12 percent of GDP this year, or 32 percent when the cost of the
bank rescue are included.  “We have a budget deficit problem and there has to be
immediate painful adjustments to deal with it. Nonetheless I
still maintain our biggest problem is an anemic recovery,” said
 Joan Burton , finance spokeswoman for the opposition Labour
party. “Unless we’re careful, budget-deficit mania may further
slow economic growth and destroy confidence -- thereby making
future debts even less manageable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  