-- Lenihan Wins Irish Lawmakers' Backing in First Ballot on `Crisis' Budget
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-12-07T17:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/lenihan-raises-ireland-s-taxes-to-help-break-vicious-cycle-of-deficits.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
cut spending and raised taxes by 6 billion euros ($8 billion) to
deal with what he called the “worst crisis in our history” as
the government seeks to seal an international aid package.  Lawmakers will begin voting on the measures, including cuts
in child payments, tax credits and some unemployment benefits,
in parliament in Dublin from about 7 p.m. today. Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen  has the support of 82 lawmakers in the parliament
compared with 80 for the opposition, including independents.  “This has been a traumatic and worrying time,” Lenihan
said, as he announced reductions to public-sector pensions and
government salaries, including a 14,000-a-year cut for the prime
minister. Ireland needs external support “to break the vicious
cycle that has threatened our national finances and our banking
system since the second quarter of the year,” he said.  The government is under pressure to pass the budget to
secure the 85 billion-euro aid package as spending cuts threaten
to prolong a slump that has seen the economy shrink 11 percent
over the past three years. While investors remain concerned
about contagion and governments’ ability to push down deficits,
European finance ministers late yesterday ruled out immediate
financial support to Portugal and Spain.  “It’s going to be a grind to get domestic demand growth in
the short term,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin. “It is in everybody’s
interest to get this budget out of the way, get all the votes
passed.”  ‘Unavoidable’  The budget is the fourth since October 2008 and adds to
measures of about 14 billion euros as the government seeks to
reduce the country’s deficit. Lenihan said he’ll cut the
salaries of government ministers by 10,000 euros and cap state
salaries at 250,000 euros. Internet gambling will be taxed, and
child benefit payments will be cut by 10 euros per child.  A 10 percent reduction in employees’ tax credits will
increase their income-tax payments.  “Over the next four years, further reductions in social
welfare spending are unavoidable if we are to reduce the budget
deficit,” Lenihan said. “Everybody pays, and those who can pay
most, will pay most.”  Ireland agreed on the aid package with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund on Nov. 28 after its
borrowing costs soared on investor concern the cost of rescuing
lenders including  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  would swamp the state.
About 35 billion euros of the aid is earmarked for the country’s
banks, with the remainder for the state.  Four-Year Plan  Irish bonds have risen in the past week, narrowing the
 extra yield  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year bonds over
German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, to 509 basis points from a
euro-era record 680 basis points on Nov. 30. That’s still almost
10 times its average over the last decade.  The 2011 budget is part of a four-year plan the government
announced last month to reduce its deficit to the EU limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product. The shortfall will be about
12 percent of GDP this year, or 32 percent when the cost of the
bank rescue are included.  “We have a budget deficit problem and there has to be
immediate painful adjustments to deal with it. Nonetheless I
still maintain our biggest problem is an anemic recovery,” said
 Joan Burton , finance spokeswoman for the opposition Labour
party. “Unless we’re careful, budget-deficit mania may further
slow economic growth and destroy confidence -- thereby making
future debts even less manageable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  