-- Merck Plans $2 Billion Bond Sale After S&P Upgrade
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-12-07T19:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/merck-plans-offering-of-5-10-year-notes-as-soon-as-today.html
Merck & Co. , the second-largest U.S.
drugmaker, may sell $2 billion of senior unsecured bonds as soon
as today to help repay debt coming due in the next year.  Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing
the transaction, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that didn’t specify the size or timing of
the offering. Merck plans to sell $850 million of 5-year notes
and $1.15 billion of 10-year debt, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  The drugmaker is marketing the securities almost two weeks
after S&P raised its rating on the company one level to AA,
citing moves to cut debt after its acquisition of Schering-
Plough Corp. last year. Proceeds will be used for general
corporate purposes, including the reduction of short-term debt,
Merck said in the filing.  “Merck probably isn’t going to save a lot in interest
expense by refinancing its short-term debt, but it’s still a
good idea to address those maturities now while the bond market
continues to be welcoming,” said  Carol Levenson , director of
research at Gimme Credit LLC in Chicago, said in an e-mail.
“Taking advantage of the recent upgrade is also a good idea
with regard to timing.”  The 5-year notes may yield 57 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and the 10-year debt may pay a
spread of about 77 basis points, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  ‘High Standing’  Moody’s Investors Service assigned Merck’s notes a grade of
A1, one step lower than S&P. Merck benefits from “a relatively
high standing in credit markets, with ready access to capital,”
S&P said in its Nov. 24 statement.  The pharmaceuticals maker faced $4.1 billion of debt coming
due in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, 2011, it said in today’s
filing.  Merck last sold bonds in June 2009, when it raised $4.25
billion in a four-part offering, its largest ever, to help pay
for the Schering-Plough takeover, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A $1 billion portion of 4 percent notes due June 2015 from
that transaction traded at 109.4 cents on the dollar to yield
1.85 percent, or 27 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, on Dec. 3, according Trace, the bond price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Merck & Co., which acquired Schering-Plough last year, said
Nov. 30 that its board of directors elected Kenneth C. Frazier,
currently Merck’s president, as chief executive officer and
president, as well as a member of the board, effective Jan. 1,
2011.  Pfizer Inc., based in New York, is the world’s largest
drugmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 