-- Herpes Virus Blamed for Young Oyster Deaths in New Zealand's North Island
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-12-08T03:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/herpes-virus-blamed-for-young-oyster-deaths-in-new-zealand-s-north-island.html
Pacific oysters in the North Island
of New Zealand are being killed by a herpes virus likely dormant
for years and triggered by warmer sea temperatures.  Scientists have confirmed the presence of ostreid
herpesvirus-1 after some farmers reported significant losses of
juvenile oysters, according to a  statement  today from the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The disease is specific to
shellfish and not related to the herpes virus that affects
humans and other animals, according to the statement.  The virus has previously been linked to oyster deaths in
Asia, North America, Europe and Australia, the statement said.
It has killed 20 percent to 100 percent of breeding Pacific
oysters in France every year since 2008, according to National
Geographic’s  website . New Zealand’s outbreak comes a month after
a bacterial disease began spreading through the country’s
kiwifruit orchards.  “There’s a lot of young oysters dying and again the virus
is likely to have been kicked off by a variety of environmental
factors” such as warmer oceans, Biosecurity Minister  David Carter  said in a telephone interview today.  The ostreid virus is likely to have been in New Zealand for
“some time,” Richard Norman, the ministry’s response manager,
said in the statement. While there were reports of its presence
in New Zealand in 1992, the technology required to confirm the
virus wasn’t available then, he said.  The disease has been confirmed in 12 farms in the North
Island located in Waikato, Northland and Auckland, according to
the  World Organisation for Animal Health ’s website. Most
outbreaks were in Northland, near the top of the island.  Search for Cause  The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is working with
the marine farming industry to establish the cause of the
disease and how to manage the situation.  The virus is likely to have a “significant financial
impact” on some oyster farmers in the NZ$26 million ($20
million) industry, Carter said.  “The oyster industry is clearly facing significant
production issues with a predicted shortfall for next year of
approximately half of next year’s harvest,” Norman said in the
statement.  No problems with other oyster varieties, including Bluff
oysters, have been detected and the nation’s oysters don’t face
food safety concerns, according to the statement.  New Zealand aims to more than triple the size of its
aquaculture industry in anticipation of a surge in global demand
for seafood. The industry earns about NZ$350 million a year, or
about 20 percent of the country’s seafood revenue, according to
the Ministry of Fisheries.  Developing Aquaculture  The government proposed new laws last month aimed at
boosting sales to NZ$1 billion by 2025 through the easing of
planning and consent processes.  Almost half of Pacific Oyster production comes from
Northland, the region worst affected by the herpes outbreak,
according to  Aquaculture New Zealand . The aquaculture industry
occupies 0.02 percent of the country’s coastline. About two
thirds of its total production is exported.  New Zealand’s Carter has spent much of the last month
managing the outbreak of Pseudomonas syringae pv actinidiae, a
bacterial vine disease discovered in 107 kiwifruit orchards. The
government has said it can’t eradicate the disease and has given
growers NZ$25 million in aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  