-- Tesco U.K. Sales Growth Accelerates Ahead of Holiday
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-07T14:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/tesco-third-quarter-u-k-sales-growth-accelerates-on-finest-brand-s-growth.html
Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said sales in the peak Christmas period are
ahead of its forecast after the popularity of the Finest food
range led to accelerating  growth  in the third quarter.  Sales at U.K. stores open at least a year rose between 0.7
percent and 0.8 percent, excluding fuel and value-added taxes,
in the 13 weeks ended Nov. 27, Finance Director  Laurie McIlwee 
said today on a call with journalists. That beat the 0.3 percent
median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.K. sales growth at the end of the quarter was twice the
pace of the whole period, McIlwee said. Tesco, which gets about
two-thirds of  revenue  in its domestic market, has expanded the
premium Finest range, increased its seasonal offering and
doubled rewards on its loyalty program to win shoppers. Grocer
discounts are at record levels in the U.K., where Britons are
spending less ahead of government-spending cuts and tax hikes.  “Tesco’s rhetoric going into Christmas is strong,” said
 Clive Black , an analyst at Shore Capital with a “buy” rating
on the stock “We are encouraged by sentiment and momentum.”  Tesco rose as much as 2.6 percent in London trading and was
up 9.55 pence at 429.55 pence as of 2:09 p.m. The  shares  are
little changed this year.  Kate Middleton Dress  Tesco’s U.K. market share rose to 30.7 percent in the 12
weeks ended Nov. 28 from 30.6 percent a year earlier, the first
increase since May, researcher Kantar Worldpanel said today.  Holiday sales so far are “ahead of expectations,” McIlwee
said. “This will be our biggest Christmas ever with more stores
open and our strongest-ever range,” he said.  U.K. sales were boosted by a shift among consumers toward
better-quality products, including the Finest range, Tesco said.
Tesco sells a 750-gram bag of Finest frozen peas for 1 pound
($1.58), while a 900-gram bag in the Value range costs 76 pence.  Same-store  revenue  from non-food products rose 3 percent,
helped by sales of a dress like one worn by  Kate Middleton  after
the announcement of her engagement to Prince William. Sales at
the Tesco Direct online unit surged 30 percent, McIlwee said.  U.K. same-store sales growth, including value-added tax and
excluding fuel, was 3 percent as the quarter ended, compared
with 1.5 percent for the entire period, the executive said.  Sales growth in the fourth quarter is “going to be an
improvement quarter-on-quarter,” he said.  “There’s a good recovery going on in the economy, it’s
slow, but steady,” McIlwee said.  International Growth  Snowy conditions across the U.K. have had an impact on
sales, particularly in Scotland, according to the finance
director. Tesco has 3,000 tons of grit and 150 quad bikes to
clear snow from car parking lots, he said.  Food-price  inflation  was 0.7 percent lower than in the
previous quarter, McIlwee said. A pace of 1.5 percent at the end
of the financial year “isn’t a bad assumption,” he said.  International same-store sales climbed 4.1 percent in the
quarter, led by growth in Asia. Tesco said last month it plans
to quadruple revenue in China to 4 billion pounds over the next
five years by increasing store numbers and extending non-food
merchandise like Florence & Fred clothing. Korea and Thailand
are driving much of the growth, McIlwee said.  Same-store sales rose 9.8 percent at the unprofitable Fresh
& Easy chain in the U.S., compared with 10 percent in the first
half. The European business outside the U.K. reported positive
same-store sales, excluding fuel, in all its markets for the
first time in three years, the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 