-- Estonian Inflation Accelerates to Fastest in Two Years Before Euro Entry
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-12-07T13:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/estonian-inflation-hits-fastest-pace-in-almost-two-years-on-food-energy.html
Estonia’s  inflation  rate climbed to
the highest in 23 months in November on rising food and energy
costs, less than a month before the nation adopts the euro.  Consumer  prices  advanced 5.3 percent from a year earlier,
the biggest increase since December 2008, following a 4.7
percent rise the previous month, the Tallinn-based statistics
office said on its website today. In the month, prices rose 0.3
percent.  Consumer prices in the Baltic nation, due to become the
third east European nation to adopt the euro in January, have
risen faster than analysts’ estimates since September. Inflation
may be faster than the government’s official forecast next year,
averaging about 4 percent after this year’s 3 percent, Finance
Minister  Jurgen Ligi  said last month.  “The present inflation is caused by high food prices on
global markets that have spread to local retail prices,” the
Finance Ministry said in an e-mail. “Euro zone membership will
help us ensure price stability in the mid-term.”  Food and fuel make up a bigger share of the consumer basket
than in most of Europe due to Estonia’s geographic location and
low income levels, Ligi said. The size of the country, at 1.3
million people, doesn’t allow for longer-term supply agreements
in retail trade, which means quicker market reactions to global
price developments, he said.  Added Excuse  Euro adoption may be giving companies an added excuse to
raise prices, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said on Aug. 5.
Consumer-price growth should stabilize in the near term as raw
material price growth has slowed, the central bank said last
month.  Global price increases and rising export volumes helped
food, drink and tobacco wholesale companies raise average
margins to 16 percent in the third quarter from 14 percent a
year earlier, the central bank said in an e-mail today.  Higher prices are hampering the recovery in food retail,
 Maris Lauri , the chief economist for  Swedbank AB  in Tallinn,
said on Nov. 30.  Prices for food and non-alcoholic drinks rose 11.6 percent
from a year earlier, accounting for more than half of the
overall increase. Electricity and heating prices rose 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  