-- First Exchange-Traded Funds Backed by Industrial Metals Will Start Dec. 10
-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 2010-12-07T17:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/etf-securities-says-funds-back-by-copper-nickel-tin-to-debut-in-london.html
ETF Securities Ltd., whose managers
started the world’s first gold-backed exchange-traded product,
said it will list similar funds holding copper, nickel and tin
on the London Stock Exchange on Dec. 10.  Other ETPs backed by aluminum, lead and zinc will be
introduced next year, the Jersey, Channel Islands-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. The first three funds will
be denominated in dollars and carry a management expense ratio
of 0.69 percent, it said. A seventh fund will track all six
metals.  “They give investors, for the first time, direct access to
the physical metals market,” ETF Securities Chairman  Graham Tuckwell  said in the statement. “Investors are increasingly
looking at hard assets as a way to hedge against growing
concerns about sovereign risk, currency debasement and potential
inflation.”  ETF Securities, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BlackRock Inc.
have all announced plans to start such funds. Gold-backed ETPs
 accumulated  2,099 metric tons of bullion since they started in
2003, equal to nine years of U.S. mine output. Commodity assets
under management rose $19 billion to a record $340 billion in
October, Barclays Capital said last month.  Developing Shortage  Deutsche Bank AG  will be the agent providing trading and
customer services on the ETF Securities funds, and Flow Traders
B.V. will be the official exchange market-maker, Scott Thompson,
co-head of European sales at ETF Securities, said on a
conference call today.  Copper prices have climbed 21 percent this year, reaching a
record $9,044 a metric ton today, as falling inventories
heightened speculation of a developing shortage.  Tin  has jumped
49 percent and nickel has increased 29 percent.  Prices of copper have gained as one unidentified company
holds 50 percent to 79 percent of the stockpiles monitored by
the London Metal Exchange, data from the exchange show. ETF
Securities is not the holder of the dominant position, Thompson
said.  The first three funds will have a management fee of 0.69
percent and an insurance cost of 0.12 percent, ETF Securities
said. There is also a fee tied to the cost of storing metal in
an LME-approved warehouse that’s equal to 36 cents a ton daily
for copper, 45 cents for nickel and 42 cents for tin.  ETF Securities listed the world’s first gold exchange-
traded commodity, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stuart Wallace  in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  