-- EU Urges Kenya to Speed Up Protection of Witnesses to 2008 Vote Violence
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-12-07T12:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/eu-urges-kenya-to-speed-up-protection-of-witnesses-to-2008-vote-violence.html
The European Union has urged Kenya to
speed up the establishment of a program to protect witnesses to
major crimes including post-election violence in 2008 that left
1,500 people dead, Dutch Ambassador  Laetitia van den Assum  said.  “We are very disappointed that no significant action has
been taken yet to take the present system forward and to
operationalize it,” van den Assum told reporters today in
Kenya’s capital, Nairobi. She made remarks at a press conference
alongside fellow diplomats from the European Union. “We have
raised it on various occasions with the government to encourage
them to make it operational and to make it available to
individuals.”  Kenyan lawmakers in April approved the  Witness Protection
(Amendment) Bill , which provides for the creation of an
independent agency with the powers to protect prosecution
witnesses. The agency will succeed the now-defunct Witness
Protection Program, part of the attorney general’s office,
Dominic Onyango, an office spokesman, said today by phone.  An estimated 1,500 people died in two months of clashes
triggered by a disputed presidential election in December 2007.
The rioting erupted after President  Mwai Kibaki , an ethnic
Kikuyu, won office for a second term in an election opposition
supporters claimed was rigged. Under a coalition accord mediated
by Annan to end the violence, Kibaki remained president for a
second term and  Raila Odinga , the then-opposition leader, became
prime minister.  International Criminal Court Chief Prosecutor  Luis Moreno- Ocampo  said last week he will file cases by Dec. 17 against six
suspects who bear the greatest responsibility for organizing and
carrying out the post-election clashes. Families of people
perceived to be ICC witnesses have been threatened, the court in
The Hague said in an e-mailed statement on Dec. 3.  Producing a Manual  The new Witness Protection Agency was given 20 million
shillings ($248,911) in the budget ending June 30 to start its
work, beginning with the production of an operating manual,
Onyango said. "Once they are on their feet, they will have the
power to recruit their own staff and de-link from the AG’s
office," he said.  Stephen Rapp , U.S. ambassador-at-large for war crimes
issues, and former United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan 
have expressed concern that people who witness crimes in Kenya
face threats and intimidation because there is no program to
protect them.  The ICC has its own witness protection system operating
autonomously from the Kenyan government’s, van den Assum said.  “That doesn’t mean that a case should not be made to put
into place a properly functioning and financially significantly
endowed independent program of witness protection for Kenya,”
she said.  Britain donated 200,000 pounds ($315,720) to the ICC to
help relocate victims and witnesses to post-election violence in
Kenya whose lives are at risk, citing concerns about
intimidation and interference, according to a Nov. 26 statement
on the ICC’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  