-- European Stocks Rise to Highest Level in Two Years; Tesco Climbs
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-07T17:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-unilever-tesco-shares-may-climb.html
European stocks  climbed to their
highest level in more than two years after President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax cuts, outweighing concern that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread further.  Unilever climbed 2.9 percent after Morgan Stanley
recommended the shares of the world’s second-largest consumer-
goods maker. Antofagasta Plc led commodity companies higher as
copper rallied to a record in London. Tesco Plc advanced after
the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain posted increased sales as
Britons bought more of its Finest range.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  increased 0.9 percent
to 273.9 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has rallied
7.9 percent this year as corporate profits improved, the Federal
Reserve announced a $600 billion bond-purchase program to
stimulate the U.S. economy and the European Union bailed out the
Greek and Irish economies.  The U.S. tax cut extension “will probably boost the
economy,”  Matthias Jasper , head of equities at WGZ Bank AG in
Dusseldorf, said. “That combined with the Fed flooding the
market with liquidity is very positive for equities. The equity
markets are poised to go up in 2011 as the risk/reward ratio is
positive.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western
European markets except Norway. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
advanced 0.7 percent and France’s CAC 40 Index gained 1.6
percent. Germany’s DAX Index rose 0.7 percent, to its highest
level in 2 1/2 years.  Bush Tax Cuts  President Obama  said he will agree to keep Bush-era tax
cuts for high-income taxpayers in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance and cutting the payroll tax by $120
billion for one year.  Obama said he will accept lower rates on high earners’
income, dividends, capital gains and multi million-dollar
estates for the next two years to break the stalemate over
extending the Bush administration’s tax cuts for middle-class
taxpayers before Congress adjourns.  European finance ministers ruled out immediate aid for
Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-euro ($999
billion) crisis fund, counting on European Central Bank bond
purchases to calm debt-spooked markets.  A week after handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro lifeline,
the finance chiefs voiced confidence that Spain and Portugal
will tame their budget deficits and said the existing credit
line is enough to defend them in an emergency.  Stocks extended gains after a report today showed U.K.
manufacturing expanded in October twice as much as economists
forecast, a sign that the economic recovery maintained its
momentum into the final quarter of the year.  Unilever, Antofagasta Gain  Unilever  gained 2.9 percent to 1,906 pence after Morgan
Stanley raised its recommendation on the stock to “overweight”
from “underweight,” saying “we are very encouraged by
Unilever’s slight, but potentially significant, change in its
growth strategy.”  Antofagasta, the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, rallied 4.9 percent to 1,528 pence. Xstrata Plc
gained 1.6 percent to 1,460.5 pence. A gauge of raw-material
companies on the Stoxx 600 climbed 1.5 percent, posting the
 second-biggest increase  of the index’s 19 industry groups after
construction shares.  BP, Tesco Rise  BP Plc gained 1.1 percent to 455 pence. The company weighed
the sale of North Sea assets that may raise as much as $1
billion, according to a person familiar with the matter. BP may
sell some fields and infrastructure in the region where it has
operated for more than 40 years, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are private and no
decision has been reached.  Toby Odone , a BP spokesman in London,
declined to comment.  Tesco increased 2.4 percent to 430 pence as the U.K.’s
largest retailer said third-quarter sales rose 8.8 percent, led
by  growth abroad . Revenue outside the U.K., excluding gasoline,
increased 16 percent in the 13 weeks through Nov. 27 from a year
earlier. Sales jumped 39 percent in the U.S., 23 percent in Asia
and 5 percent in the domestic market, the company said.  U.K. retail sales climbed in November as higher food-price
inflation pushed up prices and cold weather boosted demand for
clothing and footwear, the British Retail Consortium said.  Porsche SE  gained 4.4 percent to 68.57 euros as Barclays
Plc lifted its recommendation on the carmaker to “overweight”
from “equal weight.”  Alstom, Hochtief Climb  Alstom SA  surged 4.5 percent to 34.09 euros as the world’s
third-largest power-equipment maker said it has signed a long-
term cooperation agreement with China’s rail ministry to develop
rail infrastructure in the world’s second-biggest economy and
some international markets.  Hochtief AG climbed 3.4 percent to 64.82 euros. Actividades
de Construccion y Servicios SA will continue with its bid for
Hochtief even after the German construction company announced a
capital increase and the sale of 9.1 percent of its shares to
Qatar Holding LLC, Expansion reported, without citing anyone.  Mediaset SpA  fell 1.5 percent to 4.43 euros. Credit Suisse
Group AG downgraded the broadcaster owned by Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to “underperform” from “neutral.”
The brokerage cited a disappointing 2010 for pay TV and a sharp
decline in free-to-air audience share.  Henkel AG preferred shares  lost 2.9 percent to 46.86 euros.
The maker of Loctite glues was downgraded to “equal weight”
from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley, which said the company
“continues to offer strong operational momentum and we still
recommend holding the shares, but would look for a more
attractive entry point before adding to existing positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 