-- Texas Instruments Profit Forecast Matches Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-12-08T03:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/texas-instruments-profit-sales-forecasts-match-analysts-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. , the second-
largest U.S. chipmaker, narrowed its fourth-quarter forecast,
predicting sales and profit that matched analysts’ projections
and citing higher demand for communications equipment.  Fourth-quarter  net  income will be 61 cents to 65 cents a
share on sales of $3.43 billion to $3.57 billion, the Dallas-
based company said in a statement today. The midpoints of those
ranges line up with  analysts ’ estimates for profit of 63 cents
on sales of $3.5 billion.  Texas Instruments is the biggest maker of analog chips,
which go into everything from mobile phones to military radar
systems. While demand from computer and television makers was
weak, buying of smartphones and communications gear improved,
Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a call. Deutsche Bank AG
analysts raised sales and profit predictions after the report.  “Mobile is continuing to hold up pretty well,” said  Cody Acree , a Dallas-based analyst at Williams Financial Group. Acree
recommends investors buy Texas Instruments shares and said he
doesn’t own any of the stock.  On Oct. 25, Texas Instruments predicted profit would be 59
cents to 67 cents a share on sales of $3.36 billion to $3.64
billion. In the year-earlier quarter, the company reported
earnings of 52 cents a share on sales of $3 billion.  Texas Instruments was little changed in extended trading
after the projections were released. It had risen 46 cents to
$33.41 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The  shares  have
advanced 28 percent this year.  ‘Shallow’ Decline  Slaymaker said that while sales are lower sequentially, the
decline in chip orders is going to be “shallow.”  Chief Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  is getting the
company out of the market for digital signal processors that
manage radio functions in mobile phones -- an area Texas
Instruments once dominated. He’s focusing instead on analog
chips, where the company expects to win more orders and grow
faster, Templeton has said.  After today’s report, Deutsche Bank raised its 2011 sales
forecast for Texas Instruments to $14.1 billion, from $13.7
billion, and its per-share earnings forecast to $2.55, from
$2.40.  Texas Instruments ranked second to Santa Clara, California-
based Intel among U.S. chipmakers in total sales last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  