-- Mexico Senate Approves Watered-Down Antitrust Legislation in 55-53 Vote
-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-12-07T22:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/mexico-senate-approves-watered-down-antitrust-legislation-in-55-53-vote.html
Mexican lawmakers approved a watered-
down version of legislation that seeks to boost competition by
imposing fines on companies that act as monopolies.  The Senate voted 55-53 to pass a bill proposed by President
 Felipe Calderon  to beef up the power of the Federal Competition
Commission, known as Cofeco, by allowing it to fine companies
and giving it autonomy.  The lower house of Congress in April passed legislation
allowing Cofeco to fine companies as much as 10 percent of the
revenue they report in Mexico if they act as a monopolies.
Senators today modified the bill so that fines only apply to the
division or service that a company may have used to violate
regulations, rather than applying to total income.  “It would seem that these changes were made in order to
make it harder for the commission to act effectively in the
fight against monopolies,”  Ruben Camarillo , a senator from
Calderon’s National Action Party, told lawmakers today.  The legislation would also allow for jail terms of as long
as 10 years for officials whose companies act as monopolies.  The lower house must approve the Senate’s modifications
before the bill can be signed by Calderon.  The current maximum antitrust penalty is 82.2 million pesos
($6.65 million), an amount that Cofeco President  Eduardo Perez Motta  says is too low when compared with other nations.  Mexico’s economy has underperformed peers in the region
because of lack of competition in industries including
telecommunications, banking and energy, Perez Motta has said.  PRI Support  Senator Raul Mejia from the Institutional Revolutionary
Party, known as the PRI, backed the changes to the bill today.
He said the legislation passed by the lower house went too far
by fining an entire corporation over a violation by a single
unit.  “This is irrational in economic terms because a company
could go bankrupt,” PRI senator Raul Mejia said.  A 2007 bill in the lower house to increase antitrust
sanctions almost came to a vote before falling apart after
lawmakers wanted to soften the legislation. Like today’s change,
lawmakers wanted to restrict the fines to a company’s division
or service that committed the violation. They also planned to
reduce fines to 4 percent of gross domestic sales from 15
percent.  About 30 percent of consumer spending in Mexico goes to
markets with a lack of competition, causing people to spend 40
percent more than they would with better enforcement of
antitrust rules, Calderon said in April.  While energy and water utilities in Mexico are operated by
state-run companies, the telecommunications sector is under the
control of billionaire  Carlos Slim , who controls America Movil
and  Telefonos de Mexico  SAB, operator of about 79 percent of
Mexico’s fixed phone lines.  Several other major Mexican industries are dominated by one
or two players.  Grupo Televisa  SAB and  TV Azteca  SA rule the
broadcasting business, while  Grupo Modelo  SAB and  Fomento
Economico Mexicano  SAB control most of the beer market.  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 12.4880 per dollar at
5:42 p.m. New York time from 12.4941 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  