-- Facebook’s Threat to Google Bewilders EU Minds: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-12-07T00:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/facebook-s-threat-to-google-bewilders-eu-minds-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
What exactly is the European Union’s
beef with America’s best technology companies?  Last week, the EU opened an investigation into  Google Inc. 
for allegedly discriminating against competing services in its
search results. Last year, it hit Intel Corp. with a 1.06
billion euro ($1.33 billion) fine. Earlier this decade,
Microsoft Corp. got socked with a fine by the EU of almost 500
million euros.  At this rate, the people at Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.
must be feeling distinctly nervous.  Can the EU really play policeman to the global technology
industry? Of course not.  There are two big problems. First, the EU’s  trust-busters 
don’t seem to have much of a clue as to the difference between a
monopoly and a really, really successful company. Second, it
looks like sour grapes, at best, and at worst, revenge. Europe’s
regulators keep picking on the most accomplished U.S. companies
while failing to do much to encourage competitors from their own
countries. Antitrust policy shouldn’t be a way of leveling the
industrial score between continents.  Google is only the latest in a long line of U.S. technology
companies to get into trouble with Europe’s regulators. Intel,
the world’s largest computer chipmaker, was fined for allegedly
impeding competition in the computer-chip market. In 2004,
Microsoft was fined after the EU ruled that it was taking
advantage of its dominant position in the computer-operating
systems used to run personal computers.  One More Probe  In July, the EU started an investigation into  International
Business Machines Corp.  over whether it was abusing its position
as the dominant supplier of mainframe computers. Back in 2001,
the EU blocked General Electric Co.’s $47 billion purchase of
Honeywell International Inc. on competition grounds, even though
neither company was European. The list goes on and on.  The rights and wrongs of all those particular cases are for
the lawyers to argue over. But there are two big issues that
deserve a wider debate.  First, does the EU have a clue whether a technology company
is dominating a market and abusing its power?  The one thing we have learned over the four decades during
which the digital economy has emerged is that it has a natural
tendency toward monopoly. We also know that these monopolies
often are fleeting, with the time on top growing ever shorter.  IBM looked like a monopoly for a long time, before getting
whacked by Microsoft and a host of companies that could make
computers cheaper. Then Microsoft looked all-powerful, until the
arrival of Google and the revival of  Apple Inc.  Google may seem
dominant now, but Facebook is gaining ground fast. Will Google
be as strong in a decade’s time as it is today? You would hardly
want to bet on it.  Two Forces  In fact, two forces are at work. In technology, there is a
huge first-mover advantage. The company that gets a product to
the market first takes a massive lead over everyone else. There
also is a network effect. People use Microsoft operating systems
because everyone else does. It’s the same for Facebook. We log
on that social network because it’s where our friends are. A
natural consequence of both forces is very high market shares.  If a cement maker controlled 90 percent of the market, you
might well suspect there was something murky going on that
squeezed rivals out of the industry. But when a technology
company has a 90 percent market share, that’s often just the
result of it getting there first and everyone wanting to use the
same website, search engine or software program.  It doesn’t necessarily follow that the technology company
is abusing its position, or bullying rivals. It just happened to
come up with an idea first and be really good at what it does.  EU’s Job  And, of course, the market is fluid. Something else gets
invented really quickly. Rival entrepreneurs are likely to crack
the monopoly, if that is what it is, far faster than any
functionary in Brussels.  Next, is it really the job of the EU to police the global
technology industry?  For starters, it looks like sour grapes for the EU to
constantly attack the most successful U.S. companies. Europe has
been very bad at producing new, high-tech champions. The mobile
phone manufacturer Nokia Oyj is the only real winner, and it
looks like it’s on the retreat after falling behind in
smartphones.  Legal Assaults  Europeans probably wouldn’t be too impressed if the U.S.
kept launching legal assaults on, say, Europe’s luxury
automobile manufacturers or its fashion houses. They can’t be
surprised if Americans look at the way the EU attacks the most
innovative U.S. companies and start wondering if this isn’t more
about hitting back at perceived American dominance of the
technology industry than opening up the market. It sure looks
that way -- and that is hardly the image the EU should be
creating for itself.  If Google or Intel or IBM were true monopolists rather than
just successful at what they do, then wouldn’t it be better to
have a coordinated global approach to curbing their power? The
EU can reshape the European electricity industry, or dairy
industry, or whatever, but it can’t hope to re-shape the global
technology industry. It makes itself look stupid and impotent by
trying.  The EU would be better off spending its time and money
thinking about how Europe could start producing a few more
technology giants, rather than attacking the American ones.  Maybe Google is a monopolist, and maybe it isn’t. We need
at least another decade before we can really start to reach a
judgment on that. Even if it is, it’s unlikely that Brussels is
the best place to start breaking it apart.  ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Lynn  in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  