-- Factory Production in U.K. Grows More Than Forecast as Recovery Maintained
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-07T11:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/factory-production-in-u-k-grows-more-than-forecast-as-recovery-maintained.html
U.K. manufacturing expanded twice as
much as economists forecast in October, a sign the recovery is
maintaining momentum into the final quarter of the year.  Output rose 0.6 percent from September, the most in seven
months, the O ffice for National Statistics  said today in London.
The median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for an increase of 0.3 percent. Overall industrial output
fell 0.2 percent as utilities and mines cut production.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is relying on exports and
investment to keep the economy growing as the government
prepares to step up the pace of spending cuts and increase
value-added tax on sales to tackle the record budget deficit.  “They’re a good set of figures,”  David Tinsley , an
economist at National Australia Bank in London and a former
Bank of England official, said in a telephone interview. “The
underlying momentum is pretty sound. Things are looking all
right for fourth-quarter GDP.”  The pound lost gains made after the report and was trading
at $1.5783 as of 11:18 a.m. in London, up 0.4 percent on the
day.  The Bank of England is this week forecast to keep its bond-
purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($313 billion). Policy
makers remained split last month on whether the economy faces a
greater risk from slowing growth or faster  inflation .  Capital Goods  Factory output  grew in October for the sixth month in
succession. Out of 13 categories, eight rose, led by transport
equipment. Two fell, led by food, drink and tobacco. Output of
capital goods rose 1.8 percent, with engineering and allied
industries posting a 2 percent increase. Production of consumer
durables declined 1.3 percent.  Recent reports suggest the recovery is persisting after the
economy posted its  fastest growth spurt  in a decade in the
second and third quarters.  A Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply index
published last week showed manufacturing growth unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest pace in 16 years in November, with
the  weaker pound  boosting demand for British goods abroad.  Bath, western England-based Rotork Plc, a maker of
industrial valve controls, said on Nov. 19 that orders were 28
percent higher in the third quarter and the full-year profit
outlook is in line with previous guidance.  Officials still caution that the budget squeeze, which is
forecast to lead to the loss of 330,000 public-sector jobs, may
hurt economic growth.  ‘Sluggish’  The Treasury’s  fiscal watchdog  said on Nov. 29 that the
British economy faces a “sluggish” medium-term outlook and cut
its 2011 growth forecast to 2.1 percent from 2.3 percent.  Manufacturing rose 5.8 percent in October from a year
earlier. Overall  industrial production , which also includes
utilities, mining and quarrying and accounts for 17 percent of
the economy, increased 3.3 percent.  Output in the  mining and quarrying  industry fell a monthly
4.2 percent in October, the biggest drop since June. Oil and gas
output declined 4.2 percent. Earlier maintenance work in North
Sea oil fields has led to complications with seasonal adjustment
of the figures, the statistics office said. Utilities’ output
declined 1 percent.  Bank of England policy makers will leave the size of the
bank’s  bond holdings  unchanged on Dec. 9, according to all 34
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. They will also keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, all 58
economists in a separate survey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  