-- FDA Loses Appeal, Can't Regulate Electronic Cigarettes as Drug, Court Says
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-12-07T18:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/fda-can-t-regulate-electronic-cigarettes-as-drug-u-s-appeals-court-rules.html
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
lacks the authority to regulate electronic cigarettes as drugs
or devices, an appeals court ruled, upholding a lower-court
decision.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington said today the FDA
can only regulate e-cigarettes as a tobacco product. The ruling
means the government can oversee the marketing of the products,
not restrict their sale.  E-cigarette maker Sottera Inc., which does business as
Njoy, argued in the case that its products -- battery-powered
devices that generate a nicotine vapor instead of smoke -- are
tobacco products and not drugs. E-cigarettes are marketed as a
tobacco alternative for “smoking pleasure,” rather than for
therapeutic uses, the company said.  “We’re thrilled,” Craig Weiss, the president of
Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Njoy , said in a telephone interview.
“Now we can continue to sell e-cigarettes under the regulations
of the Tobacco Act.”  The FDA is “studying the opinion and considering next
steps,” Jeffrey Ventura, a spokesman for the agency, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids , a
Washington-based group, criticized the decision.  “This ruling invites the creation of a wild west of
products containing highly addictive nicotine, an alarming
prospect for public health,” the group said in an e-mailed
statement. “We urge the government to appeal this ruling to the
U.S. Supreme Court.”  FDA Injunction  An Njoy competitor, Smoking Everywhere Inc., filed the
original lawsuits in 2009. A district court granted a
preliminary injunction barring the FDA from alerting U.S.
customs officials to prevent the importation of e-cigarettes
manufactured outside the country.  In 2000, the Supreme Court ruled that Congress didn’t grant
the FDA jurisdiction to regulate tobacco products as drug-
delivery devices under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.  The e-cigarette consists of a battery, a heating element
and a cartridge that contains a liquid suspension with nicotine.
When a user inhales from the cartridge, the liquid is heated and
a vapor is emitted. The nicotine is obtained from tobacco
plants.  Njoy sells a “starter kit” for $79.99 that includes two
batteries, a charger and five cartridges, Weiss said. Users can
buy a bottle of five replacement cartridges for $19.99, with
each cartridge roughly equal to 1 1/2 to two packs of
cigarettes. A pack of cigarettes in New York costs about $10.  “Great Victory”  Njoy sells products online and at retailers such as 7-
Eleven Inc., Weiss said. The closely held company, which doesn’t
disclose sales, is profitable, he said.  “This is a great victory for the American people,
especially for long-term committed smokers,”  Matt Salmon , chief
executive officer of Njoy, said in a separate telephone
interview.  Salmon, who served three terms as a Republican U.S.
congressman from Arizona, became CEO last month after spending
more than a year as president of the Electronic Cigarette
Association trade group. He described himself as an “anti-
smoking crusader” and said that his father died from a smoking-
related illness.  The case is Sottera Inc. v. Food & Drug Administration, 10-
5032, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit
(Washington). The lower-court case was Smoking Everywhere Inc.
v. U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 09-cv-00771, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  