-- Columbia University Students Arrested for Drug Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-12-07T20:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/five-columbia-university-students-arrested-in-campus-drug-ring-police-say.html
Five students at Columbia University
in New York and three alleged off-campus suppliers were arrested
as part of a ring that sold drugs at fraternity houses and other
on-campus residences, police said.  The eight suspects were indicted and arrested today after a
five-month investigation called “Operation Ivy League,”
authorities said. Undercover officers spent $11,000 in 31
purchases of drugs including cocaine, marijuana, powdered MDMA
or ecstasy, and LSD-laced Altoids mints and Sweetarts candy, the
New York City Police Department and Bridget G. Brennan, the
city’s special narcotics prosecutor, said in a statement.  “The students arrested today supplied dangerous substances
to their friends and other students to turn a quick profit, but
subjected themselves to risks, of which they were either
ignorant or in denial,” Brennan said in the statement.  Most of the sales took place in common areas and bedrooms
at the Alpha Epsilon Pi, Pi Kappa Alpha and Psi Upsilon
fraternities, according to the statement. Two students allegedly
sold drugs from their rooms at the Intercultural House and East
Campus Housing.  Columbia prohibits the possession, use, manufacture and
distribution of illicit drugs on university premises or during
any university activity, and students who violate the school’s
policy can face disciplinary measures that can include
expulsion, according to the university’s  website .  Columbia Message  “The alleged behavior of the students involved in this
incident goes against not only state and federal law, but also
university policy and the principles we have set -- and strive
together to maintain -- for our community,” Columbia told
students in a message today, according to an e-mail from school
spokesman  Robert Hornsby . “Please rest assured we are taking
this matter very seriously.”  Columbia, founded in 1754, has about 25,000 students.
Graduates include President  Barack Obama  and  Warren Buffett , the
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
who attended Columbia Business School. It is one of eight
private schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the Ivy
League.  Alleged suppliers Miron Sarzynski, 23, and his girlfriend,
Megan Asper, 22, were arrested on Oct. 27 in the East Village
section of Manhattan, the statement said. Sarzynski allegedly
sold drugs to undercover officers seven times and made drugs at
his apartment on East Sixth Street.  Searches Yield Drugs  Searches of the students’ rooms this morning yielded a
bottle of LSD, 50 capsules of MDMA, 15 Adderall pills, more than
half a pound of marijuana and about $2,000 in cash, the
statement said. A raid of Sarzynski’s apartment turned up two
dozen marijuana plants, equipment for growing marijuana, jars of
the drug DMT, a bottle of LSD, $1,200 cash and two air pistols.  Sarzynski is also charged with attempting to kidnap a pair
of rival cocaine traffickers who he thought stole money from
him, and trying to hire an undercover officer to help him,
according to the statement.  Sarzynski’s alleged plan was to kidnap the rival
traffickers with a stun gun, hold them for ransom and torture
them by giving them a heavy dose of LSD, the statement said. He
planned to kill them if they didn’t pay, and handed a vial of
LSD to the officer before his arrest.  ‘Willing to Kill’  “The fact that a supplier to the Columbia students was
willing to kill his rivals should demolish any argument that
drugs on campus is a victimless crime,” New York City Police
Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  said in a statement. “This is no way
to work your way through college.”  The Columbia students were identified as Chris Coles, 20;
Harrison David, 20; Adam Klein, 20; Jose Stephan Perez, 20; and
Michael Wymbs, 22. They are to be arraigned in Manhattan
Criminal Court later today.  A third alleged cocaine supplier, Roberto Lagares, 30, was
arrested Dec. 5 at the Kingsborough Houses, a New York City
Housing Authority Development in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section
of Brooklyn, according to the police statement.  Psi Upsilon had no “official comment” on today’s events
“but will continue to cooperate with the university to ‘get to
the bottom of this.’” Paul Warren, president of Pi Kappa Alpha,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment, and Carlos Eduardo
Rodriguez Castillo, president of Alpha Epsilon Pi, declined to
comment in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 