-- GE, China's CSR to Invest $50 Million in U.S. High-Speed Railway Venture
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-07T16:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/ge-china-s-csr-to-invest-50-million-in-high-speed-rail-bid.html
General Electric Co.  and  CSR Corp. ,
China’s largest maker of rail vehicles, plan to invest $50
million in their U.S.-based venture for supplying passenger
trains for high-speed lines in California and Florida.  The initiative may “sustain or create” 250 jobs by 2012,
potentially at GE Transportation factories in Erie and Grove
City, Pennsylvania, the company said today. The partners also
will form a business to work on medium-speed trains and on urban
rail-transit systems, GE said in a statement.  “We are committed to advancing the global high-speed rail
technology market,” said Vice Chairman  John Rice , whose
appointment last month to oversee a new international business
structure from Hong Kong signaled Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE’s focus on overseas markets and partnerships.  The rail venture supports Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s goal of investing more than $1.5 billion in joint
ventures in “key high-technology” sectors with China, adding
$500 million to GE’s research centers in the country and
boosting U.S. manufacturing.  The GE-CSR alliance may face competition from trainmakers
including Bombardier Inc.,  Alstom SA  and  East Japan Railway Co.   Alstom, Bombardier  Alstom signed a long-term cooperation agreement today with
China’s railway ministry to develop infrastructure “on a wide
spectrum” with unidentified Chinese partners including rolling
stock, high-speed trains, locomotives and signaling.  Bombardier and the ministry agreed yesterday to develop
train cars and signals for use inside and outside China. The
accord establishes China Railway Signal and Communication Corp.
as a strategic partner for Bombardier signal systems, according
to an e-mailed statement from the Montreal-based trainmaker.  GE and CSR also signed a separate venture to cooperate on
technologies including diesel-based locomotive development and
software developed by the GE unit, called Trip Optimizer, for
the Chinese market.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is championing
high-speed passenger rail projects, with $2.3 billion in federal
funding allocated in January to the California line and $1.3
billion for the Florida project.  GE’s agreement on a so-called cooperative framework with
CSR follows comments last week by  Zhao Xiaogang , the Chinese
company’s chairman, in Hong Kong that the companies may also
compete for a project on the U.S. East Coast, and will decide
which of the lines to bid on over the next three years. GE and
CSR signed a memorandum of understanding on rail projects in
2009.  China’s passenger trains reach more than 220 miles (354
kilometers) an hour, while GE is the world’s biggest maker of
diesel-electric locomotives. The venture aims to meet Buy
America standards for U.S. content, GE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 