-- Irish Bonds Outperform German Bunds on Speculation Austerity Plan to Pass
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-07T16:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/german-government-bonds-drop-on-speculation-irish-budget-will-be-approved.html
Irish 10-year bonds rose,
outperforming German bunds, amid speculation the nation’s
parliament will approve a government austerity plan, allowing
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  to win an international bailout.  The Irish securities climbed for the fifth day in six as
people with knowledge of the transactions said the European
Central Bank bought the nation’s debt today. German bonds
slumped, sending the  yield  on benchmark 10-year bunds to an
almost seven-month high.  “In order to maintain stability it would be reasonable to
expect the ECB to be active in the market,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht,
Netherlands. “The budget is important because we need some
strong political signals” from Ireland, he said. “Not passing
it would be viewed as a negative,” de Groot said.  The 10-year Irish bond yield fell 16 basis points to 8.22
percent as of 4:50 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security
maturing in October 2020 gained 0.895, or 8.95 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,334) face amount, to 78.81. Credit-default swaps on
Ireland declined 18 basis points to 537.3, according to CMA
prices.  The ECB bought Irish and Portuguese government bonds today,
according to at least two people with knowledge of the
transactions. Central banks were also buying Greek debt, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
deals are confidential. A spokesman for the ECB in Frankfurt
declined to comment.  Biggest Decline  Irish bonds have handed investors a 10 percent loss since
June, the most for government bonds tracked in indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies, amid concern that saving the nation’s banks would
overwhelm government revenue.  Ireland’s Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  started to lay out
the 2011 budget, with 6 billion-euros worth of spending cuts, in
Dublin at 3:45 p.m. It must pass for Ireland to secure an 85
billion-euro aid package it sought from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund last month.  “The risks are skewed to the Irish budget passing, but if
there are hiccups that would be a major blow to the rescue,”
said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG
in London.  Bonds from so-called peripheral nations rallied last week
as traders said that the ECB increased purchases of government
bonds. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Dec. 2 that the
central bank will maintain its bond-buying program and continue
to sterilize asset purchases.  First Sale  Klaus Regling , who manages the 440 billion-euro part of the
bailout fund financed by euro-area governments, said a first
sale of 5 billion euros of bonds to finance Ireland’s package is
scheduled for the second half of January.  German bonds declined as Treasuries fell and stocks
advanced after U.S. President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax
cuts. The benchmark bund yield rose 10 basis points to 2.95
percent, after touching 2.96 percent. the highest since May 13.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1 percent, while the
yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury advanced 16 basis points to
3.08 percent. The difference in yield, or  spread , between two-
and 10-year German debt rose to 208 basis points, the most since
June 22.  German bonds may come under pressure as the nation is
compelled to lend more support to high-deficit nations to keep
alive the euro area, according to BNP Paribas SA. The nation led
opposition to an increase in Europe’s crisis-aid fund or the
introduction of joint bond sales as European finance ministers
met in Brussels yesterday.  ‘Structural Decisions’  “The lack of improvement and key structural decisions is
seen as a risk for the euro zone as a whole,” BNP Paribas
interest-rate strategists said in a research report today. At
some stage “deterioration” of peripheral euro-area nations’
bond markets “will weigh on all European government bonds,”
they wrote.  Portuguese bonds fell after European finance ministers
yesterday ruled out immediate aid for the nation yesterday.  The yield on the Portuguese 10-year bond climbed six basis
points to 6.15 percent, while Greek 10-year yields increased 16
basis points to 11.82 percent.  “Right now I see no need to expand the fund,” German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters in Berlin yesterday.
European treaties don’t “allow euro bonds, as far as we’re
concerned.”  ‘Something Bad or Something Big’  Meetings of the region’s policy makers today and next week
may be a last opportunity to tackle the sovereign-debt crisis
before a bond “supply frenzy” in early 2011, Royal Bank of
Canada Europe Ltd. said.  “If nothing has been done by then and markets have not
miraculously turned around, things may turn nasty, so either
something bad or something big is likely to happen,”  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates strategy in London, and  Jens Larsen , chief European economist, wrote in a research report
yesterday.  Ten-year Spanish yields were little changed at 5.22
percent, while Italian yields advanced one basis point to 4.53
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  