-- German Tax Dodgers to Face Tighter Filing Rules in Crackdown, Draft Shows
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-12-08T14:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/german-tax-dodgers-to-face-tighter-filing-rules-amid-crackdown.html
German tax dodgers trying to escape
punishment face tighter rules on filing voluntary tax
declarations as the government cracks down on a practice that
exploded after authorities bought CDs containing stolen data.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet in Berlin today approved
a measure requiring German investors to include all undeclared
taxable holdings in any voluntary filing. The rules aim to
prevent tax evaders from declaring only holdings they suspect
may have come to light to sidestep punishment.  “The voluntary disclosure waiver will no longer be used as
an opportunity for pursuing an evasion strategy,”  Leo Dautzenberg  and  Manfred Kolb , two lawmakers from Merkel’s
Christian Democratic-led bloc, said in a statement.  Since German authorities first announced their intention to
buy a CD containing data on Swiss bank accounts on Feb. 2,
thousands of Germans have filed voluntary declarations.  While the draft law outlines the importance of luring tax
evaders to the legal fold, it condemns the abuse of “partial”
declarations. It also now rules out a declaration waiver as soon
as finance authorities issue a notice, rather than when a
suspected tax dodger is confronted directly.  Dautzenberg and Kolb said the CDU-led bloc in the lower
house of parliament, or Bundestag, would seek a higher interest
penalty for filers of voluntary disclosures than for those who
pay taxes late. They’ll also seek hearings on the issue and
approval from the upper house, or Bundesrat.  Source of Tension  The German finance authorities’ practice of purchasing
stolen data from unidentified parties became a source of tension
this year with the Swiss government, which refused to offer
legal assistance to pursue tax dodgers.  German and Swiss authorities announced Oct. 7 they’re
seeking a broader agreement that may resolve the issue by
establishing a withholding tax that will raise revenue directly
from offshore accounts while maintaining clients’ secrecy. A
working group will begin negotiating the terms of such an accord
at the beginning of next year.  The announcement in February that authorities in the
western state of North Rhine-Westphalia would buy a tax CD was
accompanied by a call by Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  for
those who may have undeclared funds to file voluntary
declarations. Within six weeks, more than 10,000 people rushed
to declare their holdings in Swiss accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  