-- Gjensidige Forsikring Cuts Top Price of Range For Initial Public Offering
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-12-07T13:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/gjensidige-forsikring-cuts-price-range-in-share-sale-update1-.html
Gjensidige Forsikring ASA , Norway’s
largest property and casualty insurer, reduced the top end of
the price range for its initial public offering, slated to be
the biggest share sale in the Nordic country since 2006.  The bookrunners expect the offering to price at 56 kroner
($9.40) to 62 kroner a share, compared with a previous range of
54 kroner to 64 kroner, the Oslo-based company said today in a
 statement . The Gjensidige Foundation plans to sell as many as
181.65 million shares, with an over-allotment option for 18.16
million shares to raise as much as $2.1 billion.  “Gjensidige Forsikring is pleased with the increasing
oversubscription and the investor quality,” the insurer said in
the statement. “The offering has continued to attract strong
investor interest, and a high conversion rate following investor
meetings.”  The bookbuilding process ends on Dec. 9, with the first day
of trading on the Oslo Stock Exchange scheduled for Dec. 10.  Share listings in Oslo have risen so far this year to 20
from 3 for all of last year, helped by a revival in economic
growth and rising crude prices, according to data from the Oslo
Stock Exchange. Norway’s benchmark  OBX Index  is up 14 percent
this year, while oil prices have risen about 19 percent. Norway
is the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is global coordinator for the sale
and joint bookrunner with Bank of America Corp. DnB NOR ASA,
Pareto Securities ASA and Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. are
helping to manage the offering, he said.  Expanding Abroad  Gjensidige’s third-quarter pretax profit rose to 1.3
billion kroner from 1.2 billion kroner a year earlier.  The company has been seeking to boost revenue by expanding
outside its home country. It agreed in March to buy Nykredit
Realkredit A/S’s non-life insurance division for 2.5 billion
kroner to add 230,000 clients in Denmark, its seventh takeover
outside Norway since 2006. It also bought Citigroup Inc.’s
consumer-finance operations in Norway last year and Lithuania’s
RESO Europa in 2008 to expand in the Baltics.  Statoil Fuel & Retail ASA, the gas station and fuel unit of
oil and gas producer  Statoil ASA , raised $920 million in Oslo’s
biggest IPO this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  