-- Glaxo to Purchase Chinese Drugmaker Nanjing MeiRui for $70 Million in Cash
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-12-07T17:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/glaxo-to-buy-china-s-meirui-for-70-million-in-cash-update1-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc  agreed to buy
China’s Nanjing MeiRui Pharma Co. Ltd. for about $70 million in
cash, increasing its share of a fast-growing market that is
expected to become the world’s second-largest in a few years.  Glaxo will buy 90 percent of the shares owned by Pagoda
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and the remaining 10 percent from Sweden’s
Allergon AB, the London-based company said in a statement today.  The U.K.’s biggest drugmaker and rivals are looking to
expand their presence in emerging markets such as China to
replace revenue being lost to patent expirations. Glaxo said it
will gain access to the Chinese company’s products as well as
its sales and marketing staff and a manufacturing plant in
Nanjing City. The deal is expected to be completed by the end of
the month, pending regulatory approval.  Sales of pharmaceuticals in emerging markets are expected
to expand as much as 17 percent in the five years through 2014,
compared with growth of as much as 6 percent in developed
markets, according to IMS Health Inc., a Norwalk, Connecticut-
based market research company. China will likely be the world’s
second-largest market by 2015, with sales expected to grow 25
percent next year to $50 billion, IMS said.  Glaxo shares closed up 5 pence, or 0.4 percent, to 1,242
pence at 4:35 p.m. in London trading.  Nanjing MeiRui’s products include a treatment for enlarged
prostate and overactive bladder syndrome. It has 22 products in
its pipeline, including cancer diagnostics, according to the
company’s  website .  Pagoda is registered in the British Virgin Islands and
organized Nanjing MeiRui in 1996 as a joint venture, according
to its website. Allergon produces allergen source material,
which is used in allergy tests and treatment.  Sanofi-Aventis SA last month agreed to buy BMP Sunstone
Corp., the maker of the Hao Wa Wa brand of children’s cough and
cold treatments, for $520.6 million in cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  