-- Google Says China Sales Rising as Exit Concerns Ease
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T11:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/google-s-revenue-in-china-increasing-on-advertising-demand-alegre-says.html
Google Inc. , which threatened to pull
out of China in a dispute over censorship, said its revenue in
the country is growing as demand for display advertising and
export marketing helps add customers.  “The last 12 months have convinced us about the revenue
opportunities the Chinese market holds for us,”  Daniel Alegre ,
the company’s vice president for the Asia-Pacific region, said
in an interview today in Beijing. “ Display advertising  is a
large opportunity.”  China is the “heart” of the Internet’s future, where
Google can expand services such as maps and display advertising
even without a search page,  Alan Eustace , senior vice president
of engineering and research, said separately today. Google this
year fell further behind  Baidu Inc.  in China after diverting
search users to a site in Hong Kong to avoid content rules in
the world’s  biggest Internet market .  “Not only are we in China, but we are investing heavily in
China,” Alegre said. It is a market “we want to remain in.”  Combined  revenue  in the country from display ads, online
search and Chinese companies marketing on Google’s global sites
has increased this year, Alegre said, without giving details.  Google lost market share in China this year after the
company said in January it would no longer comply with Chinese
regulations for local websites to self-censor content.  “Search is only one piece of our business,” Eustace told
reporters after the Google Innovation conference in Beijing,
where the company showed off new services such as translation
tools and a site that helps companies find customers for their
products in international markets. “There are lots of areas we
can innovate. It’s not a narrow slice.”  ‘Solid’ Search Business  Google’s share of China’s Internet search-engine market
dropped to 24.6 percent in the third quarter from 26.8 percent
the previous three months, Shanghai-based research company
iResearch Inc. said in October. That was the lowest level since
the fourth quarter of 2007, iResearch said.  Baidu’s market share increased to 72.9 percent in the third
quarter from 71 percent, according to  iResearch .  Alegre said Google’s search-engine business in China
remains “solid,” declining to elaborate.  He Di, a Beijing-based Web designer who attended the Google
conference, said he has turned to Baidu more since Google
started directing Chinese users to its Hong Kong site.  “Compared to a year ago, I use Google less because the
search results and search speed are affected,” He said. “Baidu
has launched some new functions that are very convenient.”  ‘Force for Good’  The Internet “can be a huge force for good in the world,”
Eustace said in a speech. “We’re at the very beginning and
China, in my opinion, will lead much of that revolution.” The
nation is “the heart of the future of the Internet.”  China’s State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping in May
required companies operating  online map services  in the nation
to apply for a license from the bureau to continue business,
citing national security.  Companies have until July 1 to apply for a license, the
China Daily newspaper reported last month. The government agency
in October started a competing service called “ Map World .”  Eustace said Google has no first-hand knowledge of claims
on the whistle-blowing website, WikiLeaks.org, that China’s
government directed Internet attacks against the company.  Hackers backed by Chinese authorities conducted extensive
computer hacking on U.S. government agencies and companies,
including networks of Google, the New York Times reported.  China renewed Google’s Internet license in July after the
U.S. company changed the arrangement used to redirect Internet
traffic to its Hong Kong site. A month earlier, Google stopped
automatically redirecting users to the Hong Kong site and put in
place a so-called landing page that requires users to opt for
the alternative service.  -- Mark Lee ,  Edmond Lococo . With assistance from  Stephen Engle  in
Beijing. Editors:  Terje Langeland ,  Suresh Seshadri .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  