-- Google Unveils Laptop With Chrome Operating System to Challenge Microsoft
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-12-07T22:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/google-unveils-12-1-inch-laptop-with-chrome-operating-system.html
Google Inc . unveiled a laptop that
runs its Chrome operating system, providing an alternative to
computer software from Microsoft Corp. and Apple Inc.  The unbranded device boasts a 12.1-inch screen and includes
mobile-Internet connection options from Verizon Wireless,
Mountain View, California-based Google said during a conference
and on a  blog  today. The Chrome computer is available for tests
by some consumers and businesses, Google said.  By designing a browser-based operating system to power
netbooks and laptops, Google may pose a challenge to  Microsoft’s 
Windows, the market leader, and Apple’s software. Still, Google
may not quickly erode the incumbents’ lead, said  Colin Gillis ,
an analyst at BGC Partners in New York.  “While it’s exciting, it doesn’t mean PCs are going to
melt away tomorrow,” said Gillis, who has a “hold” rating on
Google and doesn’t own any shares. “It’s going to be 2013
before there’s any impact that is noticeable.”  Chrome notebooks will be available from Samsung Electronics
Co. and Acer Inc. in the first half of 2011. Companies and
agencies including Virgin America Inc. and the U.S. Defense
Department will test the new laptops, Google said. Windows,
Microsoft’s flagship product, runs about 90 percent of the
world’s personal computers.  “With Chrome OS we have the development of a viable, third
choice in real operating systems,” Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  said at the event.  Chrome Store  Schmidt said in July Google’s operating software will
eventually be on millions of personal computers. The laptop has
Wi-Fi and 3G Internet connectivity provided by  Verizon Wireless ,
the mobile phone company owned by Verizon Communications Inc.
and Vodafone Group Plc, Google said.  It takes 7 seconds to boot up Chrome OS and 3 seconds to
log in, Google has said. Chrome OS will use the Chrome browser
that Google made available last year. Google also said it
improved browser speed, simplicity and security, and that its
user base has grown this year to 120 million from 40 million.  The company also said today that there are 500 applications
in its  Chrome Web store , which opens today and was announced in
May. Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle books can be purchased and read
within the browser’s store. National Public Radio also has an
app in the store.  Google’s new online store for software will appeal to
people accustomed to easily downloading and using mobile apps on
Apple iPhones and other handsets, said  Sarah Rotman Epps , an
analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “Consumers think differently about using software because
of their experience using smartphones,” Epps said. “Software
is now apps, but it’s also the browser, and with Chrome Web
Store, Google is presenting content on both fronts.”  Google rose 1.5 percent to $587.14 as of 4 p.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 5.3
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  