-- Google Says China Is ‘Heart’ of Internet Development
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T09:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/google-says-china-is-at-the-heart-of-the-internet-s-future-development.html
Google Inc.  said it has many chances
for growth in China, where the company shut down its web-search
site in a dispute over censorship, and called the Asian nation
the “heart” of the Internet’s future.  Maps and display  advertising  are areas where Google can
expand and innovate in China, even without a search page in
the world’s largest Internet market,  Alan Eustace , senior vice
president of engineering and research, said in Beijing today.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
has been losing search-market share in China to Beijing-based
 Baidu Inc.  since January, when the Mountain View, California-
based company said it was no longer willing to comply with
government rules on content. Website operators in China are
required to self-censor information on topics such as the
Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989 and Tibet independence.  “Search is only one piece of our business,” Eustace told
reporters after the Google Innovation conference. “There are
lots of areas we can innovate. It’s not a narrow slice.”  In March, Google shut its Chinese search service and
redirected local users to its unfiltered Hong Kong site. China
renewed Google’s Internet license in July, after the company
stopped automatically redirecting users to the Hong Kong site
and put in place a so-called landing page that requires users to
opt for the alternative service.  ‘Force for Good’  The Internet “can be a huge force for good in the world,”
Eustace said in a speech. “We’re at the very beginning and
China, in my opinion, will lead much of that revolution.” The
nation is “the heart of the future of the Internet.”  Google’s share of China’s Internet search-engine market
dropped to 24.6 percent in the third quarter from 26.8 percent
in the previous three months, according to iResearch. That was
the lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2007, the Shanghai-
based research company said.  Baidu’s market share increased to 72.9 percent in the third
quarter from 71 percent, according to iResearch. China had an
estimated 420 million Internet users at the end of June, data
from the government-sponsored  China Internet Network Information
Center  show.  Search Speed  He Di, a Beijing-based Web designer who attended the Google
conference, said he has turned to Baidu more since Google
started directing Chinese users to its Hong Kong site.  “Compared to a year ago, I use Google less because the
search results and search speed are affected,” He said. “Baidu
has launched some new functions that are very convenient.”  China’s State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping in May
required companies operating  online map services  in the nation
to apply for a license from the bureau to continue business,
citing national security.  Companies have until July 1 to apply for a license, the
China Daily newspaper reported last month. The government agency
in October started a competing service called “ Map World .”  Eustace said Google has no first-hand knowledge of claims
on the whistle-blowing website, WikiLeaks.org, that China’s
government directed Internet attacks against the company.  Hackers backed by Chinese authorities conducted extensive
computer hacking on U.S. government agencies and companies,
including networks of Google, the New York Times reported.  -- Edmond Lococo ,  Mark Lee . With assistance from  Stephen Engle  in
Beijing. Editors:  Lena Lee ,  Chua Kong Ho .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6909 or
 wlee37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 