-- Icahn’s Request to Delay Lions Gate Meeting Is Denied
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-07T23:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/icahn-s-request-to-delay-lions-gate-meeting-is-denied-update1-.html
A bid by billionaire  Carl Icahn  to
postpone  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp .’s Dec. 14 shareholder
meeting was rejected by a Canadian regulatory panel.  The British Columbia Securities Commission refused the
motion yesterday, according a letter from the panel filed in a
New York court today by lawyers for Vancouver-based Lions Gate.  Icahn, the company’s  largest shareholder  with a 33 percent
stake, is making a hostile $7.50-a-share offer for Lions Gate,
the maker of the “Saw” horror films and Tyler Perry comedies.
Postponement of the meeting would allow more time for a New York
judge to rule on Icahn’s motion to reverse an equity-for-debt
swap that effectively diluted his voting power.  Egan-Jones Ratings Co., an investor advisory firm,
recommended today that shareholders vote for Icahn’s five board
nominees at the meeting, scheduled to be held in Los Angeles.  Lions Gate attorney William Savitt didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. Icahn’s attorney,  Joe DiBenedetto , also didn’t immediately respond to a call.  In making the recommendation, Egan-Jones cited the July
debt swap that increased holdings of director  Mark Rachesky , who
supports management, by about 16 million shares to almost
29 percent.  Icahn has said he wants the court to rule on his motion to
nullify the swap by Dec. 10, the day that his tender offer
expires. Lions Gate lawyers today filed a letter in New York
Supreme Court arguing for a ruling on Dec. 13, the day before
the shareholder meeting.  In a  court filing  today, Icahn said his nominees have
agreed to resign if it becomes clear that they won only because
of the preliminary injunction and the order later is reversed by
the court.  Lions Gate fell 2 cents to $7.23 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  have gained
24 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 