-- Microsoft Adds Browser Privacy Tools, Lets Users Make `Do-Not-Call' Lists
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-12-07T19:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/microsoft-adds-tools-to-help-users-control-web-browser-privacy.html
Microsoft Corp.  said it will add
features to its Internet Explorer browser that let users better
protect their privacy online by creating “Do Not Call” lists
for the Internet.  Internet Explorer 9 will bar listed websites from tracking
what users do on the Web, said  Dean Hachamovitch , a Microsoft
vice president who’s in charge of Internet Explorer. The
controls also impose limits on what content blocked sites can
display to users.  Last week, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission called for a
do-not-track option for browsing and pressed advertisers to make
data practices clearer for users. Currently advertisers record
consumers’ movements on the Internet and compile a profile of
their interests to better target ads. Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft said its move to add the tools will help drive
discussions on the FTC request.  The so-called Tracking Protection features will be in the
near-final version of Internet Explorer 9, which will be
available early next year. A test version without these features
already has been released.  Anyone can create tracking lists and share them with users
who want to adopt that list. Users can install multiple lists
and also designate any Web pages on those lists as safe if they
do want to exchange information with those sites.  Aggregated Content  Many websites display content aggregated from several other
sites. If a user blocks a site, that site’s content also won’t
show up when the user visits a permitted site that happens to
display information from the banned one.  Online advertising revenue swelled to $12.1 billion in the
first half of 2010, up 11 percent from the same period a year
earlier, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  While Microsoft’s Internet Explorer is the most popular
browser with 58 percent of the market, it has been losing
considerable share to Mozilla Corp.’s Firefox and Google Inc.’s
Chrome, according to Net Applications, which tracks Internet
usage statistics. Firefox has 23 percent and Chrome has 9.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  