-- U.K. Stocks Retreat; Fresnillo, Randgold, Capital Shopping Drop
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-08T16:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/micro-focus-stagecoach-xstrata-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks declined as weaker metal
prices and a stronger U.S. dollar dragged raw-material companies
lower and Simon Property Group Inc. said it may withdraw its bid
for  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc .  Fresnillo and Randgold Resources Ltd. both lost more than 3
percent. Capital Shopping retreated 5.3 percent after Simon said
it will withdraw its bid if Capital Shopping refuses to provide
the financial information needed to evaluate the company.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  declined 0.2 percent to
5,794.53 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has rallied
7.1 percent this year as corporate profits improved, the Federal
Reserve announced a $600 billion bond-purchase program to
stimulate the U.S. economy and the European Union bailed out the
Greek and Irish economies. The  FTSE All-Share Index  slid 0.3
percent today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  advanced 1 percent.  “It has been a choppy trading session today with a lack of
any significant economic data giving the market no drivers,”
 Giles Watts , head of equities at City Index Ltd. in London,
said. The stronger dollar is “pressurizing commodity prices,
forcing heavyweight mining and energy stocks lower.”  Fresnillo declined 4.9 percent to 1,527 pence and Randgold
Resources dropped 3.5 percent to 5,700 pence. Kazakhmys Plc lost
2 percent to 1,523 pence. Silver, nickel and zinc prices
retreated.  Capital Shopping Tumbles  Capital Shopping  declined 5.3 percent to 386.2 pence, its
largest drop in six weeks.  “By declining to provide us with the requested limited
due-diligence information, you have constrained the exploration
of an opportunity to benefit your shareholders,” Simon said in
a letter to Capital Shopping included in a statement today.  Smith & Nephew Plc gained 9.1 percent to 662 pence. The
Daily Mail reported that a U.S. group of private equity
companies may make a 800 pence bid for the shoulder and knee
implant maker. The Daily Mail didn’t say where it got the
information.  Smith & Nephew’s external spokesman  Jon Coles  said the
company doesn’t comment on market rumors.  Burberry Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest luxury retailer,
rallied 2.3 percent to 1,156 pence as investors speculated that
PPR SA, the French owner of the Gucci and Puma brands, may make
bid for the company.  “There have been reports that PPR was close to an
agreement with Steinhoff to sell Conforama,”  Peter Farren , an
analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co., said. “That would fuel
speculation on Burberry.”  M&A Deals  “M&A and buyback activity will increase significantly over
the next 12 months,”  Andrew Garthwaite , the head of global
equity strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report
today. “We think that the corporate sector could end up being
the major buyer of equities.”  Credit Suisse reduced its stance on U.K. stocks to
“benchmark” from “overweight,” saying the pound’s strength
may limit equities’ gains.  Prudential Plc climbed 3.7 percent to 634.5 pence as UBS AG
added Britain’s largest insurer to its European “key calls”
list and Standard & Poor’s raised its outlook for the U.S. life
insurance industry to “stable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  