-- Middle East Supertanker Excess Expands, Curbing Potential Rates Advance
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-12-07T17:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/middle-east-supertanker-excess-expands-curbing-potential-rates-advance.html
A  surplus  of supertankers competing
to collect 2 million-barrel cargoes of Middle East oil expanded,
curbing the potential for rates to rally as Northern Hemisphere
refineries seek more crude to meet winter demand.  There are 23 percent more very large crude carriers, or
VLCCs, for hire over the next four weeks than there are cargoes,
according to the median estimate of six shipowners and brokers
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The surplus was 18 percent for the
past two weeks.  “On paper, it does not look grand right now” because of
the vessel surplus, said  Halvor Ellefsen , a shipbroker at
SeaLeague A/S in Oslo. While the market “may tick up a bit”
between now and the end of the first quarter of 2011, “I would
not call it a spike,” he said.  Rental income  from the industry’s benchmark trade route for
Saudi Arabian shipments to Japan fell today 8.9 percent to
$14,002 a day, according to data from the London-based Baltic
Exchange. That’s below the $31,300 that Frontline Ltd., the
largest operator of the ships, said Nov. 24 it needs to break
even on them once finance repayments are taken into account.  Freight derivatives contracts called forward freight
agreements, or FFAs, show rental income from the Saudi Arabia-
to-Japan route will average $26,595 a day in the first quarter
of 2011, according to prices from  Imarex ASA , an Oslo-based
broker of the accords.  “Rates won’t be ramping up anytime soon” unless fuel
costs accelerate, forcing owners to increase what they charge,
Imarex Asia Pte, a Singapore based unit of Imarex, said by e-
mail today.  Charter rates as measured in industry standard Worldscale
terms fell 1.9 percent to 57.88 points, according to the Baltic
Exchange.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude oil
transportation costs, gained 5.7 percent to 1,034 points,
according to the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  