-- If You Thought Fusion Food Was Over, Check Out London’s Kopapa
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-12-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/if-you-thought-fusion-food-was-over-sample-london-s-kopapa-richard-vines.html
You might be tempted to think of
fusion cuisine as a past culinary fad if you immerse yourself
too deeply in the current fashion for local seasonal dishes.  Or maybe you like the sound of crisp pork belly, coriander,
papaya, green peppercorn, pickled carrot and pomelo salad with
maple dressing and coriander cress. Plenty do. Providores has
been serving such dishes for almost a decade and its New Zealand
chef-owner Peter Gordon is opening a second London restaurant.  “I’ve never understood the antagonism toward fusion
cuisine,” Gordon, 47, said in an interview. “People say, ‘Oh,
fusion food, it’s really bad and it’s confusion.’ Well, I’ve had
terrible meals in France and I’ve had terrible meals in Spain
and I’d never say the whole cuisine is rubbish. Maybe when
fusion came about some younger chefs started mixing dreadful
combinations up. I mean, that’s not what fusion cuisine is
about.”  Kopapa, which opens today in Covent Garden, will serve many
of the dishes available in the Tapa Room, the casual eatery
below Providores. Watch out for Gordon’s signature breakfast
special -- the Turkish dish cilbir -- of whipped yogurt and
olive oil with poached eggs and chili butter. The restaurant
will be open daily for breakfast, lunch and dinner.  Kiwi Roots  Gordon was born in the coastal region of  Wanganui , trained
in Melbourne and moved back to New Zealand to set up the kitchen
at the Sugar Club in Wellington in 1986 before moving to London
in 1989 and setting up Sugar Club restaurants in Notting Hill
(1995) and Soho (1998). He opened Providores in 2001 and has a
stake in establishments in Turkey and New Zealand. He also is a
consultant to Gourmet Burger Kitchen in the U.K.  His business partners in  Kopapa  -- a Maori word he says can
mean a storage house for food or a crowded place where people
gather -- include the co-founder of Providores Michael McGrath
and the founders of  Gourmet Burger Kitchen , Adam Wills and
Brandon Allen. The chef is Auckland-born Leigh Hartnett.  As the father of fusion cooking in the U.K., does Gordon
become tired of people sniping at the cuisine?  “I don’t think I need to bother too much,” he said. “We
have a really busy restaurant in Marylebone. My restaurants in
New Zealand are busy, the stuff I do in Istanbul is busy. I’m
using food from around the world. I’m not British, I’m a Kiwi.  “Years ago, I noticed  Marco Pierre White  had a foie gras
dish that was served with mango and I thought, that is so
fusion. I’ve just carried on.”  Kopapa, 32-34 Monmouth Street, Seven Dials, Covent Garden,
London, WC2H 9HA. Tel. +44-20-7240-6076 or click on
 http://www.kopapa.co.uk/ . While the plan is to give a 50 percent
discount on total bills today and tomorrow, please check.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 