-- Investec Increased its Marketing Spending in 2010, Adding Derby, Tottenham
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-07T16:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/investec-increased-its-marketing-spending-in-2010-adding-derby-tottenham.html
Investec Plc , a South African private
bank and wealth manager that sponsors Britain’s richest horse
race, increased its spending on marketing this year, a senior
executive said.  “We are spending more,” Raymond van Niekerk, global head
of marketing, said in an interview. “We’ve taken on some things
that we hadn’t planned on, because the opportunity was right.”  The company is investing in its asset-management business
to reduce its dependence on lending income and to conserve
capital. The bank bought British fund manager  Rensburg Sheppards
Plc  in March to expand the division. Investec  stock  has gained
more than 19 percent this year in London, giving the company a
market value of 4.1 billion pounds ($6.5 billion).  “In good times, we’ve not got too fat,” Van Niekerk said.
“So when it comes to lean times, we don’t have to restructure
and reinvent dramatically because we have a business model that
caters for ups and downs in various cycles. So we can have a
more smooth transition in marketing spend.”  Investec, which is traded in London and Johannesburg, last
year replaced mobile phone company  Vodafone Group Plc  as the
main sponsor of the  Derby Festival  held at Epsom Downs
Racecourse south of London, in a five-year deal.  Investec, which has operations in South Africa, the U.K.
and Australia, is involved in numerous sponsorships, ranging
from rugby and cricket to cultural events such as concerts. It
signed a two-year shirt sponsorship deal with  Tottenham Hotspur 
soccer club in August while it also endorses a yacht in the
 Sydney Hobart Yacht Race .  Right Price  “A couple of years ago, we didn’t plan to do the Investec
Derby, but we did it,” Van Niekerk said. “The opportunity was
right, and the price was right and it was value for us and for
Epsom.”  Staged in June, the Derby Festival is held in front of more
than 100,000 spectators and attracts a worldwide television
audience of 200 million people, according to its website.  The Epsom Derby, which dates back to 1780, is the U.K.’s
richest flat race with winnings of 1.25 million pounds. Previous
winners include Shergar and Sea The Stars, while this year’s
race was won by Workforce.  Investec’s involvement with Epsom has paid off, Van Niekerk
said.  “The media exposure far exceeds the cost of getting the
brand over there,” he said.  The shirt deal with Tottenham “was not a planned thing,”
Van Niekerk said. “We looked at a number of opportunities and
the timing and the pricing and the value for both parties, it
was a compelling argument so we took it. But it wasn’t like we
woke up at the end of a budget year and said ‘OK, we are going
to look for another sponsorship.’”  Van Niekerk doesn’t rule out any new sponsorship deals in
the future.  “Life goes on as normal, but if something fantastic
presents itself we’ve always been entrepreneurial and
opportunistic about things that make a lot of sense,” he said.
“So we don’t have our eyes closed. Our pockets are closed, but
our eyes are not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in the London newsroom on 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  