-- Iran Nuclear Talks End in Geneva With Pledge to Meet Next Month in Turkey
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2010-12-07T15:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/iran-agrees-to-more-nuclear-negotiations-won-t-suspend-uranium-enrichment.html
Iran agreed to more talks on its
nuclear program while saying it would “absolutely not” suspend
uranium enrichment, marking the first time in a more than a year
that diplomatic options for the dispute are being kept alive.  The agreement between Iran and the so-called P5+1 group --
comprising China, France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S. --
followed two days of negotiations in Geneva, European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said today after the talks
ended. Diplomats said before the meetings in the Swiss city that
they wanted to build a framework for more negotiations. The next
talks will be held in January in Istanbul.  “We plan to discuss practical ideas and ways of
cooperating toward a resolution of our core concerns about the
nuclear issue,” in Istanbul, Ashton said. The Geneva round was
marked by “detailed, substantial talks focusing on the Iranian
nuclear program,” Ashton said, without taking questions.  Iran’s nuclear program, which has drawn four sets of United
Nations sanctions, was at the center of the EU-led talks in
Geneva. Iran says it’s producing enriched uranium to fuel atomic
reactors. The U.S. and Europe accuse Iran of trying to build
nuclear weapons.  Saeed Jalili , Iran’s envoy to the talks, told reporters
that the agreement with the other parties for the January
meeting doesn’t go beyond having talks “with a view to
cooperation and on the basis of common ground.” Asked about
Ashton’s account of the Geneva negotiations, he said other
comments on the outcome of the session would be “incorrect.”  ‘Absolutely Not’  Jalili reiterated that Iran has the right, as a signatory
of the international nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, to enrich
uranium, saying the country will “absolutely not” agree to
suspend the work. The UN estimates that Iran is producing around
100 kilograms (220 pounds) of low-enriched uranium a month.  About 630 kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further
purified, could yield the 15 to 22 kilograms of weapons-grade
uranium needed by an expert bomb-maker to craft a weapon,
according to the London-based Verification Research, Training
and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to the
International Atomic Energy Agency that is funded by European
governments.  The choice of Turkey for the next meeting is significant
because Iran has called on  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government in
Ankara to play a more active role in the negotiations. Turkey
and Brazil tried negotiating a compromise that would have given
Iran fuel for a reactor in exchange for Iran exporting some of
its uranium, the key element for atomic energy and weapons.  Confidence Building  The U.S. wants to talk about confidence-building measures,
like increased  IAEA  cooperation and a revised fuel-swap deal, at
the Istanbul meeting, according to a U.S. administration
official who declined to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the talks. Geneva was the
beginning of what the U.S. wants to be a sustained and systemic
approach to negotiations, he said.  “What we need is to be crystal clear about what we want,
what we ask, what we propose,” ‪France’s  Jacques Audibert , who
participated in the talks, said. “We are going on with the
process.”  The Geneva discussions were the first direct negotiation
among the parties since Oct. 1, 2009.  Around 75 percent of the talks were dedicated to nuclear
issues, the U.S. official said, adding that the Obama
administration is willing to broaden the agenda to include
Iranian security concerns.  “Iran has always been prepared for fair talks,” Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who called on sanctions against
his country to be lifted, said today in the city of Arak.  “We recognize Iran’s rights but insist that it fulfill its
obligations,” Ashton said. While Iran’s right to enrich uranium
is protected under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the UN
Security Council has ordered the country to suspend its atomic
work because of international suspicions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  