-- Iran Nuclear Talks End in Geneva With Pledge to Meet Next Month in Turkey
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2010-12-07T12:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/iran-nuclear-talks-end-in-geneva-with-pledge-to-meet-next-month-in-turkey.html
Iran agreed to a new round of talks
over its nuclear program next month in Turkey, marking the first
time in a more than a year that the sides committed to keeping
diplomatic options alive.  The agreement between Iran and the so-called P5+1 group --
comprising China, France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S. --
followed two days of negotiations in Geneva, European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said today after the talks
ended. Diplomats said before the meetings in the Swiss city that
they wanted to build a framework that lead to more negotiations.  “We plan to discuss practical ideas and ways of
cooperating toward a resolution of our core concerns about the
nuclear issue” in Istanbul, Ashton said. The Geneva round was
marked by “detailed, substantial talks focusing on the Iranian
nuclear program,” Ashton said, without taking questions.  The choice of Istanbul for the next meeting is significant
because Iran has called on  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government in
Ankara to play a more active role in the negotiations. Turkey
and Brazil tried negotiating a compromise that would have given
Iran fuel for a reactor in exchange for Iran exporting some of
its uranium, the key element for atomic energy and weapons.  “What we need is to be crystal clear about what we want,
what we ask, what we propose,” ‪France’s  Jacques Audibert , who
participated in the talks, said on the sidelines of the briefing
in Geneva. “We are going on with the process.”  The Geneva discussions were the first direct negotiation
among the parties since Oct. 1, 2009.  ‘Positive Attitude’  Iran Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said
today in Tehran that Iran went into the talks with a “positive
attitude.” Nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and atomic-
technology transfer were on the agenda, he said.  “Iran has always been prepared for fair talks,” Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who also called on sanctions
against his country to be lifted, said today in the city of
Arak. Iran’s envoy to the Geneva talks,  Saeed Jalili , is
expected to brief the press later today.  Iran says it’s producing uranium to fuel atomic reactors.
The U.S. and Europe accuse Iran of trying to build nuclear
weapons.  “We recognize Iran’s rights but insist that it fulfill its
obligations,” Ashton said. While Iran’s right to enrich uranium
is protected under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the UN
Security Council has ordered the country to suspend its atomic
work because of international suspicions.  U.S. envoy  William Burns  sought a “phased process of
building confidence between Iran and the international
community” from the meetings, U.S. Undersecretary of State for
Political Affairs William Burns told the House Foreign Affairs
Committee in a Dec. 1 hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  