-- Ireland Must End ‘Trust-Me’ Banking System: Laurence Kotlikoff
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 2010-12-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/ireland-must-end-its-trust-me-banking-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
In 1965, consumer advocate  Ralph Nader  wrote “Unsafe at Any Speed,” a scathing indictment of
U.S. autos, including General Motors Corp.’s Chevrolet Corvair.  The car, which my dad once owned, wanted to kill you. It
ran in two modes -- forward and tailspin, switching without
notice. Nader put an end to the Corvair, saving thousands of
lives and making clear that some engineering is simply too
dangerous.  Ireland’s banking system proved to be just as risky.
Lenders borrowed twice the nation’s gross domestic product, and
invested in dicey assets. Because of banking’s code of secrecy,
known as “proprietary information,” depositors and other
creditors didn’t know precisely how their money was being
invested. The bankers said: “Trust us. We’re savvy investors.
Your money’s safe.”  This wasn’t modern shadow banking. This was traditional
shady banking. It left the economy with two running modes --
forward and tailspin.  If everyone believed the mystery assets had value, the
banks were solvent, the economy flourished, and the assets had
value. If people stop believing, the banks were broke and the
economy’s confidence, performance, and assets were crushed.  With such faith-based banking, it’s terribly easy to switch
operating modes. Fraud, suspicions of fraud, or suspicions of
suspicions of fraud transforms creditors into discreditors,
desperate to get their money out before others take what’s left.
Economists call these liquidity runs, but they are fraud runs.  In Receivership  Given global interconnectedness, the fraud run in the U.S.
spread and turned Ireland’s economic miracle into a nightmare.  Ireland borrowed massively to stop its run -- 70 percent of
GDP (including last week’s $90 billion European Union loan),
leaving the country with more debt-to-GDP than  Greece .  The government saved the banks by bankrupting the country.
Ireland is now in EU receivership and taking draconian steps to
keep its creditors happy. Meanwhile, unemployment is around 14
percent and output is down about 10 percent -- all thanks to a
handful of testosterone-charged bankers who gambled with an
entire country’s future and lost.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King provided a scathing
indictment of the world’s banking system Oct. 25, suggesting
that it too was unsafe at any speed. Speaking at the Buttonwood
Gathering in  New York , King cited Iceland and Ireland as exhibit
A. His speech was arguably the most important statement by a
Bank of England governor in the Bank’s 316-year history.  ‘Worst’ Bank System  King didn’t offer up a profit-and-loss statement and crow,
like U.S. officials, that his bank profited from the crisis.
Instead, he discussed the horrendous loss-and-loss of workers
and retirees and pulled no punches in decrying the status quo.  “Of all the ways we have of organizing banking, the worst
is the one we have today,” he said.  King also made clear that neither the Dodd-Frank financial
regulation law, nor Basel III, nor anything short of radical
financial surgery will keep the world safe from a financial
meltdown. The intensifying attacks on Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy ,
and  Spain  are indicative of this fact.  Yes, the  Federal Reserve  and the  European Central Bank  can
print and distribute trillions of dollars and euros, but they
can’t get people jobs, produce real goods and services, or make
people use a financial system that has lost credibility and,
thus, credit ability.  In discussing safe radical reforms to replace our radically
dangerous “financial doomsday machine,” King cited my limited
purpose banking proposal as eliminating “financial alchemy”
(trust-me banking) and advocated its further study.  Like Mutual Funds  He is leaving the U.K.’s Independent Banking Commission to
reach its own conclusion. But if you read King’s speech
carefully, he finds the other radical solutions lacking in
critical ways.  Limited purpose banking forces all financial corporations
(those protected by limited liability) to operate strictly as
mutual fund companies. Mutual funds are, effectively, small
banks with 100 percent capital requirements. They would buy and
hold stocks, bonds, mortgages and other securities with customer
funds.  Limited purpose banking also establishes a single
government regulator -- the Federal Financial Authority -- to
oversee the independent and non-conflicted verification, rating,
appraisal, custody, and full and real-time disclosure of all
securities held by mutual fund companies. And it requires mutual
funds to buy and sell securities in an auction market to ensure
households and firms get the best price for their paper.  In short, limited purpose banking turns trust-me banking
into show-me banking.  No Failures  Since mutual funds hold no debt, limited purpose banking
eliminates the possibility of  bank failures , with their terrible
economic costs. And the FFA would put an end to most financial
fraud. Rating companies would work for the agency, not security
owners.  Regulators, performing the FFA’s limited tasks, would have
no way to help future employers. Bribing politicians to do Wall
Street’s bidding would be a thing of the past. And boards of
directors and chief executives could no longer steal from
shareholders; they would be compensated solely on the basis of
their mutual fund’s FFA-documented performance.  In the words of  George Shultz , former U.S. Treasury
Secretary and Secretary of State, limited purpose banking
delivers “what the country needs” -- a new financial system
that is “simple, clear, and most of all effective.” It would
also remove the financial sword of Damocles hanging over Ireland
and so many other countries.  The Irish should get up their Irish and end trust-
me/mystery-asset banking once and for all. Limited purpose
banking is Ireland’s and the world’s best hope for restoring
prosperity.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff  is professor of economics at  Boston
University , president of Economic Security Planning, Inc. and
author of “ Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  