-- Lenihan Raises Ireland's Taxes to Help Break `Vicious Cycle' of Deficits
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-12-07T08:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/ireland-s-lenihan-to-present-budget-as-political-risk-mounts.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
will outline 6 billion euros ($8 billion) worth of spending cuts
and tax increases today, seeking to seal an international
bailout to rescue the state’s finances and banks.  Lenihan will lay out the 2011 budget in parliament in
Dublin at 3:45 p.m., adding to measures of about 14 billion
euros over the last two years. The European Union has given
Ireland until 2015 to reduce its budget deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product from about 12 percent of GDP this year.  The budget must pass for Ireland to secure the 85 billion-
euro aid package it sought from the EU and International
Monetary Fund last month. The government is likely to win
approval for the austerity measures after independent lawmaker
 Michael Lowry  said late yesterday he will support the budget in
a vote in parliament.  “My sense is that there is a desire just to get the budget
out of the way,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin in an interview. “It’s likely
that it will be passed but there’s a chance of political risk
developing” after an election early next year.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  has said he will hold national
elections as early as February, once he’s secured support for
the budget. Support for his  Fianna Fail  party plunged to 13
percent, the Sun newspaper reported on Dec. 2, citing a survey
of 1,000 people. Fine Gael was at 32 percent, Labour had 24
percent and Sinn Fein stood at 16 percent, the paper said.  Bailout  Ireland sought the bailout as European leaders put pressure
on the government to accept a package to prevent contagion
spreading to countries such as Portugal and Spain. The  extra
yield  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year bonds over German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark, was at 534 basis points as of 8:07
a.m., compared with a record 680 basis points on Nov. 30.  The premium on Portuguese debt has fallen to 306 basis
points from a Nov. 11 record of 484 points, while Spain’s has
dropped to 228 points from 298 points on Nov. 30.  Lenihan will cut spending on everything from welfare to
roads by about 4 billion euros in 2011, according the
government’s  four-year plan  to reduce the deficit, published on
Nov. 24. Tax increases will raise about 2 billion euros.  The  Irish Times  reported today that Cowen will take a
14,000-euro pay cut and the government will dispose of one of
its two jets. Most social welfare payments will be cut by about
5 percent, child-benefit payments will be lowered and income-tax
credits will fall about 10 percent, the newspaper said, citing
unidentified sources.  Parliament Support  Irish lawmakers will begin voting on some of the budget
measures from 7 p.m. in  parliament , including levies on alcohol
and tobacco. At least three other related pieces of legislation
will be voted on within four months.  Cowen has the support of 82 lawmakers in the parliament
compared with 80 for the opposition, including independents.
 Lucinda Creighton , a lawmaker with Fine Gael, the biggest
opposition party, may abstain and let the budget pass if needed,
the Sunday Business Post reported on Dec. 5.  “I believe the budget will pass,”  John Bruton , a former
leader of Fine Gael, said in an interview in Dubai yesterday.
People “may have arguments about the detail of the financial
package and the plan to narrow the deficit. It’s only about the
detail, not about the scale of the work to be done.”  Labour leader  Eamon Gilmore , who last week described the
EU-IMF aid package as a “national sell-out,” said he won’t be
bound by the agreement after an election.  Under the government’s four-year program, spending cuts and
tax increases of amount 6.7 billion euros will be made in 2012
and 2013. The minimum wage will be cut and the government won’t
renege on payments to holders of senior-bank debt even after it
pumps as much as 83 billion euros into the financial system.  “Labour has said it will seek to reopen the deal with the
IMF and the EU, and the IMF generally don’t like to
renegotiate,” said Goodbody’s O’Leary. “In a worst case
scenario, we could see some friction between ourselves and our
lenders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net 
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  