-- Hiring Intentions at U.S. Employers Improving, Manpower Says
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/hiring-plans-among-u-s-employers-improve-in-first-quarter-manpower-says.html
The U.S. labor market outlook is
improving, with more employers planning to boost payrolls at the
start of 2011 and fewer expecting to cut headcounts compared
with the same time this year, a private survey showed today.  Milwaukee-based  Manpower Inc. , the world’s second-largest
provider of temporary workers, said today its employment gauge
for January through March 2011 rose to 9 after adjusting for
seasonal variations, the highest level in more than two years.
The net employment outlook was up from a reading of 5 this
quarter.  “Companies are feeling the demand, and they’re getting a
bit more confident,”  Jeffrey Joerres , chief executive officer
of Milwaukee-based Manpower, said in an interview. “On a
relative basis we still have a ways to go, but to have this kind
of hiring intention coming into the first quarter is positive.”  The report signals companies may be ready to increase
hiring, giving incomes and spending a lift. Labor Department
figures last week showed payrolls increased by 39,000 in
November, while the unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent, the
highest since April.  Seven of every 10 employers surveyed said they anticipated
staff levels will be unchanged in the first quarter, little
changed from the same period in 2010.  Fourteen percent said they expect to expand payrolls, up
two points from this year’s first quarter, while 10 percent
projected a drop, down from 12 percent.  Not ‘Robust Enough’  While consumer demand is improving, it’s currently not
strong enough nor does it have “the prospect of being robust
enough to open the doors to hiring in a bigger way,” Joerres
said.  Companies “are more sophisticated than ever before,” he
said. “They will do as little anticipatory hiring as possible
because it erodes their cost structure too much. They have a
better view of when the demand is coming, so they’re able to
hire in a more just-in-time fashion.”  Manpower’s index subtracts the percentage of employers
planning to cut jobs from those who plan to hire, and adjusts
the results for seasonal variations.  Eleven of 13 industries surveyed, including leisure and
hospitality and business services, such as accounting and
temporary-help agencies, anticipated an increase in first-
quarter hiring compared with the prior three months.
Construction was the only industry that projected a drop in
employment, and the government sector predicted no change.  Employers in the South and Midwest projected the strongest
hiring prospects for next quarter. All regions showed gains from
last quarter, with the West reporting the biggest increase in
hiring confidence.  Manpower interviewed more than 18,000 employers in the U.S.
The survey is conducted quarterly and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 0.6 percentage point in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  