-- LivingSocial Counts on Amazon.com's Help in Groupon 'Gunfight'
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/livingsocial-counts-on-amazon-com-s-help-in-groupon-gunfight-ceo-says.html
LivingSocial , the second-biggest
website for daily deals, will use a $183 million investment led
by Amazon.com Inc. to overtake market leader Groupon Inc., the
company’s chief executive officer said.  LivingSocial will more than triple its employees next year
to 1,800 and more than double the number of cities where it
offers deals, CEO  Tim O’Shaughnessy  said in his first interview
since the Amazon.com investment was announced last week. That
would bring the service to 300 markets, about the number that
Groupon now serves with its staff of 3,000.  “Having a $183 million investment is an important part of
making sure we’re not bringing a knife to a gunfight,”
O’Shaughnessy said. “If you want to be the biggest player in
local commerce, having an investor that’s the  biggest player  in
e-commerce seemed like a really smart thing to do.”  O’Shaughnessy is taking a different path from  Andrew Mason ,
his counterpart at Chicago-based Groupon who spurned an offer
last week from Google Inc. The $6 billion deal would have given
Groupon financial backing from the cash-rich owner of the
world’s most-used Web search company.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  The biggest daily-deal sites have to demonstrate that they
offer more than just a list of consumer names to send offers to,
said  Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “The winner in this space will win not because they have
the largest list, but the best list,” Mulpuru said Nov. 30 in a
 blog  posting. “By that I mean, knowing who are the customers
who will spend more than the value of the deal and who will come
back to frequent a business. The company that can identify those
people, even if it’s just 100,000 customers, will win.”  Customer Relations  To that end, LivingSocial plans to expand internationally,
develop programs to help merchants identify repeat customers and
broaden its offerings.  O’Shaughnessy founded the Washington-based company in 2007
to build social applications played on Facebook Inc. Last year,
he saw how quickly Groupon was growing and changed tack, hiring
a national sales staff that now numbers 500 to bring in local
merchants of its own.  LivingSocial has at least one sales representative in each
of its 120 geographic markets. It will use the recent
investment, which includes $175 million from Amazon and $8
million from venture-capital firm Lightspeed Venture Partners,
to expand overseas and begin rolling out programs to help
merchants retain shoppers. Most small and medium-sized merchants
don’t have any form of customer relationship management, an
opportunity for LivingSocial, O’Shaughnessy said.  Skeet Shooting, Beer  “What you’ll see us do more of in 2011 is start to build a
system where merchants can track their customers and can track
who’s coming back and how valuable are they, and really give
them more insights into their business,” O’Shaughnessy said.  LivingSocial also will begin focusing more on excursions
such as skeet shooting and beer tasting. In October, the company
bought Urban Escapes, which offers deals on vacations, events
and guided tours.  By mid-November, LivingSocial had sold more than 10,000
such trips, which it dubs “Escapes.” While the deals are
usually riskier for the company, since they may involve renting
out a venue in advance, they typically have higher margins than
most products sold on daily-deal sites, O’Shaughnessy said.  Local Advertising  Groupon, which started in  November 2008 , has 35 million
registered users and is set to record revenue of more than $500
million this year, according to two people familiar with the
matter. LivingSocial says it will reach that milestone in 2011.  Groupon and LivingSocial control more than 90 percent of
the daily-deal market, O’Shaughnessy said. LivingSocial is
gaining a few percentage points of share every month, he said.  “We see a world where lines cross in the not-too-distant
future,” O’Shaughnessy said. He declined to provide details.  Both companies are chasing the local advertising market,
which is estimated at $133 billion in the U.S. this year and is
moving online and away from print, radio and direct mail,
according to consulting firm  BIA/Kelsey  in Chantilly, Virginia.  With hundreds of companies in the daily-deal industry,
including BuyWithMe.com and Tippr.com, there is a risk that they
will undercut one another on price, driving down profit margins.  Those concerns are overblown, O’Shaughnessy said.  “One of the common misperceptions is that getting into the
space is all you need to do,” O’Shaughnessy said. In reality,
expanding the business and developing relationships with
merchants “is much harder to do than most people realize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  