-- Ivory Coast Suspended From Ecowas Amid Presidency Crisis, Jonathan Says
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-12-07T19:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/ivory-coast-suspended-from-ecowas-amid-presidency-crisis-jonathan-says.html
Ivory Coast  has been suspended from
West Africa’s regional bloc amid a post-election crisis that has
seen two men take presidential oaths and appoint government
ministers.  The Economic Community of West African States supports
 Alassane Ouattara , a former prime minister of Ivory Coast who
was named winner of the Nov. 28 vote by the country’s electoral
commission with 54.1 percent, said Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan , who is also chairman of the group.  “Elections have been held and somebody has won, so he has
to take over,” Jonathan told reporters after a meeting of West
African heads of state in Abuja today. “The votes of the people
must count.”  Ouattara’s win was overturned by Ivory Coast’s
Constitutional Council Dec. 3, which annulled votes in the
country’s north over claims of irregularities and named
incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  as winner. The following day, Gbagbo
and Ouattara both took presidential oaths of office and this
week, have each appointed government ministers to separate
administrations. Ouattara’s presidency claim is also supported
by the United Nations, the European Union, the U.S. and France.  Jonathan rejected the prospect of a unity government
involving both Gbagbo and Ouattara as a possible method to
settle the impasse.  A unity government “doesn’t really work,” he said. “You
only encourage people not to do what’s right.”  The election was meant to unify Ivory Coast, the world’s
top cocoa grower, which has been split into a government-
controlled south and rebel-held north since a military uprising
in 2002. Cocoa for March delivery gained $57, or 1.9 percent, to
$3,122 a metric ton at 10:16 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 