-- Jeter Signs Three-Year Deal With Yankees, Continues Pursuit of 3,000 Hits
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-12-07T16:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/jeter-signs-three-year-deal-with-yankees-contains-option-year.html
Derek Jeter  signed a three-year
contract with the New York Yankees, staying with the only Major
League Baseball team he’s ever played for as he pursues 3,000
career hits and a spot in the Hall of Fame.  The contract also contains a fourth-year option that Jeter
can trigger, the Yankees said in a news release.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed. The New York Times,
citing an unidentified person in baseball who was briefed on the
matter, said on Dec. 4 that the contract would be worth between
$15 million and $17 million annually.  The Yankees scheduled a news conference with their
shortstop and team captain in Tampa, Florida, this afternoon.  Jeter, 36, was ranked by SI.com as the American athlete
with the eighth-highest earnings this year at $31 million. The
Times said the deal ensures Jeter will remain the highest-paid
shortstop in baseball, ahead of  Troy Tulowitzki , who agreed on a
10-year, $157.8 million contract this week to stay with the
Colorado Rockies.  Jeter needs 74 hits to become the first Yankee to reach
3,000 in his career.  The agreement ends a month of discussions between the two
sides that became publicly bitter.  Hal Steinbrenner , the
Yankees’ managing general partner, said at the beginning of
talks that they could get “messy.”  Hank Steinbrenner , his
brother and the team’s co-chairman, said in an Associated Press
interview last month that “we’ve already made these guys very,
very rich, and I don’t feel we owe anybody anything
monetarily.”  Worst Year  Jeter in 2010 had his worst offensive season since becoming
a regular in 1996, producing numbers generally associated with
players making much less than the $19 million he averaged over
the past 10 years.  Casey Close , Jeter’s longtime agent, told the New York
Daily News that he was “baffled” by the Yankees’ position, and
that his client deserved to be paid for what he had helped bring
to the franchise, including five World Series championships.  The Yankees’ initial offer was $45 million over three
years, with Close pushing for $150 million over six seasons, the
Daily News said.  Brian Cashman , the Yankees’ general manager,
said that if Jeter didn’t like the offer he should test the
free-agent market and see if some other team would pay more for
a player who already is the oldest starting shortstop in the
American League.  The two sides resumed negotiations in Tampa, Florida, on
Nov. 30, and Hank Steinbrenner told the AP that night that he
and his brother “feel confident that Derek will remain with the
Yankees.”  Torre Support  “Hard for me to believe Yankees wouldn’t want him back and
just happy it worked out for him,”  Joe Torre , Jeter’s manager
in New York from 1996 through 2007, said at a news conference
today at baseball’s winter meetings in Orlando, Florida.
“Hopefully he continues to stay healthy.”  Jeter was promoted to the Yankees in 1995 after they
drafted him with the sixth pick in the first round three years
earlier. He entered free agency this offseason after completing
a 10-year, $189 million contract.  The AL Rookie of the Year in 1996, Jeter has never won a
Most Valuable Player award or a batting title. He has produced
consistent top-10 rankings that place his career figures in the
range of Hall of Fame members, according to the website
 Baseball-reference.com .  Already the Yankees’ career hits leader, Jeter would become
the 28th major league batter to reach 3,000 in his career. Every
eligible member of that group is in the  National Baseball Hall
of Fame  except  Rafael Palmeiro , who will be on the Hall ballot
for the first time this year.  Hall of Fame  Should he retire with the team and later be elected to the
Hall in Cooperstown, New York, Jeter would be the eighth Yankee
so honored after playing an entire major-league career in the
Bronx, joining Earle Combs,  Lou Gehrig , Bill Dickey,  Joe DiMaggio ,  Phil Rizzuto ,  Whitey Ford  and  Mickey Mantle .  While league managers and coaches did name him a Gold Glove
winner for his defense after he committed a career-low six
errors in 2010,  advanced fielding statistics  showed Jeter’s
range wasn’t as great as many of his peers. His Ultimate Zone
Rating, which measures how many runs a player gave up or saved
with his defense, placed Jeter 4.7 runs below average last
season, and another metric, Defensive Runs Saved, rated him 13
runs below average, according to  Fangraphs.com .  Franchise Face  Jeter’s numbers aside, he is the face of a franchise
focused on its own statistic -- as the most valuable in
baseball.  Jeter’s chase for 3,000 hits should help draw fans to the
$1.6 billion Yankee Stadium next season.  He already holds baseball’s record for postseason hits,
with 185; runs (101); doubles (30); and games played (147).  After being named the team’s 11th captain in 2003, Jeter
manned the microphone to close the old Yankee Stadium in
September 2008. He again represented the team at a July ceremony
marking the deaths of owner  George Steinbrenner  and public
address announcer  Bob Sheppard .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 