-- Job Openings in U.S. Increased to Two-Year High of 3.36 Million in October
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-07T21:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/job-openings-in-u-s-increased-to-two-year-high-of-3-36-million-in-october.html
Job  openings  in the U.S. rose in
October for the first time in three months, a sign gains in
payrolls will accelerate in early 2011.  The number of positions waiting to be filled increased by
351,000 to 3.36 million, the most since August 2008, the Labor
Department said today in Washington. Excluding a drop among
government agencies, the 369,000 increase in openings at
companies was the biggest in four years.  Combined with declining  claims  for jobless benefits and
surveys showing hiring at manufactures and service providers is
picking up, today’s report may help ease concern the labor
market lost momentum in November. The government reported last
week that the world’s largest economy created 39,000 jobs for
the month, fewer than the most pessimistic forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The November payrolls report “looks like more of a bump in
the road,” said  Jonathan Basile , a senior economist at Credit
Suisse in New York. Openings are “a positive force for what
could eventually happen. It takes time to go from openings to
hiring. It’s still going to be a slow process.”  Student Loans  Consumer borrowing  unexpectedly rose in October for a
second straight month, led by an increase in non-revolving
credit, including student loans held by the federal government,
a report today from the Federal Reserve also showed. Credit
climbed by $3.38 billion after increasing a revised $1.23
billion in September.  Stocks ended the day little changed, depressed in the last
hour by reports that a probe of insider trading had widened and
President Barack Obama’s comment that he’ll push to overhaul the
tax code in two years. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  rose 0.1
percent to 1,223.75 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. News that
Obama had agreed to a two-year extension of current tax rates
sent the index up as much as 1 percent earlier in the day.  Another report today showed manufacturers are more
optimistic about sales next year and plan to ramp up spending on
new equipment, signaling factories will keep leading the
economic recovery.  Outlook Improves  Purchasing managers at factories anticipate sales will grow
5.6 percent next year and business capital investment will jump
15 percent, the Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply
Management said in its semiannual forecast. Sales and spending
will increase at a slower pace among service providers that
account for about 90 percent of the economy.  Job openings increased 12 percent in October from a revised
3.01 million in the prior month, the Labor Department report
showed. Professional and business services, which include
accountants, computer systems experts and temporary-help
agencies, had the biggest increases in available employment,
followed by education and health care. Openings dropped at
construction firms and government agencies.  Compared with the 14.8 million Americans who were
 unemployed  in October, today’s figures indicate there were 4.4
people vying for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the
recession began in December 2007. The number of jobless climbed
to 15.1 million last month, pushing the  unemployment rate  up to
a seven-month high of 9.8 percent, the Labor Department reported
last week.  November Payrolls  Today’s report helps shed light on the dynamics behind the
monthly employment figures. Private payrolls, which exclude
government positions, rose by 50,000 workers in November, less
than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed on Dec. 3.  Employers took on 4.2 million workers in October, down
12,000 from the previous month, according to today’s report.
Total firings, which exclude retirements and those who left
their jobs voluntarily, dropped to 1.72 million from 1.81
million a month before.  In the 12 months ended in October, the economy created a
net 700,000 jobs, representing about 50.8 million hires compared
with about 50 million separations, today’s report showed.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been among those saying
the recovery has been too slow, keeping unemployment too high.  “At the rate we’re going, it could be four, five years
before we are back to a more normal unemployment rate” of about
5 percent to 6 percent, Bernanke said in an interview broadcast
Dec. 5 by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program.  Labor Needs  The economy hasn’t grown to the point where demand can’t be
met with current staff at  Illinois Tool Works Inc. , chief
executive officer  David Speer  said in an interview on Dec. 3.  Next year “there will be some modest level of improvement
in employment in industrial manufacturing in the U.S.,” Speer
said. “I don’t think anything significant for us, because I
still see us with enough capacity in terms of labor right now to
not have to make any significant additions.”  ITW, the maker of Hobart food mixers and Duo-Fast nail
guns, may do more hiring in 2012 if “we progress as I suspect
we will,” Speer said. The company last week forecast business
revenue, which doesn’t include sales from acquired companies,
will increase 5 percent to 7 percent in 2011 over this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  