-- Jol May Succeed Chris Hughton at Newcastle After Leaving Ajax: Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-12-07T10:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/jol-may-succeed-chris-hughton-at-newcastle-after-leaving-ajax-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. and Asian media, with clickable links to the
Web.  Jol for Toon?  Former Tottenham manager  Martin Jol , who left Ajax
yesterday, may be poised to take over at Newcastle,  the Guardian 
reported.  Ex-Charlton and West Ham coach  Alan Curbishley  and
Norwich’s Paul Lambert are also possible contenders to succeed
 Chris Hughton , who was fired yesterday, the newspaper said.  Hargreaves Battle  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  hinted the club may
not be able to save  Owen Hargreaves ’s career at Old Trafford,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  The midfielder tore a hamstring five minutes into the game
with Wolves last month when he made his first start in more than
two years, the Mail added.  “We would have to be super-optimistic to think everything
is going to be rosy for him in terms of him making a comeback,”
Ferguson was cited as saying.  Blackburn Showdown  Coach  Sam Allardyce  is set for “crunch talks” with
Blackburn’s new owners over the size of his transfer budget and
who he’ll be allowed to buy, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Allardyce wants former Blackburn striker Roque Santa Cruz
to return from Manchester City, the newspaper said. The coach
will be upset if his power is curbed, following the takeover of
the club by poultry company Venky’s (India) Ltd, it added.  Bargain Buys?  Damien Comolli , Liverpool’s director of football strategy,
sees the opportunity to buy players at bargain prices in the
January transfer window,  the Sun  said.  “In this economic recession there are so many clubs that
are in trouble abroad, more than England,” Comolli was cited as
saying. “These clubs are under enormous pressure to sell.”  Thanks, FIFA  A Qatari couple named their daughter “Fifa” as she was
born on the day the Gulf country won the bid to host the 2022
World Cup, the Press Trust of India reported.  Soccer governing body FIFA announced the decision last
week.  “When I was in labor I heard that Qatar was picked ahead
of many other countries to host the World Cup finals, so my
husband and I decided to name her Fifa,” the mother was cited
as telling the Arabic Al Raya daily. They had been considering
naming the girl Dana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 