-- Kenyan Government Plans to Introduce Price Controls on Fuel From Next Week
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2010-12-07T11:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/kenya-plans-to-introduce-petroleum-price-controls-from-dec-15.html
Kenya will introduce controls on
petroleum prices on Dec. 15, after the cost of fuel rose by at
least 12 percent this year.  The new regulations will set limits on wholesale and retail
prices of crude oil, natural gas, coal and other fuels, Energy
Minister  Kiraitu Murungi  said in a government publication
distributed today in Nairobi, the capital. Controls will be
imposed on importers of petroleum products, refineries, storage
facilities, transporters and sellers, he said.  Wholesale profit margins will be capped at 6 shillings (7
U.S. cents) per liter (0.26 gallons) and retail margins at 3
shillings, Murungi said. Fuel prices rose to 96.2 shillings a
liter in September from 86.2 shillings in January, according to
the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. Oil futures in New York
increased by 0.8 percent over the same period.  Oil marketers including  KenolKobil Ltd. , a Nairobi-based
retailer, have opposed the new regulations, citing the
government’s failure to consult them on the proposal. KenolKobil
Chairman  Jacob Segman  said yesterday price controls may lead to
product shortages in the country, East Africa’s biggest economy.  “KenolKobil is not opposed to price controls per se,”
Segman said. “But these must be transparent and the result of
regular reviews by independent, professional third-party bodies
and must take into account all cost factors influencing the
marketing of petroleum products, especially infrastructure costs
and the damaging effect of system inefficiencies.”  Refinery Efficiency  Last month, Kenya blocked Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd.
from raising prices following the jump in gasoline costs. The
government told the refinery, which is 50 percent state-owned,
to improve efficiency rather than increase charges.  Fuel retailers in Kenya increased prices last month because
of what they termed inefficiencies at the refinery, as demand
for fuel grew 7 percent, the refiner’s chief executive officer,
 Raj Varma , said on Nov. 24.  Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  earlier this year refused to
sign a law capping the price of fuel, food and other essential
items, the  Daily Nation  newspaper reported on Sept. 2, citing a
memorandum sent to the office of the parliamentary speaker,
Kenneth Marende. The introduction of price controls would
contravene agreements signed with the World Trade Organization,
the newspaper said, citing Kibaki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johnstone Ole Turana  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 