-- Kylie Gyrates, Cee Lo Dresses Down at Jingle Bell Ball: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2010-12-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/kylie-minogue-skips-cee-lo-green-dresses-down-at-jingle-bell-ball-review.html
Kylie  skipped around the stage
wearing white.  Cee Lo  slouched in jeans and a big sweater that
his Grandma might well have knitted for him.  Nicole Scherzinger 
of the Pussycat Dolls shimmied vacantly in a gothic latex cat
suit. The Black Eyed Peas favored the intergalactic pirate look.  The dress code was “anything goes” for the 95.8 Capital
FM’s  Jingle Bell Ball  at London’s  O2 Arena . The two-day festival
provided a bite-size preview of live shows for next year by some
of the biggest pop acts from both sides of the Atlantic.  Kylie -- who has shorn her second name Minogue for her
latest CD -- raced through the dance-pop perfection of “Can’t
Get You Out of My Head” and the disco dream of “All the
Lovers.”  Cee Lo, who is becoming well enough known to dispense with
his surname Green, delivered star power without props or backing
singers. He crooned sweet defiance and “Crazy,” his first hit
with Gnarls Barkley. He let the crowd sing the chorus of his
song “Forget You” in its original four-letter-word form.  Londoner  Tinie Tempah  provided a rowdy mix of pop know-how
and club culture mayhem. He may be too brash for U.S. tastes,
unlike  Jay Sean , who is a rare commodity -- a U.K. urban artist
who has made it big in the U.S. His set was impressive, as were
performances by  Example , who bounced around; the  Saturdays , who
had a giggle; and  Flo Rida , who was raucous.  From there on, it was bad news.  Hot Girlfriend  Scherzinger flatly chanted “don’t cha wish your girlfriend
was hot like me.” This was the Cee Lo penned chorus to her
former band’s biggest hit. The only explanation was that it was
somewhat tropical inside her black and red, glittered and
tassled outfit.  The Black Eyed Peas’ set was horrible, with “Time (Dirty
Bit)” displaying the dumbest, bluntest Euro-techno imaginable.  Taio Cruz  served up 2009’s sleek electro-pop offerings.
 Duffy’s  sub- Winehouse  retro squawk met general disinterest.  Akon 
whinnied through his admittedly impressive hits.  Alexandra Burke 
spoiled her set with “Start Without You,” an abomination of
castrated reggae and Boney M off-cuts.  Dublin band  the Script  was insipid and Jason Derulo
strutted the stage charmlessly. The boy band  the Wanted  prompted
teenage screams despite having no discernable melodies, moves or
talents beyond being young, male and hunky.  Rating: ***½ for the top artists; * for the “bad news”
acts.  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 