-- Natural Gas Futures Little Changed in New York on Ample Supply for Winter
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-07T16:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/natural-gas-futures-little-changed-in-new-york-on-ample-supply-for-winter.html
Natural gas futures were little
changed in New York amid speculation that supplies will be ample
to meet demand for the heating fuel.  Futures were steady as the number of rigs drilling for gas
rose by 8 to 961 last week, according to data published Dec. 3
by Baker Hughes Inc.  Inventories  of the heating and power-plant
fuel were 10 percent above the five-year average for the week
ended Nov. 26, according to the Energy Department.  “Production levels are pretty high,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
Connecticut. “We’re going to need to see sustained cold weather
across the next four to six weeks and a little bit of sympathy
support from the continued rise in the oil market to lift gas
above $5.”  Natural gas for January delivery rose 0.5 cent to $4.493
per million British thermal units at 12:08 a.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Gas futures reached $5.545 per million Btu,
the highest intraday price since Aug. 9. The futures have
dropped 19 percent this year.  The number of oil and natural-gas rigs operating in the
U.S. jumped to a 23-month high last week, gaining 26 to 1,713,
according to Baker Hughes. The surplus of gas in storage over
the five-year average has expanded in eight of the past 10
weeks.  The Energy Department reported Dec. 2 that 23 billion cubic
feet of gas were withdrawn from stockpiles in the week ended Nov
26, below the five-year average reduction of 36 billion.
 Stockpiles  totaled 3.814 trillion cubic feet.  Cold Weather  Colder-than-normal weather is likely in the Northeast,
Midwest and Southeast through Dec. 16, according to Commodity
Weather Group in Bethesda, Maryland. Temperatures may be below-
normal in the Southeast and parts of the mid-Atlantic and Great
Lakes regions from Dec. 17 through Dec. 21, the company said.  The low temperature in New York on Dec. 16 may be 26
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 3 Celsius), 5 degrees below normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.
The low in Chicago may be 14 degrees, 8 below normal.  “It’s definitely cold here,” said  Rich Ilczyszyn , a
broker with Lind-Waldock in Chicago. “We’re looking at bigger
and bigger withdrawals from storage. We have a surplus in
inventories, but those supplies are tightening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  