-- New Zealand Awards First Fast Broadband Contracts in Northern Provinces
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-07T00:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/new-zealand-awards-first-fast-broadband-contracts-in-northern-provinces.html
New Zealand has selected two groups
to deliver ultra-fast broadband services in parts of the North
Island, the first contracts awarded in a national plan.  WEL, an electricity grid operator, and its partners will
build a network in the Waikato, Bay of Plenty and Taranaki
provinces, Communications Minister  Steven Joyce  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Northpower Ltd. will provide services in
the northern city of Whangarei, he said.  Both groups were selected in September for prioritized
talks as the government sought partners for a NZ$1.5 billion
($1.1 billion) nationwide fiber-optic network that will deliver
fast Internet to homes and businesses.  Telecom Corp. , the
nation’s biggest telephone company, has proposed a role in all
regions and has said it will demerge to create a separate
network company to satisfy government requirements.  “Telecom’s proposal is focused on the remainder of the
country,” Chief Executive Officer  Paul Reynolds  said in a
statement. “We continue to engage in the process to determine
the successful partners for the rest of the country, however
time is running out and we are conscious that our shareholders
need resolution.”  Telecom  shares  fell 3 cents, or 1.4 percent, to NZ$2.15 at
12:30 p.m. in Wellington.  Auckland-based Telecom is proposing its Chorus network unit
partner with the government, while the remaining sales unit
offers services as a structurally separate company. Reynolds
said Telecom is open to partnership with other owners of fiber
assets, including the parties chosen by the government.  Negotiating List  The contracts confirmed today cover about 16 percent of the
country, Joyce said. The government will announce a list of
parties with which it will negotiate over the remaining regions,
including the largest cities of Auckland, Christchurch and
Wellington, he said.  The first services will be available in Whangarei before
the end of the year, Joyce said.  WEL’s partners include Waipa Networks Ltd., also a power
company, and the Hamilton Fibre Network, it said in a statement.
It plans a 5,000-kilometer (3,100 miles) network to cover a
population of about 430,000 people, it said.  The value of the pact will be NZ$300 million and the
project will create 300 jobs, WEL said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  