-- New York Times Says Smaller Print-Ad Drop to Help Increase 2010 Earnings
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-12-07T21:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/new-york-times-says-smaller-print-ad-drop-to-help-lift-2010-earnings.html
New York Times Co. , publisher of the
namesake newspaper, said it expects fourth-quarter print
advertising revenue to decline at a slowing pace, helping 2010
earnings top those last year.  Print-advertising revenue this quarter will drop by about 4
percent from the year-earlier period, the company said today in
a statement. Print advertising in the third quarter decreased
5.8 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Janet Robinson  said national
advertising, accounting for most of the company’s ad  revenue ,
has improved this year. Digital ad sales will gain about 10
percent this quarter, and circulation revenue will decrease 4
percent to 5 percent, the company said. Digital revenue rose
14.6 percent and circulation revenue fell 4.8 percent in the
third quarter.  The print-revenue improvement and cost-cutting efforts will
help operating profit excluding depreciation, amortization,
severance and special items show “significant improvement”
compared with last year, Robinson said in the statement.  The New York Times newspaper will begin charging consumers
for access to articles on its website in the first quarter,
Robinson said during a presentation at the UBS Media and
Communications Conference in New York. Users will be able to
read a set number of articles for free each month, and heavy
users will have to pay a subscription fee. She didn’t say how
many stories are free or give a price for the subscription.  ‘High’ Confidence  The company’s Boston Globe newspaper will start a paid
gateway to its site in the second half of 2011, Robinson said.  “We will begin directly charging consumers for our
content,” Robinson said. “We are very prepared and our
confidence is high.”  Times Co.  advanced  38 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $9.76 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has declined 21 percent this year.  This month, the Newspaper Association of America said
advertising revenue at U.S. newspaper publishers declined at a
slowing pace in the third quarter. Ad revenue dropped 5.4
percent last quarter, compared with a 28 percent slump a year
earlier, the association said on its website. Print ad revenue
fell 7.1 percent and online ad sales rose 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  