-- New Zealand's Construction, Manufacturing Shrink, Signaling Weak Recovery
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-07T23:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/new-zealand-s-construction-manufacturing-shrink-signaling-weak-recovery.html
New Zealand construction and
manufacturing contracted in the third quarter, government
reports showed, adding to the case for the nation’s central bank
to keep interest rates unchanged until a recovery strengthens.  The value of  residential construction  fell 5.3 percent from
the second quarter, excluding inflation, Statistics New Zealand
said in Wellington today. Non-residential work dropped 0.7
percent. Manufacturing sales volumes fell for a third straight
quarter, declining 1.4 percent, according to a separate report.  A weakening housing market and sluggish manufacturing
signal third-quarter gross domestic product probably didn’t
perform much better than the 0.2 percent expansion during the
three months ended June 30. Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor
 Alan Bollard  is expected to keep interest rates unchanged at a
meeting tomorrow, and economists predict an increase won’t
happen until March at the earliest.  “While construction activity was close to expectations,
manufacturing production was much weaker,” said  Jane Turner , an
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “As a result, we have
revised down our forecast for GDP growth to just 0.2 percent
from 0.5 percent.”  In September, the central bank forecast 0.8 percent GDP
growth for the quarter, an estimate that was completed before a
magnitude 7 earthquake rocked Canterbury province on Sept. 4.  GDP Forecasts  Turner said the impact of the temblor on local service
industries such as retailing and hospitality is unknown, which
creates a “large degree of uncertainty” over forecasts.
Economists at ANZ National Bank Ltd. and Goldman Sachs &
Partners New Zealand Ltd., who also expect 0.2 percent growth,
today said they couldn’t rule out the  economy  contracted in the
third quarter.  Bollard will update his economic forecasts tomorrow, when
he is also expected to keep the official cash rate unchanged at
3 percent, according to all 14 economists surveyed this week by
Bloomberg News. Ten analysts expect the rate will be unchanged
until March and four see the first increase in the second
quarter.  Residential construction fell in the three months to Sept.
30 after rising 9.7 percent in the second quarter. Building was
13 percent higher than in the year-earlier period, which marked
a recent trough in such work, the statistics agency said.  Construction is expected to increase next year as the
rebuilding of homes in Canterbury accelerates, Turner said.  Manufacturing volumes excluding the volatile meat and dairy
industries fell 1.9 percent, today’s report showed. Meat and
dairy sales dropped 0.9 percent.  Volumes are near the lowest in 10 years, the statistics
agency said. The quarterly decline was led by paper, timber and
chemical production, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  