-- New York City's Off-Track Betting to Close After Senate Denies Rescue Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-07T22:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/new-york-city-s-off-track-betting-to-close-after-senate-denies-rescue-plan.html
The  New York  Senate voted against
legislation to preserve the bankrupt New York City Off-Track
Betting Corp., setting the stage for the operation to close at
the end of the day.  Shuttering the wagering organization, which operates 50
betting parlors in New York City, would result in the firing of
800 workers and require the state to assume $600 million of
payments for pensions and health care, Senator  Carl Kruger  of
Brooklyn said during the vote.  “This puts the racing industry in turmoil,” said OTB
Chairman  Larry Schwartz . Shutting the business threatens tens of
thousands of jobs, may lead to some harness racetracks closing
and may force horse breeders to move out of the state, he said
at a press conference in Albany, the state capital.  Senator  Kenneth LaValle , a Republican from eastern Long
Island, cited “other OTBs that need to be taken care of” for
his vote against the measure. Republicans favored different
legislation that would have helped the five regional off-track
betting corporations outside the city.  Schwartz said measures to help those betting operations
could have been taken up in January. Those businesses aren’t in
bankruptcy, he said.  “We are out of money,” Schwartz said. “We are out of
cash. We are out of business.”  Chapter 9  OTB operated 68 betting parlors when it filed for Chapter 9
bankruptcy in December 2009. It lost $45 million in the five
years before the filing as betting revenue from horse racing
fell short of payments owed to tracks, local governments and
operating costs.  Passing the rescue package would have allowed racetracks,
the biggest creditors, to assume ownership of the profitable
Internet and telephone-wagering business, according to a  bill 
proposed by Governor  David Paterson . The plan agreed to by
creditors would have cut more than 500 jobs, or about half its
workforce, Schwartz said.  The plan would have allowed the corporation to pay its own
pension obligations of $12 million annually, rather than leaving
that cost to other participants in the New York City Employees
Retirement System, and to pay health costs of its retired
workers, estimated at more than $500 million. The city and state
have disagreed about who would be liable for the health-care
payments, according to the  description  attached to the
legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  