-- New York State Pension $71 Billion Underfunded, Empire Center Report Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-07T15:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/new-york-state-pension-71-billion-underfunded-empire-center-report-says.html
New York  state’s $132.8 billion
pension plan is underfunded by $71 billion and annual taxpayer
payments to keep it sound may more than double to almost $4
billion during the next five years, a  report  says.  Increased payments are needed by the third-largest U.S.
public pension to recover from a 26 percent decline in assets in
the year ended March 31, 2009, and to cover benefits lawmakers
increased over the past decade, the Empire Center for New York
State Policy said.  “The traditional pension system exposes taxpayers to
intolerable levels of financial risk and volatility,” said the
Albany-based  center , a project of the Manhattan Institute, which
opposes taxes and promotes outsourcing to private companies and
reduced spending.  New York Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  described the fund as
strong during his election campaign.  The pension is fully funded, even though the market value
of investments is less than needed to pay all benefits because
assets “include the current value of all future contributions
employers and employees will make,” its  annual report says.   The center recommended that risk be passed to employees
with a new pension system that consists wholly or partly of
accounts like 401(k) retirement plans used in businesses, with
government contributions set at a fixed rate rather than rising
or falling with investment results.  Rich Retirement  Most taxpayers “will never receive anything approaching
the costly, guaranteed benefits available to public employees,”
the Empire Center’s report said. An annuity to provide the same
benefit as the median $47,000 pension of a New York teacher
would cost $860,000, it said.  New York state, New York City and other local governments
have more than $200 billion of unfunded liabilities for retired-
worker health coverage in addition to pension benefits owed, the
report said. Health benefits in retirement are promised in
existing labor contracts. The state constitution bars reductions
in pension benefits from what a worker was promised when hired.  DiNapoli announced in September a 37 percent increase in
government contributions due to the plan in February 2012 to
16.3 percent of payroll from 11.9 percent. The Division of
Budget  estimated  that contribution rates may rise to 24 percent
of payroll by the fiscal year ending in 2014.  The Empire Center report said the 7.5 percent assumed rate
of return on pension investments is too high and that the
practice of measuring pension liabilities and investments with a
moving five-year average was a “gimmick.”  Reasonable Rate  The actuary for the state plan  said  the 7.5 percent assumed
rate of return is reasonable in light of the plan’s 30-year
investment horizon and because the state government is a longer-
term enterprise than a private enterprises.  Over the past 30 years, the fund’s investments gained an
average of 10.1 percent annually, though that fell to 3.7
percent the past 10 years, the actuary report says.  Using five-year averages instead of market values is
intended “to reduce volatility on contribution rates,” the
report says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  