-- New Zealand's Bollard May Keep Rate Unchanged at 3%, Lower Growth Forecast
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-12-07T23:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/new-zealand-s-bollard-may-keep-rate-unchanged-cut-forecasts.html
New Zealand’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged and may
lower economic forecasts as domestic demand weakens and dry
weather threatens farm production.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  will
leave the official  cash  rate at 3 percent at 9 a.m. tomorrow in
Wellington, according to all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Ten analysts expect the first rate rise in March and four
forecast an increase in the second quarter, the survey showed.  Weaker growth and a pause in rates may curb demand for New
Zealand’s currency, the third-best performer in the past year
among Group of 10 currencies. Bollard also may lower growth
forecasts and signal a more gradual increase in borrowing costs
because of concerns a drought may curb overseas sales of milk,
meat and other exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy.  “The RBNZ’s projections will imply a slightly later
resumption of the tightening cycle,” said  Darren Gibbs , chief
New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland. “Risks
to agricultural sector production from the possible continuation
of recent very dry weather and the disease impacting kiwifruit
vines will also be weighing on the governor’s mind.”  Parts of the country are “heading for extremely dry
conditions, probably drought,” Agriculture Minister  David Carter  said in a Dec. 2 interview.  Fruit, Oysters  A bacterial disease that affects vine growth has been
detected in 107 kiwifruit orchards, threatening the NZ$1.4
billion ($1.1 billion) export industry. The country is also
investigating a surge in deaths on local marine farms of Pacific
oysters, an industry estimated to be worth NZ$26 million in 2009.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, said on Dec. 2 it was watching weather conditions
closely. North Island milk collection fell 4.3 percent last year
because of dry conditions in the largest milk-producing province.  Government reports released today showed construction and
manufacturing contracted in the third quarter.  The value of residential construction excluding inflation
fell 5.3 percent from the second quarter and non-residential
construction dropped 0.7 percent, Statistics New Zealand said in
Wellington. Manufacturing sales volumes fell for a third
straight quarter, declining 1.4 percent, a separate report
showed.  RBNZ’s Forecasts  Gibbs expects the central bank will lower its forecasts for
growth in the year ending March 31, 2011, from 2.8 percent
because of weakness in the housing market and consumer spending,
and the disruption caused by the magnitude 7 earthquake that
struck Canterbury province Sept. 4.  Gross domestic product increased 0.2 percent in the three
months ended June 30, less than a quarter of the pace Bollard
predicted in September. Third-quarter growth may also miss the
central bank’s 0.8 percent forecast.  Bollard said in a Nov. 19 speech that the economic recovery
“could yet be a prolonged process” amid sluggish demand and a
weak recovery in major markets for New Zealand goods such as the
U.S., Japan and the U.K.  Australia’s central bank yesterday left its benchmark rate
unchanged at 4.75 percent, saying inflation is expected to be
“little changed” over the next few quarters and citing market
volatility tied to concerns about European government debt.  EU Debt  European finance ministers, who last week handed Ireland an
85 billion euro ($113 billion) lifeline, yesterday ruled out
immediate aid for Portugal and Spain. Sovereign debt issues in
Europe “add further weight to the Reserve Bank remaining on
hold for the time being,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at
ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland.  New Zealand’s domestic economy has been slowed by a weak
 housing  market and sluggish consumer spending, even as
unemployment declines, economists said.  House prices in November rose 0.3 percent from a year
earlier, the smallest gain since October 2009, according to a
report yesterday from Quotable Value, a government agency.  Consumer purchases on debit, credit and store cards rose
0.8 percent in October, Statistics New Zealand said on Nov. 9.
Excluding fuel outlets, spending was unchanged.  “We are witnessing a tightening of retail demand,”  Warren Bell , chairman of New Zealand apparel retailer  Hallenstein
Glasson Holdings Ltd. , told the company’s annual meeting in
Christchurch yesterday. “The opportunity to improve sales and
margin on the existing business base is now far more
challenging.”  Confidence Levels  Consumer confidence was near a 14-month low in November,
according to an ANZ National Bank Ltd. Still, business
 confidence  rose for a third month on expectations for more
hiring and investment, ANZ National said in a second survey
published Nov. 29.  The third-quarter  jobless rate  fell to 6.4 percent and
employers added 22,000 workers, about twice the pace expected in
a Bloomberg News survey, according to figures published Nov. 4.  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months ended
Sept. 30, the smallest increase in six years, according to a
government report in October. Still,  inflation  is likely to peak
at 4.8 percent by mid-2011 as the sales tax is included, the
central bank forecasts.  Bollard is required to keep inflation in a range of 1
percent to 3 percent, and the central bank forecasts prices
excluding the effects of the sales tax will peak at 2.1 percent
for the year ending June 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  