-- Newark, New Jersey, May Fire More Workers Amid Deficit, Administrator Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-07T21:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/newark-may-cut-more-workers-to-close-city-s-deficit-after-167-police-fired.html
Newark,  New Jersey , where Mayor  Cory Booker  fired 167 police officers last week to fill a deficit,
won’t rule out more terminations as it enters the coming year
short by $42 million, Business Administrator Julien Neals said.  “Naturally, we can’t take it off the table,” Neals said
in an interview today at City Hall. “The concern is that there
comes a tipping point between how much staff reduction you can
do for a city this size and still be able to provide services.
We’re exploring the breaking points right now.”  New Jersey’s biggest  city  began crafting the budget that
starts Jan. 1 with an estimated deficit of between $90 million
and $150 million. The hole was pared down through cuts and new
revenue this year, Neals said.  The city saved $44 million with the firings, and raised
$6 million from the sale of taxi medallions, $3 million more in
parking revenue and $4 million in new funds from the Port
Authority of New York & New Jersey, Neals said. A 16 percent
property-tax increase will bring in $34.6 million, he said.  Newark, a city of 280,000 where a quarter of its population
lives below the federal poverty level, shed 702 workers this
year, including about 15 percent of the police force last month,
as it struggled to close an $83 million deficit. It hasn’t
submitted plans to the state for additional firings, Neals said.  “This is not going to be an easy year -- our goal is to
get through it with attrition,” Booker told reporters today in
City Hall. “That may not be possible. We’re still going to have
a hole next year.”  Credit Rating  Moody’s Investors Service as early as today may release its
rating on plans by the Essex County Improvement Authority to
sell about $87 million in municipal bonds to purchase Newark’s
municipal buildings, Neals said.  Newark had its A2 general-obligation bond ranking put on
review for a possible downgrade Aug. 13 by Moody’s, which cited
the city’s “weak” finances. The firm must re-rate the city as
it is responsible for making the bond payments, Neals said. He
said he doesn’t anticipate a rating cut.  “We’re hopeful that our rating is not going to go
negative,” Neals said. “We’re putting all of these different
things in place to maintain a positive rating. The discussions
we’ve had with Moody’s thus far have gone well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 