-- NextEra Plans to Replace Thousands of Wind Turbines to Protect Birds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2010-12-07T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/nextera-replacing-thousands-of-wind-turbines-to-protect-birds.html
NextEra Energy Resources LLC, the
largest U.S. producer of wind power, agreed to replace thousands
of outdated turbines in California, ending a five-year legal
battle with environmental groups that claimed the spinning
blades are killing endangered birds.  Under a settlement announced yesterday, NextEra, a unit of
Juno Beach, Florida-based  NextEra Energy Inc. , said it would
install newer, more efficient turbines at its Altamont Pass wind
farms. Using fewer systems will pose less of a risk to wildlife,
the company said.  NextEra said it is too early to tell how much the project
would cost.  Michael Hennessy , a wind analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, said the replacement costs could reach
$350 million.  “We will replace a fraction of what we take out, and we’ll
still have the same capacity of about 240 megawatts,”  Steve Stengel , a NextEra spokesman, said today in an interview.  The Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area, east of San
Francisco, is home to the world’s first commercial wind
turbines, which are now more than 30 years old. All of the units
NextEra operates there have capacity of hundreds of kilowatts,
Stengel said, much smaller than the multimegawatt systems that
are in use at most utility-scale wind farms today.  NextEra owns about 2,400 of the 5,400 turbines at Altamont
Pass, Stengel said.  Bird Fatalities  A 2004 California Energy Commission  study  found that the
Altamont Pass turbines killed between 1,800 and 4,700 birds
annually. Those fatalities included as many as 1,300 raptors
such as hawks, falcons, owls and federally protected golden
eagles.  According to state Attorney General  Jerry Brown ’s office,
which  announced  the  settlement , larger, modern turbines would
kill fewer birds.  Under the agreement, NextEra must replace the turbines “as
soon as commercially reasonable” and in no more than three
phases. The company’s goal is to complete the project by late
2015, Stengel said.  The first phase of the replacement project, about
80 megawatts, could be complete by the end of next year if
NextEra receives the necessary permits by the end of February,
according to the settlement. The second and third phases could
be finished as early as the end of 2013 and 2014, respectively.  NextEra also agreed to pay $2.5 million in mitigation fees.
Half of that will fund public-interest energy research
initiatives of the California Energy Commission and the rest
will support raptor habitat-creation programs at two regional
park districts.  Legal Fight  The conflict dates to 2005, when several Audubon Society
chapters and local environmental group Californians for
Renewable Energy filed a lawsuit under the state’s Environmental
Quality Act to block NextEra’s request to renew its permits for
the site.  That led to a 2007 settlement that required NextEra to
reduce raptor mortality by 50 percent or “implement adaptive
management measures” if the goal was not met.  After NextEra failed to meet that goal, Brown stepped in to
broker the new agreement.  Michael Lynes, Conservation Director with the Golden Gate
Audubon Society, said in a  statement  that “the removal of the
old turbines and replacement with properly sited turbines may
reduce impacts to birds by as much as 80 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Herndon  in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  