-- Nigeria Files Charges Against Dick Cheney, Halliburton Over Bribery Case
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/nigeria-files-charges-against-dick-cheney-halliburton-over-bribery-case.html
Nigerian prosecutors filed charges
against former U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney  and companies
including  Halliburton Co. , where he was chief executive officer
until 2000, for alleged bribery, according to court documents.  Charged along with Cheney yesterday were Albert “Jack”
Stanley, ex-chairman of KBR Inc., a former unit of Halliburton,
current CEO  William Utt  and Halliburton CEO  David Lesar .
Companies charged include  Technip SA  of France, Snamprogetti
SpA, a unit of Eni SpA, KBR and  JGC Corp.  of Japan.  “Names, positions, offices or geography would have no
effect on the decisions of the prosecution whatsoever as it
relates to this matter,” Godwin Obla, prosecuting counsel for
Nigeria’s Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, said in an
interview in his office after he filed the charges.  Nigeria  alleges the companies, which were part of group
known as TSKJ, paid bribes totaling $180 million to Nigerian
officials between 1994 and 2004 to win a $6 billion liquefied
natural gas plant contract. KBR and Halliburton agreed to pay
$579 million to U.S. authorities in February 2009 for bribery
payments in Nigeria.  “It is still our position that Halliburton was not
involved in the project to which this bribery investigation
relates and there is no legal basis for charges,” Tara Mullee,
a company spokeswoman in Houston, said in an e-mailed response
to questions today. The company hasn’t seen the charges filed in
the High Court of Justice in the capital, Abuja, yesterday, she
said.  Arrests  Nigeria arrested at least 23 officials last week, including
11 from Halliburton and the CEO of Saipem Construction, a local
unit of Rome-based Eni. Those detained were all freed on bail on
Nov. 29.  “The actions of the Nigerian government suggest that its
officials are wildly and wrongly asserting blame,” KBR said in
an e-mailed statement. William Utt wasn’t appointed CEO until
2006, followed by the rest of the executive team, the company
said.  “Eni confirms its availability to co-operate with the
local authorities in the ongoing investigations, as it has done
in the past with Italian and U.S. authorities,” company
spokesman  Gianni Di Giovanni  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Technip took a charge of 245 million euros ($342 million)
related to its stake in TSKJ and discussed “resolution of all
potential claims” with the U.S. Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Paris-based company said
on Feb. 12.  An aide of former Nigerian President  Olusegun Obasanjo  was
charged with six counts of money-laundering in Abuja on Oct. 13
in connection with the alleged payment of bribes.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest crude producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  The case is Federal Republic of Nigeria v. Halliburton and
others, CV/435/10, High Court of Justice, Abuja Judicial
Division (Abuja)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 