-- Nigeria in Talks With Technip, Eni and JGC Over Bribe Case
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-07T13:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/nigeria-in-negotiations-with-technip-eni-and-jgc-to-settle-bribery-case.html
Technip SA  of France,  Eni SpA  of
Italy and JGC Corp. of Japan are in talks with Nigerian
prosecutors to settle corruption charges that will be filed
today, the country’s anti-graft agency said.  “Talks are ongoing and we hope to reach a settlement very
soon, once the amount has been agreed by the parties”, Godwin
Obla, prosecuting counsel at the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, said in an interview yesterday at his office in
Abuja, the capital. The state wants at least $150 million from
each of the companies. “We think that’s only fair,” Obla said.  Nigeria  is investigating a group of companies known as
TSKJ, including Paris-based Technip, Snamprogetti SpA, a unit of
Rome-based Eni, KBR, a former Halliburton Co. subsidiary, and
 JGC  in Tokyo, for allegedly paying $180 million as bribes to
officials between 1994 and 2004 to win a $6 billion liquefied
natural gas plant contract. Prosecutors couldn’t reach an
understanding for talks with Halliburton and KBR, Obla said.  “We have been cooperating with EFCC and have no additional
comments,” Christophe Belorgeot, a Technip spokesman said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. The anti-graft agency is satisfied
with “the explanations and documentation provided by Eni,”
 Gianni Di Giovanni , the company’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement today, without giving details. No one answered phone
calls to JGC’s office in Tokyo outside normal business hours.  Nigeria arrested at least 23 officials last week from
companies including Halliburton and Technip over corruption
allegations. Those detained were all freed on bail on Nov. 29.  U.S. Deals  Technip took a charge of 245 million euros ($342 million)
related to its stake in TSKJ and discussed “resolution of all
potential claims” with the U.S. Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Paris-based company said
on Feb. 12. KBR and Halliburton agreed to pay $579 million in
February 2009 in a similar deal.  Charges will be filed in Nigeria against former U.S. Vice
President  Dick Cheney , who was chief executive officer of
Halliburton from 1995 to 2000, along with current and other
former chief executives, Obla said on Dec. 1. His spokesman
hasn’t responded to an e-mail seeking comment.  An aide of former Nigerian President  Olusegun Obasanjo  was
charged with six counts of money-laundering in Abuja on Oct. 13
in connection with the alleged payment of bribes.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest crude producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 