-- Northeast, Midwest to Lose Clout, Texas Gains as U.S. Redraws House Seats
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2010-12-07T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/northeast-midwest-set-to-lose-clout-as-u-s-redraws-political-boundaries.html
The Northeast and Midwest are poised
to lose as many as 10 seats in Congress, while Texas could gain
four after the U.S. Census Bureau releases reapportionment data
later this month, a Bloomberg analysis and other data shows.  Nine states are projected to lose representatives to the
U.S. House and eight are likely to gain, according to the
Bloomberg forecast, which used 2008 and 2009 population
estimates to predict 2010 populations for each state.  The release of state population counts in December’s last
week will mark the start of a fresh statistical look at America
through 2010 census data.  The information will be used by the government to
distribute more than $400 billion in annual federal funding, by
businesses to identify markets and by social scientists to
examine the nation’s changing demographics. On the political
front, it will be used by states to re-draw the 435 House
districts and it will alter electoral-vote figures in the 2012
presidential election.  “As the census data is put out, it will be used more
heavily and by more people than ever before in history,” said
William O’Hare, a demographer who works with the Baltimore-based
 Annie E. Casey Foundation , which advocates for disadvantaged
children.  The populations counts from the 2010 census will be
presented to President  Barack Obama  no later than Dec. 31.  Congressional seats are reapportioned every decade
following completion of the census, with each district supposed
to have roughly the same number of people.  17 States  The Bloomberg analysis shows 17 states will see a change in
their number of representatives, based on how much their
populations have grown or shrunk since the 2000 census. That’s
similar to a projection from  Election Data Services Inc. , a
consulting firm based in Manassas, Virginia, that expects 18
states will see their number of representatives change.  A few more states could join the list, demographers say.  “There are about 13 states that are sitting right at the
edge” of gaining or losing a seat, said  Kimball Brace ,
president of Election Data Services. “I think we will see some
surprises.”  Polidata, a political and demographic analysis  firm  based
in Lake Ridge, Virginia, also  projects  18 states will see a
change in their congressional representation.  New York, Ohio  New York, which has 29 districts, and Ohio, which has 18,
could lose up to two of their House seats, based on the
Bloomberg analysis. Illinois, Iowa, Louisiana, Massachusetts,
Michigan, New Jersey and Pennsylvania are likely to drop one.  Proportionally, Iowa stands to suffer the worst loss, the
projections show. As the state’s population has declined, its
politicians have been preparing for the likelihood their state
will lose one of its five seats.  The changes will give more power to so-called Sunbelt
states such as Texas, which the Bloomberg analysis shows is
likely to have 36 House seats, up from 32. Such a change would
give Texas 38 electoral votes in presidential elections, second
only to California’s 55. A state’s electoral-vote tally is
determined by the number of its House districts plus the two
U.S. Senate seats each has. A candidate needs 270 electoral
votes out of the 535 total to win the presidency.  Texas’s population grew 18.8 percent between 2000 and 2009,
making it now home to 24.7 million, census estimates show.
Republican  Rick Perry  won a fourth term as governor in the Nov.
2 election, putting him in position to help shape districts that
favor his party.  Other Gainers  States likely to gain a seat include Arizona, Florida,
Georgia, Nevada, South Carolina, Utah and Washington, the
Bloomberg analysis shows. The Election Data Services prediction
shows Florida gaining two seats, while Polidata says it expects
a gain of one there.  States will get the detailed data in March that is needed
to redraw their districts in time for the 2012 elections. The
redistricting process often yields oddly shaped boundaries that
politicians hope will give their party the advantage in
elections during the next decade.  Redistricting is primarily handled by state lawmakers in
some states, while others rely on independent commissions that
are meant to reduce the role of political calculations in the
process. California voters last month approved a measure
stripping the state legislature of the responsibility and giving
the assignment to a commission. The state is not projected to
see a change in its total of 53 House districts.  Fewer Voices  In the Congress that convenes in 2013, House delegations
from the Northeast and Midwest will have fewer voices in their
efforts for federal funding for heating assistance, agricultural
subsidies, urban housing and labor programs, among other items.  “The fewer congressmen you have from your state, the less
opportunity you have to persuade” fellow lawmakers “that you
need that particular highway or military base,” said J. Thomas
Wolfe, executive director of the Washington-based  Northeast-
Midwest Institute , a nonpartisan research center that focuses on
the issues facing 18 Northeast and Midwest states.  Wolfe said the region’s loss of political power could have
been worse, if the worst recession since the Great Depression
had not slowed the migration of Americans.  “The financial debacle has caused a lot of the states that
were gaining population to stop gaining,” he said. “The boom
in the Sunbelt states has abated for the moment.”  2010 Elections  Republicans gained ground in directing the redistricting
process through their showing in the 2010 midterm elections.  With a net gain of six seats, the party will occupy
governor offices in at least 29 states starting next year (one
race, in Minnesota, remains undecided). Republicans also will
control 25 state legislatures -- including those in  Ohio , North
Carolina, and  Michigan  -- boosting the party’s power in
statehouses by the most since 1928, the National Conference of
State Legislatures said.  Republicans fell short in some states. In Illinois,
Democrats kept control of the governor’s office and state
legislature, even as they lost Obama’s former U.S. Senate seat.  Robert Groves , the census bureau’s director, declined to
predict how many days before the Dec. 31 deadline his agency
would release the state population totals.  “We will make our Dec. 31 deadline,” he said. “I’m very,
very confident of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 