-- North, South Sudan Leaders Agree to Protect Oil Fields During Referendum
-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 2010-12-07T11:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/north-south-sudan-leaders-agree-to-protect-oil-fields-during-referendum.html
The authorities in northern and
southern Sudan agreed to protect the nation’s oil fields and
workers during the south’s independence referendum next month,
the minister of internal affairs in the southern government
said.  Riek Machar , the vice president of Southern Sudan, and
Sudanese Vice President  Ali Osman Taha , made the agreement
yesterday when they met in the southern town of Paloich,
minister Gier Chaung Aluong said today in a telephone interview
from Juba, Southern Sudan’s capital.  “The two sides agreed that oil will continue to flow
before, during and after the referendum,” he said.  Oil fields in Southern Sudan account for as much as 80
percent of Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily production. Sudan is
sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  Most of the oil in the south is near the border with the
north, in Unity and Upper Nile states.  The referendum, due to be held on Jan. 9, is the climax of
a 2005  peace accord  that ended a two-decade civil war between
the nation’s Muslim north and the oil-producing south, where
Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate.  Under the agreement reached yesterday, a committee of
officials from the north and south will be in charge of
protecting the oil fields, Aluong said.  Combined security forces set up under the peace deal, known
as Joint Integrated Units, will guard territory around the
wells, while soldiers from Southern Sudan’s army will patrol the
areas closest to the production facilities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 