-- NY Jets Coach Rex Ryan Is Handed Biggest `Whipping' by Patriots' Belichick
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-12-07T07:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/ny-jets-coach-rex-ryan-is-handed-biggest-whipping-by-patriots-belichick.html
Rex Ryan  said  Bill Belichick  handed
him the biggest whipping of his coaching career.  The New York Jets were thrashed 45-3 in New England last
night, giving the Patriots the outright lead in their division
and a possible playoff advantage.  “I came in here to kick his butt,” Ryan said after the
nationally televised game. “He ended up kicking mine.”  The Patriots improved to 10-2, the best record in the
National Football League along with the Atlanta Falcons, and a
game ahead of the 9-3 Jets in the American Football Conference
East Division.  Belichick, whose only loss in December at Gillette Stadium
since it opened in 2002 was against the Jets four years ago,
said the Patriots played their best game of the season to send
the Jets to their worst loss since 1986.  “Tonight was our night,” Belichick told reporters. “The
Jets are a good football team. I’m sure we haven’t heard the
last from them.”  On the Jets’ first possession, Ryan ordered a 53-yard field
goal attempt in winds gusting to 24 mph. The kick fell short,
giving the Patriots possession at their 43-yard line. New
England began a six-play, 57-yard drive that ended with a
touchdown from running back  BenJarvus Green-Ellis  and a 10-0
lead for the home team.  “In warmups, he was hitting it,” Ryan said of kicker  Nick Folk . “That’s where we thought he was good from.”  Muffed Punt  The Jets then moved backward a yard in three plays and
muffed a 12-yard punt to give New England the ball at New York’s
32-yard line. Less than two minutes later, Patriots quarterback
 Tom Brady  found  Deion Branch  for a 19-yard touchdown that made
it 17-0.  The Jets drove 46 yards in eight plays in the second
quarter to set up a 39-yard field goal by Folk for their only
score.  Ryan, who once said he  wouldn’t kiss  Belichick’s Super Bowl
rings, said he has a long list of things to work on before the
Jets play the Miami Dolphins in New York on Dec. 12.  Quarterback  Mark Sanchez , who led the team to comeback
victories in recent weeks against the Detroit Lions and Houston
Texans, completed 17 of 33 passes for 164 yards while throwing
three interceptions. Brady completed 21 of 29 passes for 326
yards and four touchdowns.  “They started awful fast and instead of fighting to come
back like we usually do, I threw some bad balls,” Sanchez said.  The quarterback was forced to throw more than he wanted to
because of the position the team was in, Ryan said.  “That’s what happens when you get behind by one zillion
points,” the coach said.  Woodhead’s Revenge  Danny Woodhead , who was cut by the Jets in September in a
move that Ryan last week  said he regretted , capped New York’s
misery by catching a 50-yard pass to set up a fourth-quarter
touchdown.  Ryan said he was especially disappointed because the Jets
had looked strong in practice last week. The loss of defensive
signal caller  Jim Leonhard  to injury didn’t account for the
unit’s poor performance, he said.  “The next man’s got to stand up,” Ryan said. “Leonhard
wasn’t going to make a 45-point difference.”  While he insisted the Jets weren’t humiliated, Ryan said
his players will have to cope better if other teams try to use
New England’s tactics against them.  “It’s the biggest butt whipping I’ve ever taken as a
coach,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  