-- Obama Says Tax-Cut Deal Will Make `Real Difference' as Some Democrats Balk
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/obama-says-tax-compromise-will-spare-middle-class-americans-rate-increase.html
President  Barack Obama  defended the
tax-cut deal he reached with Republican leaders as a pragmatic
compromise grounded in the realities of families who otherwise
could have seen their taxes rise or  jobless  benefits halted.  Obama, confronting complaints from Democrats in Congress
that he gave too much ground by keeping lower rates for the
wealthiest Americans for two more years, made no apologies. He
said he was unwilling to risk a broad tax increase on Jan. 1
that would have made middle-class families and the economic
recovery “collateral damage” in “a political fight.”  “This isn’t an abstract debate,” Obama said at a news
conference yesterday. “This is real money, for real people,
that will make a real difference in the lives of the folks who
sent us here.”  He said he’d fight to let the tax cuts for the highest-
earning people expire in two years, as they would under the
accord. Even as he justified yielding to Republican demands to
extend the tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush , he
said his opponents shouldn’t read that as weakness.  “I will be happy to see the Republicans test whether or
not I’m itching for a fight on a whole range of issues,” Obama
said. “I suspect they will find I am.”  John Pitney , a government professor at Claremont McKenna
College in Claremont, California, said Obama needs to convince
his base he is still willing to stand up to the Republicans.  “He’s drawing lines in the sand after the sand has been
kicked in his face,” Pitney said. “He’s trying to reassure
his base this compromise is not necessarily a preview of the
next two years.”  Echoes of Reagan  Pitney said Obama’s position bore “striking parallels”
to a dilemma President  Ronald Reagan  faced when he agreed to
tax increases in the early 1980s and also had to reassure core
supporters.  Under the terms of the deal, which Obama discussed with
Democratic congressional leaders last night, the president
agreed on the two-year extension of all current tax rates in
exchange for an additional 13 months of federal unemployment
insurance for the long-term jobless and cutting the payroll tax
by $120 billion for a year.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said the response from
Democrats “has not been very good.” The addition of an estate
tax provision is a “bridge too far,” she told reporters.  House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat,
said a continued tax break for the wealthiest Americans “is
not warranted.” House Democrats haven’t decided whether they
will support the compromise, he said, and Pelosi and Hoyer
stopped short of saying they would block the deal.  ‘A Long Game’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada said Democrats
in that chamber have “wide-ranging” concerns about the plan.  Obama said Democrats should remember that the two-year
extension allows for renewed debate over the issue during the
2012 presidential campaign and that the struggle to enact the
party’s priorities is “a long game” and “not a short game.”  He portrayed his Republican opponents as obstructionist
“hostage-takers” whose “Holy Grail” is “tax cuts for the
wealthy.”  He declined to say how quickly he expected the economy to
accelerate or how fast unemployment, which was at  9.8 percent 
in November, will come down.  “This package will help strengthen the recovery,” he
said. “That I’m confident about.”  Payroll Tax  If Congress agrees, the deal would leave in place the 10,
15, 25, 28, 33 and 35 percent marginal tax rates created in
2001. It would also preserve for two years the 15 percent tax
rate on most capital gains and dividends, and would temporarily
index the alternative minimum tax for inflation.  The agreement would extend aid for the long-term
unemployed. And to spur hiring, the payroll tax -- which funds
Social Security and Medicare -- would be cut by 2 percentage
points during 2011.  The plan would set the estate tax at a top rate of 35
percent, which applies after a $5 million tax-free allowance
per individual. That rate would be the lowest since 1931 -- not
counting 2010, when the rate was zero and replaced with a
capital gains tax that applies when inherited assets are sold.  The proposed payroll tax cut equals a $115 billion
increase in wage and salary income that could result in
Americans spending $108 billion more than has been forecast,
according to Deutsche Bank Securities economists  Joseph LaVorgna ,  Carl Riccadonna  and  Brett Ryan .  Boosting GDP  That would boost gross domestic product by an additional
0.7 percentage points, bringing inflation-adjusted growth for
the fourth quarter of next year to a 4 percent annual rate,
they said in a note to clients.  “The payroll tax holiday could give the economy an added
fillip next year in addition to any incremental benefit from
improving financial conditions, the full extension of the Bush-
era tax cuts and the expanded business investment tax credit,”
LaVorgna, Riccadonna and Ryan wrote.  Stocks rose and Treasuries fell yesterday, as the deal
offset concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.1 percent to
1,223.78 at 4 p.m. after earlier climbing as much as 1 percent.
The 10-year Treasury yield jumped 20 basis points to 3.13
percent.  Biden’s Message  Vice President  Joe Biden  went to a lunch yesterday with
the Senate Democratic Caucus to give the senators a more
detailed presentation of the deal.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein  said Biden’s message was that the
compromise represented the best deal possible. The California
Democrat said she is reviewing the details and wants to see an
assessment of the cost and impact on the economy.  “If we do vote for it, how sure can we be that it will in
fact spawn jobs and pump up the economy?” she said.  Treasury Department aide  Gene Sperling  said most Democrats
will end up backing the package.  Democrats “are going to want to be on the side of
supporting something this strong for working-class families,”
Sperling said on Bloomberg Television. “There is no question
this package is going to make unemployment lower than what it
would have been.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net 
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  