-- Obama Summons CEOs to White House for Talks as He Seeks Change
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/obama-brings-ceos-to-white-house-huddle-as-44th-president-changes-himself.html
The president who promised change
for a country that was brought to the brink of depression is
seeking advice from business leaders two years later for what
may be his own makeover as he tries to find jobs for 15 million
unemployed Americans.  President  Barack Obama  has met with  Michael Duke , chief
executive officer of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,  Alan Lafley , a
former CEO of  Procter & Gamble Co. , and  Steven Reinemund ,
former chairman and CEO of  PepsiCo Inc.  He has also spoken with
former President  Bill Clinton . More discussions are on the way.  “Over the next several weeks I’m going to be meeting with
my economic team, with business leaders and others to develop
specific policies and budget recommendations for the coming
year,” Obama, whose Democratic Party last month lost its U.S.
House majority in its worst defeat since 1938, said yesterday
during a speech in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.  For all his achievements since he was inaugurated Jan. 20,
2009 -- reviving General Motors Co. from bankruptcy, moving to
expand health coverage to some 30 million uninsured Americans,
and creating or saving what the White House says are 3.3
million jobs with a stimulus program -- Obama still “has a
jobs problem,” says  Paul Begala , a Democratic strategist.  “The beginning of the recovery is when you stop
pretending it’s merely a political problem or a messaging
problem,” said Begala, who served as an aide to Clinton when
Democrats lost the House and the Senate in 1994.  Rolling Out Changes  Administration officials and friends of the president say
they expect a gradual rollout of staff changes as well as
initiatives to coordinate with the new Republican power as he
prepares for his State of the Union address in January.  The president, who has opposed extending Bush-era tax cuts
for the highest-income Americans, may have taken a first step
yesterday by agreeing to a two-year extension of the tax cuts
for all income levels to break a “stalemate” between
Democrats and Republicans. He’s also insisting on extending
jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed. His action won
applause from some Republicans yet may cause conflict within
his own party.  The “trick” in restoring  employment  is to channel any
savings from tax incentives into investments in the economy,
says  Greg Mankiw , an economics professor at Harvard University
and former top economic adviser to President  George W. Bush .  Need a ‘Vision’  As some of the senior advisers who steered him through the
first half of his term move on, the president must find a
driving personality to help set priorities and discipline
within the West Wing; a fiscal expert who grasps the nexus
between policy and politics; and a CEO to calm a business
community complaining that the White House isn’t listening.  “They need to lay out their vision,” said  Stan Greenberg ,
a former pollster for Clinton. “People are worried about
America’s economic decline, and he’s got to show them he’s got
a path forward.”  He’ll have to do that with a team that so far isn’t top
tier, say observers such as New Hampshire Senator  Judd Gregg , a
Republican who was once asked to serve as Obama’s first
Commerce secretary.  “They’ve lost their first team,” Gregg said. “What they
really need are people who understand how to communicate in the
legislature effectively,” said Gregg, who added that he’d “be
happy” to fill such a void.  Forecasting 2012  Obama’s re-election prospects depend heavily on the
economy.  Ray Fair , a Yale University economics professor who
developed a computer model to predict presidential election
outcomes, said he believes Obama will win in 2012 with 55.9
percent of the vote.  That scenario is based on Fair’s forecast that the economy
will be growing 4.7 percent in 2012. He says the Federal
Reserve’s aggressive monetary policy, the fiscal stimulus from
a continuation of the Bush tax cuts, and a rising  stock market 
will boost the economy.  Fair says the election would be closer under more modest
economic growth along the lines of consensus forecasts.  The median forecast for gross domestic product growth in
2012 is 3 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists in November. Under that scenario, Fair’s model
predicts a 50.8 percent vote for Obama, with a 2.5-percentage-
point error margin.  “Basically, too close to call,” said Fair.  The stock market has rebounded from the worst U.S.
recession since the Great Depression: The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  is up 44 percent from the final market close of Bush’s
administration.  Beyond the Moment  David Axelrod , Obama’s senior adviser, said the crises the
administration faced forced tough decisions that resulted in
negative political consequences.  “But the answer to those is not to remake yourself or
trade in your principles or philosophy for something that you
think is more serviceable to the moment,” he said.  White House Chief of Staff  Pete Rouse  is conducting an
internal review that covers personnel, policy and political
strategy. The most prominent decision so far, aides say, is
Axelrod’s anticipated departure after the State of the Union
speech and the addition of former campaign manager  David Plouffe .  In addition to corporate chiefs, Obama has sought counsel
from former Senate Democratic Leader  Tom Daschle ;  John Podesta ,
director of the Center for American Progress; and former chief
of staff  Rahm Emanuel , who stepped down in October to run for
mayor of Chicago.  “He has to build a governing coalition, and it can’t
include only those people who were wildly enthusiastic about
him because that’s not 50 percent,” said former Nebraska
Senator  Bob Kerrey , a Democrat.  New Phase  Obama’s State of the Union speech represents a new phase -
- both in his political fortunes and for the economy -- where
he will look at the long term and how the U.S. competes in the
global economy in the 21st century, aides said.  In his speech yesterday, Obama said the nation faces a
“Sputnik moment” in the challenge to train a workforce to
compete, referring to the Soviet Union’s 1957 satellite launch
that spurred the U.S. to focus on science and math education to
catch up.  “Will there be a set of prescriptions and goals, some of
which may be new? The answer to that is probably yes,” Axelrod
said of the State of the Union address. “But will his basic
philosophy have changed? And the answer to that is no.”  Beyond the message, Obama needs a staff to implement his
vision. The term “fried” is commonly used to describe the
exhaustion level of aides, many of whom transitioned to the
White House after two years of near nonstop campaign work.  “You can see the fatigue in their eyes,” said Democratic
consultant  Bill Carrick .  ‘A Big Debate’  The president is considering whether to bring someone from
the business community as a point person on job creation.  “They’re going to have a big debate with the Republicans
on how to create jobs and how to cut taxes and the deficit,”
said Greenberg. “They need an economic team that’s up to
that.”  Though Obama was weakened by the congressional elections,
he can regain strength as other presidents like  Dwight Eisenhower ,  Harry Truman ,  Ronald Reagan  and Clinton did when
their parties suffered heavy losses, historians said.  Clinton benefited from a rebounding economy and gained
when Republicans shut down the government over a budget impasse.  The recovery was well-established in 1994 and unemployment
 had been falling  for more than two years. By November 1996,
when Clinton won re-election, unemployment had dropped to 5.4
percent and the economy was growing at a 4.4 percent annual
rate.  On Election Day, the  S&P 500  closed up more than 53
percent from its close on the day of the 1994 midterms.  Obama’s economy may not be as kind. The median private
forecast is GDP growth of 3.2 percent for the final quarter of
2012 and an unemployment rate averaging 8.7 percent during the
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists in November.  Still, things may go his way, said  Michael Beschloss , a
historian and author of “Presidential Courage: Brave Leaders
and How They Changed America 1789-1989.” “The three last
presidents who lost Congress were Truman and Eisenhower and
Clinton. All three got re-elected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  