-- Obama Confronts Democrats' Pushback Over Deal on Tax Cuts
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-12-07T15:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/obama-confronts-resistence-from-democrats-over-deal-to-adopt-bush-tax-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  confronted
pushback from fellow Democrats today as he begins the job of
selling his agreement with congressional Republicans to
temporarily sustain all the Bush-era tax cuts.  After almost a week of negotiations between an
administration team led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
and budget director  Jack Lew , Obama announced last night he’ll
accept a deal that would extend current tax rates for high-
income taxpayers for two more years in exchange for extending
federal unemployment insurance for the long-term jobless and
cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion for one year.  While Republicans such as Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  welcomed the compromise, Democrats said they haven’t
committed to the plan and party activists mounted campaigns to
kill it. Vice President  Joe Biden  is being dispatched to the
Senate Democratic Caucus lunch this afternoon to lobby
lawmakers.  “House Democrats have not signed off on this deal,”
Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a member of the House
Democratic leadership, said today on Bloomberg Television. “I
have some serious reservations.”  Obama said he made the compromise to break the stalemate
over taxes to ensure rates don’t rise for middle-income
Americans when the current ones, enacted in 2001 and 2003,
expire on Dec. 31. He said that while he still believes the
nation can’t afford to permanently extend the reduced top tax
rates, raising taxes for the rest of taxpayers would damage the
fragile economic recovery.  ‘Collateral Damage’  Without the deal, middle-income families would become
“collateral damage for political warfare here in Washington,”
Obama said in televised remarks yesterday. He criticized
Republicans for insisting on permanent tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans “regardless of the cost of impact on the
 deficit .”  In addition to preserving the status quo on Bush policies,
the proposal creates more than $300 billion in new tax cuts for
wage-earners, wealthy families, and corporations.  Stocks rose, copper and gold climbed to all-time highs and
Treasuries fell after word of the agreement, offsetting concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will spread further.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  jumped 0.8 percent to
1,233.10 at 9:57 a.m., reaching its highest levels since
September 2008. The  Nasdaq Composite Index  rose 0.9 percent
2,617.71. The  Dollar Index  fell 0.3 percent. Copper rose to a
31-month high in New York and gold for delivery in February
jumped to as much as a record $1,430.50 an ounce.  White House Meeting  Obama met yesterday afternoon at the White House meeting
with Democratic congressional leaders to outline what he called
a “framework” for compromise tax legislation.  Van Hollen characterized those discussions as “lively,”
though “not overheated.”  Van Hollen said he understood that the president “doesn’t’
want to play Russian roulette” with the economy. Still, he
said, “a number of us think there could have been a better
result here.”  House Democrats will meet later today to air some of their
concerns, he said. One of the sticking points is the provision
that would set the top rate of the tax on estates at 35 percent,
which applies after a $5 million tax allowance per individual.  “The question is, was that really necessary as part of
this package,” Van Hollen said. “I’m not convinced it was.”  In a letter to House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California
circulated yesterday, Representative  Peter Welch  of Vermont and
at least five other Democrats urged her not to agree to the
administration’s deal.  Resistance  “We support extending tax cuts in full to 98 percent of
American taxpayers, as the president initially proposed,” Welch
wrote. “He should not back down. Nor should we.”  Jim Manley , a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, was noncommittal.  “Now that the president has outlined his proposal, Senator
Reid plans on discussing it with his caucus tomorrow,” Manley
said.  McConnell, of Kentucky, said in a statement that he was
“cautiously optimistic” that congressional Democrats “will
have the same openness to preventing tax hikes that the
administration has already shown.”  An administration official said the president was happy
with the agreement because it would give the economy a boost.  Unemployment Aid  Obama won his biggest prize: a 13-month extension of
unemployment insurance, the official said, speaking on condition
of anonymity. The White House also counted as a win an agreement
from Republicans to renew a refundable child-care tax credit,
the earned income tax credit, tuition tax credits and a 2
percentage point reduction in payroll taxes, among other items,
the official said.  The compromise amounts to a couple hundred billion in tax
cuts that no one thought possible just days ago, the official
said, adding that the deal will play better across the country
than in Washington, D.C.  The Office of Management and Budget said it doesn’t yet
have an estimated cost estimate for the package, spokeswoman  Meg Reilly  said in an e-mail.  Lawrence Mishel , president of the Economic Policy
Institute, a Washington group funded in part by labor unions,
said Obama extracted some concessions from Republicans that may
help the deal advance in Congress.  Future Fight  “Economically, if you were going to do a deal, I think
this is better than expected and will provide some help to the
economy, but we need a lot more help,” he said. “I think
people generally wanted to have a fight to show who was for the
rich people and who was for the rest of us. That fight now will
take place in the 2012 election.”  If Congress agrees, the deal would leave in place the 10,
15, 25, 28, 33 and 35 percent marginal tax rates created in
2001. It would also preserve for two years the 15 percent tax
rate on most capital gains and dividends, and would temporarily
index the alternative minimum tax for inflation.  In addition, the plan outlined by Obama would extend aid
for the long-term unemployed for an additional 13 months. To
help spur hiring, the payroll tax -- which funds Social Security
and Medicare -- would be cut by 2 percentage points during 2011.  The payroll tax cut would apply to all wage-earners, an
administration official told reporters on a conference call.
That would be an $800 savings for individuals with an income of
$40,000. Those who earn salaries of more than $106,800 would
save a maximum of $2,136. The proposal would cost the government
$120 billion, another administration official said.  Payroll Taxes  The 2 percentage point cut represents a savings of about 
a third on the 6.2 percent share of the tax workers normally pay.
Their employers get no benefit under the proposal.  The  unemployment rate  rose to a seven-month high of 9.8
percent in November as payroll growth slowed to 39,000 from
172,000, according to the Labor Department.  The compromise plan would set the estate tax at a top rate
of 35 percent, which applies after a $5 million tax-free
allowance per individual. That rate would be the lowest since
1931 --not counting 2010, when the rate was zero and replaced
with a complicated capital gains tax that applies when inherited
assets are sold.  Lee Farris, who tracks estate tax policy for the liberal
advocacy group United for a Fair Economy in Boston, called
Obama’s acceptance of the 35 percent rate “inconceivable.”  “A weaker estate tax, coupled with the extension of the
Bush tax cuts for the wealthy, is only going to end in the
richest 1 percent owning even more of our country’s wealth,”
she said.  Business Breaks  Obama also endorsed allowing a full deduction for equipment
purchases that currently must be deducted over time. The
proposal would accelerate $200 billion in tax savings for
companies in the first year and benefit 1.5 million companies
and several million individuals who run businesses, according to
White House estimates.  Total revenue lost from the so-called expensing proposal
over 10 years would be $30 billion; companies taking the
immediate deductions wouldn’t be able to write off their
expenses through depreciation in years to come.  The administration officials said some elements of the plan
still have to be negotiated between the administration and
lawmakers. They include whether to renew dozens of expired or
expiring tax provisions. Among them: The Build America Bond
program, the fastest-growing segment of the $2.8 trillion
municipal debt market.  The subsidy, which expires Dec. 31, was created by Obama’s
2009 economic-stimulus plan. More than $173.5 billion of the
taxable securities have been sold, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The U.S. pays 35 percent of the interest costs on the
debt. A Senate bill would cut that rate to 32 percent.
Republicans may oppose the measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  