-- Oil Supply Falls in Survey on Refinery Demand: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-12-07T20:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/oil-inventories-decline-in-survey-on-demand-from-refiners-energy-markets.html
U.S. oil  supplies  probably fell for
the first time in three weeks on increased demand from refiners
as they boosted production, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories  dropped 1.4 million barrels, or 0.4 percent, in
the seven days ended Dec. 3 from 359.7 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 16 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Fourteen of the respondents forecast
a decrease and two projected a gain.  The  crack spread , or profit from processing three barrels
of oil into two of gasoline and one of heating oil, jumped 23
percent last week.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  Valero Energy Corp. 
started units last week after completing repairs. Companies shut
plants for maintenance in autumn when gasoline use falls and
winter heating-oil demand has yet to increase.  “We can expect crude oil supplies to drop because some
refineries are coming out of maintenance,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund
focusing on energy. “There’s been tightness of supply in New
York Harbor so they have every incentive to ramp up output.”  Gasoline surged to $2.3699 a gallon yesterday on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the highest intraday level since May
4. The contract dropped 1.87 cents, or 0.8 percent, to settle at
$2.323 today.  Inventories along the East Coast fell 1.8 percent in the
week ended Nov. 26, the Energy Department reported last week.
Irving Oil Corp. shut a unit at its  Saint John  refinery in New
Brunswick, which supplies New York Harbor, the delivery point
for the Nymex contract.  Seasonal Decline  Refiners along the Gulf Coast also are lowering stockpiles
to reduce their assets at the end of the year, said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.
Inventories in the region, which holds almost half of U.S.
refinery capacity, have dropped by an average 11.2 million
barrels during the month of December over the past four years.  “Crude oil supplies tend to decline seasonably,” Evans
said. “There’s a cash incentive for refiners to reduce crude-
oil inventories along the Gulf Coast because they are taxed on
year-end physical stocks.”  Oil for January delivery slipped 69 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to settle at $88.69 a barrel on the Nymex. Futures climbed as
much as $1.38, or 1.5 percent, to $90.76 a barrel, the highest
intraday price in 26 months.  Refineries probably  increased operating rates 1 percentage
point to 83.6 percent last week, according to the survey.  Exxon Mobil said on Nov. 30 that units returned to service
at its refinery in Torrance, California, and operations are
“normal” after maintenance. The plant shut because of a power
supply failure the previous week. The company said on Dec. 2
that it isolated a malfunction in one of the fuel gas treating
units at its Baton Rouge, Louisiana, facility.  Valero Plant  Valero started a unit at its Corpus  Christi West  refinery
in Texas that had been closed for maintenance,  Bill Day , a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail on Dec. 1.  The crack spread ended last week at $11.492 a barrel. The
margin was up 0.4 percent to $10.894 at 2:45 p.m. today, based
on New York futures prices.  Refinery operating rates tumbled 2.9 percentage points in
the week ended Nov. 26, the biggest decline since August, the
Energy Department said last week.  “The big drop in refinery utilization may have been tied
to Thanksgiving,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “We
should see the resurgence of refinery utilization rates in this
report, which should reduce crude-oil stocks and send prices
higher.”  The U.S. Thanksgiving holiday occurred on Nov. 25. Crude
oil stockpiles have dropped in two of the past three years
during the week of the holiday.  U.S. Imports  “Crude supplies are expected to show a significant
decrease as imports likely slipped further in follow-through
from the previous week’s sizable decline,”  Jim Ritterbusch ,
president of Ritterbusch & Associates, a Galena, Illinois,
consulting firm, said in a report.  Imports of crude oil shrank 6.4 percent to 8.45 million
barrels a day in the week ended Nov. 26, the fourth decline in
five weeks.  Gasoline stockpiles  slipped 300,000 barrels, or 0.1
percent, from 210.2 million, the survey showed. Seventeen
respondents gave product-supply estimates. Nine of the analysts
projected a decline and eight forecast an increase.  Supplies of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably fell 900,000 barrels, or 0.6
percent, from 158.1 million, the survey showed. Ten of the
analysts anticipated a slide, six projected an increase and one
said there was no change.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 