-- Hong Kong H Shares to Beat China A Shares on Fed Easing, Robeco's Mio Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T04:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/hong-kong-s-h-shares-to-beat-china-a-shares-robeco-s-mio-says.html
Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong 
will outperform mainland stocks in the first half of next year
as U.S. stimulus measures drive funds into the city and China
policy tightening intensifies, according to Robeco Hong Kong Ltd.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index has fallen 6.3
percent since Nov. 12, when Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended
clients exit a 2010 bet that Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks, or
H shares, will gain. The CSI 300 Index has slid 3.8 percent in
the same period as the government twice ordered banks to set
aside larger reserves after raising interest rates in October to
tame accelerating inflation.  “H shares may outperform in the first half and A shares
may outperform in the second half,”  Victoria Mio , senior
portfolio manager at Robeco, which oversees $196 billion, said
in a phone interview from Hong Kong yesterday. “The markets
will be quite similar to this year, up-and-down market, but
overall going up.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of 40 companies has
advanced 0.1 percent this year before today, compared with an 11
percent drop for the CSI 300, which comprises 300 A share stocks
listed on the Shanghai or Shenzhen stock exchanges.  The Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing program will spur
more funds into Hong Kong, while the Chinese government may
attempt to limit money from entering the country to curb asset
bubbles and slow inflation, Mio said.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in an interview broadcast
on Dec. 5 by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program that central
bank purchases of Treasuries beyond the $600 billion announced
are “possible” given that U.S. unemployment may take five
years to fall to a normal level.  Market Push  “While the quantitative easing is going on, it will give a
push to the stock market in H shares but less so for A shares,”
Mio said. “Once quantitative easing is over, China’s tightening
moves may also be eased, A shares will positively react to less
tightening and then the H shares will have less of a push from
the quantitative easing in the second half.”  Hong Kong has no restrictions on equity purchases by
foreigners while China allows only qualified overseas
institutional investors to invest in mainland shares under the
current combined quota of $30 billion. The city’s currency peg
to the U.S. dollar prevents its monetary authority from raising
rates.  China’s policymakers may be “more aggressive” than
investors anticipate with policy tightening measures next year.
Mio said. The central bank may boost rates by a quarter of a
percentage point in each of the three months, raise reserve
requirements for banks and allow the yuan to appreciate by up to
8 percent against the dollar, she said.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October, more than
the 4 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28
economists, the statistics bureau reported Nov. 11. The
government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  The government will probably raise rates by 75 basis
points in the next seven months, Deutsche Bank AG said in a
report yesterday. Standard Chartered Plc predicted four more
rate increases by the end of June, while Credit Suisse Group AG
said China may boost borrowing costs by about 150 basis points
by the end of next year. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The period around this weekend may be a “window” for
China to raise rates, the China Securities Journal reported on
its front page today, citing analysts at domestic banks and
brokerages.  “The government has learned from the last tightening that
they can’t be too slow,” said Mio. “The general growth is
going to push the stock market upward but the tightening is
going to create volatility in between.”  Cheap Stocks  China’s yuan-denominated stocks are  “relatively cheap,” 
and will remain “relatively reasonable,” Mio said. The CSI 300
trades at 18.7 times reported earnings, compared with 22.4 at
the start of 2010.  Mio’s top picks in China are  consumer discretionary  and
technology stocks. She has an “underweight” allocation for
financial, material and consumer staples companies. The
government’s curbs on bank lending are expected to damp outlook
for banks and property developers, Mio said.  Robeco is part of Rabobank Group.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance from  Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  