-- Longest Bonds Beating Treasuries Show Inflation in Control: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-07T14:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/longest-bonds-beating-treasuries-show-inflation-in-control-canada-credit.html
Canadian long-term  bond yields  are
falling to the lowest level in more than four years relative 
to U.S. Treasuries on speculation that inflation in the world’s
10th-largest economy will remain in check.  Canada’s 30-year bond yields traded 67 basis points below
equivalent-maturity Treasuries today, nearing the 75 basis-point
 spread  on April 5, the widest since May 2006. The Bank of Canada
kept its target overnight rate at 1 percent and underlined
“slightly weaker” second-half domestic economic growth. It
predicted in an October report inflation would fall to 2 percent
by the end of 2012, from 2.4 percent in October.  Investors should purchase Canadian long bonds versus their
U.S. counterparts because fluctuations in the nation’s  consumer
price index  are less volatile than its southern neighbor’s,
according to Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. The Federal
Reserve is also shunning 30-year Treasuries in its $600 billion
bond-buying program known as quantitative easing.  “The case for outperformance of 30-year Canadian bonds is
a strong one,”  Mohammed Ahmed , a rates strategist at CIBC World
Markets in Toronto, said. “I expect this to persist.”  One-month historic volatility, which measures the rate of
fluctuations of a bond price, was 11 percent yesterday on the
1.25 percent inflation-linked Treasury due in July 2020. That
compared with 7.6 percent for the 4.25 percent Canadian
inflation-linked bond due December 2021, Bloomberg data showed.  Matching Liabilities  Pension funds and insurance companies are buying longer-
term Canadian bonds to match liabilities, and supply is
constrained because the federal government is selling fewer
bonds as its deficit shrinks, according to  John Braive , who
oversees about C$42 billion ($41 billion) in fixed-income assets
at CIBC Global Asset Management.  The  gap  between the Canadian 10-year to 30-year yield curve
and the equivalent U.S. curve ended yesterday at 84 basis
points, which is “near the widest going back to 1970,” Braive
said via e-mail.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporations rather than the
federal government remained yesterday at 143 basis points, or
1.43 percentage points, from Dec. 3, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. The spread was 142 on Nov. 30.
Yields fell to 3.91 percent, from 3.99 percent last week, when
they topped 4 percent for the first time since July.  The securities lost 0.85 percent in November as a drop in
bond prices drove yields to 3.91 percent on average, from 3.64
percent on Oct. 31. They are down 0.2 percent this month.  Provincial Bond Market  In the provincial bond market, relative yields widened
yesterday to 55 basis points. Yields fell to 3.21 percent, from
3.27 percent on Dec. 3. The securities lost 1.2 percent in
November, the biggest loss since December 2009, and are down 0.7
percent this month.  New Brunswick sold C$300 million in a reoffering of its 4.5
percent bonds due in June 2020, bringing the total outstanding
to C$1.2 billion. Canada’s third-smallest province paid 79 basis
points over benchmarks to sell the debt.  The yield on Canada’s 10-year government bonds climbed
seven basis points to 3.20 percent, after rising seven basis
points last week. The price of the 3.5 percent security due in
June 2020 dropped 57 cents to C$102.49.  Canada will auction C$3.2 billion of three-year bonds
tomorrow. The securities mature in March 2014. The previous
auction of three-year bonds, held on Aug. 4, drew an average
yield of 1.891 percent and a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.78 times.  In contrast to the 30-year yields, those of the two-year
and 10-year bonds trade higher than their U.S. counterparts,
with the spreads over Treasuries ending yesterday at 114 basis
points and 20 basis points, respectively.  Provincial Long Bonds  CIBC’s Braive wouldn’t comment on whether he’s buying
Canadian 30-year bonds. He said he expects provincial long-bond
issuance to be “strong.”  Government bonds had their worst month of the year in
November, down 1 percent, compared with a drop of about 0.7
percent for Treasuries. They’re down 0.3 percent in December.  The Bank of Canada held its  target lending rate  at 1
percent for a second straight meeting, matching the forecast of
all 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Policy makers said they
will remain careful about future increases as falling exports
and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis hinder the economic recovery.  Fed Purchases  The Federal Reserve announced $600 billion in bond
purchases on Nov. 3 in so-called quantitative easing measures to
spur growth and cut unemployment. Canada’s central bank, in
contrast, has been easing liquidity as the government predicts a
return to budget balance in five years. Canada’s economy has
recouped all jobs lost during the recession. The U.S.
unemployment rate unexpectedly rose to 9.8 percent last month.  “Quantitative easing in the U.S. brings with it the risk
of inflation, and there’s no parallel in Canada,”  Eric Lascelles , chief economist and strategist at TD Securities, a
unit of Canada’s second-biggest bank, said by phone from
Toronto. “Canada’s long-bond market hasn’t suffered the same
consequences. It fits into a broader narrative that the
structural attractions for Canada are much greater than the U.S.
and they apply not just to a lack of quantitative easing, but
equally to inflation-fighting credibility.”  ‘Explicit’ Policy  Canada maintains an “explicit” inflation-fighting policy,
and the U.S. doesn’t, Lascelles said.  The outperformance in  Canadian 30-years  is more pronounced
in the “real,” or nominal side, rather than the inflation-
protected notes, he said.  “The gap has opened up in real yields and less so in the
inflation part,” Lascelles said. “You fall back on the supply
story and just the confidence of being paid back. It’s the
fiscal-position story.”  Canadian 30-year breakeven  rates , which measure the yield
gap between inflation-linked and cash bonds and gauge price
expectations, ended yesterday at 2.39 percent, versus 2.54
percent in the U.S.  Canadian real yields -- the yield minus the annual
inflation rate -- widened to 1.04 percent at the end of
November. U.S. real yields stood at 2.93 percent.  Canada’s government bonds with maturities greater than 15
years have lost 2.3 percent since Nov. 2, the day before the Fed
announced quantitative easing, according to a Merrill Lynch
index. That’s compares with a 4.4 percent loss posted by an
index of 15-year-plus Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  