-- Onyx Drug Reduced Cancer in a Third of Patients With Myeloma in Study
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-07T21:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/onyx-drug-reduced-cancer-in-a-third-of-patients-with-myeloma-in-new-study.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s 
experimental drug carfilzomib shrank the tumors of one-third of
study patients with multiple myeloma, a deadly blood cancer. The
company’s shares surged the most in four months in New York
trading.  Among 257 patients who had failed to improve on previous
treatments, 24 percent had their cancer reduced by half while 10
percent had malignancy reduced by one-quarter, Onyx said in a
statement. The reduction in tumor size was maintained for a
median of eight months.  Onyx, based in Emeryville, California, will use the results
to seek accelerated approval from U.S. regulators by the middle
of next year, Chief Medical Officer  Michael Kauffman  said in an
interview on Dec. 1. The results were good for a cancer that is
uniformly fatal, said  David Siegel , division chief for myeloma
at  John Theurer Cancer Center  at Hackensack University Medical
Center in Hackensack, New Jersey.  “You get response, the response lasts and the drug is
extremely well tolerated,” Siegel said in a telephone interview
on Dec. 3. “That’s what we’re asking for in a drug like this.”  Onyx may have worldwide revenue from carfilzomib of $391
million in 2015,  Phil Nadeau , a New York-based analyst for Cowen
& Co., said in note to investors on Nov. 4.  The company rose $3.95, or 13 percent, to $33.29 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading , in Onyx’s biggest
single-day jump since July 26. The shares have gained 13 percent
this year.  The study, presented today at the American Society of
Hematology  meeting  in Orlando, Florida, followed 266 patients
who had relapsed or failed to improve after being treated with
medications, including  Celgene  Corp.’s Revlimid and Thalomid and
 Johnson & Johnson ’s Velcade. Of those, 257 were evaluated for
their response.  Competing Drugs  If approved, carfilzomib would compete with Summit, New
Jersey-based Celgene Corp.’s Revlimid and Thalomid, which had
combined  sales  of $2.14 billion in 2009. Another drug, Velcade,
brought combined revenue of $1.43 billion to New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson  and Osaka, Japan-based Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.  Multiple myeloma, the second-most-common blood cancer,
causes tumors to form in bone marrow and inhibits the immune
system. In the U.S., 20,000 new cases are diagnosed each year,
and about 10,650 people are expected to die this year from the
disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Onyx may get accelerated approval on a conditional basis
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, on the basis of the
current studies, if the agency concludes that carfilzomib
reduces tumors to the degree that it’s likely to extend
patients’ lives. The company would then have to conduct larger,
confirmatory studies.  Entering the Market  Early approval may allow carfilzomib to enter the market in
2012 on the basis of current studies, said  Howard Liang , an
analyst for Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston. If the agency
declines to grant accelerated approval and requires Onyx to
complete a 700-patient study now under way, the soonest it may
bring the drug to market would be 2014, he said.  The earlier date would maximize sales of carfilzomib before
the drug faces competition from a cheaper, generic version of
Velcade, which may come in 2017, Liang said.  Carfilzomib, like Velcade, belongs to a class of medicines
known as proteasome inhibitors that cause cancer cells to die by
interrupting their ability to chew up proteins. If the proteins
aren’t digested, they overwhelm the cell and kill it, said
Kauffman, of Onyx.  Onyx acquired carfilzomib with its November 2009 purchase
of South San Francisco-based Proteolix Inc. for $276 million.
Onyx’s only current product is Nexavar, a liver-cancer drug
marketed with  Bayer AG  of Leverkusen, Germany. The treatment
generated 2009 sales of $843.5 million, an Onyx spokeswoman,
Lori Melancon, said in an e-mail.  Nerve Pain  One advantage of carfilzomib is that it causes less of a
type of nerve pain known as peripheral neuropathy than Velcade
and Thalomid, said Siegel, who led the study. When Onyx
researchers analyzed those patients who already had neuropathy
when they started taking carfilzomib, they found that less than
1 percent of the patients had their neuropathy worsen. That
analysis was released Dec. 5 at the hematology meeting.  “Other drugs cause a lot of neuropathy; this drug causes
almost none,” Siegel said. As a result, “most patients are
capable of continuing on the therapy.”  Onyx also is testing carfilzomib in combination with
Revlimid for patients who have just been diagnosed and haven’t
been treated with other medications. In preliminary results
involving 31 patients, two-thirds showed little or no signs of
cancer after eight rounds of treatment, the University of
Michigan said in a statement. After a median of six months, all
the patients were still alive, the university in Ann Arbor said
in its statement.  The Michigan study was led by  Andrzej Jakubowiak , director
of the multiple myeloma program at the university’s
Comprehensive Cancer Center. The results were presented
yesterday at the hematology meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 