-- Fees, Rivalries Hurt U.S. Options Growth, Tabb Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-12-07T21:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/option-market-growth-hindered-in-u-s-by-fees-exchange-rivalry-tabb-says.html
Competition among nine U.S. options
exchanges following regulatory changes aimed at saving money for
investors is causing some of the biggest participants to reduce
their trading, a Tabb Group LLC report said.  Hedge funds and proprietary firms account for a smaller
share of volume and are examining their strategies as exchanges
battle for orders with increasingly complex pricing, the New
York-based research firm said in a study. The competition is the
result of 1-cent price increments that were begun by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in January 2007, said  Andy Nybo , the author and a principal at Tabb.  While exchange price models should follow a standard with
clearer descriptions of fees, competition for orders is likely
to increase, causing further confusion about the costs of
trading, the report said. Some institutions are becoming
“jaded” as the nine exchanges alter their rules and pricing
for executing options, Tabb said.  “We trade with market makers and they’ve backed off on
their volume quite a bit,” said  Mike Horn , managing partner at
KCM Options, a Chicago-based firm. He estimated KCM is trading
about the same amount or slightly less than it was this time
last year. “We find it hard to enact trades.”  Market Makers  Almost 406 million options traded on U.S. exchanges in May,
the highest for the year. Since then, the monthly average has
fallen to 311 million, including a low of 277 million in July,
according to data from the Options Clearing Corp. in Chicago.  The interplay between high-frequency traders, who use
strategies that may resemble market makers’ without the same
obligations, brokers and end-users can be confusing, said Nybo.
Complexity is increased by rules, protocols and economic
incentives, including a practice called payment for order flow,
employed to attract volume, he said. Different fees are used to
entice different firms to venues.  The shift to penny increments led exchanges such as NYSE
Arca, owned by  NYSE Euronext , to start paying firms to post bids
and offers on their platforms. Under the system, known as maker-
taker pricing, those executing against the quotes are charged a
fee. On exchanges that relied almost exclusively on market
makers, customers such as individual investors and mutual funds
traded for free.  Compounding the complexity, some markets such as Nasdaq OMX
PHLX and the International Securities Exchange have adopted
hybrid regimes with some rules catering to market makers and
newer pricing geared toward actively traded contracts.  NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  and ISE, owned by
Frankfurt-based Eurex, have their headquarters in New York.  Musical Chairs  “Blame for part of the problem can be placed squarely on
the methods used by exchanges, which are relentless in their
efforts to alter pricing and trading protocols in an effort to
attract order flow,” the report said. The changes, sometimes on
a daily basis, are “taxing options traders’ ability to
understand the most attractive -- and profitable -- trading
opportunities once all fees, charges and assessments are
considered. The result is a game of market-share musical chairs
played to a broken record.”  This year’s options volume through November was 3.58
billion contracts, nearing last year’s 3.61 billion total,
according to Chicago-based  Options Clearing Corp. , which settles
all trading of exchange-listed contracts. Tabb said the
participation of hedge funds and some high-frequency traders,
which have been an “engine of growth” in the markets, is now
less certain.  Options Volume  Last year, total options volume climbed less than 1 percent
after rising more than 20 percent in the previous three years.
This year’s volume, which Nybo predicted would reach 3.8 billion
contracts, would represent a 6 percent increase from 2009.  While exchanges’ fee changes are often geared to high-
frequency firms with the ability to program price tweaks into
computers and a willingness to move orders from one market to
another, those firms also trade more in volatile times, Nybo
said. The CBOE Volatility Index, or  VIX , which measures the cost
of using options as insurance against declines in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index , has averaged 22.9  this year , down from 31.5
last year.  Andrew Brenner , president of U.S. operations at Electronic
Brokerage Systems, a division of Toronto-based Belzberg
Technologies LLC, says reduced volatility rather than changes in
the structure of markets is affecting volume.  High-Frequency Traders  “The increase in the number of options exchanges and the
change in pricing schemes are designed for the more aggressive,
higher-frequency trading firms,” New York-based Brenner said.
His firm provides an electronic trading platform for equities
and options. “If anything, they would embrace these changes,
not shy away from them,” he said.  The prospect of regulatory shifts may also be damping the
use of options. Uncertainty about what the SEC will decide about
proposed rules limiting the fees that exchanges can charge to
access their bids and offers and the 15-month-long discussion
about so-called flash orders are making options less attractive
to some firms, Nybo said.  The fight over fee caps is a concern to firms that may earn
lower payments for posting bids and offers, which are funded
from the charges imposed on those trading with them. Lower
rebates may make it harder to provide better prices and put
maker-taker exchanges at a disadvantage to venues managing
programs that offer brokers other monetary incentives, automated
trading firm Getco LLC told the SEC in a June 23 letter.  Public Comments  The SEC  reopened  the public comment period in July for
flash messages in options, in which order information is shown
to some firms and not others for a second or less. The orders
are used by securities exchanges to keep trades on their venues,
potentially saving retail brokers money, instead of sending them
to rival markets with better quoted prices and higher fees.
Their use hurts firms placing bids and offers on maker-taker
options exchanges by reducing the likelihood they will be
executed against retail and institutional clients, Nybo said.  Exacerbating the skirmish over market share is exchanges’
desire to position themselves for new regulations that could
affect their trading attractiveness and profitability.  CBOE Holdings Inc., which operates the largest venue for
equity derivatives, introduced C2 Options Exchange in October to
provide a market with rules and pricing geared toward high-
frequency firms whose computer servers are based in northern New
Jersey instead of Chicago. C2 is the ninth options venue. Nasdaq
OMX Group, NYSE Euronext and CBOE each operate a pair of equity
derivatives platforms. The International Securities Exchange,
the third-largest exchange by volume, has one venue.  “Ultimately 10 exchanges operating 10 different rules sets
and pricing structures is simply too many exchanges,” Nybo
said. While competition and markets with different trading
models are good for investors, ever-increasing complexity can be
a turnoff to firms, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 