-- Orexigen's Diet Pill Victory at Panel Shows Benefit of Being Last at FDA
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-08T21:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/orexigen-diet-pill-wins-panel-s-backing-as-first-obesity-drug-in-decade.html
Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. ’s success
in winning the first U.S. panel recommendation for a long-sought
prescription diet pill led its shares to almost double and shows
the company benefited from its rivals’ earlier difficulties.  Outside  advisers  to the Food and Drug Administration said
weight-loss benefits of Orexigen’s product, Contrave, exceed the
dangers of elevated pulse and blood pressure and that a large
study on cardiovascular risk can wait until after the drug is
approved. The FDA delayed competing treatments from  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Vivus Inc.  in October after they failed
to win panel backing on safety.  “The fact that they were able to convince the panel not
only that the cardiovascular study can wait, but that the drug
can be approved, is exciting, particularly after we saw the
other obesity drugs voted down,”  Joshua Schimmer , a Leerink
Swann analyst, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s
hard to know to what extent their strategy was altered by the
first two, but it sure as heck didn’t hurt.”  While the FDA isn’t obliged to follow recommendations of
advisers, their support eases concern that had caused Orexigen
shares to drop  more than a third  this year. The La Jolla,
California-based company gained from watching the FDA’s safety
focus and saw that a commitment to minimize risks and conduct
more studies would be needed for approval, Schimmer said.  Stocks Surge  Orexigen  rose $4.01, or 84 percent, to $8.77 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the most in
a single day  since  the shares began trading in April 2007.
Options traders placed record bets on Orexigen last week, saying
a positive panel vote would double the company’s value. Vivus
shares  gained  $1.20, or 15 percent, to $9 as analysts said the
Orexigen recommendation suggests the long-term heart risks with
Vivus’s drug, Qnexa, won’t need to be studied before approval.
Arena jumped 16 cents, or 11 percent, to $1.57.  About 68 percent of American adults are overweight,
raising their risk of diabetes, heart disease, high blood
pressure and cancer, according to the 2008 National Health and
Nutrition Examination  Survey . Almost 34 percent are obese,
measured as a ratio between height and weight.  The three companies and their partners have been in a race
to introduce the first prescription weight-loss pill in more
than a decade. Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG ’s
Xenical, approved in 1999, is the only long-term medicine for
weight loss since Abbott Park, Illinois-based  Abbott
Laboratories ’ Meridia was pulled off the market in October
because of heart risks.  January Deadline  Orexigen and partner  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , of Osaka,
Japan, are scheduled to receive a decision from the FDA by Jan.
31. Schimmer said approval may be delayed while the company and
the agency work out details of the prescribing information and
the new study. He expects Contrave and Qnexa ultimately to win
approval with potential sales of each reaching $1 billion or
more in the U.S.  “We learned about the complex issues surrounding obesity
therapeutics that are important to the FDA and the medical
community, and we did our best to address those issues,”
Orexigen Chief Executive Officer  Michael Narachi  said yesterday
after the vote.  Vivus, based in Mountain View, California, said Oct. 29
that it plans to respond within six weeks to the FDA’s request
for more information about heart risks and birth defects linked
to Qnexa. This would trigger a new two- to six-month review.  “Vivus is encouraged by Tuesday’s advisory committee
meeting because it provides hope for patients that new medical
treatments for obesity are seriously being considered by the
FDA,” the company said today in an e-mail.  Arena’s Lorcaserin  San Diego-based Arena said Oct. 25 that the FDA had
questions about tumors seen in studies of rats taking the diet
drug lorcaserin, which Arena is developing with  Eisai Co.  of
Tokyo. The companies will meet with the agency later this month.  “Arena is pleased to see the recognition of the need for
obesity medications,” the company said in an e-mail today. “At
this time, the company is focused on obtaining FDA approval of
lorcaserin as quickly as possible.”  Contrave, Orexigen’s first product, is a combination of two
approved drugs that target different parts of the brain that
influence appetite and cravings. The pill contains bupropion, an
antidepressant also used to quit smoking, and naltrexone, a
treatment for alcohol and painkiller addiction.  Study Results  Two tablets of Contrave twice a day helped twice as many
patients in studies lose at least 5 percent of their weight
compared with a placebo after 56 weeks. The drug missed the
FDA’s second standard of effectiveness in failing to show at
least a 5 percent benefit over placebo. Patients on the drug
also had higher pulse and blood pressure than patients on
placebo, even after losing weight.  Dissident members of the advisory panel said Contrave
shouldn’t be approved without a large study of heart risks
because it counteracts some of the expected benefits of weight
loss, a signal that it may have long-term complications.  “This drug resembles sibutramine,” said panel member
 Sanjay Kaul , using the chemical name for Meridia. “There is an
opportunity for us to learn from history or else we’re going to
repeat it. We need to make sure we get it right this time.”  Kaul is the director of fellowship training in
cardiovascular diseases at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los
Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 