-- TD Bank Said to Plan Offer for Chrysler Financial
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-12-07T21:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/toronto-dominion-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-chrysler-financial.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank  may reach an
agreement as soon as this week to acquire Chrysler Financial
Corp., the auto-loan company owned by Cerberus Capital
Management LP, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Chrysler Financial may sell for almost $6 billion to $7
billion, which is the company’s book value, or assets minus
liabilities, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Discussions with
Toronto-Dominion could still fall apart, and other potential
 buyers  are talking with Cerberus, the people said. An agreement
could also slip into next week, one person said.  Toronto-Dominion,  Canada’s second-largest bank, has spent
more than C$20 billion ($19.9 billion) expanding in the U.S.
during the past six years. The Toronto-based lender has
purchased banks including Banknorth Group of Portland, Maine,
and Cherry Hill, New Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp. It has a
network of 1,300 branches in 16 U.S. states from Maine to
Florida -- more branches than it has in Canada.  Chief Financial Officer  Colleen Johnston  declined to
comment on Chrysler Financial during a presentation at a
conference in New York today.  “Our current interest is more in more modest-sized deals
that will perhaps give us some distribution or give us asset-
generation capabilities,” she said in response to a question
about the auto-finance firm. “We are not looking at anything on
a significant scale at the moment.”  Recoup Investment  Cerberus is likely to recoup all of its investment in
Chrysler Financial and return some money to investors, according
to the people. Chrysler Financial, based in Farmington Hills,
Michigan, is mostly comprised of old car and truck loans that
are still being paid off by consumers, along with a platform and
technology that a buyer could use to start an auto-lending
business, said two people. Chrysler Financial is not related to
Chrysler Group LLC, the company that is now controlled by
managers from  Fiat SpA .  ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch financial services company,
is also among buyers in talks with Cerberus, the Wall Street
Journal reported.  “This is a different channel for them to tap the retail
client,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall
MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4
billion including Toronto-Dominion shares. “Maybe they view it
that they can bring their  Aaa  rating and fund these assets at a
lower cost.”  FDIC Lenders  Toronto-Dominion Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  said
as recently as this month that the bank is primarily interested
in buying Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.-assisted transactions
and “small” purchases, which he defined in February as having
less than $10 billion in assets.  Wojtek Dabrowski, a Toronto-Dominion spokesman, said the
bank doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation. ING doesn’t
comment on market speculation, spokeswoman  Victorina de Boer 
said in an interview.  Peter Duda , a spokesman for Cerberus,
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Toronto-Dominion rose C$1.31, or 1.9 percent, to C$72.17 in
4:30 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  The Chrysler Financial purchase would be the second-largest
for Toronto-Dominion behind its $7.1 billion acquisition of
Commerce Bancorp in 2008, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Toronto-Dominion was  formed  in 1955 as a combination
of two Canadian banks that trace back to the mid-1800’s.  TD Ameritrade  In addition to its branch network, Toronto-Dominion is the
largest investor in TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., owning about 46
percent of the Omaha, Nebraska-based brokerage.  Clark expressed an interest last month in entering
automobile leasing in Canada, which domestic banks have been
banned from doing since 1980. The Canadian government has been
looking at changing regulations. Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada’s
third-largest bank, purchased as much as $20 billion in auto
loans from General Motors Co. in 2005.  Clark, 63, told reporters in Montreal Nov. 25 that Canadian
banks could expand their automobile leasing business by offering
loans through dealerships rather than in bank branches.  Toronto-Dominion reported last week that fourth-quarter
profit dropped 1.6 percent to C$994 million, led by a decline in
trading and underwriting fees. While profit from the bank’s TD
Securities investment bank dropped 74 percent, earnings more
than doubled at its U.S. consumer banking arm.  U.S. Earnings  Clark has said he expects Toronto-Dominion to earn $1.6
billion a year from its U.S. operations within three years.  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest bank, hasn’t
looked at Chrysler Financial and isn’t interested in making an
offer, Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon  said today in an
interview with  Business News Network  television.  Cerberus, led by founder  Stephen Feinberg , wagered on the
U.S. auto industry with takeovers of General Motors Corp.’s auto
lender in 2006, followed by the Chrysler automaker and lender
the following year. The deals preceded a decline in U.S. auto
sales that sent both carmakers into bankruptcy.  Feinberg, 50, subsequently lost control of both GMAC and
Chrysler and held on to Chrysler Financial. The lender repaid
its $1.5 billion in U.S. Treasury Department bailout funds last
year and in July sought to return to large-scale lending.  Ally Financial, originally called GMAC, has financed about
50 percent of Chrysler Group’s retail sales this year, according
to a statement in September. At the time, the automaker was
announcing an agreement with U.S. Bancorp to provide additional
financing on some of Chrysler’s vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 