-- Mortgage-Bond Yields That Guide Home Loans Soar to 6-Month High
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-07T22:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/mortgage-bond-yields-that-guide-home-loan-costs-increase-to-6-month-high.html
Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities that guide home-loan rates jumped to their
highest levels in almost six months, suggesting borrowing costs
will continue to climb from record lows.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage 
bonds rose to 4.04 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields, whose changes typically
create similar movements in loan rates, have increased from 3.27
percent on Nov. 4.  The securities gained from 3.84 percent yesterday to the
highest since June 16. That generally tracked Treasury yields
after President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax cuts for two
years, potentially widening budget deficits. An auction of
three-year government notes drew the lowest demand since
February.  “Typically, days like this are on big news such as a
surprising payroll report or shift in Fed policy,”  Jim Vogel , a
debt analyst at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee, said in a
note to clients. “While the tax agreement is news, it’s not
that surprising.”  Mortgage bonds joined the “rout,”  Walt Schmidt , another
FTN Financial analyst, wrote in a separate note.  The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
fell to a record 4.17 percent in the week ended Nov. 11,
compared with this year’s high of 5.21 percent in April,
according to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac. Rates have
climbed for three weeks, to 4.46 percent, sending  mortgage-
refinancing applications  to the lowest since June and adding to
challenges for the U.S. housing market.  Guiding Rates  Yields on agency mortgage bonds are now guiding rates on
almost all new U.S. home lending following the collapse of the
non-agency market in 2007 and a retreat by banks. The $5.3
trillion market includes securities guaranteed by government-
controlled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and bonds of government-
insured loans guaranteed by federal agency Ginnie Mae.  The difference between yields on the Fannie Mae current-
coupon securities, which most influence loan rates because they
trade closest to face value, and 10-year Treasuries narrowed
less than 0.02 percentage point to about 0.90 percentage point,
Bloomberg data show.  Prices of low-coupon mortgage bonds slumped more than a
series of Treasuries with maturities similar to their projected
cash flows as investor concern grew that loan servicers would
sell the debt in response to an anticipated lengthening of their
contracts, said  Paul Norris , a senior money manager at Dwight
Asset Management Co. in Burlington, Vermont.  “Obviously durations are going to extend,” he said in a
telephone interview. While the concern is probably overblown at
current rate levels, “guys are a little worried now,” he
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  