-- Mortgage Prepayments Gained Faster Than Some Analysts Forecast Last Month
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-07T14:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/mortgage-prepayments-gained-faster-than-some-analysts-forecast-last-month.html
Mortgage  refinancing  and other early
repayments of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgages rose faster
than some analysts forecast, monthly bond data show.  The so-called constant prepayment rate, or CPR, for 30-
year, fixed-rate securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae rose to 27
last month from 25.6,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  analysts led by  Brian Ye  wrote in a report. The measure represents the share of debt
that would be retired in a year at the current repayment pace.  Prepayment speeds affect how long it takes for mortgage-
bond investors to get their principal back, and can reduce
returns when either faster or slower than expected.  “This report continues a theme of gradually rising
prepayment speeds driven by a slow and steady build out of
originator capacity,” the New York-based analysts said in a
note based on data released yesterday by Washington-based Fannie
Mae.  Home refinancing  applications  dropped last week to the
lowest since June as mortgage rates climbed from record lows,
according to the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association.
A refinancing boom in 2003 spurred CPRs to a record 60. This
year’s rate is being checked in part by borrowers unable to
refinance because a decline in home prices has left them without
the home equity required to qualify for new loans.  Projected Speeds  Last month’s prepayments among securities backed by
mortgages with the lowest rates were on the “faster side of
expectations,” BNP Paribas analyst  Anish Lohokare  said in a
note to clients. Bank of America Corp. analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  wrote that they had been “projecting speeds to remain
unchanged month-over-month” overall, and that “bigger pickups
were realized” among 2009 and 2010 loans backing 4 percent and
4.5 percent bonds.  The CPR for Fannie Mae’s 30-year, 4 percent securities rose
to 11.2, from 8.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  average rate  on a typical 30-year mortgage fell to a
record low 4.17 percent in the week ended Nov. 11, before
climbing for three weeks to 4.46, according to McLean, Virginia-
based Freddie Mac. Loans usually close a month or two after
applications.  Mortgage-bond prepayments are driven by refinancing, home
sales and purchases of delinquent debt out of the securities by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-supported mortgage-
finance companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 