-- Comcast Should Receive Conditions on NBC Universal Purchase, Waxman Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-12-07T22:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/house-s-waxman-says-fcc-should-put-conditions-on-comcast-nbc.html
U.S. regulators should impose
conditions before approving  Comcast Corp. ’s proposed
purchase of  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal unit, a
lawmaker said.  The merger “could trigger significant changes in the way
consumers access video programming,” Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat who is chairman of the Energy and
Commerce Committee, said today in a letter to Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  The FCC and Justice Department are reviewing the purchase
announced more than a year ago. It would give Comcast, the
largest U.S. cable company, control of the NBC television
network, broadcast stations, cable channels such as MSNBC and
USA Network and a share of the online site Hulu LLC.  Regulators should ensure competitors have access to
Comcast-owned programming, and the combined entity shouldn’t be
allowed to favor its online offerings by degrading or blocking
competing Web offerings, Waxman said. He said Comcast shouldn’t
be able to assign competitors to channels that are isolated from
its own similar fare, and should be required to ensure the
merger benefits independent program producers.  Jen Howard, an FCC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Philadelphia-based Comcast is working with regulatory
agencies on the issues Waxman identified,  Sena Fitzmaurice , a
Comcast spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “This deal will bring significant benefits for consumers,
independent programmers, and diversity groups, and the sooner
approvals are concluded, the sooner these benefits will be seen
in the marketplace,” she said.  Waxman said he hoped regulatory review concludes “ideally
by the end of the year, if possible.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the Comcast-NBC Universal combination as
it is currently proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  