-- Lowest Latin American Yields Spurring Peru Corporate Sales, Benavides Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-12-07T20:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/lowest-latin-american-yields-spurring-peru-corporate-sales-benavides-says.html
Peruvian companies will step up bond
sales in international markets after a record year in 2010,
taking advantage of the government’s sale of $1 billion of 40-
year debt at the lowest long-term yield in Latin America,
Finance Minister  Ismael Benavides  said.  Mining companies will lead offerings next year, Benavides
said, after the yield on Peru’s 2050 bonds rose to 5.92 percent
at 3:05 p.m. New York time from 5.875 percent when they were
sold last month, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The yield on
the longest maturity Peruvian dollar bond was the lowest for any
regional issue of 30 years or more, the Finance Ministry said in
an e-mail on Nov. 10.  “We understand there are a few corporate private mining
companies planning to issue,” Benavides said in an interview in
New York yesterday. The government’s sale “will also be a good
benchmark for private issuers,” he said.  Peruvian companies have raised $2.5 billion selling bonds
overseas this year, compared with $371 million in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s banks were
the biggest issuers, led by an $800 million offering from  Banco
de Credito del Peru , the country’s top lender, on Sept. 9.  IFH Peru, which helps finance trade between Peru and China,
plans to sell as much as $100 million of debt as soon as this
month. The company may pay a yield of about 7.25 percent on the
re-opening of its 8.625 percent notes due in 2019, according to
a person familiar with the transaction.  ‘Positive Fundamentals’  Peruvian corporate bonds are the best performer this year
among Latin American countries, with a  22 percent  return,
according to JPMorgan’s CEMBI index.  Mexican  bonds returned 14
percent, while debt issued by  Brazilian  companies returned 13
percent, according to JPMorgan.  “The story in Peru has been quite positive,” said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst at ING Groep INV in New York.
Peruvian corporations “are in a country that’s growing with
positive fundamentals, and they offer an opportunity to
diversify from Brazilian and Mexican companies.”  Peru’s economy grew 8.5 to 9 percent this year and may
expand 7 percent or more in 2011, Benavides said. The nation’s
inflation rate will end the year at 2.2 percent, within the
central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range, he said.  Debt Issues  The Peruvian government’s $2.5 billion dual-currency debt
sale last month was the country’s biggest ever and the $1.5
billion portion in sol bonds was the largest local currency debt
sale in the international market by a Latin American government.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Peruvian government
debt over Treasuries fell 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage
point, to 141 this year, compared with a drop of 31 basis points
for bonds issued by Brazil, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
indexes. Investors demand 161 basis points more to own  Brazilian 
debt than U.S. Treasuries. Both Peru and Brazil are rated BBB-by
Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings and Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the lowest investment grade.  Companies will issue debt in the first quarter and avoid
sales in April on concern the nation’s presidential election
will drive up borrowing costs, Benavides said.  “We had quite good demand for the banks and I believe they
will continue to issue,” ING’s Corfield said. “You have a lot
of Brazilian banks coming to the market, it’s a way to diversify
your risk.”  The government will use $1.5 billion in revenue from last
month’s issue to pre-pay for “some expensive debt,” and the
rest for infrastructure investments, Benavides said. “What we
tried to do with this bond issuance was to cover part of our
needs for next year, at least until the third quarter,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  