-- Toyota Adopts Tesla Laptop Battery Strategy for Electric Cars
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-12-08T08:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/toyota-adopts-tesla-s-laptop-battery-strategy-for-electric-cars.html
Toyota Motor Corp. ,  Daimler AG  and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  are turning to laptops for a cheaper
way to power their electric cars -- and their sales.  Automakers are testing packs of lithium-ion batteries
assembled by Silicon Valley startup  Tesla Motors Inc.  costing
less than bigger, car-only batteries favored by  General Motors
Co. ,  Nissan Motor Co.  and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. A pack of
6,831 cylinder-shaped cells made by  Panasonic Corp.  powers
Tesla’s $109,000 Roadster sports car for up to 245 miles per
charge.  The car industry will help lithium-ion battery makers more
than triple sales to 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) in a decade
from 1.5 trillion yen in the year ending in March, according to
Sanyo Electric Co., the world’s biggest maker of the batteries.
Rechargeable consumer-electronics batteries benefit from an
economy of scale that may help cut manufacturing costs and
sticker prices in the nascent electric-car industry, said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based analyst at Advanced Research Japan.  “It may lead to the total component cost of an electric
car getting lower than that of a gasoline car,” Endo said. “As
the cost lowers, there’ll be more likelihood that retail prices
of electric cars will drop.”  Chevy Volt, Nissan Leaf  EV prices are higher than three-quarters of the autos now
sold, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, with GM’s
 Chevrolet Volt  selling for $41,000 and Nissan’s  Leaf  for $32,780.
Electric vehicles cost about twice as much to produce as
gasoline-engine cars because the batteries are so expensive,
according to consultant  Frost & Sullivan Inc.   Sales of EVs and hybrids, including plug-in models, will
reach about 954,000 worldwide this year, or about 2.2 percent of
all car sales, J.D. Power and Associates, an industry forecaster
in Westlake Village, California, estimated in October.  Government subsidies may help boost sales of plug-in
hybrids and EVs to 9 percent of auto sales in 2020, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance estimated last month.  Panasonic , the majority shareholder in Sanyo, is the main
supplier of lithium-ion cells to Tesla and last month bought a
$30 million stake in the Palo Alto, California, company. Toyota
and Daimler also own Tesla stakes.  Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen  Panasonic  boosted its annual production capacity for the
small batteries by 9 percent to 1.4 billion units after opening
a plant in Osaka, Japan. The company wants to increase sales of
energy-related products because of tougher  competition  in its
television-making business.  Panasonic rose 1.2 percent to close at 1,190 yen in Tokyo
trading today, paring its loss this year to 10 percent.  Packs assembled by Tesla power Daimler’s electric Smarts
and Mercedes-Benz A-class cars, and Toyota will use Tesla’s
small-cell packs in an electric RAV4 in 2012.  BMW leased 450 Minis powered by laptop cells, and
Volkswagen AG studied the technology at its California facility.  The larger lithium batteries cost about $700-$800 per
kilowatt hour to produce, while mass-produced packs using small
laptop cells may cost $200, said  Martin Eberhard , Tesla’s
founder and former chief executive officer.  “It’s a much more effective approach,” he said. “There’s
a huge advantage in terms of economy of scale.”  ‘Full-Line Maker’  Factories making small cells are running at high capacity,
Eberhard said. That also benefits EV makers who don’t have the
resources to develop their own batteries, said  Menahem Anderman ,
president of Advanced Automotive Batteries, a consulting firm in
Oregon House, California.  GM partners with South Korea’s  LG Chem Ltd.  for the Volt
pack, and Nissan partners with  NEC Corp. , Japan’s biggest
personal-computer maker, for the Leaf.  Toyota, the world’s  largest automaker , is working with
Tesla on the electric RAV4, while its plug-in Prius hybrid and a
small, electric car planned for 2012 employ larger batteries.  “When the customer decides ‘This is the car I want,’ we
want to be that full-line maker who has the answer for that
customer,” Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  said. “By using both
car batteries and laptop batteries, we are able to provide
customers with a wider variety of choice.”  The alliances with Toyota and Daimler helped Tesla generate
an initial public offering in June that raised about $226
million.  Battery Recalls  Tesla’s  shares  have surged more than 80 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent increase in the Russell 1000 Index,
even though the company has delivered fewer than 1,500 Roadsters
since 2008.  Shares of Toyota have fallen 15 percent this year, more
than a 3 percent decline by Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  A123 Systems Inc. , a Watertown, Massachusetts-based
lithium-ion battery maker part-owned by  General Electric Co. ,
also is promoting small, cylindrical cells originally designed
for power tools.  Lithium-ion batteries in consumer electronics have a
history of recalls because of overheating that can cause a fire.
 Nokia Oyj , the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, offered in
2007 to replace as many as 46 million Panasonic phone batteries.  Panasonic now uses an insulator film between electrodes to
limit the risk of overheating, said Yuji Tsuzaki, a spokesman
for the battery unit.  ‘Bat Out of Hell’  Sony Corp.  recalled 9.6 million lithium-ion cells in 2006
because metal particles that got into cells during manufacturing
could cause short circuits and overheating.  That remains an issue for Takenobu Inaba, 27, who was
shopping at a Nissan showroom in Yokohama, Japan. He said he
would choose a gasoline-powered car over an electric one.  “When I heard Tesla’s car has a huge battery pack
consisting of those used in consumer electronics, my image of
the car was ruined,” Inaba said. “I’m still concerned that
those lithium-ion batteries may explode.”  Roadster owner  Scott Painter  said he isn’t concerned about
what’s under the hood and hasn’t noticed any degradation in the
battery since his 2008 purchase.  “I’ve never been found wanting on the batteries,” said
Painter, chief executive officer of Truecar Inc., an automotive-
sales data-marketing company in Santa Monica, California. “I
step on the pedal and it goes like a bat out of hell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  