-- Palestinians Lure Local Banks With First Sukuk Bill Sale: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-12-08T11:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/palestinians-lure-local-banks-with-first-sukuk-bill-sale-islamic-finance.html
The Palestinian central bank is
attracting local banks to its first sale of Islamic bills, part
of a plan to jumpstart the Shariah-compliant finance industry.  Palestine Islamic Bank , the largest Shariah-compliant bank
in the territories with $364 million of assets, will submit a
bid for as much as $10 million, and  Arab Islamic Bank  said it
probably will participate. The Palestine Monetary Authority is
seeking to sell as much as $50 million of sukuk maturing in
about 18 months to local banks next year in what would be the
central bank’s first debt offering, Governor  Jihad al-Wazir  said
in an interview in Ramallah on Nov. 25.  “There is strong demand for such an instrument because
Palestine is a mainly Muslim area and many individuals hesitate
to deal with conventional banking,” Mahmoud Al-Ram’ah, general
manager of Palestine Islamic Bank, said in a telephone interview
from Ramallah on Dec. 2. “Our liquidity is high. We have been
pushing to invest in a government sukuk.”  Palestinian Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad  is
seeking to expand Islamic finance to reduce reliance on aid from
the U.S., Europe, Saudi Arabia and others as the territory
starts building institutions for a future state. These
contributions have kept the $7 billion Palestinian economy
afloat since the Oslo peace accords introduced limited self-rule
to the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 1993.  The plan is to use as much as $20 million from the sale for
the construction of a new headquarters, al-Wazir said.  Dependence on Aid  The economies of the West Bank and Gaza are heading for 8
percent growth this year, Oussama Kanaan, the head of the
International Monetary Fund’s mission to the area, said on Sept.
14. That’s up from 7.2 percent in the West Bank in 2009 and 5.4
percent in Gaza, he said. While some of the growth in the
territories, which have a population of 4.1 million, stems from
improved investor confidence and the partial easing of
restrictions by Israel, the main driver remains foreign
donations, the World Bank said in a report to donor countries on
Sept. 16.  The Palestinian Authority received $525 million of
international aid to support its budget in the first half of
2010, following $1.4 billion last year and $1.8 billion in 2008,
according to World Bank estimates.  Peace Talks  The U.S. has been trying to coax Israel and the Palestinian
Authority back to peace talks that stalled in September when a
10-month partial Israeli freeze on West Bank settlement building
expired. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and
Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  agreed in early September to
try to reach an agreement on the framework for a comprehensive
peace accord within a year.  The economy has the potential for annual growth of at least
10 percent for several years, provided Israel eases access
restrictions, Palestinian Authority National Economy Minister
 Hasan Abu-Libdeh  said in an Oct. 27 interview on Bloomberg
Television in Marrakesh, Morocco.  “We are restructuring our economy,” al-Wazir said. “We
are creating the instruments that will allow us to develop
monetary policy, to build a yield curve and to stabilize the
banking sector.”  Global sales of sukuk, which pay returns based on asset
flows to comply with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 31
percent this year to $13.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.
Issuance reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  ‘Charitable Aspect’  The Islamic notes will probably be dollar-denominated
because the territories don’t have a single currency, the
monetary authority’s al-Wazir said. The Palestinian pound last
circulated as legal tender in 1948, when the U.K. gave up its
mandate over the territory.  “There could be a charitable aspect attached to investors’
interest” in a possible issue from the territories but it would
be “very limited,”  Ahmed Talhaoui , the Abu Dhabi-based head of
investment at Royal Capital, which is 44 percent-owned by United
Gulf Bank BSC, an investment bank in Bahrain, said in an
interview Dec. 6. “The issue will have to be very competitive.
A lot of political uncertainty which we are seeing in Palestine
should be reflected in spreads.”  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate shrank 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 334 points yesterday
and has narrowed 39 basis points since Sept. 30, the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index shows.  Local Banks  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 was little changed at 3.05 percent today, according to
prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather
than Malaysia’s widened 8 basis points to 364, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 12 percent this year, the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows. Debt in emerging
markets gained 14 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The Palestinian Authority owes local banks about $880
million, according to al-Wazir. There are 17 commercial banks in
the territories.  The sukuk “will just be a more secure way to make our
investments because it will be backed by a performing asset
which makes it less risky,”  Ibrahim Abu Raidah , manager of the
syndicated finance department at  Arab Islamic Bank , with about
$360 million in assets, said in a telephone interview from
Ramallah Dec. 1. “Most of the local banks are already lending
to the government.”  The Palestinian territories don’t have a credit rating and
any such rating won’t be favorable because of the political
risk, al-Wazir said. “The thing that investors should look at
is that we were able to make so many achievements in overhauling
the economy and financial system despite the political
overhang.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 