-- Pfizer’s Kindler Said to Resign After Jilting Read
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-07T21:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/pfizer-chief-kindler-said-to-resign-after-snubbing-board-s-plan-for-deputy.html
Jeffrey Kindler  resigned as  Pfizer
Inc. ’s chief executive officer after he refused to name a head
of operations as part of a plan agreed to by senior managers in
September, said a person familiar with the proceedings.  Kindler, 55, quit hours before a special board meeting was
scheduled on Dec. 5 to discuss his future, the person said.  Ian C. Read , 57, was named to replace him. Senior  executives  had
agreed Read should be named chief operating officer, said two
people who asked not to be named because the deliberations were
private. That appointment never happened.  Kindler in recent months lost support of executives
frustrated with his management style, one of the people said.
While New York-based Pfizer faces complex policy decisions,
Kindler was focused on smaller matters and micromanaging his
executives, according to the person. Kindler, whose retirement
was effective immediately, didn’t return calls to his home.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drug company, has been dealing
with the U.S. health-care overhaul, lawsuits from shareholders
alleging that senior executives failed to stop illegal marketing
of drugs and a stock that underperformed its peers. The  shares 
dropped 35 percent since Kindler, formerly Pfizer’s general
counsel, was named CEO on July 28, 2006.  “Investors have not been happy about the stock price,”
said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co.
in New York, in a telephone interview. “Could he have done
better? Yeah. He could have focused on buying more innovative,
smaller companies.”  Succession Plan  In September, senior executives at Pfizer attended a
meeting to discuss a succession plan, one of the people said.
During that session, they decided Read would be named chief
operating officer, expanding his responsibilities as a candidate
to become the next CEO, the person said.  Pfizer spokesman  Ray Kerins  declined to comment on the
board’s deliberations. Pfizer declined to make Read available.  Read, a 32-year veteran of the company, has been head of
Pfizer’s global pharmaceutical operations since 2006,
controlling 85 percent of revenue. Read’s management style is
well-known to Pfizer director and former CEO  William C. Steere 
since Read ran operations in Latin America and Europe while
Steere headed the company from 1991 to 2000.  Steere didn’t return calls for comment.  Constance J. Horner , a board member, cited Read’s experience in emerging
markets in the company statement announcing the change.  ‘Focus and Commitment’  Read “has brought to product development a focus and
commitment to advance only medicines that have clear value to
our customers,” Horner said in the statement. “Today’s
business leaders need to understand global markets, drive change
and innovation, and move quickly to adapt to competitive
pressures. Ian’s track record throughout his career has
demonstrated these exact strengths.”  Pfizer fell 4 cents, or less than a percent, to $16.77 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock exchange composite  trading . The
stock declined 7.8 percent since the start of the year.  Pfizer has underperformed its rivals over the 4 1/2 years
of Kindler’s tenure. Pfizer’s  price-earnings ratio  for the past
year is lower than 91 percent of  pharmaceutical industry peers 
and below 97 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kindler finished at a low point: Pfizer’s 2010 price-
earnings ratio was 7.3 as of Dec. 3, the last day of trading
before Kindler stepped down, lower than the annual average for
each year he has been in charge.  Toughest Challenges  During his time as CEO, Kindler faced some of the toughest
challenges of the industry, including the looming loss of
Lipitor’s patent protection and the failure of one of the
company’s most promising drugs, a cholesterol pill that was
slated to replace Lipitor, the world’s best-selling medicine.  Months after Kindler took the helm in 2006, Pfizer halted
development of the cholesterol drug, torcetrapib, after the pill
failed to benefit patients in a study. To cut costs since,
Kindler has fired more than 14,000 workers and closed research
labs and manufacturing plants.  “They’re a big company and it takes a lot to turn this
ship,” said  David Maris , a New York-based health care analyst
at CLSA, a unit of Credit Agricole SA, in an interview. “While
we think Kindler was doing a good job, investor frustration was
rising, mostly over the stock price.”  Wyeth Purchase  The board publicly supported the purchase of Wyeth in 2009
for $68 billion, as well as Kindler’s cost-cutting measures.
Read takes over the CEO’s job as the company prepares to face
generic competition to its top-selling cholesterol treatment
Lipitor, which had $11.4 billion in sales last year.  Over the next five years, Pfizer faces generic competition
to products with $20 billion in  annual sales , or almost a third
of the company’s annual revenue. While the drugmaker moved to
make up for the expected losses under Kindler by acquiring
Wyeth, it also has had five setbacks this year in developing its
experimental drug pipeline.  In March, the company said its experimental Alzheimer’s
drug Dimebon, which analysts said could have generated $5
billion in annual sales, failed to help patients in a late-stage
test. That same month, Sutent, approved for kidney and stomach
cancers, failed in two studies to shrink breast tumors, and the
experimental drug figitumumab didn’t help lung cancer patients.  Trial Halted  Last month, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. halted a
trial of their experimental blood thinner, apixaban, after an
increase in bleeding outweighed benefits for patients who
recently suffered a heart attack or severe chest pain. The
treatment was being tested to prevent heart complications in
patients with a condition known as acute coronary syndrome.  Pfizer’s bosutinib treatment for leukemia wasn’t better
than Novartis AG’s treatment Gleevec after a year, the company
reported yesterday. The Pfizer-funded study of 502 patients is
continuing.  Kindler served as both CEO and chairman. The board will
elect a new chairman, separating the two roles, at a meeting
within two weeks, the company said in its statement.  Pfizer also said on Dec. 5 it was creating a $75 million
fund and new compliance panel to settle shareholders’ lawsuits
that charge top company officials failed to stop illegal
marketing of drugs. Pfizer last year paid $2.3 billion to settle
U.S. claims it marketed treatments for unapproved purposes.  Including invested  dividends , Pfizer’s stock has declined
20 percent since Kindler was named CEO on July 28, 2006,
compared with a return of 10 percent for the S&P 500
Pharmaceutical Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Pfizer halved its dividend after the Wyeth acquisition.  The dividend will probably increase by 10 percent a year
through 2013, from 72 cents to about $1,  Barbara Ryan , an
analyst with Deutsche Bank in New York, said yesterday in a note
to clients. She said Read’s appointment was “a logical one,”
bringing “strong operational expertise and experience to the
job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  