-- TPG Said to Submit Bid for ING's Real Estate Unit as KKR, Vornado Bow Out
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/tpg-said-to-submit-bid-for-ing-s-real-estate-unit-as-kkr-vornado-bow-out.html
TPG Capital made a final offer for
 ING Groep NV’s  global real estate investment unit, while  KKR &
Co.  decided to pull out of the bidding, said people with
knowledge of the situation.  Commercial property brokers  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  and
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. have also submitted bids, said one of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the process
is private. Vornado Realty Trust dropped out after weighing an
offer, the person said. ING Real Estate Investment Management,
or REIM, managed 71.1 billion euros ($94 billion) of  assets  as
of June 30 and had more than 650 clients.  A purchase by TPG would follow Apollo Global Management
LLC’s May agreement to buy Citigroup Inc.’s real estate
investment business. Some private-equity firms have been
expanding into real estate asset management to lessen their
dependence on corporate buyouts, which have declined from 2007’s
boom in mergers and acquisitions.  Raymond Vermeulen , an ING Groep NV spokesman, declined to
comment.  Owen Blicksilver , a TPG spokesman, also declined to
comment, as did  Paige Steers , a Jones Lang LaSalle spokeswoman,
and Pam Barnett, a spokeswoman for CB Richard Ellis.  ING, the  biggest Dutch financial services company , agreed
to sell 18.4 billion euros of insurance businesses and its U.S.
online banking unit as a condition of the European Union’s
approval for state aid it received during the global financial
crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net .
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  