-- Poland Makes Little Progress on Pension-Reform Deficit Rules in Brussels
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-12-07T15:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/poland-makes-little-progress-on-pension-reform-deficit-rules.html
Poland made little progress toward
winning new European Union rules that would let it deduct the
costs of switching to privately financed retirement savings from
its official budget deficit and debt.  Poland has been fighting to get the EU to recognize that
fund payments shouldn’t automatically add to the budget deficit
and public debt.  EU finance ministers refused to offer guarantees that the
short-term increase in government outlays would be deducted from
Poland’s debt. Instead, they pledged a case-by-case assessment
of compliance with the EU debt target of 60 percent of gross
domestic product.  “There’s been quite considerable progress; considerable
but insufficient,” Polish Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told
reporters today following a meeting of EU finance ministers in
Brussels, adding that “there is quite a high degree of
receptivity among member states.”  Nine EU nations spearheaded by Poland want to change the
way their  public debt  is calculated because the current method
punishes countries that overhauled pensions by setting up
private funds.  They sent a letter to the European Commission and EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  in August, saying members should be
allowed to account for the cost of overhauling their pension
systems. Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia,
Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia and Sweden also signed the letter.  ‘Quite Close’  “We are quite close to a reasonable and balanced
compromise,” EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said told reporters in Brussels today. The goal is to maintain
“simple and rigorous rules on the one hand and taking into
account the need to have strong incentives for systemic pension
reforms.”  Poland would escape closer EU surveillance in cases where
the pension costs push its deficit “somewhat above” the limit
of 3 percent of GDP, Rehn said.  Bulgaria said in October it may transfer some of the
private pension funds to the state to bridge its deficit.
Hungary has made steps to renationalize its private pension
funds worth 3 trillion forint ($14 billion).  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s administration gave citizens
an ultimatum on Nov. 24 to move their pension savings from
private funds or lose their public pensions.  Poland doesn’t plan any steps to dismantle private pension
funds like Hungary, Rostowski said today. “Poland is certainly
not planning a reversal of the Hungarian kind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
 James Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 