-- Polish Euro Adoption `Isn't on Agenda' Amid Debt Crisis, Tusk Adviser Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2010-12-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/polish-euro-adoption-isn-t-on-the-agenda-premier-s-aide-says.html
Poland’s euro adoption “isn’t on the
agenda” because of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, said  Jan Krzysztof Bielecki , the head of Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s
council of economic advisers.  “Euro adoption isn’t on the agenda at the moment,”
Bielecki, a former prime minister and ex-chief executive officer
of the country’s second-largest lender Bank Pekao SA, said in an
interview on Nov. 29. “It’s unrealistic to talk about euro
accession in the current situation in the euro zone anyway.”  Estonia on Jan. 1 will become the third east European
country after Slovenia and Slovakia to adopt the euro. The
region’s two biggest economies, which also agreed to work toward
switching currencies when they joined the European Union in
2004, are growing more reluctant to join the euro area after the
27-nation bloc’s bailouts of Greece and Ireland.  Czech Prime Minister  Petr Necas  on Dec. 6 said joining the
euro region now would be “economic foolishness.” Polish public
opposition to euro adoption rose to 47 percent in June from 43
percent a year earlier, while support for the switchover fell to
38 percent from 43 percent, according to a Finance Ministry poll
released on Sept. 9.  Poland abandoned its 2012 euro adoption target last year
after it became clear it would miss the fiscal conditions for
eligibility. Prime Minister Tusk on July 30 said 2015 is a
realistic date, without setting an official target.  Wider Deficit  To drop the zloty, Poland would have to go through at least
two years of testing the currency’s stability in a trading band
as well as narrowing its budget deficit and curbing public debt.  The fiscal shortfall in Poland, which was the only one of
the EU’s 27 member states to avoid a recession in 2009, soared
last year to 7.2 percent of  gross domestic product . The deficit
will widen to 7.9 percent this year, compared with the EU limit
of 3 percent, the European Commission said last month. Public
debt will rise to 55.4 percent of GDP this year, according to
the Finance Ministry.  Poland needs to readjust its pension system to reach the
EU’s deficit and debt criteria, Bielecki said. Over the past
decade, the country had shifted employee pension contributions
to private funds from the state-run system to prevent payout
obligations from swelling spending as the population ages.  While these changes cut the demographic risks to Poland’s
public finances to the lowest among the EU’s 27 members,
according to a  report  for the European Commission, their
immediate impact is to widen the budget deficit by 2.4
percentage points of GDP per year, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said on Sept. 30.  EU Rejection  EU finance ministers yesterday refused to offer guarantees
that the short-term increase in government outlays would be
deducted from Poland’s debt. Instead, they pledged a case-by-
case assessment of compliance with the debt target of 60 percent
of GDP.  The Commission in Brussels in October rejected a request by
nine EU member states, including Poland, to take into account
the full cost of the private-pension plans when calculating debt
and deficit. Hungary in response suspended contributions to the
funds and is directing the savings to the budget. Bulgaria may
also transfer some private accounts to the state.  Polish Prime Minister Tusk yesterday said the country
“doesn’t want to follow” Hungary. The government is considering
six scenarios to overhaul pensions, Bielecki said.  “The pension reform is where the big numbers are,” he said,
adding that Poland’s borrowing needs could be reduced by almost
30 percent in 2011 by halting some transfers to the funds.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  “Since this is uncharted territory, it would be better to
reduce the amount that’s paid into the pension funds, see what
happens over a number of years, and then gradually increase it,”
Bielecki said.  An alternative is to introduce a pension bond that would
comprise 4.3 percentage points of the 7.3 percent levy on
payrolls sent to private funds, Bielecki said. Funds would
continue to get the remaining 3 percentage points in cash.  The non-tradeable pension bonds shouldn’t count as debt,
Bielecki said, which would mean the 4.3 percent contribution
would not show up on the government’s balance sheet.  Backing a proposal to allow the private pension funds to
invest as much as 75 percent of their assets in shares would be
like “playing in a casino” and may create an asset bubble, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  