-- Rand Strengthens After Foreign Reserves Show No `Aggressive' Intervention
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-12-07T14:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/rand-gains-after-foreign-reserves-fail-to-show-aggressive-intervention.html
The rand rose to within two cents of
a one-month high versus the dollar after a report showing
foreign reserves fell last month eased concern that policymakers
are aggressively buying dollars to weaken the currency.  South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 0.5 percent
to 6.8613 per dollar, from a close of 6.8963 yesterday when the
currency reached 6.8453, the strongest level since Nov. 10. The
rand gained 0.3 percent to 6.8727 by 4:15 p.m. local time.  Foreign reserves fell for the first time in three months in
November as a rally in the dollar reduced the value of holdings
in foreign currencies, undermining attempts by the central bank
to step up dollar purchases to weaken the rand. Policy makers
bought $655 million in foreign currency last month, helping to
limit the drop in  reserves , which fell 1.9 percent to $43.4
billion in November, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said in its
website today. Net reserves were unchanged at $43.1 billion.  “This is not what you’d describe as an aggressive build up
of foreign reserves but rather modest, opportunistic buying that
occurs from time to time,”  Kevin Lings , chief economist at
Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg, said by telephone.
“The global search for yield is still the main driver for the
rand -- at the moment the only game in town is to keep money
going into emerging markets.”  South Africa’s currency has surged 37 percent since the
start of last year as interest rates in developed nations fell
to near zero, encouraging investors to place their money in
higher-yield markets. The 5.5 percent  benchmark rate  in South
Africa compares with deposit returns of 0.1 percent in Japan and
0.25 percent in the U.S. making the rand an attractive purchase
in this strategy, known as the carry trade.  Weaken the Currency  The gain in the rand has prompted manufacturers and the
 Congress of South African Trade Unions  to call for measures to
weaken the currency, which they say is undermining economic
growth and worsening unemployment. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  and central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  have said policy
makers will continue building foreign exchange holdings to stem
rand appreciation.  Government bonds rose in South Africa, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 climbing 12 cents to
124.43 rand. The yield on the bond declined 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 7.33 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  