-- RBA Keeps Rate Unchanged, Sees Inflation Little Changed Next Few Quarters
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-07T05:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/rba-keeps-australia-rates-unchanged-as-economy-slows-sovereign-risk-rises.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia kept
its benchmark interest rate unchanged as the country’s growth
slows and risks to the global economic recovery persist, saying
inflation likely will be contained through mid-2011.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash rate target at 4.75 percent today in Sydney, as forecast by
all 26 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. After seven rate
increases since October 2009, Stevens said monetary policy is
“appropriate for the economic outlook.”  Australia’s economy this year may expand less than the
RBA’s forecast of 3.5 percent,  Citigroup Inc.  economists said,
after third-quarter growth was the weakest in almost two years.
The slowdown, a higher currency and rising household savings may
help Stevens achieve his goal of cooling inflation as investors
bet his next rate increase won’t occur before March.  “The statement surprised me, I expected they’d be less
dovish,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP Australia
Ltd. in Sydney. “They’re implying now that rates are
appropriate, whereas we had expected more rate hikes. Europe may
be weighing on their minds.”  Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.8 percent to
4,726.8 after the decision, the highest closing level in almost
a month. The Australian currency was little changed, trading at
99.14 U.S. cents at 4:24 p.m. from 99.08 cents just before the
announcement.  Dollar’s Rise  The so-called Aussie is 8.6 percent stronger than a year
ago against the U.S. dollar.  The currency’s strength “will assist, at the margin, in
containing pressure on inflation over the period ahead,”
Stevens said in his  statement . “Over the next few quarters,
inflation is expected to be little changed, though it is likely
to increase somewhat over the medium term if the economy grows
as expected.”  Stevens also said “there continues to be a degree of
caution in spending and borrowing” and a “noticeable
increase” in the nation’s savings rate.  The RBA’s quarter-percentage-point increase last month was
followed by larger moves in mortgage rates by the nation’s four
largest banks. As a result, Stevens today said “lending rates
in the economy are now a little above average.”  Weaker Expansion  Since the Nov. 2 rate increase, some reports indicated
economic growth is decelerating.  Retail sales declined in October by the most since July
2009, according to data released last week, and a private report
showed consumer confidence fell in November to a five-month low.
Household spending accounts for about half of the nation’s gross
domestic product.  Business profits also dropped in the three months through
September, the first quarterly decline in more than a year.  The economy grew 0.2 percent from July through September
from the previous quarter, less than economists predictions of a
0.4 percent expansion and the worst performance since a
contraction at the end of 2008, a government report showed on
Dec. 1.  Stevens, in his statement, said the creditworthiness of
some European governments has “again become the main focus of
financial markets,” while China and India have “continued to
grow strongly.” The U.S. is experiencing “modest growth,” he
said.  Mining Boom  The RBA is seeking to contain an expected acceleration in
inflation as Australia goes through a resource investment boom
that is prompting companies to increase hiring to meet demand
from China and India.  Australian employers probably added 20,000 workers in
November, the ninth straight month of gains, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey ahead of a Dec. 9 report.  Stevens said today “employment growth has been very strong
over the past year, though some leading indicators suggest a
more moderate pace of expansion in the period ahead.”  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. , Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, last month approved an $8.4 billion
expansion in Western Australia’s Pilbara region to almost triple
output as demand from steelmakers strengthens.  It joins  Rio Tinto Group , Vale SA and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  in
announcing expansions as prices increase. Producers are seeking
to meet demand from steel mills in China, where consumption of
the alloy is forecast by Rio Tinto to double by 2020 from 2008
levels.  ‘Overheating’ Concern  Stevens said in a speech in Melbourne last week that “we
obviously have to be wary of overheating,” as the country
undergoes “an event that occurs maybe once or twice in a
century.”  Australian consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, less than economists forecast and
following a 3.1 percent gain the previous three months, a
government report showed Oct. 27.  The RBA aims to keep inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3
percent on average.  Traders bet there is an 88 percent chance Stevens will
leave borrowing costs unchanged through the first quarter of
next year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  “The Reserve Bank is clearly more relaxed and comfortable,
believing that employment growth will slow and inflation will
remain under control,” said  Craig James , a senior economist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney.  After today’s decision, James said Commonwealth Bank
changed its rate view and now expects the next increase in April
instead of its previous forecast for February, with the cash
rate to end 2011 at 5.5 percent rather than 5.75 percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  