-- RBA Sees Inflation Little Changed as Economists Push Back Rate-Rise Calls
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-08T02:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/rba-sees-tame-inflation-as-economists-push-back-rate-rise-calls.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia
signaled little concern  inflation  will accelerate in the first
half of next year, leading some economists to predict a longer
pause until the next increase in borrowing costs.  Governor  Glenn Stevens , who left the benchmark interest
rate at 4.75 percent yesterday after the most aggressive
tightening in the past 15 months among the Group of 20, said
inflation in the next few quarters is expected to be “little
changed.” That shorter-term outlook wasn’t in the Nov. 2 rate-
increase announcement, and some economists viewed it as a
guidepost for the RBA’s policy timetable.  “ The Reserve Bank  is clearly more relaxed and comfortable,
believing that employment growth will slow and inflation will
remain under control,” said  Craig James , a senior economist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “We have changed our
rate view, now expecting the next rate hike in April 2011,
rather than February.”  The nation’s currency reached parity last month with the
U.S. dollar and household savings are rising, helping the RBA
meet its goal of controlling consumer prices. While the economy
has experienced a jobs boom this year as mining companies boost
investment to meet demand from China, Stevens said “some
leading indicators suggest a more moderate pace of expansion”
in employment.  Local Currency  Australia’s currency was little changed after yesterday’s
decline, trading at 98.37 U.S. cents as of 1:15 p.m. in Sydney
from 98.29 cents in New York yesterday, when it dropped 0.7
percent. The local dollar has risen 9.7 percent this year, the
second-best performer among the 16 most-traded currencies.  A government report today showed home-loan approvals
climbed in October for a fourth straight month before the RBA
resumed raising rates in November.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.9 percent to a nine-month high of 49,307
from September, the statistics bureau said in Sydney. That
compares with a Bloomberg survey for approvals to be unchanged.  The currency’s strength “will assist, at the margin, in
containing pressure on inflation over the period ahead,”
Stevens said in his  statement . “Over the next few quarters,
inflation is expected to be little changed, though it is likely
to increase somewhat over the medium term if the economy grows
as expected.”  ‘Degree of Caution’  Stevens also said “there continues to be a degree of
caution in spending and borrowing” and a “noticeable
increase” in the nation’s savings rate.  The RBA’s quarter-percentage-point increase last month was
followed by larger moves in mortgage rates by the nation’s four
largest banks. As a result, Stevens yesterday said “lending
rates in the economy are now a little above average.”  Since the November rate increase, some reports indicated
economic growth is decelerating.  Retail sales declined in October by the most since July
2009, according to data released last week, and a private report
showed consumer confidence fell in November to a five-month low.
Household spending accounts for about half of the nation’s gross
domestic product.  Business profits also dropped in the three months through
September, the first quarterly decline in more than a year.  Economy Slows  The economy grew 0.2 percent from July through September
from the previous quarter, less than economists predictions of a
0.4 percent expansion and the worst performance since a
contraction at the end of 2008, a government report showed on
Dec. 1.  Stevens, in his statement, said the creditworthiness of
some European governments has “again become the main focus of
financial markets,” while China and India have “continued to
grow strongly.” The U.S. is experiencing “modest growth,” he
said.  The RBA is seeking to contain an expected acceleration in
inflation as Australia goes through a resource investment boom
that is prompting companies to increase hiring to meet demand
from China and India.  Australian employers probably added 20,000 workers in
November, the ninth straight month of gains, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey ahead of a report tomorrow.  Jobs Growth  Yesterday Stevens said “employment growth has been very
strong over the past year, though some leading indicators
suggest a more moderate pace of expansion in the period ahead.”  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. , Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, last month approved an $8.4 billion
expansion in Western Australia’s Pilbara region to almost triple
output as demand from steelmakers strengthens.  It joins  Rio Tinto Group , Vale SA and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  in
announcing expansions as prices increase. Producers are seeking
to meet demand from steel mills in China, where consumption of
the alloy is forecast by Rio Tinto to double by 2020 from 2008
levels.  “For the RBA, the main game is, of course, how the economy
and inflation are tracking in 12 to 18 months,” said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “The
case for pushing the policy rate further into restrictive
territory in 2011 remains strong, however, considering our key
themes for above trend growth and rising inflation over the
medium term.”  Australian consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, less than economists forecast and
following a 3.1 percent gain the previous three months, a
government report showed Oct. 27.  The RBA aims to keep inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3
percent on average.  Traders bet there is an 86 percent chance Stevens will
leave borrowing costs unchanged through the first quarter of
next year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  