-- Energy Credits Prove Inflated With Green Claims Seen as Hot Air
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/renewable-energy-credits-prove-inflated-with-green-claims-seen-as-hot-air.html
Along the steel-gray Quinebaug River
in eastern  Connecticut , Duncan Broatch is tinkering with
machinery that will keep one of his two hydroelectric plants
cranking out clean energy. The U.S. needs Broatch’s Summit
Hydropower Inc. and other green power providers to make a dent
in the 35 percent of the country’s global-warming pollution that
comes from burning fossil fuels to make electricity.  Broatch was hoping to build more hydro plants. He planned
to get the money partly from selling renewable energy credits,
widely used tools championed by businesses, conservationists and
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  RECs allow renewable-energy developers to sell something
beyond their electricity: the right to claim that power’s
environmental benefits. Corporations buy the RECs, and some then
say that the credits reduce their environmental footprint; green
power producers gain enough revenue to expand -- at least in
theory, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its January issue.  Trouble is, some of the RECs Broatch sells fetch $1 to $2
apiece, he says, which is a fraction of the $40 or more he
receives for the corresponding electricity and nowhere near what
he needs to build more hydro plants.  “I get a check in the mail; it’s barely worth the paper
it’s written on,” says Broatch, 55, who has spent the past 27
years revamping hydropower plants along Connecticut’s rivers.  Twenty other renewable-energy developers interviewed by
Bloomberg News say their RECs aren’t adding green energy to the  power grid  either.  ‘Spreadsheet Mumbo Jumbo’  “Nobody is going to make a decision to build more
renewable energy based on selling voluntary credits,” says Mark
Isaacson, vice president of Miller Hydro Group in Lisbon Falls,  Maine .  “RECs have not worked out like we thought they would,”
Isaacson says. “It has been a big disappointment.”  Companies buying RECs like those Broatch sells are a lot
happier.  Cisco Systems Inc .,  Dell Inc .,  Intel Corp .,  Whole Foods
Market Inc . and more than 57,000 other firms, towns and agencies
are using RECs to burnish their environmental halos. Some brag
they’ve trimmed or even eliminated their carbon footprints
altogether -- thanks in part to RECs.  “It’s spreadsheet mumbo jumbo,” says Kim Sheehan, a
University of Oregon advertising professor and a founder of
 Greenwashing Index , which rates environmental claims.
“Companies show their emissions are reduced, but overall
emissions to the environment aren’t changed.”  Becoming Carbon Neutral  Intel, the world’s biggest maker of computer chips, heralds
itself as the largest U.S. purchaser of green energy. The
company says it cut global-warming emissions by more than 45
percent, or 1.9 million metric tons, from the end of fiscal 2007
in December through fiscal 2009 with the help of RECs.  Take RECs out of the equation and  Santa Clara , California-
based Intel reduced  carbon emissions  by a more modest 13
percent, according to its filings with London-based  Carbon
Disclosure Project , which tracks corporate emissions.  Cisco, the top maker of networking gear, announced in its
2009 corporate responsibility report that it had cut its global-
warming emissions by 40 percent from the end of fiscal 2007 in
July through fiscal 2009, surpassing its goal of a 25 percent
reduction by 2012 three years ahead of time.  Without factoring in RECs, emissions climbed 3 percent
during those years, according to data in the  San Jose ,  California , company’s report.  ‘PR Credit’  Computer maker Dell says it became carbon neutral in 2008
with the help of RECs; not counting them, emissions per volume
of sales increased 4 percent since 2008 at the Round Rock,
Texas, company. Spokeswoman Michelle Mosmeyer says the rise is
because of Dell’s 2009 acquisition of Perot Systems Corp. and
that the company will continue to focus on cutting energy use.  “It isn’t reasonable to say that purchasing a REC is
equivalent to not polluting,” says Joseph Romm, a senior fellow
at the Center for American Progress in Washington and author of
the Climate Progress  blog , which covers climate-change science
and politics.  “Some companies are just trying to get a certain amount of
PR credit while not transforming their company.”  At least one large REC buyer is scaling back because it’s
concerned the claims may not be credible.  Nike Inc ., the world’s
largest sporting goods supplier, was the 24th-biggest corporate
purchaser of RECs in 2008, the EPA says. Nike trimmed purchases
by 68 percent in 2009.  “There is a lot of scrutiny about RECs and whether they’re
helping to launch projects,” says Sarah Severn, director of
corporate responsibility at Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike. “It
might not be something we’d want to be associated with.”
(Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, says it purchased
155,000 RECs for 2010.)  Green-Power Quotas  The idea of splitting renewable energy into two products --
electricity and environmental benefits -- emerged in the 1990s.
Environmentalists hoped the credits would help reverse a dire
trend.  Nonpolluting sources of electricity have been shrinking as
a percentage of the U.S. power supply. In 2008, 11 percent of
non-nuclear power came from renewable supplies, down from 15
percent in 1990 and 20 percent in 1960, the Department of Energy
says. Sixty-nine percent of U.S. electricity is made by burning
fossil fuels, mostly coal and natural gas.  RECs have proven successful in programs in the  District of
Columbia  and 29 states with green-power quotas.  Utilities that can’t generate enough renewable electrons
can make up the difference by buying credits. States set rules
about how much green energy is required, where it must be made
and the types of generators that can sell RECs. In  New Jersey , a
mandate that some power be from the sun drove the value of solar
RECs to $640 to $660 apiece in November, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, more than 10 times the electricity’s value.  No Binding Regulations  World Resources Institute , a Washington-based environmental
advocate, teamed up with  Alcoa Inc ., DuPont Co. and seven other
big companies in 2003 to promote voluntary RECs. As in state
markets, this type of REC represents the environmental benefits
associated with 1 megawatt-hour -- enough to power about 700
houses for 60 minutes.  Unlike state programs, there are no binding regulations.
About 62 percent of the voluntary market chooses to be certified
by the  Center for Resource Solutions , a San Francisco-based
organization that ensures credits aren’t sold more than once and
that the corresponding electricity was actually produced.
Voluntary purchases of RECs soared 253 percent from 2005 through
2009, according to the  National Renewable Energy Laboratory  in
Golden,  Colorado .  Midddlemen  “Developers are trying to pull together every possible
source of revenue to get these projects to work,” says Alex Perera, a co-director of business engagement at World Resources
Institute.  Perera says it’s impossible to gauge how much green power
REC-related efforts have generated. He declined to comment on
whether the program is sparking new projects, saying that
voluntary RECs have provided some financial support.  If there are winners in the REC world besides companies
that claim environmental virtue, they’re the middlemen who buy
and sell the credits. These intermediaries often wind up with
more money than green-power developers, according to 35
contracts obtained through public­record requests.  Sterling Planet  Sterling Planet Inc . in Norcross,  Georgia , has built a
profitable business dealing in RECs. The privately held company
estimated revenue of $25 million in 2010, with $2 million in net
profit, according to a projection submitted to the Connecticut
Department of Public Utility Control in March.  Sterling Planet orchestrated a REC transaction 6 miles (10
kilometers) from Broatch’s plant along the banks of the
Quinebaug. Here, the Shetucket River travels a valley where
maples, ashes and sycamores are mostly bare limbed on a November
day. Near Occum, the river enters a dam and runs through
turbines, shooting out about 10 feet (3 meters) below.  Inside a red-brick building, the power is corralled and
sent to Norwich, a city of 38,000. Power from this and two other
hydro projects accounts for 5 percent of Norwich’s electricity.  The Occum plant and two similar operations owned by Norwich
generate about 12,000 RECs per year. The  Connecticut Municipal
Electric Energy Cooperative  sold these credits to Sterling
Planet. Sterling paid $1.25 apiece in 2009 and $1.20 in 2010,
according to contracts obtained by Bloomberg. Sterling sold
6,139 credits -- 2,352 from Occum -- for $12.90 apiece in 2009,
a more than 10-fold markup.  ‘Needed Revenue’  Bette Trevillion, Sterling Planet’s director of marketing
and communications, says it’s misleading to focus on what the
company pays one source. The hydro credits are blended and sold
along with other, more expensive ones, and prices vary based on
the type of renewable energy, the age of the power plant and
other factors, Trevillion says.  “Our contracts with renewable generators bring them needed
revenue,” she says. “Sterling Planet’s existing REC contracts
with suppliers will ultimately have delivered tens of millions
of dollars to them when they are fulfilled.”  The REC money hasn’t led to any hydro projects being built
or expanded in Norwich, says Jeff Brining, energy services
manager at  Norwich Public Utilities .  Instead, REC sales provide about 10 percent of the budget
for a fund that pays for small, renewable-energy pilot projects
in the Norwich area. For 2011, the fund is buying solar panels
for a local middle school. The amount of power the panels will
generate is less than 1 percent of what the hydro plants put
out.  200,000 Cars  “You cannot really claim that because you buy voluntary
RECs, more renewable energy is or will be produced,” says Anja
Kollmuss, a scientist at the Somerville, Massachusetts, office
of the  Stockholm Environment Institute , which researches
sustainable development.  Even so, the federal government is promoting RECs. The
EPA provides a handy online  Green Power Equivalency Calculator 
that helps companies convert RECs into environmental boasting
rights. Intel cited the EPA’s calculations in a January 2010
press release that said the chipmaker’s market-leading purchase
of 1.4 million credits had the same impact as taking almost
200,000 cars off the road or not powering 134,000 homes for a
year.  Government agencies themselves are buying RECs to reduce
carbon emissions and meet a 2005 law that required them to get 5
percent of their electricity from renewable sources in 2010.  NASA , the Air Force and the departments of Agriculture and the
Interior purchased RECs supplied by the  Rocky Reach 
hydroelectric project near Wenatchee in central  Washington .  Not Significant  At the plant, the waters of the Columbia River power
turbines that have been making electricity since 1961. Chelan
County, home to 72,000 people, fixed up the plant in 2006 to
produce 2 percent more power. On Dec. 18, 2008, the county sold
66,000 RECs to Sterling Planet for $1 each, contracts show.  That same day, Sterling Planet began a sale of more than
65,000 of the credits to the four government agencies for $3.23
apiece -- a 223 percent markup.  The $1 per megawatt-hour that went to Chelan County paled
in comparison to the $59 per megawatt-hour that the plant
fetched for electricity. Even though it was a small sum, Rocky
Reach didn’t turn down the money.  “RECs aren’t factored into the economics of our decision
making,” says Melissa Lyons, power resource analyst at the
 Chelan County Public Utility District . “It isn’t significant
compared to our multi-million-dollar power deals.”  ‘Clear Signal’  Companies that buy RECs say the credits fit into their
wide-ranging environmental strategies.  “It sends a clear signal to the market that we want
cleaner energy,” says Andy Smith, Cisco’s global sustainability
manager.  At Intel, Marty Sedler, director of global utilities and
infrastructure, says RECs are more valuable than critics make
them out to be.  “It’s a positive thing,” he says. “Any RECs you buy
absolutely help get more generation built. How much? It’s very
hard to determine.”  Intel first bought credits in 2008 and since then has
purchased a total of 4 million. Sedler won’t disclose how much
Intel paid or which green producers sold the RECs. Sterling
Planet handled the transactions.  RECs are just part of Intel’s environmental commitment,
Sedler says. The company has spent $35 million since 2001 on
cleaner-burning lighting for its chip plants and other eco-
improvements. In January 2010, Intel announced it was putting
solar panels on eight buildings.  Big Accolades  All the same, Intel is getting big accolades for buying its
1.4 million RECs in 2010. The company says it’s now cutting
1 million tons of carbon emissions from its environmental-
footprint calculations. In October, Newsweek magazine named
Intel one of the five greenest U.S. businesses. The same month,
the EPA awarded Intel a third consecutive  Green Power Leadership
Award , which recognizes “exceptional achievement” in
supporting renewable energy. The EPA gave 10 organizations
awards for purchasing green power in 2010.  “We could put in 1 megawatt of solar, but it wouldn’t be a
game changer,” Sedler says. For roughly the same price, Intel
can say 1.4 million RECs cut about 1 million tons of carbon
emissions compared with about 1,000 tons for solar.  The EPA says companies buying RECs are making a difference.  “This added revenue helps developers recover costs, pay
off debt and help reduce project risk,” says Allison Dennis,
communications manager for the EPA’s Green Power Partnership,
which hands out the awards.  Sedler says Intel’s main goal is to spark more companies to
follow its lead in promoting renewable energy; making a sizable
cut in its own emissions calculations is a fringe benefit.  “The last thing we want to do is try to do something good
and end up harming our reputation,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net 
Or Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  