-- Republican Leaders Choose Rogers as Head of House Appropriations Committee
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-12-08T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/republicans-in-u-s-house-set-to-choose-new-head-for-appropriations-panel.html
U.S. House Republican leaders named
Representative  Harold Rogers  as their choice to head the
Appropriations Committee, which would put the Kentuckian at the
center of his party’s efforts next year to slash the federal
budget.  The selection of Rogers, once named the “Prince of Pork”
by a Kentucky newspaper, is expected to be confirmed by all
Republican House members today. That will put him in charge of
determining how to dole out more than $1 trillion in annual
government spending.  Though the appropriations chairmanship has long been
considered a plum assignment, the job description has changed
amid mounting concern over budget deficits. The position’s
primary responsibility now will involve deciding how to make
good on Republican campaign promises to cut domestic
“discretionary” spending by 20 percent.  Nor will Rogers have money to hand out for pet projects in
lawmakers’ home states, following the decision last month by
Republicans to continue a self-imposed moratorium on the so-
called earmark process.  “The nation is in a fiscal crisis, and hard decisions are
coming,” Rogers said in a statement after his selection
yesterday. “I look forward to working with leadership and my
Republican colleagues in fighting for serious reforms of the
committee, bringing fiscal sanity back to our budgeting process,
performing vigorous oversight of the failed job-creation
policies of the Obama administration and moving our nation
forward.”  Tea Party Concerns  Tea Party activists who helped Republicans win a House
majority in last month’s elections and the lawmakers they
support will be among those pressing for an overhaul in the
committee’s operation to emphasize spending cuts. Representative
 Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican closely affiliated with the
Tea Party movement, said he could support Rogers “as long as
he’s repenting from his earmarking past.”  Rogers, 72, was picked over Representative  Jerry Lewis  of
California, the ranking Republican on the panel, who had sought
a waiver from the party’s term-limit rules for committee
service, and Georgia Republican  Jack Kingston . All had promised
to reduce spending, with Lewis releasing an itemized list of
more than $40 billion in cuts.  Rogers was one of 17 panel heads chosen by the House
Republican steering committee in a closed-door session. The
group consists of 34 lawmakers, including incoming Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio. Its picks will be offered tomorrow to the
party’s entire House caucus.  Other New Chairmen  The committee also selected Michigan Republican  Fred Upton 
over  Joe Barton  of Texas to chair the Energy and Commerce
Committee. Barton in June sparked a political backlash from both
parties when he accused the White House of a “shakedown” by
pressuring BP Plc to set aside $20 billion for damage claims
from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Alabama Republican  Spencer Bachus  was selected over
California’s  Ed Royce  to run the Financial Services Committee,
which oversees Wall Street.  Rogers, currently the ranking member of the Appropriations
subcommittee on homeland security, promised the steering
committee in a PowerPoint presentation released by his office to
push to rescind unspent stimulus funding, deny funding for
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul and put the
Environmental Protection Agency “and other job-killing
regulatory agencies on notice.”  ‘Prince of Pork’  Rogers’ endorsement of the party’s earmark moratorium marks
an about-face for him. The Lexington Herald-Leader, in dubbing
him the “Prince of Pork,” called Rogers “the very model of an
old-fashioned pork-barrel politician who builds an empire out of
government spending.” Over the past three years, he has taken
home $246 million in earmarks, according to the Washington-based
Taxpayers for Common Sense.  “He has gone out of his way to make sure that he took care
of his district, which by all accounts is a fairly poor
district,” said  Steve Ellis , vice president of the taxpayers
group. “But that’s got to change now that he’s the chairman of
the full committee -- he’s got to make decisions that are in the
best interests of the country and in the best interests of
taxpayers, not just in the best interests of his constituents.”  Changes pushed by Boehner include breaking up the 12 annual
appropriations bills the committee handles for government
agencies into smaller measures. Boehner has said that cutting
spending would be easier if the bills -- which often include
funding for scores of unrelated programs -- were more narrowly
focused.  ‘Eliminating Waste’  “The whole Appropriations Committee is going to change
from a spending committee to an efficiency committee, where it’s
finding and eliminating waste,” said Representative  Kevin McCarthy , a California Republican who will serve as majority
whip in the next Congress.  “We’re going to make the cuts we need to make,” said
Representative  Jeff Flake , an Arizona Republican and critic of
earmarks whom Boehner has endorsed for membership on the
committee.  For other committee heads, the steering group made the
following selections:  Frank Lucas  of Oklahoma, Agriculture;  Buck McKeon  of California, Armed Services;  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin,
Budget;  John Kline  of Minnesota, Education;  Ileana Ros-Lehtinen 
of Florida, Foreign Affairs;  Peter King  of New York, Homeland
Security.  Also,  Lamar Smith  of Texas, Judiciary;  Doc Hastings  of
Washington, Natural Resources;  Darrell Issa  of California,
Oversight;  Ralph Hall  of Texas, Science and Technology;  Dave Camp  of Michigan, Ways and Means;  Sam Graves  of Missouri, Small
Business;  John Mica  of Florida, Transportation; and  Jeff Miller 
of Florida, Veterans Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington D.C. at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington D.C. at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  