-- Rogers Picked to Head House Appropriations Panel, Congressman Lewis Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-12-07T23:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/rogers-picked-to-head-house-appropriations-panel-lewis-says.html
Representative  Harold Rogers  of
Kentucky has been picked by key House Republicans to head the
chamber’s Appropriations Committee, one of his challengers for
the job said.  Rogers’ selection, expected to be confirmed by the full
House Republican caucus, will put the 15-term incumbent at the
center of his party’s efforts next year to slash the federal
budget by $100 billion.  Representative  Jerry Lewis  of California, who also sought
the position, said in a statement that Rogers was picked for the
post today during a closed-door meeting of the House Republican
steering committee. “I look forward to working with Chairman
Rogers, my fellow committee members, our incoming freshman, and
all members of the Conference to fulfill our pledge to cut
spending,” Lewis said.  Rogers, 72, was once named the “Prince of Pork” by a
Kentucky newspaper. The Appropriations Committee chairmanship
long had been considered a plum assignment because the panel
decides how to dole out $1 trillion in annual government
spending, including so-called earmark projects in lawmakers’
home states.  The job description will change as Republicans, after
winning control of the next session of the House in last month’s
midterm elections, try to make good on a campaign promise to
slash domestic spending. The panel will also lead the Republican
fight to deny funding for parts of President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care overhaul, as well as efforts to block administration
regulations by adding provisions to agency budgets barring them
from enforcing the rules.  Also seeking the chairman’s job was Representative  Jack Kingston  of Georgia.  Steering Committee  The Republican steering committee is headed by incoming
House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and made up of other party
leaders, selected committee leaders, three new members and
regional representatives. Its choices are typically ratified by
the entire House Republican membership.  The panel today also selected Representative  Fred Upton , a
Michigan Republican backed by Boehner, to chair the Energy and
Commerce Committee. Upton beat back a bid by Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas, the committee’s current ranking Republican, who
was endorsed by Tea Party favorite  Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota
Republican.  Barton in June sparked a political backlash from both
parties when he accused the White House of a “shakedown” by
pressuring BP Plc to set aside $20 billion for damage claims
from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Barton retracted his comments
after party leaders threatened to take away his position on the
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington D.C. at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington D.C. at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  