-- Romanian Parliament Adopts IMF-Backed Pension Law Raising Retirement Age
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-12-07T14:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/romanian-parliament-adopts-imf-backed-pension-law-raising-retirement-age.html
Romania’s Parliament approved a
pension law critical for future disbursements from the Balkan
nation’s international bailout loan.  Lawmakers today adopted with 172 votes in favor a request
from President  Traian Basescu  to set the retirement age at 63
years for women and 65 for men, said Roberta Anastase, the
Chamber of Deputies’ president and a member of Prime Minister
 Emil Boc ’s ruling party.  Romania, the  European Union’s  second-poorest member, is
relying on a 20 billion-euro ($26.7 billion) loan led by the
 International Monetary Fund  as it struggles to cut its budget
deficit and recover from its worst  recession  on record. Romania
agreed on Nov. 1 to approve a 2011 budget, enact a unified wage
law and revise consumer-credit and pension rules to unlock a 2.4
billion-euro installment of the emergency loan.  “I want to assure you that no pension will decline and I
want to tell those who voted against the law that the day will
come when you will thank your colleagues for voting in favor of
a responsible pension system,” Labor Minister Ioan Botis told
lawmakers in Parliament after the vote. “It is a responsible
vote for the future of Romania.”  Presidential Action  The pension law now goes to Basescu, who refused in October
to sign it. Instead, he sent it back to Parliament requesting a
reduction of the proposed women’s retirement age to 63 years
from 65 years, as contained in the initial pension law approved
by lawmakers on Sept. 16.  The new retirement age will take effect in 2030, with
everyone who has contributed to the system for at least 15 years
qualifying for a pension. The law also links future pension
increases to the inflation rate as opposed to the current
average monthly wage tied to raises.  Romania’s government took the first step toward meeting the
IMF’s conditions late yesterday by approving a budget draft for
2011. It sent the proposal to the Parliament today for debate
and approval by the end of the year.  The draft foresees spending cuts to reach a deficit of 4.4
percent of gross domestic product next year from a target of 6.8
percent in 2010, Finance Minister  Gheorghe Ialomitianu  said in
an e-mailed statement. In 2010 the government raised a value-
added tax by 5 percentage points, to 24 percent, and cut public
wages to keep Romania’s IMF-led bailout on track.  The budget envisages economic growth of 1.5 percent next
year. Output will probably contract for a second year in 2010,
possibly as much as 2 percent.  The leu strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.2997 per euro as of
4:23 p.m. in Bucharest trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  