-- Russia Says WTO Membership by July Is ‘Realistic’
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-12-08T16:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/russia-says-wto-membership-by-july-is-realistic-after-eu-deal.html
Russia may join the World Trade
Organization in the first half of 2011, attracting investors and
opening markets for the country’s exporters, Economy Minister
 Elvira Nabiullina  said after the European Union agreed to settle
issues that had stalled the bid.  Nabiullina and EU Trade Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  signed
an accord yesterday that sets out terms for resolving “key
questions” between Russia and the bloc. So-called multiparty
talks on broader issues such as agricultural subsidies, meat
imports and Russia’s customs union with Belarus and Kazakhstan
should be resolved by the end of June, Nabiullina said.  “It is realistic if we work intensively,” she told
reporters late yesterday in Brussels. “The majority of
industries will win in the end,” she said. “For example, the
steel industry will win and will be able to deliver to EU
markets without quotas.”  Russia, the largest economy outside the WTO, has been
seeking  to join  the Geneva-based trade arbiter since June 1993.
The EU is Russia’s biggest trading partner, with the flow of
goods and services between the two countries rising 35 percent
to $217.8 billion in the first nine months of the year,
according to Russian government statistics.  “Membership will make Russia more like other countries,”
 Vladimir Osakovsky , a Moscow-based economist at UniCredit SpA,
said yesterday by telephone from Moscow. “It’s an opportunity
to increase capital inflows.”  Capital Outflow  Net capital outflow was about $9 billion last month,
raising the figure to $29 billion so far this year, central bank
Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  told reporters in Moscow today.  While WTO membership will strengthen exporters, it may
weaken the position of producers focused on the domestic market,
according to Troika Dialog and Otkritie Financial Corp.  “Confirmation that Russia is finally at the last stages of
entry to the WTO would be positive for the steel names, as it
would remove some export barriers,”  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said in an e-
mailed research note on Dec. 7.  The metals sector, which accounts for 15 percent of
 exports , will benefit without becoming “a big winner,” Alfa
Bank’s Moscow-based economists  Natalia Orlova  and  Dmitry Dolgin 
said in a research note today.  “With 65 percent of exports brought by oil and gas, the
economic impact of the accession on export revenues will be
weak,” Orlova and Dolgin said.  ‘Uncompetitive Sectors’  WTO entry may also improve investor sentiment if it becomes
the “anchor” for broader changes in the Russian economy,
Troika Dialog strategists, including London-based  Kingsmill 
Bond, said in a Dec. 1 research report.  OAO Novolipetsk , Russia’s largest steelmaker by market
value, jumped 4.2 percent to 138.56 rubles in Moscow trading
yesterday. Shares retreated 1.1 percent today.  OAO AvtoVAZ , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, fell 1.34 percent yesterday and
declined a further 0.8 percent to 35.388 rubles today.  “As a WTO member, Russia will have to import rules and
regulations that will open up uncompetitive sectors to non-
residents, thus improving overall business environment,
increasing production and leading to structurally lower
inflation,” said  Ivan Tchakarov , BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research’s chief economist for Russia, said in a research note.  Annual  inflation  averaged 15 percent from 2000 through
2009. It is set to reach 8.4 percent at the end of this year,
missing the government’s 8 percent forecast, according to
Ignatiev.  Corruption  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Transparency International’s 2010 Corruption Perceptions
Index. The report ranked Russia 154th among 178 countries and
placed it alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  Becoming a WTO member is perceived as a good way of
stimulating  investment , although “the high cost of doing
business in Russia may hamper” foreign direct investment
inflows, according to Alfa Bank.  Foreign companies already operating in Russia could
accelerate their investments as business confidence improves,
Citigroup Inc. said in a research note today.  “WTO accession could potentially improve investors’
sentiments toward Russia in the short-term,”  Dmitry Polevoy ,
ING Groep NV’s economist for Russia and Kazakhstan, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “But more long-term effects
will likely depend on the final terms of accession and
specifically the time frame for removal of the existing
protectionist barriers.”  Russia also has yet to reach an agreement on its WTO
accession with Georgia. The former Soviet republic has
threatened to block Russia’s entry to the WTO if its northern
neighbor doesn’t lift a four-year-old economic embargo.  When asked when Russia would settle bilateral issues with
Georgia, Nabiullina said, “So far there are no such claims.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  