-- Russia Moves Closer to WTO Membership With EU Deal Settling `Key' Issues
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-12-07T11:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/russia-moves-closer-to-wto-membership-with-eu-deal-settling-key-issues.html
Russia moved a step closer to
membership in the World Trade Organization by signing an
agreement with the European Union settling “key questions”
that have hampered its accession bid for years.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and EU leaders, including
President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission President
 Jose Barroso , today signed a memorandum of understanding that
sets the terms to resolve all EU-Russia bilateral issues.
Russia, the largest economy outside the WTO,  applied  for
membership in the Geneva-based trade arbiter in June 1993.  “We have finished our negotiations with Russia on those
terms of Russia’s WTO accession which were not yet agreed
previously and were of particular concern specifically to the
EU,” said  John Clancy , the commission’s trade spokesman in
Brussels. “This bilateral deal resolves a number of key
questions for the EU and brings the accession moment closer.”  Among the bigger EU concerns that have been settled are
Russia’s pricing policies for lumber exports and railway fees.
Finland and the Baltic countries complained that the policies
unfairly aid Russian companies by overcharging European rivals.
Russia has agreed to cut the timber export duty to about 15
percent of customs value from 25 percent, though the lower levy
won’t be applied until it joins the WTO.  Main Partner  The 27-nation EU is Russia’s biggest trading partner,
accounting for 50.4 percent of volume in the first nine months
of this year, according to the  Federal Customs Service  in
Moscow.  Trade  in goods and services between the two economies
climbed almost 35 percent in the first nine months of 2010 to
$217.8 billion, according to data distributed by the Kremlin.  The EU shipped about 66 billion euros ($88 billion) of
products such as machinery, transport equipment, food and live
animals to Russia last year and bought 115 billion euros of
Russian goods. Energy and mineral-fuels products make up 77
percent of EU imports from Russia. The bloc relies on Russia for
more than a quarter of its natural-gas demand, according to EU
statistics office Eurostat.  The accord signed at the EU-Russia summit in Brussels today
doesn’t iron out all Russian WTO accession issues. The world’s
biggest energy supplier must negotiate multilaterally on
unresolved matters such as conditions for a trade-related
investment regime and its application of health rules for food
imports, some of which concern the EU, Clancy said.  Overflight Fees  “We will continue negotiations alongside other WTO members
on technical regulations and will monitor that Russia implements
the commitments it undertook in such areas as sanitary and
veterinary conditions for agricultural imports, intellectual-
property rights and other market-access-related non-tariff
regulations,” he said.  Russia also agreed during discussions that ran parallel to
its WTO accession talks to alter the way it imposes fees on
European planes for the right to pass over Siberia. The changes
will be made when Russia joins  the WTO , Clancy said.  “Once all multilateral questions are resolved and
negotiations in Geneva are finished, the EU countries will have
to agree to the whole WTO accession package,” he said. “As
Russia made the link to WTO accession, the implementation of the
overflight agreement will be an important element to be
considered at that stage, which could be in six to 12 months
from now, if negotiations proceed in a good pace.”  Negative Impact  Russia, with an economy of $1.23 billion, expects to
complete negotiations to join the WTO in the first half of 2011,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said in a Nov. 30
interview. While accession will initially have a negative impact
on the auto and aircraft industries, it will be positive for
Russia in the long term, he said.  Russia and the U.S. won’t complete accession talks this
year because sticking points remain over issues including U.S.
demands for greater access for agricultural products, mainly
poultry and pork, legislation to protect intellectual property
and Russian curbs on imports and exports,  Myron Brilliant ,
senior vice president for international affairs at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, said in September.  Russia also has yet to reach an agreement on its WTO
accession with Georgia. The former Soviet republic has
threatened to block Russia’s entry to the WTO if its northern
neighbor doesn’t lift a four-year-old economic embargo.  “Confirmation that Russia is finally at the last stages of
entry to the WTO would be positive for the steel names, as it
would remove some export barriers, and for the bank-sector
stocks,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said in a research note today. WTO membership
may also prompt credit-rating companies to raise Russia’s
sovereign-debt grade, which is “long overdue,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 