-- South Korea Price Expectations Climb as BOK Lags Behind: Inflation Bonds
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-12-07T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/s-korea-price-expectations-climb-as-bok-lags-inflation-bonds.html
Inflation expectations in South Korea
are climbing the most since the end of the global crisis,
according to the nation’s bond market, signaling the central
bank is behind in raising interest rates from a record low.  The gap between yields on seven-year inflation-linked bonds
and standard debt, a gauge of expectations for consumer-price
gains over the period, has risen 40 basis points since Oct. 1,
to 2.6 percentage points Dec. 6. The climb is the second largest
among 13 markets tracked by Bloomberg, after the U.S., where
Federal Reserve easing has stoked confidence in higher prices.  Bank of Korea policy makers have been forced to admit a
government representative at their meetings since January as
President  Lee Myung Bak  sought faster economic growth. The bank
will keep its benchmark rate unchanged tomorrow at  2.5 percent ,
according to all 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey, leaving it
below November’s 3.3 percent annual pace of inflation.  “The Bank of Korea isn’t doing its job well in anchoring
inflation,” said  Kwon Young Sun , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong who previously worked at the central
bank for 15 years. “The BOK is behind the curve as it missed
its chances to raise interest rates earlier.”  The increase in South Korea’s  breakeven rate , or the gap in
yields between inflation-linked and standard notes, since the
start of October exceeds that of any quarter since April to June
2009, when the world crisis waned with banks’ recapitalizations.  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  and the policy board have raised
borrowing costs only twice this year, by a combined 0.5
percentage point from a record-low 2 percent, even as  inflation 
accelerated and breached their 4 percent ceiling in October.  Fed Impact  The nation’s economic recovery has contributed to the price
gains and U.S. monetary easing risks intensifying the pressure,
boosting the appeal of investments offering protection against
inflation. The Finance Ministry on Nov. 4 said the Fed’s plan to
inject $600 billion into the world’s biggest economy will propel
more funds into emerging markets.  “Strategically, Korean inflation-linked bonds looked good
value because the market has generally underpriced inflation
risks,” said  Adam McCabe , a Singapore-based portfolio manager
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees $267 billion.
“Extraordinary” monetary policy looseness in advanced nations
is spilling over into South Korea, McCabe said. He expects the
breakeven rate to reach 3 percentage points.  South Korean inflation-linked bonds are the top holding in
the $538 million Aberdeen Asia Bond Institutional Fund, which
has returned 12.7 percent so far this year, according to an Oct.
31 fact sheet on the company’s website.  Yield Gap  South Korea’s 2.75 percent inflation-linked bonds due March
2017 yielded 1.64 percent in Seoul yesterday, near a two-month
low, according to Barclays Bank Plc prices. The yield on the 5.5
percent notes due September 2017 that don’t offer protection
against inflation was 4.12 percent.  Lee’s government in January started dispatching a vice
finance minister to BOK meetings after Kim’s predecessor as
governor said the bank shouldn’t be too slow to raise rates.
Board members in May sought to have the official leave the room
for the vote on rates, a step agreed to in June. The central
bank started raising rates a month later.  “It’s like a tug of war as the government wants to keep
rates low to promote growth, while the BOK needs to raise them
to curb inflation,” said  Oh Suk Tae , an analyst in Seoul at SC
First Bank Korea Ltd., a unit of Standard Chartered Plc.  Growth Concern  Oh, who has covered the nation’s economy for more than 13
years, said that “South Korea’s annual growth rate could drop
to around 3 percent next year if the current economic trend
continues, adding pressure on the BOK to keep rates on hold.”
Higher rates would risk a stronger exchange rate that makes
South Korean  exports  less competitive.  Exports account for about 40 percent of gross domestic
product, making South Korea the second-most export-dependent
member of the Group of 20, after Saudi Arabia, International
Monetary Fund data show. The won has risen about 39 percent
since March 2009, and recovered losses sparked by tensions after
North Korea’s deadly shelling of a border island on Nov. 23.  Quarterly  economic expansion  halved to 0.7 percent in the
three months to September as the won appreciated the most in
Asia against the dollar and goods shipments moderated.  Governor Kim predicts Asia’s fourth-largest economy will
 expand  about 4.5 percent in 2011 after a 6 percent pace this
year, with inflation accelerating to 3.4 percent next year from
3 percent in 2010. The central bank targets inflation of 2
percent to 4 percent on average through 2012.  Pressure on Retailers  The government has sought to stem inflation through other
means, saying yesterday it would try to curb inflation with
steps including increased food supply and more competition among
retailers.  Policy makers are also seeking to counter the impact of
inflows of speculative capital in the aftermath of the Fed’s
liquidity injections. The breakeven rate tumbled the most in
three months on Nov. 18, when the government backed reviving
taxes on foreign investors in domestic bonds to slow capital
inflows. The proposed legislation would reintroduce a 14 percent
tax on interest income from treasury and central bank bonds and
a 20 percent capital gains levy on their sale.  Emerging markets from Brazil to Taiwan, Thailand and
Indonesia have also taken steps to counter so-called hot money,
or speculative capital seeking short-term returns.  Bond Sales  Inflation-linked bonds, versions of which have been sold
for centuries, have a shorter history in Asia. South Korea
introduced them in March 2007 before scrapping issuance in
August 2008 due to low demand, and then restarting the program
this year. Japan also issues such securities.  South Korea has sold 1.25 trillion won ($1.1 billion) of
bonds whose principal increases in line with the consumer price
index since June, said Seo Jung Hyun, an official at the
 Ministry of Strategy and Finance , which oversees the sales. It
sold 213 billion won of 10-year inflation-linked bonds at a
yield of 1.67 percent in November.  The 10-year breakeven may reach 300 basis points, or 3
percentage points, in the first quarter of 2011, said  Yum Sang Hoon , a fixed-income strategist at SK Securities Co. in Seoul.  “The appeal might rise for these assets, especially if the
central bank fails to raise rates much more to control
inflation,” Yum said. “I only see one rate hike next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net  