-- Salesforce Unveils Database Product, Taking On Oracle
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-12-08T02:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/salesforce-unveils-database-software-in-challenge-to-oracle.html
Salesforce.com Inc. , the biggest
seller of online customer-relationship management programs,
introduced a product that may bring it into closer competition
with Oracle Corp., the largest maker of database software.  Database.com, the new software unveiled at a conference
today, is a storehouse for information that developers can use
to build online applications.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  is branching into new
areas, including business social networks, to extend the rally
that has almost doubled Salesforce’s stock this year.
Database.com will help the company cater to developers who build
applications that run across network-connected computers and
step up its rivalry with Oracle and other software makers, said
 Frank Gens ,  chief analyst  at researcher IDC.  “Platforms are moving to the cloud,” Benioff said during
a keynote address at the conference.  Database.com will be available next year. Tomorrow,
Salesforce plans to introduce a new version of its Force.com
software development tools that let programmers more easily
write applications compatible with Salesforce, using the Java
programming language, Benioff said.  Database.com may put pressure on Oracle to release an
online version of its database software next year, Gens said.  Carol Sato , a spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-
based Oracle, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Salesforce, based in San Francisco, rose 1 cent to $145.24
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . It has
gained 97 percent this year.  Cloud Applications  Developers will be able to use Database.com, introduced at
Salesforce’s Dreamforce conference, with online services from
Amazon.com Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc., said Ariel
Kelman, vice president of product marketing at Salesforce.  Microsoft sells an online database for cloud computing
called SQL Azure, and Amazon’s Relational Database Service is
part of its Amazon Web Services set of cloud computing products.
Salesforce said it uses Oracle’s database software.  Salesforce’s new offering may help developers create small
applications for mobile devices and Web sites, said Jason
Maynard, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in Santa Monica,
California, in a Dec. 7 note to clients.  “This is a nice extension of the Salesforce.com
platform,” said Maynard, who has a “market perform” rating on
Salesforce shares. It “isn’t a replacement for enterprise class
products from Oracle or IBM.”  Appeal to CIOs  Salesforce partners  Informatica Corp.  and Progress Software
Corp. are supplying software that can help customers load data
into Database.com.  Salesforce’s diversification into new products is making
the company more important to chief information officers, said
 Brendan Barnicle , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, in a
research note yesterday. Barnicle, based in Portland, Oregon,
has an “ outperform ” rating on the shares.  Under Benioff, Salesforce has released Force.com and an
online marketplace for business applications. In June, the
company began offering its customers software called Chatter for
building online networks to let their employees communicate more
easily.  Salesforce’s revenue may increase 22 percent to $2 billion
for the 2012 fiscal year, which begins in February, according to
the average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  