-- Sarkozy to Make Terrorism Speech at Mumbai Hotel Attacked in Deadly Seige
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-12-07T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/sarkozy-to-make-terrorism-speech-at-mumbai-hotel-attacked-in-deadly-seige.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will
make a speech on terrorism at a hotel that was attacked two
years ago in Mumbai on the final stop of his  4-day tour  in India
after signing a $9.3 billion preliminary contract for  Areva SA 
to build nuclear reactors.  Sarkozy will make his address at the  Oberoi Trident Hotel ,
where gunmen from Pakistan killed guests and staff during the
November 2008 attacks on Mumbai that left 166 people dead.
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said yesterday in a joint
briefing that the two had talked about “common concerns”
including Pakistan, Afghanistan and terrorism.  Sarkozy, who travelled to India with a group of 50 business
leaders, will finish his visit with a speech to French and
Indian executives at a business conference.  France was India’s fifth-biggest trading partner in 2009.
 Trade  between the two countries in the first nine months of this
year was 5.3 billion euros ($7 billion).  Areva and state-owned  Nuclear Power Corp. of India Ltd. 
signed agreements for the construction of two reactors, the
first of a series of six at Jaitapur in western India. The deals
include fuel supply for 25 years, Paris-based Areva said in a
statement yesterday. India plans to add 60,000 megawatts of
nuclear power capacity in the next 14 years, a third of the
current total output, to address power shortages.  The agreement is Areva’s biggest for so-called evolutionary
pressurized reactors since the 2007 sale of two units to China.
The company lost a contract in 2009 to supply four of the
reactors to the United Arab Emirates, a deal eventually won by a
South Korean group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Mumbai 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 