-- Schrager Passes on Buying Manhattan's Hotel Chelsea After Considering Bid
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-12-07T17:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/schrager-passes-on-buying-manhattan-s-hotel-chelsea-after-considering-bid.html
Ian Schrager , the developer credited
with inventing the boutique-hotel concept, considered buying
Manhattan’s landmark Hotel Chelsea and decided against an offer
after viewing the 127-year-old property last month.  “It’s a sexy asset with an incredibly sexy history and we
felt obliged to take a look at it,” Schrager, the chairman and
chief executive officer of Ian Schrager Co., said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We took a pass.”  The owners of the  Hotel Chelsea , a rock and roll and
literary landmark whose denizens included singer  Patti Smith  and
playwright  Arthur Miller , put the property up for sale in
October for the first time in more than 65 years. They are
asking about $90 million for the 12-story building, according to
a person with knowledge of the marketing. The person asked not
to be named because the proposed terms are private.  Doug Harmon , senior managing director of Eastdil Secured
LLC, the firm marketing the Chelsea to buyers, declined in an e-
mail to comment on the price.  Schrager, 64, said he got “half a dozen” phone calls from
investors seeking to partner with him to acquire the property,
which includes 125 hotel rooms and 101 apartments with long-term
tenants. The hotel carries almost no debt.  “We were a motivated buyer and we would have loved to have
gotten it,” Schrager said. “Maybe there are others who are
seeing things we didn’t see.”  $600 a Night  He estimated that the hotel could command rates of as much
as $600 a night. The average rate for a junior suite on Dec. 10
is $349, according to bookings website Hotels.com.  Schrager and his business partner, the late Steve Rubell,
started the boutique hotel trend in 1984 with the opening of the
Morgans Hotel in New York. Schrager also opened the Delano Hotel
in Miami; the Mondrian Hotel in West Hollywood, California; and
the Hudson Hotel in New York, all currently operated by New
York-based  Morgans Hotel Group Co.  Schrager left Morgans Hotel
Group in 2005 to start Ian Schrager Co.  “If Ian Schrager got it, it would be a home run,”  Faith Hope Consolo , chairman of retail leasing, marketing and sales
for Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate, said of the Chelsea
a week after the property was put up for sale. “He knows how to
do these types of projects. He’ll put on that Midas touch.”  The hotel includes 17,000 square feet (1,600 square meters)
of retail space located along 23rd Street and a brick rooftop
terrace, according to marketing documents. Consolo said a new
owner could find opportunity in the retail space alone, leasing
it to a signature restaurant, or a niche gift or crafts store.  Tourist ‘Magnet’  “This location could be a magnet for tourists,” she said
in an interview. “It’s at the apex of everything going on east
and west. It’s a very well-trafficked corridor and it’s the path
to other neighborhoods.”  Hotel room rates in New York City climbed 6.9 percent in
October from a year earlier to an average $273 a night,
according to Smith Travel Research Inc. of Hendersonville,
Tennessee. Revenue per room rose 6.9 percent to $231, even as
occupancy remained unchanged at 85 percent.  In Manhattan, 15 hotels have been sold since the beginning
of the year, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a real
estate research firm in New York. The Milford Plaza on Eighth
Avenue, with 1,300 hotel rooms, was the largest deal in dollar
terms, selling last month for $230 million, or $176,923 a unit.  Sixth-Largest  A sale of the Hotel Chelsea for the asking price of $90
million would be Manhattan’s sixth-largest hotel transaction of
the year, tied with the Hotel Roger Williams, a 193-room
property in Murray Hill that sold for that price in September.  “I’m not surprised that they’re asking this much, but I’d
be surprised if they sold for that much,” said  Ben Thypin , an
analyst at Real Capital. “They’re comfortable asking for this
much because it’s a famous property.”  The Hotel Chelsea, where  Marilyn Monroe  and Arthur Miller
lived as a married couple and Patti Smith and  Robert Mapplethorpe  also shared a room, is being marketed not just for
its history but also for its yield-generating promise.  “Fully unencumbered hotel with powerful branding and
management potential,” reads Eastdil’s summary listing, which
touts the building’s “iconic status,” and 800-square-foot
rooms that a new owner could subdivide to increase the number of
income-generating units.  The Chelsea “has never implemented or utilized an
effective sales and marketing campaign or central reservations
system,” the listing reads. “Considerable margin improvement
and revenue maximization opportunities exist.”  Paying With Paintings  In the residential units, property income is derived from
rents set decades ago, and an occasional oil painting is offered
when the lease comes due.  “Just a few months ago we had a young lady who biked from
Canada -- literally on a bicycle -- and showed up in the lobby,
stayed there for a couple for days and kept insisting I give her
a room,” Arnold Tamasar, the property’s general manager, said
in an October interview. “I negotiated with her and we did a
barter. She gave us a beautiful painting and she stayed for
about a month.”  Schrager said he would have kept the hotel “basically the
same” had he acquired it.  “It would still feel very Bohemian,” he said. “If you
put a shine on it, you would have ruined it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  