-- Scotiabank Cuts Suggested Stock Weighting, Citing Slow Economic Recovery
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-07T19:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/scotiabank-cuts-suggested-stock-weighting-citing-slow-recovery.html
Bank of Nova Scotia reduced its
recommendation for the weighting of equities in investors’
portfolios today, citing a sluggish U.S. recovery, European debt
concerns and Chinese efforts to restrain inflation.  Investors should put 58 percent of their holdings in
stocks,  Vincent Delisle , Scotiabank’s director of portfolio
strategy, said in a report today. Delisle had recommended an
equity weighting of 63 percent since April.  “Investor sentiment will remain vulnerable to myriad
challenges, and a tactical approach should add value again in
2011,” the strategist wrote. “Spain and Portugal could be the
Euro spoilers next year, and China’s tightening intentions also
threaten to dampen fragile  risk appetite .”  In January, Delisle’s team forecast the  S&P/Toronto Stock
Exchange Composite Index  would rise to 12,750 and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 to 1,225 in 2010. The Canadian index gained  13
percent  this year through yesterday to 13,276.01 while the U.S.
benchmark advanced 9.7 percent to 1,223.12.  Today, Delisle set a 12- to 18-month estimate of 1,325 for
the S&P 500 and 14,000 for the S&P/TSX.  While the bank says it recommends an “overweight”
position in equities, it is lessening the degree of that stance
in light of investors’ reluctance to embrace risky assets,
Delisle said.  Skepticism  “This is not your buy-and-hold type market,” he told a
conference in Toronto today. “The flows are not coming back
into equities. There’s still a lot of pessimism and skepticism
out there.”  Investors haven’t seen “tangible signs” that the U.S.
economic recovery is sustainable, Delisle said. While  Canadian
employment  reached a record high last month, the U.S. has fewer
people working than it did six years ago.  China’s policy of tightening interest-rate and banking
regulations to keep prices down is a bigger short-term risk for
equity investors, he said. Chinese  consumer prices  jumped 4.4
percent in October, the most in two years, the country reported
last month.  “The U.S. will stimulate their economy at all costs,”
Delisle said. “As long as China is worried about inflation,
you’ll get more rate hikes, and the  Chinese stock market  will
underperform.”  China Effect  Scotiabank reduced its weighting for materials stocks to
“marketweight” from “overweight” earlier this year. Weaker
Chinese equities may hold back commodity prices, Delisle said.
China is the world’s largest consumer of industrial metals and
second-biggest energy user behind the U.S.  The S&P 500 may outperform the S&P/TSX for the first time
since 2003 next year, as six years of gains versus stocks in the
U.S. and other developed markets have left Canadian equities
relatively expensive, Delisle said.  S&P/TSX stocks now cost  $18.14  per dollar of analysts’
average profit estimate for the next year, compared with $14.43
for the S&P 500 and $13.93 for the MSCI World Index.  “Canada is not expensive, but relative to the U.S. and the
rest of the world, Canada is probably at the heaviest premium
we’ve seen in many, many years,” he said.  The difference in price per dollar of estimated profit
between the S&P/TSX and  MSCI World Index  widened to 32 percent
on Oct. 29, the biggest gap in Bloomberg records dating to
January 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 