-- Seattle Genetics `Guided Missile' Drug Blasts Rare Lymphoma in New Study
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-07T21:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/seattle-genetics-drug-developed-with-takoda-blasts-fatal-form-of-lymphoma.html
A drug from  Seattle Genetics Inc.  and
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.  used a double-barreled approach to
wipe out malignancy in patients with a deadly form of lymphoma,
a study found.  The experimental product, SGN-35, combines a cancer-seeking
antibody with a tumor-killing chemical. The medicine cleared
cancer to undetectable levels in 53 percent of those with
anaplastic large cell lymphoma, and cut tumor size by at least
half in an additional 33 percent, said  Andrei Shustov , leader of
the company-funded study. Seattle Genetics, of Bothell,
Washington, plans to apply in the 2011 first half for U.S.
approval of the drug, which would be its first on the market.  SGN-35 may be cleared late next year for this type of
lymphoma and the more common Hodgkin’s form, and by 2015 may
bring in $420 million in annual revenue, said  Jason Kantor , an
analyst with RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco. The drug uses
an antibody to find and bind with a protein found on the surface
of lymphoma cells, and blasts them with  auristatin , a chemical
that kills cancer by blocking cell division.  “I call these drugs guided missiles,” Shustov, a blood
cancer specialist at the University of Washington in Seattle,
said in a telephone interview on Dec. 1. “You have the warhead
that is delivered by a smart carrier which is the antibody. It
gets the drug to the target at very high concentrations.”  Seattle Genetics fell 2 cents to $15.21 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite  trading . The shares have gained 50
percent this year.  SGN-35’s antibody and drug are held together by a linker,
which releases the chemical only when it reaches and docks with
the cancer cells. As a result, auristatin shouldn’t enter the
bloodstream or reach healthy tissues, and should avoid the side
effects of standard chemotherapy, Shustov said.  Rare Cancer  Anaplastic large cell lymphoma is a rare type of  T-cell
lymphoma  diagnosed in 600 to 700 U.S. patients a year, Shustov
said. Lymphomas are cancers that damage the  lymphatic system ,
part of the body’s disease-fighting defenses.  T-cell lymphomas, which attack immune cells known as T-
cells, are aggressive and hard to treat, with a cure rate of
less than 20 percent, Shustov said. Twelve to 24 months after
being diagnosed, half of patients are dead, he said.  “This is a very bad cancer,” Shustov said. Part of the
reason prognosis is poor in T-cell lymphoma is that previous
treatments haven’t targeted the right cells, he said.  In the trial Shustov led, 58 patients with anaplastic
lymphoma were treated and studied for a median of six months.
The patients ranged in age from 14 to 76 years, with a median
age of 52, and had received one to six previous treatments with
other therapies, he said.  Complete Remissions  Altogether, 86 percent of the patients in the study had
their cancer cut in half or cleared to undetectable levels, 5
percent got worse, 3 percent had stable disease that didn’t
improve and 5 percent weren’t available to be evaluated, Shustov
said. Those numbers are comparable to what happens with newly
diagnosed patients who are given multiple drugs at once.  “We’ve never before seen this rate of complete remissions
in relapsed or refractory T-cell lymphomas treated with a single
agent,” Shustov said. “We finally have a drug that will
provide benefit for a majority of patients who had little hope
of clearing the disease.”  Another company-funded study presented yesterday at the
hematology meeting found that SGN-35 cleared cancer to
undetectable levels in one third of patients with hard-to-treat
Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and shrank tumors by half in an additional
40 percent.  The company currently has no products approved for
commercial sale, and had an accumulated deficit of $427.4
million as of Sept. 30. SGN-35, or brentuximab vedotin, is the
company’s lead product candidate.  Seattle Genetics has exclusive North American marketing
rights to SGN-35. Takeda, based in Osaka, Japan, can sell the
drug elsewhere. The companies share development costs equally,
except in Japan where Takeda is solely responsible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 