-- Shipping May Benefit as Australian Rains Disrupt Coal Exports, Arctic Says
-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 2010-12-07T17:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/shipping-may-benefit-as-australian-rains-disrupt-coal-exports-arctic-says.html
Commodity-shipping rates, down 22
percent last month, may gain after flooding in Australia
disrupted coal exports, potentially forcing buyers to look
further afield for supplies, Arctic Securities ASA said.  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. Xstrata Plc, the
world’s biggest power-station coal exporter, shut part of its
rail system and will supply clients from stockpiles. Macarthur
Coal Ltd., Aquila Resources Ltd. and Vale SA declared force
majeure last week.  Port congestion may be unchanged or “slightly up” and
ton-miles may rise,  Erik Nikolai Stavseth , an analyst with Oslo-
based Arctic, said by e-mail today. Ton-miles measure shipping
demand by multiplying cargo volumes by distance traveled. China,
the biggest coal user, has built up inventories since early
September to meet winter heating needs.  “The signs are definitely in the bullish direction,”
Stavseth said. “As stockpiles at Chinese power plants are
rumored to be low, I doubt they are cancelling stems -- rather,
scrambling to secure alternative supply,” he said, using an
industry term for cargoes.  The  Baltic Dry Index , a measure of costs to ship dry-bulk
commodities, fell 0.3 percent today to 2,173 points, according
to the Baltic Exchange in London. It has gained 3.5 percent this
month, rebounding from November’s decline.  Ship Charters  Vessels chartered to export coal to China, the world’s
biggest energy user, increased about 36 percent last week,
Commodore Research & Consultancy said.  Suppliers may have hired 19 vessels to deliver coal to
China in the seven days ended Dec. 3, up from 14 in the prior
week,  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of New York-based Commodore
Research, said in a note yesterday. Chinese thermal-coal demand
“remains robust,” he said.  Australia is the second-largest exporter after Indonesia of
coal burned for power and ranks first when coal to make steel is
included, according to the World Coal Institute’s website. The
group compiled the data from information provided by BP Plc, the
International Energy Agency, the World Steel Association,
Simpson Spence & Young and the World Energy Council.  Force majeure is a legal clause relieving companies from
meeting contract terms because of circumstances beyond their
control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  