-- Shrinking Euro Union Seen by Creditors Who Cried for Argentina
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-12-07T18:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/shrinking-euro-union-seen-in-breakup-by-creditors-who-cried-for-argentina.html
Nine months before Argentina stopped
paying its obligations in 2001,  Jonathan Binder  sold all his
holdings of the nation’s bonds, protecting clients from the
biggest sovereign default. Now he’s betting Greece, Portugal and
Spain will restructure debts and leave the euro.  Binder, the former Standard Asset Management banker who is
chief investment officer at Consilium Investment Management in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, has been buying credit-default swaps
the past year to protect against default by those three nations
as well as Italy and Belgium. He’s also shorting, or betting
against, subordinated bonds of banks in the European Union.  “You will probably see at least one restructuring before
the end of the next year,” said Binder, whose Emerging Market
Absolute Return Fund gained 17.6 percent this year, compared
with an average return of 10 percent for those investing in
developing nations, according to Barclay Hedge, a Fairfield,
Iowa-based firm that tracks hedge funds.  He’s got plenty of company.  Mohamed El-Erian , whose
emerging-market fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.  beat
its peers in 2001  by avoiding Argentina, expects countries to
exit the 16-nation euro zone. Gramercy, a $2.2 billion
investment firm in Greenwich, Connecticut, is buying swaps in
Europe to hedge holdings of emerging-market bonds, said Chief
Investment Officer  Robert Koenigsberger , who dumped Argentine
notes more than a year before its default.  ‘Fiscal Traps’  “The currency rigidities and fiscal traps that bound
Argentina in 2001 and the periphery of Europe today are quite
similar,” Koenigsberger said in e-mailed responses to
questions. “We view such hedges as systematic risk protection
as opposed to betting on a restructuring per se. The decision
will be political, not economic. A purely economic decision
would have Greece already in default, and several other nations
close behind.”  Bonds from Greece and Ireland tumbled since German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Oct. 29 proposal to force debt
holders to share the cost of future bailouts. Yields on 10-year
Greek notes climbed 128 basis points, or 1.28 percentage points,
since Oct. 28 to 11.69 percent, and yields on Irish bonds rose
122 basis points to 8.03 percent. The yields compare with 7.7
percent on dollar bonds sold by Jamaica, which restructured
local-currency debt in January and was declared in default by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Five-year credit-default swaps for Greece jumped 12 basis
points to 917 yesterday, above Argentina’s 640, making it the
second most-expensive credit insurance in the world after
Venezuela, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its agreements.  Financial Rescue  Portugal will likely follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a
financial bailout from the EU and International Monetary Fund,
and some nations will abandon the euro within five years as
their economies  diverge  from Germany, El-Erian, the chief
executive officer at Pimco, said in an interview on CNBC on Nov.
30.  “Unless we see something that deals with the balance
sheet, expect this contagion to continue to go up,” said El-
Erian, whose company runs the world’s largest bond fund in
Newport Beach, California. “Be cautious towards the euro.”  El-Erian sold Argentina’s debt in 2000, helping Pimco’s
Emerging Markets Bond reap a return of 28 percent in 2001,
outperforming 98 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. El-Erian, 52, wasn’t available to
comment, said  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, in an e-mail.  Dollar Peg  Argentina started struggling to finance its debt in 1999 as
the one-to-one peg to a rising dollar squeezed exporters and
Brazil, the country’s largest trading partner, devalued the
real. Interim President  Adolfo Rodriguez Saa  announced the
default in December 2001, after more than 25 people died in
riots that toppled the government over spending cuts and the
seizure of retirement savings.  The 50 percent appreciation in the euro against the dollar
since 2002 has hurt manufacturers in Greece and Portugal, whose
economies grew less than 1 percent a year in the past decade.
The shortfall in the  current account  in the two nations amounted
to about 10 percent of gross domestic product, triple the ratio
for Argentina in 2000. Portuguese workers staged the country’s
first general strike in 22 years last week to protest government
austerity measures.  Higher Debt  Greece’s debt totaled 127 percent of GDP in 2009, the
second highest in the developed world after Japan, followed by
116 percent in Italy. Argentina’s public debt was 62 percent of
its economy in 2001, according to data from the IMF.  The budget deficit in Greece, at 15.4 percent of GDP, is
the widest among developed nations, followed by 11 percent in
Spain and 9.3 percent in Portugal. Those levels compare with 6.4
percent in Argentina in 2001.  Domingo Cavallo , Argentina’s economy minister who resigned
in December 2001 as the country defaulted on $95 billion, says
holders of European government and bank obligations may be
forced to take a cut on their investment with the euro intact.
The IMF and the EU should buy all the debt of Greece and Ireland
at market prices in an “orderly” restructuring, while Portugal
and Spain improve their competitiveness through  labor  and tax
reforms, he said in a telephone interview.  ‘Rapid Way’  “If they don’t do something additionally in a more rapid
way, that may destroy all the governments simply because people
in these countries will not stand the deflation and depression
accompanied by the fiscal adjustment,” said Cavallo, 64, the
chief executive officer of DFC Associate LLC, a consulting firm
in Buenos Aires. “There will be a political crisis to come in
an extreme way as happened in Argentina.”  Potential defaults haven’t been recognized by foreign-
exchange traders. The number of bets that the euro will weaken
versus the dollar  in the futures market  were less than 7 percent
of those placed in May when Greece was rescued, data compiled by
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The EU, IMF, the U.S. and China will do whatever it takes
to avoid an Argentina-style default and a breakup of the euro,
according to  Simon Nocera , a former IMF economist who manages
emerging market bonds as the co-founder of Lumen Advisors LLC in
San Francisco.  ‘Status Quo’  “I don’t think the situation will blow up or someone
leaves the euro,” said Nocera, who started cutting his
Argentine debt in 2000 when managing $6 billion at Dresdner RCM
Global Investors. “The status quo is of great interest not only
to Europe, but also to the U.S. and to China. It’s an entirely
different ball game than a simple default in Argentina.”  The European Central Bank has purchased as much as 17
percent of the combined public debt of Greece, Ireland and
Portugal, according to a research report by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. on Nov. 29. Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said on Nov. 8 that
his country is “available” to support Portugal.  “After you have a wave of international banking crises,
inevitably within a few years, there will be a wave of sovereign
debt crises,” said  Kenneth Rogoff , a professor at Harvard
University who was the chief economist at the IMF from 2001 to
2003, and who predicted “major” bank failures months before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in September 2008.
“It’s hard to see an end game that doesn’t involve at least
some of the countries restructuring.”  The EU and IMF forecast the Greek economy will shrink 4.2
percent this year and 3 percent in 2011, while Portugal’s may
contract 1.4 percent next year because of tighter spending.
Ireland cut spending and raised taxes by 6 billion euros even as
the economy contracted 11 percent over the past three years.  “It’s not so much that the Europeans or Germans will stop
providing funding for Greece,” said Consilium’s Binder.
“Probably Greece will eventually throw up their hands and say:
‘We cannot keep the political pressure of this policy mix
because it creates social discontent.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  