-- Sinovel Aims to Raise $510 Million From Revised Share Sale in Shanghai
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T05:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/sinovel-aims-to-raise-510-million-from-revised-share-sale-in-shanghai.html
Sinovel Wind Group Co. , a Chinese
wind turbine maker, sought new approval for an initial public
offering in Shanghai after the review of a previous proposal was
canceled by the country’s industry regulator.  Sinovel seeks 3.4 billion yuan ($510 million) from the
share sale to fund expansion, according to a statement posted on
the website of the China Securities Regulatory Commission
yesterday. The commission said Oct. 27 it canceled a meeting to
consider Sinovel’s original IPO proposal because “certain
matters” needed investigation. It didn’t say what they they
were.  CSRC will review the new IPO application on Dec. 10, it
said in a separate statement yesterday.  Sinovel aims to be the world’s largest wind-turbine maker
in five years and plans to sell about 10 percent of its enlarged
share capital to fund the construction of a research center and
two manufacturing bases, according to a prospectus released
yesterday. It plans to set up factories and offshore wind
projects to benefit from China’s demand for cleaner energy.  The company applied to sell 105.1 million shares for a
listing in Shanghai, the CSRC said yesterday.  Sinovel mainly makes 1.5- and 3-megawatt wind turbines. It
had production capacity of 3.3 gigawatts at the end of last
year, with 99.6 percent of sales from 1.5-megawatt turbines.  The company has supplied turbines to domestic power
producers including  China Huaneng Group ,  China Guodian Corp. ,
 China Datang Corp. ,  China Huadian Corp.  and project developer
 China WindPower Group Ltd .  Beijing-based Sinovel said Oct. 15 it completed the
production of China’s first 5-megawatt prototype, the nation’s
largest, and plans to start producing 6-megawatt wind turbines
in the first half of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 