-- India's Solar Auction at Risk as Tata Power Says Projects `Not Bankable'
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-12-08T08:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/solar-auction-threatened-as-tata-says-plans-not-bankable-india-credit.html
India’s first auction of solar power
permits may get derailed as plant builders say borrowing costs
are too high to finance the projects, a key part of government
efforts to reduce oil imports.  Tata Power Co. , India’s biggest non-state power developer,
said it isn’t participating in the auction because it would have
trouble raising loans.  Azure Power  said it has found another way
to fund its project because of unattractive rupee lending terms.
Developers offering to sell their electricity at the cheapest
rate will be picked and will gain preferential tariffs and a
designated buyer of their power, according to the government.  India needs alternative energy sources as the cost of oil
surges to a two-year high, threatening Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to curb the budget deficit and rein in
inflation. The government is estimating a cost of funding for
the industry at 13.3 percent, compared with 10-year bond yields
of 8.84 percent for Rural Electrification Corp., India’s state-
controlled lender to power projects.  “We’re not comfortable,”  Banmali Agrawala , Tata Power’s
executive director of strategy and business development, said in
an interview in Mumbai on Nov. 26. “We would not want to go and
win a project with a power purchase agreement that’s not
bankable.”  Sunny Days  India, which has about 300 sunny days a year on average,
has collected bids under a government program to generate 20
gigawatts of power from the sun by 2022, equivalent to 12
percent of the nation’s current generation capacity. Winners may
be announced as soon as the end of the year.  As the world’s fourth-largest consumer of oil, India
imported 70 percent of its crude last year, according to the
 U.S. Energy Department . Imports of the commodity surged 41
percent in the first 10 months of this year to $82.1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil touched $90.76 a
barrel yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
highest since Oct. 8, 2008.  Elsewhere in Indian credit markets, Indian 10-year
government bonds rose today and the rupee fell after six days of
gains.  GAIL India Ltd. , the nation’s largest natural-gas
distributor, is raising 7.5 billion rupees selling 10-year
bonds.  Yields Fall  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due May 2020 fell one
basis point to 8.09 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system. India’s three-year bond yield was 7.5 percent,
while rates on similar-maturity notes in Brazil were at 12.34
percent. Comparable Chinese yields were 3.09 percent and 6.96
percent in Russia.  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 489 basis
points, the slimmest margin since the first week of August. The
measure averaged 317 basis points during the past decade.  The cost of protecting against a debt default by
government-owned State Bank of India, which some investors
perceive as a proxy for the nation, has increased 55 basis
points this year to 173, according to data provider CMA. Such
swaps usually pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt, and
they rise as perceptions of credit quality deteriorate.  India’s rupee declined 0.9 percent to 45.03 per dollar, the
most since Nov. 15. The currency has advanced 2 percent this
month, the best performance among Asia’s 10-most traded
currencies.  GAIL Bonds  GAIL’s bond offering will close today, two people familiar
with the matter said yesterday. The bonds have a call option at
the end of the seventh year, said the people, who declined to be
identified as the information is private.  Singh’s government subsidizes diesel, kerosene and cooking
gas to cap  inflation , adding to the budget deficit that he is
aiming to lower to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product in the
year ending March 31, from an estimate 6.9 percent last year.  The solar auction aims to avoid the problems of European
governments, including Spain, Germany and France, which are
struggling to curb mounting subsidies to solar electricity
suppliers. Spain owes about 14.6 billion euros ($19.3 billion)
to power companies for the shortfall between the cost of
supplying power and what the government promised to pay.  Europe’s debt crisis forced Spain to freeze the start of a
plan last month to sell power revenue bonds intended to reduce
that deficit.  Government Guarantee  India will guarantee that solar projects get paid for the
power they produce to encourage banks to lend, said Deepak
Gupta, secretary of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.
The government also asked a group of lenders headed by the  State
Bank of India  to look for ways to cut funding costs, he said.  “The developer must be paid, that we will ensure,” he
said in an interview in New Delhi on Nov. 30. “The government
of India is guaranteeing this. The banker can reduce his
interest rate if he knows that if there’s a problem, there’s a
guarantee.”  India’s solar power producers may need as much as $62
billion of investment to 2020 based on capital spending costs of
140 million rupees per megawatt, according to  Bharat Bhushan , an
analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New Delhi. About
$3.1 billion may be needed for the first phase. The estimates
may change depending on variations in equipment costs and
technologies, Bhushan said yesterday.  The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, which sets
benchmark power tariffs, assumes a 13.3 percent cost of debt for
renewable energy projects built in the fiscal year ending March
2012. Average Indian dollar debt yields are about 5.07 percent,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Higher Costs  “The cost of financing in India is higher than the
international cost of financing,” Inderpreet Wadhwa, chief
executive officer of New Delhi-based Azure Power said in an
interview yesterday. “We’re not looking at Indian banks.”
Azure Power has bid to build a 5-megawatt project.  India’s sunny days provide 5,000 trillion kilowatt-hours
per year of solar energy equivalent, according to the  Ministry
of New and Renewable Energy . In comparison, India’s projected
total energy consumption this year is a fraction of that at 848
billion kilowatt-hours, a ministry report showed.  That makes India one of the most promising markets for
solar that banks would tap if they could eliminate some of the
risks of an unfamiliar technology, said Michael Barrow, director
of the Asian Development Bank’s private sector infrastructure
finance division.  “The bankers are saying they’d like to see if the ADB can
help alleviate some of the risks,” such as panels failing to
deliver as much power as expected, Barrow said by telephone from
New Delhi last month.  The Manila-based lender may try to help extend the loans
from the eight years that banks might offer to the 15 years that
project developers will need, he said.  “Interest rates are what they are, we can’t impact
underlying borrowing costs,” he said. “But we can make the
sector attractive. If you’re having to pay back over 15 years
versus eight years, that fundamentally affects the economics of
a transaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  