-- South Korea’s Kim Rules Out Negotiations on U.S. Beef Imports
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-12-07T03:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/south-korea-s-trade-minister-rules-out-negotiations-on-u-s-beef-imports.html
South Korean Trade Minister  Kim Jong Hoon  ruled out holding talks on scrapping age limits on U.S.
beef imports, which were not adjusted in a revised free trade
agreement announced earlier this month.  “It is our government’s firm position that there is no
room for further discussions on it,” Kim said today in an
interview with KBS radio in Seoul. He said he hoped the trade
accord would take effect on Jan. 1, 2012.  The U.S. and South Korea on Dec. 3 agreed to change
provisions in the trade deal, which had been stalled by
legislators since it was signed in 2007 over U.S. demands for
improved access for its cars and beef. While the revised
agreement included scaling back initial tariff cuts for vehicles
by both countries, U.S. beef wasn’t covered.  South Korea restricted beef imports in 2003 when the U.S.
discovered its first case of mad cow disease. After resuming
purchases in 2008, the government restricted shipments to those
from cows aged younger than 30 months.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat who demanded that South Korea drop restrictions on U.S.
beef imports from older cattle, said last week he was unhappy
with the revised trade agreement.  American beef producers lobbied to get the original deal
completed quickly to gain an advantage over competitors in
Australia because the accord reduced the 40 percent tariff
levied by South Korea. Once the deal is in force, U.S. pork and
beef exports to South Korea might increase by $2 billion a year,
the American Meat Institute estimates.  The trade deal’s changes also included allowing U.S.
automakers more flexibility in meeting South Korean emissions
and environmental requirements. This may prompt the European
Union to demand similar amendments to its free trade agreement
with South Korea, set to take effect in July, Kim said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  