-- South African Reserves Drop For First Time in Three Months on Dollar Rally
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-07T07:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/south-african-foreign-currency-reserves-declined-in-november-bank-says.html
South African reserves fell for the
first time in three months in November as the dollar rallied,
reducing the value of holdings of euros, pounds and other
foreign currencies.  Gross reserves  dropped 1.9 percent to $43.4 billion last
month, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said in its website
today. Net reserves were unchanged at $43.1 billion, the Reserve
Bank said on its website today.  The dollar gained last month against all 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, surging 6.2 percent against the
euro. That reduced the value of holdings of foreign currencies
held in reserves, undermining the central bank as it steps up
dollar purchases to meet demands by industry and labor unions
for a weaker rand.  “The Reserve Bank has added to reserves, but they’re not
being ultra-aggressive,” said Kamilla Golda, an economist at
Econometrix Treasury Management in Johannesburg. “We expect the
rand to strengthen into next year and that will present an
opportunity for the Reserve Bank to continue building
reserves.”  The rand was at 6.9014 against the dollar as of 9:09 a.m.
in Johannesburg from 6.8763 before the data was released.  Fiscal Help  The Reserve Bank said it bought $655 million in foreign
currency last month, helping to limit the drop in reserves.
Foreign currency deposits increased by $162 million in November,
indicating transfers from the  National Treasury  to help boost
reserves.  The rand has climbed 11 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of June, reducing the competitiveness of
manufactured exports and adding to  job losses . The Congress of
South African Trade Unions, the country’s biggest labor
federation, has called for lower interest rates and a pegged
currency to help boost economic growth in Africa’s largest
economy.  The stronger rand has helped to curb inflation, enabling
the central bank to cut its benchmark interest  rate  three times
this year to 5.5 percent, the lowest level in 30 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  