-- South Korea Will Send Investigators to Deutsche Bank Office in Hong Kong
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-12-07T09:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/south-korea-may-place-curbs-on-options-after-kospi-plunged-on-expiry-date.html
South Korea will send investigators
to Deutsche Bank AG’s Hong Kong offices as regulators probe the
cause of a plunge in the  Kospi Index  on Nov. 11.  The  Financial Supervisory Service  needs to have
“conversations” with Deutsche Bank employees in the city,
spokeswoman Kim Soo Mi said, confirming comments by Governor  Kim Jong Chang  that were reported by MoneyToday, an Internet news
provider. The Financial Services Commission, the government’s
policy-making body, earlier today said it may limit the number
of stock-option contracts investors can own, adding it will
monitor markets on Dec. 9, the next expiry day for contracts.  The Kospi tumbled 2.7 percent on Nov. 11, the exchange’s
last options expiry date.  Korea Exchange Inc.  attributed the
drop, the index’s biggest since May 25, to “program” selling
and began an investigation with regulators that includes sell
orders made through Deutsche Bank.  Michael West , a Hong Kong-
based spokesman for the German lender, declined to comment.  “It’s the increasing prevalence of cross-border electronic
trading that may be spotlighted, as regulators come to grips
with multi-jurisdictional issues like this,” said  Gavin Parry ,
managing director of Hong Kong-based Parry International Trading
Ltd. “As exchange companies move towards global 24-hour
platforms to capture liquidity, these probes will become more
common.”  Five Officials  The  Financial Supervisory Service  will send five officials
to Hong Kong for about two weeks, MoneyToday said. Spokeswoman
Kim declined to comment on whether the agency has approached
Hong Kong regulators. South Korea and Hong Kong are part of an
international agreement on sharing cross-border regulatory
information, said Jonathan Li, a spokesman for the Securities
and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. He declined to comment
further.  About 1.6 trillion won ($1.4 billion) worth of sell orders
on Nov. 11 were made through  Deutsche Bank , South Korean
regulators said the day after the stock plunge. The Kospi
slumped 48 points to 1,914.73 between 2:59 p.m. and 3:01 p.m. in
Seoul that day.  Deutsche Bank  breached South Korea’s stock exchange rules
governing the disclosure of computer-driven trades by filing a
report one minute late on Nov. 11, the bourse said on Nov. 15.  Computer Trades  The Financial Services Commission’s statement earlier today
on the possible options restriction didn’t include any details
on the timing of any changes or how many options may be affected.
South Korea only limits the amount of futures  contracts 
investors can own, the commission said. The purpose of those
measures are to prevent an investor from having an “excessive”
impact on markets by holding lots of derivatives, it said.  South Korea plans to strengthen penalties for violating
rules related to computer-driven trades, the agency said. It may
also require investors owning derivatives above a designated
amount to report their holdings and any significant changes to
the nation’s financial regulators, the commission said.  Scrutiny of equity-market swings has intensified since May
6, when a 20-minute drop in U.S.  equities  briefly erased $862
billion of market value. A transaction in Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures helped spur the retreat, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in an Oct. 1 report.  Japanese regulators are considering a U.S.-style rule that
limits short sales of shares in companies selling new stock,
people with knowledge of the matter said last month. London
Stock Exchange Group Plc’s Turquoise trading venue stopped
operating for two hours on Nov. 2, with the bourse citing human
error that “may have occurred in suspicious circumstances.”  “The influence of derivatives on spot markets has grown a
lot, and that increases overall volatility,” said  Im Jeong Jae ,
a fund manager in Seoul at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management
Co., which oversees $28 billion of assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 