-- Statistics Canada Stops Giving Economic Indicators Early to Paying Clients
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-12-07T20:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/statistics-canada-stops-giving-economic-indicators-early-to-paying-clients.html
Statistics Canada , the federal
government’s data agency, provided market-moving economic
indicators to distributors ahead of their release to the public.
Officials stopped the practice on Nov. 25 to ensure all users
have access to information at the same time.  Statistics Canada, the country’s primary source of economic
information, found it had allowed distributors, some of which
provide the data to investors, to get information ahead of the
official release to the public on its  website  and through the
media. The agency stopped the early release after being alerted
to it earlier in the day by Bloomberg News.  “Agency management was unaware that files were being made
available to distributors seconds prior to the official release
time,” Peter Frayne, spokesman for the Ottawa-based agency,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Upon learning of this practice,
agency management directed that it be stopped immediately.”  Statistics Canada has a policy of providing equal access to
all users. The agency conducted investigations last year into
reports some data may have been leaked ahead of official
releases, without finding anything wrong. Halting the early
release ensures paying clients can’t use the information to
unfairly profit from trades on currency, bond and money markets.  Statistics Canada never sold information on the basis that
the general public wouldn’t have it or would get it later.
Distributors were originally allowed early access to give them
sufficient time to process the indicators in time for official
release. Improved technology eventually allowed the data to be
processed more rapidly.  Same Access  “These changes ensure that all users of Statistics Canada
data -- including distributors -- have access to the data at the
same time,” Frayne said Dec. 3 by e-mail.  Industry Minister  Tony Clement , who spoke to reporters in
Ottawa today, said he was concerned by the reports and has
ordered his department, which is responsible for the agency, to
investigate.  “I pledge to you that I’ll be working with StatsCan to
review the situation and if there have been some errors made
they will be rectified forthwith,” Clement said. “If the
report is true it would be a disturbing situation.”  Statistics Canada has  agreements  with 10 distributors,
including Bloomberg L.P., the parent of Bloomberg News, who are
licensed to disseminate its data.  ‘Seconds’ Before  Frayne said officials have conducted a “preliminary
examination” of access logs from November. That investigation
showed three distributors, including Bloomberg, had access to
the data “seconds” before the release time. The agency didn’t
name the two other distributors or say for how long the practice
had been going on.  “The examination of historical logs will continue,”
Frayne said.  Investors use the information to trade bonds, stocks and
the currency, as well as to place bets on the path of monetary
policy. The Canadian dollar is the world’s seventh-most traded
currency, according to an April 2010  survey  by the Bank for
International Settlements, with daily turnover on trades against
the U.S. dollar averaging $182 billion.  Statistics Canada disseminates data through its flagship
“The Daily”  publication . According to the agency’s website,
all information must remain confidential until released in the
publication to create “a level playing field that reinforces
the agency’s reputation for neutrality.”  Paying Distributors  Statistics Canada, which was formed in 1918 as the then-
Dominion Bureau of Statistics, releases social and economic
indicators through its Canadian Socio-economic Information
Management System database. The so-called Cansim database is
updated daily and contains more than 35 million series covering
national accounts, labor, manufacturing, trade and other data.  The agency’s 10 paying distributors are Bloomberg, the
Conference Board of Canada, EcoWin AB, Emerging Markets Economic
Data Ltd., FactSet Research Systems Inc., Global Insight
(Canada) Inc., Haver Analytics, Moody’s Economy.Com, Nomura
Research Institute Ltd. and Thomson Financial Investment
Management Group, according to Statistics Canada’s website.
Provincial statistics units also receive the data, Frayne said.  Documents obtained by Bloomberg last year through freedom-
of-information laws show movements in the currency before jobs
and inflation reports in April and May of 2009 led traders to
suspect the figures had been leaked. Some traders expressed
their concerns to the Bank of Canada, the documents showed.  Tightened Security  While finding no wrongdoing at the time, the statistics
agency tightened security measures. During the hour before
publication of most economic reports, Bloomberg News and other
services get advance copies in a press room at Statistics
Canada’s Ottawa headquarters, under condition the information
isn’t disseminated early. Other government departments receive
copies of the reports the day before.  Statistics Canada has a mandate to collect and analyze
financial, economic and social data and undertake a  census  of
the population every five years. It reports to the country’s
industry minister, who  appoints  the agency’s chief statistician.  Earlier this year, the head of the agency resigned over a
decision by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government to
eliminate a mandatory census and replace it with a voluntary
one.  Munir Sheikh  resigned as Canada’s chief statistician in
July, saying the new census form won’t be an acceptable
substitute and may lead to distortions in data. Sheikh was
replaced by his deputy,  Wayne Smith , on an interim basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 