-- Sudanese Army Attacks Southern State, Southern Ruling Party Officials Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-07T15:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/sudanese-army-attacks-southern-state-southern-ruling-party-officials-says.html
Southern Sudan ’s ruling party accused
the Sudanese army today of bombing positions in the semi-
autonomous region.  The air attacks occurred yesterday and today in the states
of Northern Bahr Al Gazal and Western Bahr Al Gazal,  Pagan Amum ,
secretary-general of the  Sudan People’s Liberation Movement ,
told reporters in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. He called for a
United Nations Security Council investigation “to rescue the
situation.”  Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir ’s ruling National
Congress Party is trying to undermine a five-year-old peace
agreement that ended a 21-year civil war, Amum said.  “The National Congress Party with this action is trying to
drag Sudan into a new war, aiming to evade and backtrack from
the peace agreement,” he said.  Southern Sudan is scheduled to hold an independence
referendum on Jan. 9, the climax of the  peace accord  between the
nation’s Muslim north and the oil-producing south, where
Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million
people died in the conflict and more than 4 million were
displaced.  Today’s accusation was the third by the SPLM in two months.
It said the Sudanese army attacked positions in Northern Bahr Al
Gazal on Nov. 24, wounding four soldiers and two civilians. A
separate bombing on Nov. 12 by northern forces in Northern Bahr
Al Gazal was accidental, the SPLM said.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled did not answer
calls seeking comment.  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 