-- Swiss Re Sees Risk That European Debt Crisis May Derail Economic Rebound
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-12-07T12:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/swiss-re-sees-risk-that-european-debt-crisis-may-derail-economic-rebound.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co. , the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer, said the economic recovery may be
“derailed” by a deterioration in Europe’s debt crisis.  “There are still concerns as to whether Greece and Ireland
can cope with the problems they face,”  Kurt Karl , Swiss Re’s
chief U.S. economist, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Instability continues in several important real estate markets
including the U.S., Ireland and Spain.”  That instability has the potential to “stress” the
banking industry, according to the Zurich-based reinsurer, which
is presenting its global economic outlook today.  European Union finance ministers yesterday ruled out an
increase in the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) crisis fund, a
week after handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro lifeline. The
finance chiefs are counting on European Central Bank bond
purchases to calm debt-spooked markets and voiced confidence
that Spain and Portugal will tame their budget deficits. Greece
won a 110 billion-euro EU-IMF rescue in May, leading the EU to
create the three-year facility that was first tapped by Ireland.  The reinsurer expects the global economy to show “moderate
growth” through 2011 with premiums in non-life insurance
growing 3 percent after inflation in developed economies and as
much as 8 percent in emerging markets.  Insurers’ profitability will stay “under pressure” in
2011 as low interest rates and new industry regulations damp
investment returns.  ‘Key Problem’  “A key problem is that regulatory factors will force
insurers into low-yielding government bonds, increasing the risk
that they miss out on a market upturn,” Swiss Re said.  Insurers including  Swiss Life Holding AG  and  Zurich
Financial Services AG  have said they will cut reliance on
investment income and increase income from underwriting in a bid
to reduce earnings volatility. Low rates are squeezing margins
after life insurers offered policyholders rate guarantees before
the beginning of the credit crisis.  Swiss Re expects a correction of non-life premium rates in
2012. “Current rates are not sustainable even when interest
rates start to correct,” said Chief Economist  Thomas Hess .  The life and health insurance industry will grow
4.1 percent in 2011, down from 4.3 percent this year, as
“exceptional growth” in emerging markets slows, Hess said
on a conference call form Zurich today.  Non-life reinsurance will grow “moderately,” while annual
growth of about 10 percent for life reinsurance in emerging
markets will offset stagnation in developed countries.  “Developed and emerging markets have parted ways on
growth, with emerging markets booming while developed economies
are growing at a more modest pace,” said Karl. “That is set to
continue in 2011 and 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  