-- Syria Chooses Mitsui and 15 Other Bidders for First Private Power Plant
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-12-07T10:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/syria-chooses-mitsui-and-15-other-bidders-for-first-private-power-plant.html
Syria selected  Mitsui & Co.  of Japan
and 15 other companies and groups to bid this month for a
contract to build and operate the country’s first privately
owned power plant, an Electricity Ministry official said.  The Nasserieh plant, to be located northeast of the capital
Damascus, will have a capacity of 180 megawatts to 250
megawatts, Khaled Homsi, head of the ministry’s public-private
partnership unit, said in written comments yesterday.  Syria is encouraging the development of private businesses
in its state-dominated economy, and President  Bashar al-Assad 
issued an energy law on Nov. 14 enabling foreign and local
private investors to generate and distribute electricity.  Syria’s demand for power stood at 44.5 billion kilowatts in
2009, up 5.9 percent from the previous year, according to
figures from the state-run Public Establishment for Electrical
Generation and Transfer. Power supply reached 43.3 billion
kilowatts last year, an increase of 5.6 percent from 2008.  Among the pre-qualified bidders for the project are  GEK
Terna SA  of Greece; Finland’s  Waertsilae Oyj ;  Powertek Bhd.  of
Malaysia; Iran’s state-owned Mapna International;  Evonik Steag
GmbH  of Germany; a group including  MMC Corp.  of Malaysia; and
Saudi Arabia’s water and power company Acwa Holding, Homsi said.  Other bidders include  Tenaga Nasional Bhd.  of Malaysia;
London-based  International Power Plc ; Karadeniz Holding AS of
Turkey; the France-based Agha Khan Fund for Development;
 Mytilineos Holdings SA  of Greece;  Aksa Enerji Uretim AS  of
Turkey; India’s  GMR Infrastructure Ltd.  and El Sewedy Electric
Co. of Egypt; and Qatar Electricity & Water Co.  The International Monetary Fund has urged Syria to speed
its transition to a market-based economy while reducing its
dependence on the oil industry. The country is trying to reverse
a decline in its crude production, which peaked at 583,000
barrels a day in 1996. The government has forecast that
production will drop to 380,000 barrels a day this year.  Syria opened its first stock exchange in 2009 and aims to
attract as much as $55 billion in foreign direct investment over
the next five years, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs
 Abdallah Dardari  said on Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Dubai at 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  