-- U.K. Retail Sales Rise as Cold Weather Increases Clothing Demand, BRC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/u-k-retail-sales-rise-as-cold-weather-boosts-clothing-demand-brc-says.html
U.K. retail sales climbed in November
as higher food-price inflation pushed up values and cold weather
boosted demand for clothing and footwear, the  British Retail
Consortium  said.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
rose 0.7 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 0.8
percent gain in October, the London-based BRC said in an e-
mailed statement today. Excluding the impact of a sales-tax
increase in January, underlying volume sales growth is
“virtually zero,” it said.  While the U.K.  economy  posted its strongest two consecutive
quarters of growth in a decade this year, Britons are bracing
for the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II to tame the
record budget deficit. Gfk NOP Ltd.’s index of  consumer
confidence  fell to a four-month low in November.  “Customers are cutting back because they’re worried about
prospects for their own jobs and personal finances,” Robertson
said in the statement. “With the final run-up underway,
Christmas performance is delicately poised.”  Sales of non-food items via the Internet, mail-order and
phone companies increased 18 percent in November from a year
earlier, the BRC said. In the three months through November,
food sales jumped 2.2 percent on the year.  While snow and freezing temperatures currently sweeping
across the U.K. have driven demand for outdoor clothing and
knitwear, it also has “dramatically undermined sales” overall
in the past ten days, the BRC said. Sales of non-food items
dropped 0.5 percent in the three months through November on a
like-for-like basis, the biggest decline since the quarter
through August 2009, the group said.  ‘Disruption’  “Retailers will be hoping disruption eases so that sales
lost early in the month are made up over the next couple of
weeks and not lost entirely,” Robertson said. “Booming
internet sales alone are unlikely to make up sales shortfalls.”  The earliest widespread snowfall in the U.K. since 1993 has
disrupted road, rail and air traffic, with very low temperatures
likely to continue this week, according to the  Met Office . Any
boost to online sales as shoppers stay at home will be reflected
in this month’s retail figures, Robertson said.  The BRC report, which is compiled in conjunction with
accountancy firm KPMG LLP, measures changes in the actual value
of retail sales and doesn’t adjust for price changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  