-- Population of U.S. Grew More Slowly in Past Decade, Census Estimates Show
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/u-s-census-estimates-slower-population-growth-hispanic-gains.html
The U.S. population grew at a slower
pace overall in the past decade while the Hispanic birth rate
surged, according to government data that offered estimates of
what the decennial census is likely to show.  The Census Bureau yesterday put the U.S. population at
305.7 million to 312.7 million, compared with 281.4 million in
2000. The figures are based on an analysis of data
available before the beginning of the census in April.  The projections mark the start of a stream of data released
over the coming year that will provide a new snapshot of America
and its residents, from gender and race to age and incomes. The
final census count will affect the allocation of about $4
trillion in federal funds during the next 10 years and determine
which states will gain or lose seats in Congress.  “A decline in immigration, an aging population and a
reduction in childbearing” account for the slowdown in growth,
said Jane De Lung, president of the  Population Resource Center ,
a Princeton, New Jersey-based research organization. “But that
can turn on a dime as soon as the economy picks up. If the
economy rebounds, people will have the children they’ve sort of
put off.”  Yesterday’s projections, based on the high estimate of
312.7 million, mean that the U.S. population grew 11.1 percent
in the last decade, compared with the 13.1 percent pace in the
previous 10 years. The U.S. population was 248.7 million in
1990, according to the Census Bureau.  The official 2010 figures will be released before Jan. 1 as
required by law.  ‘Honest Presentations’  “The 2010 Census provides the official population count,
but demographic analysis provides an honest presentation of
alternative estimates,”  Robert Groves , director of the Census
Bureau, said in a statement. These figures “make plausible
assumptions,” he told reporters at a media briefing in
Washington.  Yesterday’s  report  offered population estimates for
categories such as gender, race and age. The analysis shows the
number of males in the U.S. is as low as 151.9 million or as
high as 155.5 million. For women, the range is from 153.7
million to 157.2 million.  Earlier surveys found that America is aging and become more
diverse, according to a  2009 Census Bureau analysis . Some census
watchers caution that the official count still may not capture
groups that are hard to measure, particularly foreign-born
workers.  Undocumented Immigration  “There’s so much uncertainty about the size of
undocumented immigration,” said Terri Ann Lowenthal, a
consultant with the Census Project, a Washington-based coalition
of academics, advocacy groups and research organizations.  A decade ago, the demographic analysis by the Census Bureau
was lower than its official 2000 count, 279.6 million compared
with the final tally of 281.4 million, according to the  Pew
Research Center  in Washington.  Hispanic birth rates climbed 27 percent from 1990 through
2010, according to a Bloomberg analysis of yesterday’s Census
Bureau estimates. That compares with a 7.5 percent decline in
the birth rate of the overall population and an 8.3 percent
decline for blacks. Compared with 2000, the Hispanic birth rate
increased 14 percent, while both the U.S. population and black
birth rates declined 2 percent.  Black, Hispanic Populations  The black population in the U.S. ranged from 40.9 million
to 41.7 million, the Census Bureau said in its estimate. The
number of young Hispanics -- limited to residents under the age
of 20 because not enough states began gathering detailed race
information until 1990 -- ranged from 18.3 million to 21.3
million.  Estimates released yesterday did not include a number for
white residents, although the Census Bureau gave a non-black
population estimate.  “The non-black population has become a lot more diverse,”
Jason Devine, head of methodology research in the agency’s
population division, said in an interview. He said census
demographers for this report focused more on the changing
Hispanic population.  The non-black population estimate, which includes whites,
Asians and Hispanics, ranged from 264.8 million to 271 million,
the Census Bureau said.  Political Implications  The political implications of the final census tally are
likely to hit the Northeast and Midwest the hardest. Nine
states, including New York and Illinois, are projected to lose
seats in the House of Representatives, according to a Bloomberg
analysis using 2008 and 2009 population estimates to predict
2010 population counts for each state. Texas and Florida are
likely to gain seats.  Later this month -- and before the overall population count
is announced -- the agency will publish findings from an annual
 survey  sent to about 3 million U.S. households. The data will be
an average from 2005 to 2009 and will offer estimates for topics
including income, poverty, foreign-born population, commute time
to work and housing costs. Those numbers will be released Dec.
14.  The U.S. Constitution requires the federal government to
count the population every 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  