-- U.S. Returning to Shuttle Diplomacy in Talks for Israeli-Palestinian Peace
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-09T09:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/u-s-ends-push-to-renew-israeli-settlement-freeze-as-part-of-a-peace-deal.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  is
reviving Middle East shuttle diplomacy by dispatching envoy
 George Mitchell  to the region next week, after direct talks
between Israel and the Palestinians collapsed over Israel’s
refusal to freeze settlement construction.  “We think we have the right plan, we think we have the
right strategy, we’re just adapting the tactics,” said  Philip J. Crowley , the State Department spokesman. He said seeking a
freeze on West Bank construction had become “an end in itself
rather than a means to an end.”  Former Middle East negotiators say Mitchell faces an uphill
battle in persuading both sides to find common ground on some of
the stickiest issues blocking a final peace agreement, such as
the borders of a Palestinian state and security guarantees.  After failing to get Israelis and Palestinians to resume
face-to-face peace negotiations, the U.S. administration’s only
real option was to try mediation on the fundamental issues
needed for a two-state solution, said  Aaron David Miller , a
former Middle East negotiator and State Department official.  “The only good news is they’re going to be focused now on
the end game and the substance that is required to actually get
an agreement,” Miller said.  Crowley said yesterday that the U.S., after more than two
months, would stop trying to convince Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  that he should extend a moratorium on Israeli
settlement-building in areas the Palestinians seek to include in
an independent state.  ‘Street Cred’  The failure of that effort makes Mitchell’s job more
difficult, Miller said. To be an effective go-between, “you
need street credibility,” and the settlement impasse
“diminishes our street cred,” he said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will meet today with the
chief Israeli negotiator, Yitzhak Molho. A new U.S. approach may
be outlined in a speech she is scheduled to give tomorrow at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington.  “We’re looking forward to that like Moses coming down from
the mountain with the tablets,” said Miller. The speech,
though, is “likely to be more of a philosophy than a
blueprint,” he said.  Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  left for
Washington today to participate in preparatory meetings before
Mitchell’s Middle East trip. He declined to discuss whether
progress could be made with Mitchell’s mediation.  “I honestly cannot elaborate at all until we meet with
Mitchell,” he said before flying to the U.S. from Cairo.  Talks Collapse  Mitchell, the former Senate Democratic leader from Maine
who helped broker a peace agreement in Northern Ireland, acted
as a mediator in the Middle East talks before the two sides
briefly agreed to direct negotiations in September.  Those talks collapsed after less than a month, when a 10-
month Israeli moratorium on settlement construction expired.
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he wouldn’t
continue direct talks without a building freeze.  Israelis and Palestinians yesterday traded accusations
about which side had undermined peace talks.  Erakat said Netanyahu “succeeded in torpedoing the peace
talks.” Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister  Danny Ayalon  said the
Palestinian strategy was “to avoid negotiations” and “blame
Israel.”  Crowley said the U.S. is sticking to its goal of a reaching
a peace deal within a year. That timetable isn’t likely to be
met, said  Ghaith al-Omari , a former negotiator for Abbas.  ‘A Long Time’  “A two-track process” in which the U.S. speaks to each
side separately “will go on for as long as it needs to,” he
said. “And it could be a long time.”  Marina Ottaway , director of the Middle East Program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said
the prospect of a two-state solution may be “finished” unless
the U.S. comes up with its own proposals.  “The one thing that could possibly force a resumption of
negotiations is if Obama were willing to put his own plan on the
table, saying, ‘This is what you have agreed on and this is what
we suggest you do about what you have not agreed on’,” Ottaway
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Indira Lakshmanan  in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 