-- Afghan War Coalition Completes Battle in Marjah as U.S. Assesses Strategy
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-07T22:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/u-s-general-declares-fight-for-southern-afghan-town-over-.html
A U.S. military commander in
Afghanistan said a 10-month fight to turn back the Taliban is
“over” in an area that formed the crux of a February
offensive, in what may signal a move toward progress in the war.  Marjah, a town in central Helmand Province that was
controlled by the Taliban and helped fuel the insurgency with
poppy production, is being patrolled mainly by Afghan police and
soldiers, while NATO forces focus on Sangin to the northwest,
Marine Corps Major General Richard P. Mills said. Even if
militants seek to return after winter, they’ll be too weak to
have much impact, he said.  “The battle for Marjah is essentially over,” Mills told
reporters at the Pentagon yesterday via video link from Camp
Leatherneck in southern Afghanistan, sitting alongside the
province’s governor, Gulab Mangal. “The battle for Sangin,
however, continues. It’s the final piece of key terrain that the
insurgent can contest, and he’s fought hard to stand his
ground.”  U.S. officials may draw on examples such as Marjah to show
their strategy is working as the White House assesses strategy a
year after President  Barack Obama  ordered 30,000 more troops
into the war. The U.S. and its partners have fielded a combined
force of almost 150,000 to turn back Taliban advances and train
enough Afghan soldiers and police to take over starting in July.  Supporters of the military effort, led by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, got a reprieve from deadlines last
month. Coalition heads of state meeting in Lisbon, Portugal,
last month agreed to aim for turning over full control to the
Afghan government nationwide by 2014.  Continue the Fight  That goal essentially gives the U.S. and its partners years
more to continue leading combat operations as needed and
possibly continue the fight with Afghan forces in the lead
beyond that date.  NATO troops probably will begin turning over key areas to
Afghan forces in the first six months of 2011, according to a
report released yesterday by the  Center for a New American
Security , a defense policy group in Washington co-founded by
Undersecretary of Defense for Policy  Michele Flournoy .  Most likely candidates for handover are areas in the north
and west of the country, said the two authors of the report,
which include a retired general from the Afghan war.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  visited Afghanistan
yesterday. He met with soldiers at two forward operating bases
in the eastern part of the country near the Pakistani border,
and with commanders and President  Hamid Karzai  in the capital
Kabul.  ‘Tough Fight’  “This is tough terrain and this is a tough fight,” Gates
told troops at Forward Operating Base Joyce in Kunar Province,
according to a transcript. “We will reverse that momentum in
partnering with the Afghans, and will make this a better place
for them, so they can take over and we can all go home.”  Army General  David Petraeus , the top U.S. and NATO
commander in Afghanistan, expressed optimism that his forces are
making progress. More than 1,000 U.S. troops have been killed in
the nine-year conflict in Afghanistan, which harbored al-Qaeda
before the U.S. ousted the Taliban from power after the Sept.
11, 2001, terror attacks on New York and the Pentagon.  “We believe we have arrested the momentum of the Taliban
in many parts of Afghanistan, but not in all,” Petraeus told
reporters in Kabul yesterday in a briefing broadcast on the
Pentagon Channel. The coalition has reversed the tide in “some
important areas,” though the insurgents still hold the upper
hand in other parts of the country, he said.  Taliban Adapts  The coalition has been hampered by the Taliban’s ability to
adapt and by neighboring Pakistan’s failure to shut down more
havens for militants, the Pentagon reported in a semi-annual
update to Congress last month for the period that ended Sept.
30.  While the Afghan security forces may be able to handle
conventional operations by 2014, the U.S. and its partners
should keep 25,000 to 35,000 special operations forces on the
ground, according to the Washington policy group’s report.  “This enduring U.S. military presence will be sized to
both support and enable sustained” combat against the Taliban
by the Afghan forces and keep “relentless” American pressure
on al-Qaeda, wrote retired Army Lieutenant General  David Barno 
and Andrew Exum, who led a platoon of Army Rangers in Iraq and
Afghanistan.  Operation ‘Together’  The February offensive on Marjah, called Operation
Moshtarak for “Together,” was the largest of the war at the
time and the first test for the additional forces Obama began
adding to the fight after taking office in January 2009.  The operation also helped lay groundwork for a more gradual
offensive that began mid-year in neighboring Kandahar Province,
considered the heartland of the Taliban and perhaps the most
difficult challenge to coalition forces.  Marjah, an area centered about 28 kilometers (18 miles)
southwest of the provincial capital, Lashkar Gah, is one of the
country’s biggest opium-production areas.  Poppy cultivation had soared by 2008 to cover 103,000
hectares, compared with 29,000 hectares four years earlier, said
Mangal, the provincial governor. Cultivation has dropped 40.7
percent since 2008, Mangal said.  “Particularly in the past year, we have had massive
security achievements,” Mangal said.  The central Afghan government dominates in 10 districts of
Helmand Province now, compared with six of the 13 districts in
2008, the governor said. Corruption has been reduced, and the
number of students attending school has more than doubled to
135,000 from 56,000 two years ago, he said.  Mills said NATO forces are keeping up the pressure on the
Taliban through the winter, not letting them have their usual
seasonal respite and continuing to cut off their supply lines.  Taliban efforts to return with campaigns of intimidation
such as assassinations and attacks with roadside bombs have been
met with resistance from local “neighborhood watch” groups
that have driven back militants or turned them in to local or
NATO forces, Mills said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 