-- Hungarian Industry Output Growth Slows on Weaker Domestic Demand
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-12-07T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/hungarian-industry-output-growth-slows-on-weaker-domestic-demand.html
Hungarian industrial  output  growth
slowed in October for the first time since March as weaker
domestic demand offset the impact of expanding exports.  Production advanced an adjusted 8.3 percent from a year
earlier after 10.9 percent in September, the statistics office
in Budapest said in a preliminary report today. The median
estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 9.7 percent.
Output fell 1 percent on the month.  The first  European Union  member to get an  International
Monetary Fund -led bailout in 2008, Hungary cut spending to meet
the terms of its loan. The measures reduced local demand and the
country is looking to the euro region, which buys 60 percent of
products made or assembled in Hungary such as Audi cars and
Nokia phones, to support its recovery.  “The growth of domestic sales slowed in October,
especially in the key areas of energy and food production,”
statistician  Miklos Schindele  said. “Exports continued to grow,
however, overall production still needs to expand for months to
reach pre-crisis levels,” he said. Output is some 15 percent
lower than the pre-crisis peak in first quarter of 2008,
Schindele said.  Hungary exited its recession in the fourth quarter of 2009
and growth accelerated in the first three months of this year.
Quarterly growth halted in the second quarter, when gross
domestic product was unchanged from the first quarter.  The  economy shrank  6.3 percent last year as exporters
including the local units of Alcoa Inc. and Suzuki Motor Corp.
scaled back output to cope with faltering global demand. The
government expects GDP to grow 0.8 percent this year and 3
percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  