-- Delta Air’s Ticketing, Gate Agents Reject IAM Union
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-12-08T00:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/union-says-insufficient-number-of-delta-employees-voted-to-join.html
Ticketing, gate and reservation
agents at  Delta Air Lines Inc.  rejected unionization, becoming
the eighth group to do so after Delta bought Northwest Airlines.  Of the 12,518 people who cast ballots, 8,746, or almost 70
percent, voted against joining the International Association of
Machinists, the Atlanta-based carrier said today in a statement.
The  Delta workers  had been nonunion, while their Northwest
counterparts were represented by the IAM.  The vote reaffirms Delta’s standing as the least unionized
among major U.S. carriers, dating to the company’s start in the
1920s as a crop-dusting service. Union efforts have failed for
at least 55,000 workers, including flight attendants and baggage
and cargo handlers.  The IAM said it plans to file an interference claim over
“intimidation” tactics by Delta, without providing further
detail. The Association of Flight Attendants filed an
interference claim last month and Delta has until Dec. 21 to
respond,  Mike Campbell , the airline’s labor chief, told
reporters on a conference call.  Interference claims should be dismissed because the
carrier’s actions during the voting campaigns were “completely
within the bounds of what’s allowable and acceptable,” he said.  New Rule  “The voice of the people should be heard and that decision
respected,” Campbell said.  The Delta votes are among the first under a new National
Mediation Board rule that makes it easier for employees to
organize by letting the majority of ballots cast determine the
outcome. Previously, an abstention was counted as a “no,”
setting a higher threshold for unions to win approval.  Delta  is the world’s second-largest carrier, behind United
Continental Holdings Inc., which was formed in October through
the merger of United Airlines and Continental Airlines.  Delta fell 36 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $13.12 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 15
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 