-- UPS Expands Photo ID Rule for Retail Shipping as Bombs Spur Security Boost
-- B y   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-12-07T19:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/ups-expands-photo-id-rule-for-retail-shipping-as-bombs-spur-security-steps.html
United Parcel Service Inc.  will
require customers shipping packages to show government-issued
photo identification in an effort to intensify security after
explosives were found on October cargo flights.  The new policy expands a previous rule in place at UPS
Customer Centers to include all retail outlets. Customers
without a pre-printed shipping label will have to display an ID,
Atlanta-based UPS said in a statement today.  “Since retail centers experience a significant increase in
business from occasional shippers during the busy holidays, this
enhancement adds a prudent step in our multilayered approach to
security,” Dale Hayes, vice president of small business and
retail marketing, said in the statement.  British authorities discovered a bomb in a printer
cartridge sent from Yemen at the U.K’s East Midlands airport in
England that was timed to explode over the eastern seaboard of
the U.S. Another device was intercepted and defused at a  FedEx
Corp.  center in Dubai. Both were bound for Chicago from Yemen.  FedEx requires shippers in some instances to produce a
photo ID,  Sandra Munoz , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The
company is always looking at methods that will enhance the
extensive measures we have in place,” she said.  UPS  is the world’s biggest package-delivery company, and
Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx operates the largest cargo
airline.  20 Million Pieces  Together, they move about 20 million pieces a day,
according to  Satish Jindel , president of SJ Consulting Group in
Sewickley, Pennsylvania. Transportation-security specialists
such as  Hans Weber , owner of San Diego-based consultant Tecop
International Inc., have said that volume complicates efforts to
screen and detect all dangerous parcels.  The Transportation Security Administration, which requires
air carriers to submit cargo manifest information at least four
hours before landing in the U.S., is working with express and
passenger carriers to get those data earlier, Doug Brittin, the
agency’s general manager for air cargo security, said today.  The TSA is starting a test project this week with express
carriers, such as UPS and FedEx, and will begin working with
passenger carriers and the forwarding companies that tender them
freight in “early January,” Brittin said at the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce in Washington.  The goal is to “get information about a shipment before it
flies,” Brittin told reporters after the speech.  Deutsche Post  Deutsche Post AG , the world’s biggest transporter of air
and sea freight by volume, has been working with government
agencies and industry counterparts evaluating whether new
regulations are needed following discovery of the explosives,
Chief Financial Officer  Lawrence Rosen  said in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  New policies would likely use an approach, which the
industry supports, “differentiating strongly between the
security measures that you would apply to known and secure
shippers versus unknown, unsecure shippers, and focusing also on
the countries of origin,” Rosen said. Another component “is to
apply the most security measures at the origin, rather than
somewhere in transit,” he said.  UPS rose 51 cents to $72.20 at 1:57 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. FedEx gained 5 cents to $93.34, and
Deutsche Post fell 14 cents to 12.35 euros on the Frankfurt
Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  