-- Vinashin Exposure May Hurt Banks, World Bank Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T09:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/vinashin-exposure-may-hurt-banks-world-bank-says-update1-.html
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group’s
near-bankruptcy may lead to an increase in the non-performing
loan ratios at some Vietnamese banks, the World Bank said.  State-owned Vietnam Shipbuilding, known as Vinashin, may
account for as much as 3 percent of some local banks’ loan
portfolios, Moody’s Investors Service said on Nov. 29. The
Hanoi-based company may default on foreign-currency debt over
the next 30 days, Standard & Poor’s said yesterday.  The Vietnamese banking system’s profitability will probably
“come under pressure” this year, the World Bank said, citing
difficulty for banks in maintaining deposit growth because of a
weaker currency, concern that dong deposits are being converted
into gold and dollars, and the squeezing of interest income due
to competition for funds.  “The asset quality of bank portfolios remains an ongoing
concern given the unusually high credit growth of the past years
and developing, but relatively weak, risk management capacity in
the banking sector,” Deepak Mishra and  Viet Tuan Dinh  of the
World Bank wrote in a report released at a conference in Hanoi.  Vietnam’s government needs to make collecting reliable and
up-to-date information on state-owned companies’ liabilities and
assessing their fiscal risks a priority, Mishra and Dinh wrote.  “Although Vietnamese banks were shielded from the banking
crisis in advanced economies, they have their own home-grown
concerns,” Masato Miyazaki, the International Monetary Fund’s
Asia-Pacific division chief, said in  a statement  posted on its
website today.  Asset Quality Deterioration  Credit growth in recent years “could have resulted in a
deterioration of the quality of their assets, including loans to
Vinashin and other large-scale state and non-state borrowers,”
said Miyazaki.  Vinashin’s situation has undermined confidence in Vietnam’s
macroeconomic situation, the United Nations said today in a
report released at the Hanoi conference.  “The government is working on Vinashin issues, and there
are options,” Deputy Prime Minister  Pham Gia Khiem  told
reporters at the conference, declining to comment further.  The government is “articulating strongly the view that
they don’t want there to be any more Vinashins,” Allaster Cox,
the Australian ambassador to Vietnam, said at the conference.  -- Jason Folkmanis  and  Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi. Editors:
 Chitra Somayaji   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  