-- Wal-Mart Plans to End Extra Pay for Sunday Shifts Next Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-12-08T21:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/wal-mart-to-end-extra-pay-for-sunday-shifts-in-2011-as-duke-targets-costs.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the largest
private employer in the U.S., plans to stop paying staff there
an additional $1 an hour for working Sundays, taking a bite out
of its single biggest expense.  The move, which takes effect next year, applies only to
 employees  hired after Jan. 1, spokesman  Greg Rossiter  said in an
interview yesterday. The move wouldn’t affect the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer’s 1.4 million current U.S. staff.  Since taking over almost two years ago, Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke  has pledged to slow cost growth as the
retailer copes with six straight quarters of  sales declines  at
U.S. stores open at least a year. Operating expenses rose to
about $80 billion last year, partly because of health benefits.  “It’s sad -- people who work on Sunday need that extra
dollar,” Cynthia Murray, a Wal-Mart employee at a supercenter
in Laurel, Maryland, said in an interview. Murray said she makes
$11.20 an hour, and doesn’t work Sundays.  The move won’t apply to employees based in Rhode Island and
Massachusetts. Those workers weren’t eligible for the $1 extra
pay because they get 1.5 times their hourly rate for Sunday work
under state employment laws, Rossiter said. The retailer has 49
stores in Massachusetts and 10 in Rhode Island as of this month,
according to its website. The change will take effect at Wal-
Mart stores, Sam’s Club outlets and distribution centers.  “We regularly review our compensation programs and we are
confident Wal-Mart’s pay and benefits are as good if not better
than other retailers,” Rossiter said. He declined to say how
much the company would save from the switch, nor would he
disclose the number of employees who work on Sundays.  Changed Reality  Wal-Mart’s move reflects a change in workplace reality,
said Craig Rowley, a vice president of the retail practice at
the consulting firm Hay Group in Dallas. According to an annual
survey conducted by Hay, only 20 percent of retailers still
offer any sort of Sunday premium, Rowley said in an interview
today.  “It’s a declining practice,” he said. “When retailers
first started opening their stores on Sundays, it was common to
have the premium because they were asking employees to do
something they never had to do before. But today, working retail
requires that you work weekends -- it’s part of the job.”  The average retailer has a 60 percent employee turnover
rate, meaning it would need to replace that percentage of its
workforce over the course of a year, according to Rowley. That
compares with as much as 90 percent before the economic slump,
he said.  ‘Wage Cut’  Wal-Mart’s move represents a blow to hourly workers, said
Dorian Warren, an assistant professor of international and
public affairs at Columbia University who studies labor
relations.  “It amounts to a huge wage cut,” said Warren. “Wal-Mart
has been underperforming financially relative to its competitors
and needs to find quick ways to shore up profits.”  The retailer has also switched to making incentive payments
to hourly employees on a quarterly basis instead of an annual
one, and plans to increase the dollar amount in the bonus pool,
Rossiter said. The company’s headcount in the U.S. has stayed
stable at about 1.4 million since January 2008, according to
regulatory filings.  Store labor is Wal-Mart’s biggest  cost , U.S. stores chief
 Bill Simon  said in November. A month before that, Wal-Mart said
it plans to end profit-sharing contributions next year,
replacing them with matches to employee 401(k) retirement plans
to bring down benefits costs. Some money saved from the switch
will go toward bonuses for store employees, the company said.  ‘Obsessive’  “The company is obsessive about labor costs, not just to
save money in the coming quarter but to encourage turnover,
which also keeps wages low,” Nelson Lichtenstein, a professor
at the University of California, Santa Barbara, said in an e-
mail message. Lichtenstein wrote “The Retail Revolution: How
Wal-Mart Created a Brave New World of Business.”  Wal-Mart fell 30 cents to $54.49 at 4:00 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has gained 1.9
percent this year, compared with a 10.1 percent increase in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The retailer’s labor practices are in the spotlight this
month as the  U.S. Supreme Court  on Dec. 6 agreed to decide
whether Wal-Mart must face a gender-bias suit on behalf of
potentially 1 million of its workers. Wal-Mart is accused in a
2001 lawsuit of paying women less than men for the same jobs and
giving female workers fewer promotions.  The justices said they would review a San Francisco federal
appeals court decision that the case could proceed as a class
action on behalf of women who worked at Wal-Mart since that
time.  Wal-Mart  contends the claims of female workers around the
country are too diverse to proceed as a single case under the
rules that govern federal lawsuits.  The justices will hear arguments early next year, most
likely in March or April, and probably rule by July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  