-- Wal-Mart, Lion’s Gate, Kraft, Tullett in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-12-07T11:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/wal-mart-lehman-lion-s-gate-kraft-tullett-in-court-news.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , heeding calls
from companies to consider curbing class actions, agreed to
decide whether  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . must face a gender-bias suit
on behalf of potentially 1 million of its workers.  The justices yesterday said they will review a federal
appeals court decision that approved a single suit to cover the
claims of women who worked at the retailer’s 4,400 Wal-Mart and
Sam’s Club stores since 2001. The suit, which threatens Wal-Mart
with billions of dollars in liability, would be the largest-ever
U.S. employment class action.  The dispute, perhaps the biggest business case of the
court’s nine-month term, may affect several pending suits. A
suit on behalf of more than 700 women against  Costco Wholesale
Corp . is on hold until the Supreme Court resolves the Wal-Mart
case. Tobacco companies including  Altria Group Inc . say the Wal-
Mart case may affect their challenge to a Louisiana court order
requiring them to spend more than $270 million on a smoking
cessation program.  The lower court ruling “would dramatically broaden the
circumstances where classes can be certified in all types of
cases against all types of companies,” Wal-Mart’s lawyer,
Theodore Boutrous, said in an interview.  Wal-Mart is accused in the 9-year-old suit of paying women
less than men for the same jobs and giving female workers fewer
promotions. Six women are seeking to serve as class
representatives, including Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart greeter in
Pittsburg, California.  Wal-Mart said in a statement it was pleased the Supreme
Court granted review. “The current confusion in class-action
law is harmful for everyone -- employers, employees, businesses
of all types and sizes and the civil justice system,” the
company said.  “We are confident that the decision to certify the class
was sound,” Joseph Sellers, who represents the women, said in a
statement.  The case is Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 10-277, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Lehman Europe Asks Court to Force Swap Counterparties to Pay    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .’s U.K. unit asked a London
court to decide whether it can force parties on the opposite
side of swap agreements to pay the failed bank if they haven’t
terminated the contracts.  Lehman Brothers International Europe is seeking a ruling on
whether, under rules established by the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association , a counterparty must keep making
payments if the other defaults.  “They need to know what the position is,” LBIE’s lawyer,
William Trower, told Judge Michael Briggs yesterday in the first
day of a trial scheduled to last three days. “What we’re asking
for is a determination of a point of principle.”  LBIE had about 2,000 open swap transactions at the time it
went into administration in September 2008, its lawyer David
Swanson said in a  court filing  posted in June on the website of
LBIE administrator  PricewaterhouseCoopers . Of those, at least
1,693 had been closed at the time of the filing. The failed bank
has also asked the court decide whether the rule is
unenforceable or void because it would deprive LBIE of an asset,
which it says conflicts with U.K. insolvency law.  At least four counterparties have relied on the provision
“to avoid obligations that otherwise would have accrued and
will otherwise accrue to LBIE’s favor” under the agreements,
Swanson said.  AEP, Utilities Get Supreme Court Review on Warming  The U.S. Supreme Court said it will hear an appeal by four
power companies including American Electric Power Co., agreeing
to decide whether they must face a suit by states seeking a
reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.  The eight states, including  New York  and California, say
plants operated by AEP,  Xcel Energy Inc .,  Duke Energy Corp .,  Southern Co . and the Tennessee Valley Authority contribute to
global warming by pumping 650 million tons of carbon dioxide
into the atmosphere each year. The suit seeks to force cuts in
emissions from the plants.  A ruling barring the suit would be a victory for businesses
beyond the utilities involved in the case. Trade groups
representing automakers, oil companies, farmers, mining
companies, chemical companies and manufacturers all filed briefs
urging Supreme Court intervention, in some cases saying their
members might face similar lawsuits.  The lower court ruling “has staggering economic
implications,” the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in a court
filing supporting the utilities.  The case will put the Obama administration the position of
arguing alongside the power industry. In a brief filed on behalf
of the TVA, acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal said the
courts should defer to Congress and the executive branch on what
steps to take against climate change.  Katyal had urged the court to set aside the lower court
ruling and order reconsideration, rather than granting a
hearing.  The case is American Electric Power v. Connecticut, 10-174,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Johnson & Johnson Warned on Levaquin Risk, Lawyer Says  Johnson & Johnson didn’t hide the risk of tendon damage
linked to its antibiotic Levaquin and properly warned doctors, a
lawyer for the drugmaker told jurors at the end of a trial in
Minnesota.  “The information was not concealed,” John Dames, a J&J
attorney, said yesterday in his closing argument in federal
court in Minneapolis. “We provide warnings that give doctors
the means to care adequately for their patients.”  John Schedin, 82, sued in 2008, claiming he ruptured the
Achilles tendons in both feet after taking the drug. Schedin
claims J&J and its Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit
failed to warn doctors and patients of Levaquin’s association
with tendon damage.  Schedin’s case is the first trial on more than 2,600 claims
in U.S. courts alleging that Levaquin caused tendon damage in
patients taking the drug and J&J failed to adequately disclose
the risk. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2008 required
an upgraded warning on tendon damage posed by Levaquin and
similar drugs.  The plaintiffs claim the warning should have been enhanced
earlier and remains inadequate. They also claim J&J and Ortho-
McNeil-Janssen boosted sales by downplaying risks.  The lawsuit is Schedin v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-cv-05743,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Lions Gate Files New Complaint Against Icahn Over MGM    Lions Gate Entertainment Corp . filed an amended complaint
against billionaire Carl Icahn, reiterating that he was
“secretly plotting” to profit from merging the studio with
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. while telling investors the deal would
be a “debacle.”  Icahn should correct his misstatements, compensate Lions
Gate investors and pay damages for interfering in the company’s
plans, the Vancouver-based studio said in a Dec. 3 filing in
U.S. District Court in New York.  Separately, Lions Gate asked a judge to force Icahn to
disclose the extent and value of his holdings of MGM debt and
the history of his trading in the debt. The studio said he
should do this before his tender offer for Lions Gate closed on
Dec. 10, “so that Lions Gate shareholders can make an informed
decision” on whether to sell him their shares or vote for his
nominees to Lions Gate’s board.  Icahn and his investing group “believe that Lions Gate’s
lawsuit and its claims continue to be completely without
merit,” the New York investor said yesterday in a statement.  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. v. Icahn, 10-
cv-8169, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Kraft Sues Starbucks Over Deal to Sell Branded Coffee    Kraft Foods Inc . said it is seeking a court order forcing  Starbucks Corp . to honor an agreement giving Kraft the exclusive
right to sell Starbucks coffee in grocery stores.  Kraft said in a statement yesterday that it sued Starbucks
in federal court in New York to obtain a preliminary injunction
to stop the world’s biggest coffee-shop chain from violating a
distribution agreement.  According to a copy of the complaint provided by
Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft, the company has an exclusive
right until 2014 to sell Starbucks roasted whole bean and ground
coffee to grocery stores and other retailers, and Starbucks has
decided to take over the business.  In 12 years, “Kraft has grown the sales of Starbucks
consumer packaged goods products tenfold, increasing annual
revenue from approximately $50 million to approximately $500
million,” according to the complaint.  “Starbucks has repeatedly said that we have terminated our
agreement with Kraft and we continue to look forward to assuming
full responsibility for the sales” as of March 1, the company
said in a statement. Seattle-based Starbucks called the lawsuit
a “delaying tactic.”  The case is Kraft Foods Global Inc. v. Starbucks Corp., 10-
cv-09085, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(White Plains).  Discover Deceives Credit-Card Holders, Minnesota Says  Discover Bank telemarketers, selling identity-theft and
credit-score monitoring services, fail to tell consumers when
they’re agreeing to purchase those products, Minnesota Attorney
General Lori Swanson claims in a lawsuit.  The credit-card company, a unit of  Discover Financial
Services , reaped more than $300 million in revenue last year
from selling those products, Swanson said yesterday in a
statement announcing the filing of the suit in Minneapolis.  “It is particularly ironic for credit-card companies like
Discover to charge people’s accounts for optional fee-based
products without their informed consent because the credit-card
company touts its fraud prevention capabilities,” she said.  Discover Bank and Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover
Financial are each named as defendants in the lawsuit, which
Swanson said seeks injunctive relief, civil penalties and
restitution.  “It’s not in Discover’s interest to sell a product that
doesn’t enhance our relationship with our cardmembers,” Matthew
Towson, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Isilon Systems Sued by Shareholder Over EMC Purchase    Isilon Systems Inc . was sued by a shareholder who claims
EMC Corp.’s $2.25 billion purchase of the company is unfair and
doesn’t reflect its true value.  The purchase price is “wholly inadequate,” considering
Isilon could grow 36 percent annually to an estimated $4 billion
by 2014, lawyers for shareholder Saravanan Coimbatore said,
citing market research firm International Data Corp. in the
complaint filed yesterday.  “As such, EMC, in possession of non-public information
regarding the performance of Isilon, is taking advantage of its
position to acquire the company at a substantial discount to its
true value,” lawyers for Coimbatore said in the complaint filed
in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  EMC announced Nov. 15 that it would purchase Isilon for
$33.85 a share in cash to gain video-storage equipment. The
price is 29 percent higher than Seattle-based Isilon’s closing
price on Nov. 12. The acquisition pushes EMC deeper into the $19
billion external-storage market and allows it to challenge
rivals  NetApp Inc . and  International Business Machines Corp .  Chris Blessington, a spokesman for Isilon, didn’t return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Coimbatore, who is seeking to bar the deal, accused Isilon
directors of agreeing to the acquisition to reap “windfall
benefits” from the proposed transaction in the form of change
of control payments for both vested and unvested stock options
and severance payments. Isilon founder Sujal Patel stands to
collect more than $17.8 million in change-of-control payments,
according to the complaint.  The case is Saravanan Coimbatore v. Isilon Systems Inc.,
CA6050, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Tullett Says BGC Claims It’s Stealing Treasury Data Are False  A  BGC Partners Inc . unit’s claims that a  Tullett Prebon Plc 
affiliate is stealing data are false and seek to bypass
requirements that disagreements be settled through an
arbitrator, Tullett said in a court petition.  BGC Capital Markets LP sued Tullett Prebon Americas Corp.
on Nov. 9 over claims it misused proprietary U.S. Treasury
prices in “a long history of stealing data,” earning profits
of “at least hundreds of millions of dollars.” Tullett gives
its brokers Treasury prices derived from BGC’s eSpeed trading
system “to compete -- on an improper and unfair basis,”
according to BGC’s lawsuit. “The contract with Tullett
Financial specifically prohibits the use of such data by Tullett
Americas’ brokers,” it said.  In a petition filed in New York state Supreme Court,
Tullett said it has access to the BGC data under a 2002
agreement between Prebon Yamane International Ltd. and Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, the broker that spun off its interdealer
brokerage business into BGC Partners in 2004.  Under the agreement, Prebon Yamane licensed the data for
use by its brokers and those of its affiliates, according to a
petition filed Dec. 3. Prebon Yamane was acquired by Tullett
Prebon’s predecessor, Collins Stewart Tullett Plc.  Tullett is asking the courts to compel arbitration of the
dispute, saying that the data agreement requires disputes to be
heard by the American Arbitration Association. BGC spokesman
Robert Hubbell declined to comment on Tullett’s petition.  The case is BGC Capital Markets LP v. Tullett Prebon
Americas Corp., 651954/2010, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Investment Fraud Sweep Nets 343 Criminal Defendants  A crackdown on investment frauds including Ponzi schemes
and stock market manipulation resulted in U.S. enforcement
action against 343 criminal defendants and 189 civil defendants
since August, the Justice Department said.  The criminal cases alone involved more than $8.3 billion in
estimated losses and more than 120,000 victims nationwide,
Attorney General Eric Holder said at a news conference in
Washington yesterday.  The criminal cases resulted in 64 arrests, according to the
Justice Department. The Justice Department enforcement numbers
also include indictments, convictions and sentencings. In some
cases the same defendants faced civil and criminal enforcement
actions, according to the Justice Department.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-KBR Consultant Pleads Guilty in Nigerian Bribe Case  Wojciech J. Chodan, a former consultant to a U.K. unit of  KBR Inc ., pleaded guilty to U.S. charges that he conspired to
bribe Nigerian officials to obtain $6 billion in contracts for a
liquefied natural gas project.  Chodan, a U.K. citizen who was extradited on Dec. 3,
pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court in Houston to
conspiring to violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, an
anti-bribery law. He faces as long as five years in prison when
he’s sentenced on Feb. 22. He is cooperating with the government
and has agreed to forfeit $726,885, according to court filings.  “Chodan admitted that from approximately 1994 through June
2004, he and his co-conspirators agreed to pay bribes to
Nigerian government officials, including top-level executive
branch officials, in order to obtain and retain engineering,
procurement and construction contracts,” the U.S. Justice
Department said yesterday in a statement.  The Bonny Island project in Nigeria pipes liquefied natural
gas from wellheads to processing plants, purifies it and loads
it onto tankers for export. Engineering, procurement and
construction contracts for the project were worth more than $6
billion, prosecutors said.  Andrew Lourie, a lawyer for Chodan, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Chodan, 4:09-cr-00098, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Union Bancaire, Madoff Feeder Fund, Settles Claims  Union Bancaire Privee, a private Swiss bank, agreed to pay
as much as $500 million to settle claims it helped Bernard
Madoff commit his fraud.  Under the settlement, which must be approved by a
bankruptcy judge, UBP will pay $470 million to Irving Picard,
the New York lawyer appointed as trustee in the liquidation of
the con man’s former investment firm. The deal provides for an
additional payment of as much as $30 million, according to court
papers seeking approval for the terms.  “The UBP settlement agreement is the largest feeder fund
bank cash settlement to date and the first major international
bank settlement,” Picard said yesterday in a statement.  The settlement brings to $2 billion Picard’s recoveries for
creditors of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC. He has
filed suits seeking more than $33 billion from Madoff, his
family and former employees, banks, feeder funds and investors
who profited from Madoff’s fraud.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc., 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-SP Bell Director Banned by U.K. FSA for Share-Price Scheme  A former director of defunct brokerage SP Bell Ltd. was
banned from working in the finance industry by a U.K. regulator
because of his role in a scheme to manipulate the share price of
Fundamental-E Investments Plc.  A London tribunal is also considering how much Graham
Betton should be fined, the Financial Services Authority said in
a statement on  its website  yesterday. Simon Eagle, the former
head of Fundamental-E Investments and SP Bell, was fined 2.8
million pounds and banned by the FSA in May for taking part in
the fraud.  Eagle conducted a share-ramping scheme in 2003 and 2004 by
purchasing 85 percent of FEI and also acquiring SP Bell to use
as a conduit to sell FEI shares and inflate their price. Betton,
who had 30 years of experience as a stockbroker, told SP Bell
workers to push the shares to its clients, the regulator said.  Betton worked with  Close Brothers Group Plc ’s market making
unit Winterflood Securities to carry out the trades, the FSA
said. In April, Winterflood was fined 4 million pounds for its
role.  Betton’s lawyer, David Mawdsley, couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 