-- Warburg's Targa Resources Raises $360 Million After Increasing IPO by 25%
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-12-07T14:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/warburg-s-targa-resources-raises-360-million-after-increasing-ipo-by-25-.html
Targa Resources Corp. , a natural-gas
pipeline company controlled by Warburg Pincus LLC, sold $360
million of shares after increasing the size of its initial
public offering by 25 percent.  Targa Resources sold 16.4 million shares for $22 apiece
yesterday after offering 13.8 million at $19 to $21, according
to a statement and a  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. New York-based Warburg would have received about 91
percent of the IPO’s proceeds, according to the original filing.
Targa Resources gained  11 percent  to $24.34 at 9:34 a.m. today
in New York Stock Exchange trading.  The company boosted its offering by the most of any private
equity-backed sale this year, after buyout firms chopped their
U.S. deals by 17 percent on average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The IPO was the first of nine scheduled this week and the
second completed in December following the busiest month for
U.S. IPOs in three years, the data show. The initial sale was
also the first backed by a private equity firm since  Harrah’s
Entertainment Inc.  pulled its $531 million IPO.  “This positive reception to this deal is a pleasant
surprise given the recent rather desultory performance of
private equity IPOs,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more
than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York.  Barclays Plc  of London, Morgan Stanley in New York and
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. led the
offering for Houston-based Targa Resources.  Search for Yield  The company intends to pay a quarterly dividend of 25.75
cents per share, its prospectus said. On an annual basis, that
would amount to 4.68 percent of its IPO price of $22 a share.
The payout is more than double the dividend yield for companies
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , data compiled by Bloomberg
show. U.S. benchmark interest rates are currently near zero.  Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP , a pipeline operator owned
by the second-largest U.S. natural gas producer, Chesapeake
Energy Corp., has gained 31 percent since its $513 million IPO
in July. The Oklahoma City-based company has an indicated
dividend yield of  3.14 percent , Bloomberg data show.  “Anything with yield in this environment attracts
attention,” said Holland. “Very savvy buyers have been coming
in over the last several quarters to buy properties in natural
gas.”  Today’s Offerings  Two of today’s three scheduled IPOs are from Chinese
companies.  Youku.com Inc. , the online video provider whose name
means “excellent and cool,” will offer 15.4 million American
depositary receipts at $9 to $11 each today, its filing said.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. , the country’s largest
online book retailer, plans to sell 17 million ADRs at $13 to
$15 each after increasing the price range from $11 to $13. Both
companies are based in Beijing.  CTPartners Executive Search LLC , a New York-based
recruiting company, will also sell shares. The company, which
will be known as CTPartners Executive Search Inc., is attempting
to raise $32 million in its IPO, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 