-- Washington Post's Kaplan Higher Education Unit to Cut About 770 Employees
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-12-08T01:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/washington-post-s-kaplan-higher-education-will-cut-about-770-employees.html
Washington Post Co. ’s Kaplan Higher
Education division said it plans to cut about 770 employees, or
about 5 percent of the workforce, because of slowing enrollment.  “These are difficult decisions to make, but necessary if
we are to maintain the same high-quality education and support
services our students expect,”  Jeff Conlon , chief executive
officer of Kaplan Higher Education, said in a statement today.  Tom Hoyt, a spokesman for Kaplan, said the workforce
reduction happened today. He said the job cuts aren’t related to
any pending litigation.  Last week, a former dean of the unit alleged the company
engaged in fraud to get U.S. student aid as he defended himself
against criminal cyber-harassment charges in a federal jury
trial under way in Chicago.  In testimony in U.S. District Court, Bennie Wilcox, a
former dean of law and legal studies at Kaplan University, said
he witnessed Kaplan executives commit “multiple schemes” to
defraud the U.S. government and taxpayers out of $1 billion.
Kaplan denies the allegations. Wilcox claims the company
retaliated against him when he exposed fraud in a pending
whistleblower lawsuit in Florida filed in 2007.  For-Profit Colleges  Florida is investigating Kaplan Inc. and four other for-
profit colleges for possible misrepresentations about their
financial aid, recruitment and accreditation. The civil
investigation was initiated after consumer complaints and the
U.S. Government Accountability Office issued a report for a U.S.
Senate hearing in August about for-profit colleges.  Washington Post rose $4.53 to $394.20 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 27 percent
since closing at a 52-week high April 15, as Kaplan and other
for-profit colleges have come under scrutiny by Congress, the
U.S. Department of Education and the GAO.  On Nov. 12, the Washington Post Co. said  Melinda French Gates  would be leaving its board.  In a statement upon her departure, Gates said she was
impressed with Washington Post Co.’s work with Kaplan, “whose
new approaches to education are allowing students opportunities
that would otherwise not be possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  