-- Wells Fargo Would Be Open to a Brokerage Purchase, Stumpf Tells Conference
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-12-07T22:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/wells-fargo-would-be-open-to-a-brokerage-purchase-stumpf-tells-conference.html
Wells Fargo & Co. , the largest U.S.
home lender, is adding employees in its wealth-management
business and would be open to acquisitions in that area, Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said.  The lender is “sub-optimized” in wealth management, as it
has a smaller market share than in its overall deposit base,
Stumpf, 57, said today at a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . investor
conference in New York.  “We’re adding people there, and if there were the right
opportunity at the right time, that could be interesting to
us,” Stumpf said.  Wells Fargo, which has $1.3 trillion in client assets, is
the third-largest among the so-called wirehouse brokerages,
trailing only Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and Bank of America
Corp.’s  Merrill Lynch . Wells Fargo’s wealth, brokerage and
retirement unit accounted for 6.9 percent of the San Francisco-
based bank’s  profit  in the third quarter.  Increasing the size of the brokerage and retirement unit
may contribute to Stumpf’s goal of improving cross-selling, or
offering more products to existing clients. The average Wells
Fargo brokerage client had almost 10 products from the lender,
according to a  presentation  accompanying Stumpf’s remarks.  Wells Fargo may also look at an acquisition that will allow
it to distribute insurance products to its lending customers,
Stumpf said.  “We have a lot of opportunities to distribute insurance,”
he said. “I’m not talking about the manufacturing side, but I
like the distribution side a lot.”  Limits on Growth  Wells Fargo may be limited in the acquisitions it can
complete because it controls “a little over” the regulatory
maximum of 10 percent of U.S. deposits, Stumpf said.  Wells Fargo has completed 58 acquisitions in the past five
years, led by its $12.7 billion purchase of Wachovia Corp.
during the depths of the financial crisis, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The lender’s shares  fell  27 cents, or 1 percent, to $28.47
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have risen 5.5 percent this year.  In October, Wells Fargo reported record third-quarter
 profit  that beat most analysts’ estimates. The lender released
$650 million of loan-loss reserves in the quarter as net charge-
offs fell from the second quarter.  Stumpf said he likes his bank’s position on mortgage-
repurchase demands because private-label securities make up only
8 percent of the lender’s servicing portfolio and many of the
subprime loans are already on Wells Fargo’s balance sheet. The
lender reduced its reserve for repurchases and reported $414
million in losses in the third quarter.  Fed Guidelines  The Federal Reserve issued guidelines last month on how it
will decide whether large U.S. banks may increase  dividends  and
buy back shares, requiring the lenders to submit to stress tests
of capital levels. Wells Fargo is likely to be among the first
banks to raise its dividend, analysts including Portales
Partners LLC’s  Jennifer Thompson  have said.  “Shareholders have been very patient and it’s high time
that we provide a return on your investment,” Stumpf said.
“I’m in violent agreement that it’s time that we get back
toward a more normal basis, whatever that means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  