-- Westfield Raises $2 Billion in Retail Trust Share Offering, Missing Target
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-07T06:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/westfield-misses-funding-target-with-2-billion-retail-trust-share-offer.html
Westfield Retail Trust, the Australia
and New Zealand mall owner being carved out of  Westfield Group ,
raised A$2 billion ($1.98 billion) in a share offer, 43 percent
below the total it had sought.  Investors paid a fixed A$2.75 a share, the company said in
a statement to the stock exchange, with demand exceeding the
underwritten portion of the sale by A$250 million. The company
had sought to raise as much as A$3.5 billion from selling shares
in the new trust, which will own 50 percent stakes in Westfield
Group’s 54 Australian and New Zealand shopping centers.  “There doesn’t seem to be much excitement in the Westfield
Retail Trust deal,” said  John White , who helps oversee $3
billion as Melbourne-based managing director for Asia-Pacific
public real estate securities at property management firm
Heitman. “The valuation is not that compelling.”  The new trust, announced on Nov. 3, partially reverses a
merger of Westfield’s three businesses six years ago that
created the world’s biggest shopping mall operator. The Sydney-
based company is seeking to boost returns for shareholders in a
stock that remains at about half its February 2007 peak.  Standard and Poor’s affirmed its A- rating for Westfield
Group and removed it from negative creditwatch, which it
instituted after the company’s announcement about the creation
of the new trust.  Weakens Profile  “The proposed demerger moderately weakens Westfield’s
strong business risk profile,”  Paul Draffin , an S&P analyst,
said in a statement today. “Nonetheless, we consider that
Westfield will remain one of the largest, highest-quality, and
most geographically diversified global retail property groups.”  Westfield Group shares climbed 0.4 percent to close at
A$12.33 in Sydney.  Westfield Retail Trust, which will have A$12.2 billion of
assets, including stakes in the Bondi Junction mall in Sydney
and the Doncaster center in Melbourne, is expected to start
trading on the Australian stock exchange on Dec. 13, following a
shareholder vote on Dec. 9, the company said. The money raised
for the trust will go to Westfield Group to pay for the assets.  Existing Westfield Group holders will receive one Westfield
Retail Trust share for each Westfield Group share they own,
equating to A$7.3 billion, to compensate for the dilution to
their investment, the company said last month. They also had the
chance to invest in the new trust through the capital raising.  Discount  The share sale price is at an 11 percent discount to the
trust’s net tangible assets, the company said on Nov. 3.  The new trust is most attractive to investors who are
focused on a steady income stream without currency or other
risks, said Peter Borkovec, Sydney-based investment analyst at
White Funds Management, which manages A$350 million. For those
seeking higher returns, Westfield Group would be a better buy,
he said.  “They split because they can get better return on equity
for Westfield Group, with a lighter balance sheet,” Borkovec
said in a telephone interview. “They’ve made it clear they’ll
keep recycling assets and take on more development.”  Still, the return on equity for Westfield Group after the
split will likely be closer to 10.5 percent, less than the 12.5
percent the company forecast,  Simon Wheatley , an analyst at
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty, who has a “sell”
rating on the stock, wrote in a report today.  ‘Better Growth Potential’  “We will most likely retain our Westfield Group shares and
may look to sell our Westfield Retail Trust holding,” said
 Peter Reed , who helps oversee about A$500 million at Sydney-
based PPM Private Portfolio Managers. “Westfield Group looks to
have better growth potential, with the development side and also
the overseas assets. That’s where the growth lies.”  Westfield merged its three entities -- Westfield Trust,
which operated its Australian and New Zealand properties,
Westfield America Trust, which held the group’s U.S. centers,
and Westfield Holdings, which focused on development -- into the
world’s biggest shopping mall group in 2004. The move was
designed to make it easier to finance the group’s planned
shopping mall projects and acquisitions, it said at the time.  Since then, the company has invested more than A$22 billion
to expand its global business, about a third in acquisitions and
the rest in developments, it said last month.  Westfield’s Australian and New Zealand shopping centers,
which made up 47 percent of its portfolio, accounted for 56
percent of the company’s profit in the six months ended June 30.
Its U.S. malls, which account for a similar proportion,
contributed 39 percent to earnings.  Market Demand  The new trust’s creation “responds directly to significant
market demand for a domestic trust,” Chairman  Frank Lowy  said
on Nov. 3. “Rather than sell interests in our portfolio to
outside parties, this proposal provides the opportunity for our
security holders to participate in our joint venture partner and
benefit directly from the ownership of our portfolio in
Australia and New Zealand.”  Moody’s Investors Service put the company’s ratings on
review following the announcement of the new trust on Nov. 3,
citing an increase in Westfield Group’s risk profile as a result
of the removal of half of its more stable Australian and New
Zealand assets.  Westfield Retail Trust will have a separate management
team, with Westfield Group acting as joint venture property and
development manager, and as the entity responsible for the trust
for no fee, the company said. While the trust and group plan to
make most future investments together, they may pursue
developments or acquisitions independently, managing director
 Peter Lowy  said in a webcast investor presentation last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 saminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 papuc1@bloomberg.net  