-- West African Leaders Meet to Debate Ivory Coast's Post Election Crisis
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-07T13:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/west-african-leaders-meet-to-debate-ivory-coast-election-crisis.html
West African leaders will discuss the
political crisis in Ivory Coast today as  Laurent Gbagbo  and
 Alassane Ouattara  continue to make competing claims to the
presidency of the world’s top cocoa grower.  Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan , who is the current
chairman of the Economic Community of West African States,
called on Ivory Coast’s leaders to “respect and fully implement
the verdict of the Ivorian people as declared by the Independent
Electoral Commission,” according to a statement yesterday.  The commission declared Ouattara, 68, winner of the Nov. 28
election with 54.1 percent of votes. The announcement was
rejected by the Constitutional Council that alleged
irregularities in northern states and named Gbagbo, the 65-year-
old incumbent, victor. Gbagbo was sworn in as president on Dec.
4. Hours later, Ouattara said he had taken the oath of office.
The United Nations, the European Union and the U.S. have all
backed Ouattara.  The regional bloc meeting may not yield a breakthrough,
“as many of the leaders have their own internal headaches and
none has the stature to force the actors in Ivory Coast to bend
to their will,” said  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , chief analyst for
African frontier markets with DaMina Advisors, based in New
York.  Curfew  The election was meant to unite the Ivory Coast, which has
been divided into a rebel-held north and government-controlled
south since a 2002 uprising. The dispute over the results
produced an increase in violence that has left several dead,
with Ouattara supporters taking to the streets in protest. A
night-time curfew, which was instituted before the vote, has
been extended for another week, Radiodiffusion Television
Ivoirienne reported yesterday.  Cocoa for March delivery climbed for the fourth consecutive
trading day, rising 19 pounds, or 1 percent, to 2,064 pounds by
12:57 p.m. in London today. Supplies of the beans in Ivory Coast
are being disrupted by workers staying away over fears of
unrest, according to company officials.  Former South African President  Thabo Mbeki  went to Ivory
Coast on Dec. 5 to mediate an agreement between the two sides.
He was appointed by the African Union after he led previous
mediation efforts during the uprising. He was scheduled to leave
yesterday to give a report to the Addis Ababa-based AU, his
spokesman Mukoni Ratshitanga said.  ‘Real Risk’  “There is real risk of serious instability if either side
believes it is likely to lose influence during the Mbeki-led
mediation process,” said Rolake Akinola, an independent Africa
analyst.  Economic growth in Ivory Coast has averaged 1.1 percent in
the eight years since the conflict started as the cocoa-
dependent country missed out on the wave of foreign investment
in Africa from such nations as China.  The country now risks stalling $3 billion in debt relief
under the International Monetary Fund and World Bank’s Heavily
Indebted Poor Country initiative, Akinola said in an e-mail from
London yesterday.  Some 460 United Nations staff were temporarily relocated to
Gambia from Ivory Coast, Reuters reported yesterday, citing UN
spokesman Martin Nesirky.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 