-- Wheat Set to Fall 14% After Approaching Bollinger Band: Technical Analysis
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-07T08:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/wheat-set-to-fall-14-after-approaching-bollinger-band-technical-analysis.html
Wheat may fall as much as 14 percent
to $6.90 a bushel in Chicago after the grain rallied to a four-
month high near the upper of two Bollinger bands, according to
technical analysis by VTB Capital.  The attached chart shows wheat for March delivery advanced
near its upper Bollinger band. The grain fell toward the lower
band in November after prices earlier that month neared the top
band, VTB analyst  Andrey Kryuchenkov  said. Wheat may also fall
after its 14-day relative strength index rose near 70, a sign
that a commodity may be overbought, he said.  “The recent breakout at the end of last week saw the
market retesting the upper Bollinger band once again,” London-
based Kryuchenkov said. “Provided resistance above $7.80/$8.00
holds, the market is then likely to pull back towards the end of
November range around $6.90.”  Wheat is up 49 percent this year on supply disruptions in
Russia, Canada and Australia, and jumped 13 percent last week on
renewed concern that unusually heavy rainfall in Australia will
delay the harvest and reduce grain quality. The grain for March
delivery traded at $8.05 by 8:08 a.m. London time today on the
Chicago Board of Trade.  The commodity’s 14-day RSI, a gauge of whether a commodity
is overbought or oversold, was at 72 today. Some analysts view
a level of 70 as a sign that prices may be poised to drop.
Should wheat “break through” the current resistance levels,
then prices may climb toward the August high of more than $8.60,
he said.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. Bollinger bands, developed by
analyst John Bollinger, are based on historical price swings.
The bands narrow and widen to reflect the size of those moves,
and represent possible support and resistance levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 