-- Widest Yield Gap With Russia Since May Signals Rating Boost: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-12-07T11:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/widest-yield-gap-with-russia-since-may-signals-rating-boost-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian benchmark bond yields fell
to a six-month low relative to Russian debt, signaling investors
expect the South American nation may have its credit rating
raised.  Brazil’s dollar bonds due in 2019 yielded 132 basis points
less last week than similar-maturity Russian debt that is rated
one level higher, the biggest gap since May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The difference grew as yields on Russia’s
notes rose faster than Brazil’s in the past month.  Analysts surveyed by the central bank predict Latin
America’s biggest economy  will expand  7.5 percent this year, the
fastest pace in more than two decades and almost twice as fast
as the rate forecast by Russia’s Economy Ministry, while
inflation will pick up at a slower pace. Central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  said in a speech to businessmen in Sao Paulo
yesterday that Brazil’s BBB- rating is also low compared with
Italy, Portugal and Ireland, all graded at least three steps
higher, and is likely to be increased.  “Brazil has been trading like a BBB+ credit for quite a
while now,”  David Spegel , head of emerging-market debt strategy
at ING Groep NV in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“The credit agencies have been so behind the curve that the
market looks at it as somehow irrelevant.”  The yield on Brazil’s 5.875 percent bonds due in 2019
tumbled 118 basis points, or 1.18 percentage point, since the
end of April to 3.59 percent, according to Bloomberg data.
Yields on Russia’s 5 percent bond maturing in 2020 declined 53
basis points during the same period. In the past month, yields
on Russia’s notes rose 57 while Brazil’s increased 42.  Investment Grade  Brazil, which received its first investment-grade rating in
2008, is ranked one level below Russia’s BBB at Standard &
Poor’s and two levels below its Baa1 at Moody’s Investors
Service.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
with credit-default swaps is 107 basis points, compared with 150
for Russian debt, CMA prices show. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  “It reflects the fundamental divergences,”  Win Thin , the
global head of emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“While Russia is rated higher than Brazil, these ratings have
lost all meaning. Brazil is safer. Brazil has more
credibility.”  ‘Priorities’  A ratings increase for Brazil depends on how President-
elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s government withdraws stimulus measures
implemented during the global financial crisis,  Regina Nunes ,
the representative for S&P in the country, said at an event
hosted by the ratings company in Sao Paulo yesterday.  “Brazil is going to have a new government who is going to
set its priorities,” Nunes said. “How are they going to
withdraw countercyclical stimulus that caused more expenses?”  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  increased spending 27
percent in the first nine months of the year.  While Rousseff’s government will need to take steps to curb
spending growth, the country’s economic expansion and high
foreign reserves may make it “a candidate for an improving
rating,”  Mauro Leos , an analyst at Moody’s in New York, said in
a telephone interview.  “Because we saw spending increase significantly this year,
so one of the questions is if this administration will reduce
the rate of spending,” he said. “We have a positive bias on
Brazil. We will take a closer look at the rating in the second
quarter of next year.”  BNDES  The government’s failure to curb subsidized lending by its
development bank will prompt ratings companies to withhold
increases to Brazil’s ranking, said  Oscar Sanchez , a senior
international economist at Scotia Capital in Toronto.  BNDES, as the bank is known, granted 171 billion reais of
new loans in the 12 months through October, a 33 percent jump
over the same year-ago period, according to the  bank’s website .
BNDES more than doubled lending to Brazilian companies to 137.4
billion reais last year, exceeding the $72.2 billion lent
globally by the World Bank in the fiscal year ended in June.  Subsidized lending helped push annual  inflation  to a five-
month high of 5.2 percent in October.  “Credit is picking up on the back of government financing
and that’s not healthy and that’s not sustainable,” Sanchez
said in a telephone interview. “I would not expect a rating
upgrade in Brazil.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 9 basis points to 167
at 6:21 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase Co.  Default Swaps  The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2012 rose 2 basis points to 12.06
percent.  The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.6688 per dollar.  Meirelles said Brazil’s rating is lower than countries with
more debt. Brazil’s  debt  is equal to about 40 percent of its
gross domestic product, compared with 66 percent for Ireland and
76 percent for Portugal last year.  Borrowing costs for European nations from Portugal to
Ireland soared this year on concern they may have to restructure
their debts. Ireland agreed to a 67 billion-euro ($89.6 billion)
aid package from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund, seven months after Greece received a 110 billion-
euro rescue. Yields on benchmark Irish debt jumped 305 basis
points to 7.88 percent while Portugal’s benchmark borrowing
costs climbed 166 to 5.70 percent.  ‘Bit Low’  “Looking at some European countries, Brazil’s rating seems
a bit low,” Meirelles said. “But it’s only a question of time
before this changes.”  Brazil’s budget deficit will shrink to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 3.3 percent last year, according
to a central bank survey of about 100 economists. The Russian
government expects its budget to remain in deficit through 2014,
with the shortfall narrowing to 4.6 percent of GDP in 2010 from
5.9 percent last year.  The deficit is the main “sore spot” of Russia’s
macroeconomic outlook,  Sergei Vasilyev , a deputy chairman of
Russian state development bank VEB, said at a Nov. 17 conference
in Moscow.  Brazil’s  debt  returned 13 percent this year, compared with
a 9.5 percent advance for  Russian  bonds, according to JPMorgan.  “The market is getting more comfortable on where Brazil is
than Russia,” said  Kathy Jones , an emerging-markets bond
strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, which manages $1.6
trillion. “There’s more optimism about Brazil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  