-- Year-End Flood of Muni Bonds Creates Buying Opportunity for U.S. Wealthy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2010-12-07T17:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/year-end-muni-bond-flood-creates-buying-opportunity-for-wealthy.html
Wealthy U.S. investors may be able to
buy municipal bonds at some of the highest yields in seven
months as issuers rush to borrow before year end.  Yields on the second-highest-rated municipal debt were at
levels not reached since May, according to a  Bloomberg Fair
Market Value  index as of Dec. 6. Tax-free securities declined
2.29 percent last month, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Municipal Master Index. That was the third
straight monthly drop, which hasn’t happened since 2004, the
index shows.  “There will be opportunities for astute investors to buy
good quality bonds at lower prices,” said  Randy Beeman ,
managing director of Robert W. Baird & Co.’s The Wise Investor
Group, which oversees almost $2 billion in client assets.  Munis of all maturities are “relatively cheap” right now,
with yields in short-to-intermediate term securities
particularly high compared with Treasuries, according to fixed-
income strategists at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in a
report dated Nov. 19. The bank’s analysts raised their
recommendation on tax-exempt munis to “cautiously positive”
from “neutral.” Bond yields rise as prices fall.  Prices are lower in part because of a heavy supply of bonds
as issuers work to meet the Dec. 31 deadline to receive a 35
percent federal subsidy through the taxable Build America Bond
program, said  Richard Saperstein , managing director at Treasury
Partners in New York, which oversees $10 billion in assets.  Build America Extension  An extension of the Build America Bond program wasn’t
included in a compromise that President  Barack Obama  struck with
congressional leaders yesterday to prolong tax cuts enacted in
2001 and 2003, according to two White House officials briefed on
the plan who spoke on condition of anonymity because the details
haven’t been released.  When municipal issuers sell Build America Bonds, the deals
are frequently combined with tax-exempt issuance, Saperstein
said. States and municipalities borrowed about  $39.6 billion 
last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Top-rated tax-exempt munis due in 10 years were yielding
2.78 percent as of Dec. 6, according to a  Bloomberg Valuation
index . For the highest earners paying a 35 percent federal rate
on income, a 2.78 percent yield on the securities is equivalent
to a 4.28 taxable yield.  Selective Buying  Investors should buy selectively while also being mindful
of the risk of credit downgrades or defaults, according to
Beeman, who’s based in Reston, Virginia, and works with clients
who have an average net worth of about $5 million. Strategies
include switching to individual bonds from funds and
diversifying holdings among states.  Withdrawals by municipal bond fund investors last month
also helped to lower prices. Mutual fund investors sold $5.4
billion of muni assets within two weeks last month, according to
Lipper FMI, a research firm.  David Schwartz, a physician based in Atlanta, kept his
investments in high-yield municipal bond funds last month even
though his accounts with Fidelity Investments,  Vanguard Group
Inc. ,  T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  and  American Century Investments 
lost as much as 5 percent, he said. Schwartz, 57, said he has a
“significant percentage” of his non-retirement savings in
munis, without giving a figure, and bought more on Dec. 1.  Buying More  “I decided to invest additional monies in high-yield bonds
because share prices and yields were attractive,” he said.
“Municipal bonds still have a low default rate and tax rates
may rise on the highest earners, which may make the bonds more
desirable.”  Municipal bonds are generally exempt from federal taxes as
well as state and local levies for residents in most states
where they’re issued.  While states and municipalities are coping with financial
stress at “a level that has not been seen for decades,”
defaults will continue to be isolated situations, said  Fitch
Ratings  in a Nov. 16 report. The average default rate for
investment-grade municipal debt evaluated by Moody’s Investors
Service from 1970 through 2009 was 0.03 percent, compared with
0.97 percent for corporate issues, the New York-based company
said in February.  Defaulted securities fell to $2.48 billion through October,
compared with $7.28 billion in all of 2009, according to data
from  Richard Lehmann , publisher of Distressed Debt Securities
Newsletter.  Individual Bonds  Investors may want to consider buying individual bonds now
rather than mutual funds or exchange-traded funds, said  Paul Tramontano , chief executive officer of Constellation Wealth
Advisors, a New York-based advisory firm with about $4 billion
in assets. ETFs generally track an index and trade on an
exchange like a stock. Investors with at least $500,000 to
construct an account of individual bonds will have the ability
to diversify by purchasing at least 20 different securities in
$25,000 lots, said Tramontano.  Investing in funds may mean investors will be trapped in
longer-dated or lower credit bonds than they’d like, Tramontano
said.  Municipal bond ETFs may also experience bigger drops than
the indexes they track because the share price can vary more
than the value of the bonds in the fund, said Robert Kane,
founder of BondView, a website that provides information to
retail municipal bond investors. The  iShares S&P National AMT-
Free Municipal Bond Fund  hit a 16-month low of $100.40 on Nov.
16 and fell 2.79 percent in November compared with a 2.25
percent drop for the  index  it follows.  Investor Behavior  Investor behavior is a risk of investing in funds, said
 Jason Thomas , chief investment officer at Aspiriant, a
multifamily office based in San Francisco with about $7.5
billion in assets. “If I own the bond directly I can hold it
through whatever volatility,” said Thomas. “If I’m in a bond
fund and all the investors get scared and leave that can impact
my performance.”  Revenue bonds are attractive because they have dedicated
sources of repayment such as water and power districts,
transportation systems and industrial development, and may offer
 higher yields  than general obligation bonds which are supported
by tax revenue of the state or municipality, said Thomas.  Investors can potentially pick up additional yield from
revenue bonds in states such as California and Illinois that
have suffered from mounting budget deficits. That’s because
these issuers may offer higher yields even though their income
stream is independent from the state’s budgetary woes, said
Saperstein of Treasury Partners, a division of Chicago-based
HighTower Advisors.  Revenue Bonds  Kane of BondView said he likes essential service revenue
bonds, such as those issued by the Puerto Rico Electric Power
Authority, rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, or the third lowest
of 10 investment-grade ratings. The bonds offer investors an
exemption from any state tax, and provide higher yields because
they’re rated lower than many municipalities.  Investors should diversify and own bonds from other states,
especially those with better credit ratings, such as AAA rated
Virginia and Maryland, and forfeit the state and local tax
savings, said Beeman of Robert W. Baird. Credit downgrades or
investor panic could still drive down bond prices, said Paul
Jacobs, a certified financial planner who works in the Atlanta
office of Palisades Hudson Financial Group, which manages more
than $1 billion for 55 families.  ‘Smoldering Debt’  State tax revenue rose 3.9 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the third consecutive gain, as a recovering
economy boosted receipts from sales and personal-income levies,
according to a study of 48 states by the Nelson A. Rockefeller
Institute of Government in Albany, New York.  Albert Lewis, a former retirement planning specialist for
 Morgan Stanley  who lives in Elephant Butte, New Mexico, said he
started reducing his municipal bond holdings six months ago
because he feared the issuers wouldn’t be able to pay.  “There may be some great bargains out there,” said Lewis,
69, who had $300,000 invested in individual municipal bonds.
“But there are also lots of unidentified smoldering debt
beneath the coffers of many a municipality.”  Investors who stay in the muni market should consider
putting up to 35 percent of their municipal investments in
intermediate-term securities, or bonds with 7-year to 10-year
maturities and higher yields, said Constellation’s Tramontano.
The bulk of the portfolio should remain in shorter-termed munis
because of the potential for rising interest rates, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 