-- Treasuries Fall on Tax-Cut Extension; Stock Rally Fades Amid Insider Probe
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-07T22:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/yen-gains-as-most-asia-stocks-drop-treasuries-fall-on-obama-tax-extension.html
Treasuries slid, pushing the two-year
yield up the most since March, after President  Barack Obama 
agreed to extend tax cuts and a three-year note sale drew the
lowest demand since February. U.S stocks erased an early rally
after a report that an insider-trading probe widened.  The two-year  note yield  gained 11 basis points to 0.53
percent as of 4 p.m. in New York. The S&P 500 rose less than 0.1
percent to 1,223.75 after rallying 1 percent to the highest
level since September 2008 earlier. Copper surged to a 31-month
high in New York and an all-time high in London, while gold
slipped from an intraday record and oil decreased after touching
a 26-month high. The Dollar Index climbed for a second day.  The rout in Treasuries sent the 10-year yield to a five-
month high of 3.13 percent amid concern the extension of the tax
cuts will widen the budget deficit. The gain in stocks fizzled
as Reuters reported federal authorities have “ramped up” a probe
of insider trading, while optimism over the tax-cut extension
waned as Obama said he’d push to overhaul the code in two years
and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said Democrats have
concerns about the agreement.  “It all happened at the same time, taking the market off
its highs,” said  Michael Nasto , senior trader at U.S. Global
Investors Inc., which manages about $2.5 billion in San Antonio.
“Investors got a little spooked during Obama’s press
conference,” he said. “Then, we had news that the SEC may widen
the insider trading probe. That took some wind out of stocks
even after all the optimism with the tax cuts.”  Treasury Auction  The existing three-year Treasury note yield  rose  13 basis
points to 0.82 percent. The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year
securities, the first of three note and bond sales totaling $66
billion this week.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
fell for a fifth day, sinking to the lowest level in a month.
The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.5 basis point to a
mid-price of 90.21 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  U.S. government debt dropped after Obama said he would
accept lower rates on high earners’ income, dividends, capital
gains and multimillion-dollar estates for the next two years to
break a stalemate over extending the Bush administration’s tax
cuts for middle-class taxpayers before Congress adjourns. The
current tax rates, enacted in 2001 and 2003, are set to increase
Dec. 31.  ‘Get Out of the Way’  “It’s not just the tax cuts themselves, but the sentiment
in watching Washington move forward when before it was seen as
just not doing much,” said  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond strategist
at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s biggest bond fund. “They are more confident
that the government is starting to get out of the way.”  3M Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Hewlett-Packard Co.
slipped more than 1.5 percent to lead losses in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, which erased an 89-point rally to close down
3.03 points, or less than 0.1 percent, at 11,359.16.  The declines came as Reuters reported that federal
authorities have sent more than a dozen subpoenas to hedge funds
and investment firms. The news service cited people familiar
with the inquiry and didn’t name any of the firms receiving
subpoenas.  Citigroup Inc. rallied 3.8 percent as the U.S. sold its
remaining stock in the bank for $10.5 billion, bringing the bank
a step closer to independence from the government following a
$45 billion bailout in 2008.  Targa IPO  Targa Resources Corp., a natural-gas pipeline company
controlled by Warburg Pincus LLC, rallied 12 percent after
selling $360 million of shares in an initial public offering.
Targa Resources sold 16.4 million shares for $22 apiece
yesterday, according to a regulatory filing, after increasing
the size of the offering by 25 percent.  About four companies rose for every one that fell in the
 Europe Stoxx 600 Index , which climbed 0.9 percent as all 19
industry groups advanced. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained
less than 0.1 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd. helped lead mining
stocks higher, rising 1.7 percent in London. Unilever climbed
3.7 percent in Amsterdam after Morgan Stanley recommended shares
of the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced for a fifth day,
rising 0.4 percent to the highest level in three weeks.  European Bond Yields  The German 10-year bund yield rose 10 basis points to 2.95
percent. The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Irish 10-year bonds instead of bunds fell 24 basis points to
508, or 5.08 percentage points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  cut spending and
raised taxes by 6 billion euros ($8 billion) to deal with what
he called the “worst crisis in our history” as the government
seeks to seal an international aid package. Lawmakers were
voting on the measures, which include cuts in child payments,
tax credits and some unemployment benefits, in parliament in
Dublin later today.  Spreads between benchmark 10-year German bunds and
Portuguese, Spanish and Italian debt also narrowed.  The dollar strengthened against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, rising 0.3 percent to $1.3263 per euro.  Copper rose to a record in London and a 31-month high in
New York. The metal for March delivery added 1 percent to
$4.0495 a pound on the Comex in New York after reaching $4.1315,
the highest level since May 5, 2008, and climbed as high as
$9,044 a metric ton on in London.  Gold turned lower after climbing to records in New York and
London. Gold for February delivery slipped 0.5 percent to $1,409
an ounce after earlier touching $1,432.50. Oil retreated 0.8
percent to $88.69 a barrel high after failing to maintain a hold
above technical resistance at $90, spurring sales by investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 