-- Repsol Makes Argentina's Largest Gas Find in 35 Years in Neuquen Province
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2010-12-07T18:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-07/ypf-finds-4-5-trillion-cubic-feet-of-gas-in-argentina-s-neuquen-province.html
Repsol YPF SA , Spain’s largest oil
company, found 4.5 trillion cubic feet of unconventional natural
gas in Argentina, the country’s largest discovery in 35 years.  Repsol found so-called tight gas reserves at the Loma
La Lata area in the Patagonian province of Neuquen after its YPF
unit drilled four exploratory wells in the region, according to 
a statement from Madrid-based Repsol today. The company also said
that it discovered so-called shale gas in the province.  Crude output at YPF, the biggest Argentina-based company by
market value, climbed in the first nine months of the year for
the first time since 2003 as Chief Executive Officer  Sebastian Eskenazi  seeks to grow in Argentina and neighboring markets. The
company plans to invest as much as $3.5 billion a year in
countries such as Brazil and Colombia as Argentine output slows.  “This is a new frontier,” Repsol Chief Executive Officer
 Antonio Brufau  said today of the discovery in an interview in
Buenos Aires. The find “is very important for Argentina and
YPF, and therefore for Repsol,” he said.  The find boosts Loma La Lata’s reserves five-fold,
according to the Argentine government’s website. Repsol also
plans to work with Vale SA to jointly produce gas for a potash
mine Vale plans in Argentina, Eskenazi said at a news conference
in Buenos Aires.  ‘Redouble Efforts’  The gas discovery “makes us all redouble our efforts to
maintain and strengthen Argentina’s fiscal and trade surplus,
and the accumulation of reserves and reduction of Argentina’s
debt,” President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said.  YPF, the country’s largest employer, produces and processes
about 50 percent of the South American nation’s oil and controls
about as much of the domestic fuel market.  Repsol surged 65 centavos, or 3.3 percent, to 20.35 euros
in Madrid, after earlier gaining as much as 4.1 percent.  Last month, Repsol said it plans to raise as much as $2.36
billion through the sale of a 15 percent stake in the unit as it
seeks to reduce its holdings in the Latin American nation.  Today’s find is the largest since gas was first found at
Loma La Lata more than three decades ago.  The YPF find may contain enough gas to supply the country
for as much as 50 years, Agustin Rossi, head of the ruling
Peronist party in the lower house of Congress, said in an
interview earlier today on Argentina’s C5N television.  Uncovers Oil  Drilling at the field also has uncovered some oil,
according to Eskenazi. Shale gas is natural gas produced from
shale, while tight gas is so named because it is difficult to
access, trapped by surrounding rock and sand.  YPF may invest $3 billion to $3.5 billion a year to grow in
Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Canada, Eskenazi said in a May
interview in New York. Overseas sales will account for 50
percent of total revenue in 10 years, up from 30 percent now, he
said.  Crude oil for January delivery declined 44 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $88.94 a barrel at 10:56 a.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. The contract touched $90.76, the highest
intraday price since Oct. 8, 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at  rorihuela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ; 