-- Obama Needs to Go Chicago-Style on Health Care: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-02-28T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-28/obama-needs-to-go-chicago-style-on-health-care-albert-r-hunt.html

          
          
             When President-elect  Barack Obama ,
immediately after the election, was deciding who should be
Treasury secretary and who should head the National Economic
Council,  Timothy Geithner  told the transition team he wouldn’t
take the White House job.  
 Geithner might have gotten Treasury and  Lawrence Summers 
the  NEC  job anyway; Obama wanted fresh faces and fewer Clinton
administration retreads in his Cabinet. A case can be made this
was a mistake. It’s possible both men, and the administration,
would have been better served if they had gotten the other job.  
 Yet Obama never considered putting it to Geithner, then the
head of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, like this: “In the
worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, your country
needs you in the job I have in mind for you.” That’s not the
Obama style; he tends to be patient, persistent, sometimes
charming; although from  Chicago , he doesn’t practice the arm-
twisting politics the city is known for.  
 After the Blair House health-care summit Feb. 25, he’ll
need to adopt that style over the next few weeks.  
 There are three realties in the final chapter of the
legislative dance that will be the focus of scholars for years:
Time isn’t on Obama’s side and any legislation probably has to
pass before the congressional spring break at the end of this
month. It can only pass with the support of reluctant Democrats,
with the House more of a problem than the Senate; and it’s only
going to happen if the president uses forceful persuasion on his
wavering party members.  
 Fixed Positions  
 As the summit showed, Obama very much wants a health-care
bill; the Republicans very much don’t. (Instead of offering
major changes, the Republican mantra was start all over again, a
euphemism for killing it.)  
 The minority party started on a high note with Senator
 Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee , but the true feelings were
manifest in the angry outbursts of Republican House Leader  John Boehner  of  Ohio . Obama can’t count on a single Republican vote
in either chamber.  
 About 90 percent of Democratic lawmakers want to see a
health-care overhaul. However, 10 percent to 15 percent of that
group wants it passed without their vote.  
 Those numbers don’t add up. To win simple majorities in
both houses, Obama and congressional leaders are going to have
to persuade as many as a half-dozen senators and about two-dozen
House members to cast a tough vote.  
 Using Reconciliation  
 The strategy for achieving this has been clear for some
time. The House has to pass the Senate-approved measure, with
the promise that both houses will fix some of the imperfections
through a process called reconciliation, which requires only a
majority vote in both chambers.  
 Republicans charge using reconciliation in this way would
be outrageous and unprecedented.  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina  says it would be “the end of minority rights in the
Senate” and a “destructive act” the likes of which hasn’t
been seen in ages. Alexander says reconciliation has “never
been used for anything like this.”  
 The facts are otherwise. Under the Democrats’ strategy, the
 health-care overhaul  wouldn’t be enacted through reconciliation.
It would be approved separately, and then some of the abuses in
the Senate bill and a few political compromises would be handled
in the reconciliation bill. About 80 percent of the $950 billion
measure would go through the normal procedure.  
 Legislative Precedent  
 In the past, this reconciliation process has been used for
major health-care measures, including  COBRA , which allows people
to retain their health coverage after they lose their jobs. The
acronym stands for Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act because that’s how it was passed. The 1996 welfare bill also
passed under reconciliation.  
 Those measures pale in scope compared with President  George W. Bush ’s 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, which totaled about $1.8
trillion over 10 years. Both were passed through reconciliation,
requiring only a majority vote. Combined they are almost 10
times larger than the health-care elements that may go through
that procedure this year.  
 Nevertheless, Obama is going to have a daunting challenge
to win a majority in both houses, especially since there is bad
blood between Democrats in the two chambers and growing
resentment of the White House. In the Senate, the president
won’t be able to offer special deals to the likes of Nebraska
Senator  Ben Nelson . He can’t lose more than nine of the 59
Democratic votes.  
 Tougher in House  
 It will be tougher in the House, which passed a health-care
measure by only five votes in November. As many as a dozen
previous supporters could defect because they don’t like the
Senate bill or because of narrower issues like abortion.  
 To win, Obama’s going to have to persuade some of the 39
House Democrats who voted against the legislation last year. And
31 are from districts that were carried in the last presidential
election by Republican nominee  John McCain  (One unfortunate
concession the White House made to facilitate this task was to
dilute the provision that taxes more expensive private insurance
plans. Politically unpopular, it nevertheless would help control
spiraling health-care costs, and, despite union objections, was
a progressive step.)  
 Today, there are two political imperatives for the
president.  
 One is to insist that Congress act quickly; the Democrats
paid a terrible price for delays, both last summer in the  Senate
Finance Committee , and then with colossal blunders by the
leadership in waiting too long to bring the bill to the Senate
floor in December. If it goes past the scheduled March 29
recess, sayonara.  
 Obama will have to employ some heavy persuasion in
explaining the political and personal consequences to Democrats
if a bill goes down. If the measure passes, it will be
controversial and a subject of great debate in the fall campaign
and probably the next presidential election.  
 If it fails, there will be no debate. It will simply be the
Democrats’ failure.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        