-- Oh, Canada: Sidney Crosby Gets a Golden Moment: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-03-01T02:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-28/oh-canada-sidney-crosby-gets-a-golden-moment-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Oh, Canada. Oh, my.  
 Quite a hockey game, eh?  
 It’s something when the game manages to exceed the hype and
hullabaloo, which, in the case of USA-Canada, was more than
considerable.  
 There were no miracles on ice, not like 30 years ago in
Lake Placid, New York, where a bunch of American college kids
shocked the Soviet Union. Back then, it was pros versus peach
fuzz.  
 Yesterday in Vancouver, in the final competition of the
Olympic Games, it was millionaire against millionaire; teammate
versus teammate; friend against friend.  
 It was one heck of a hockey game, too. Canada beat the U.S.
3-2. In overtime.  
 One shot, courtesy of Sidney Crosby, who adds Olympic hero
to his already impressive resume.  
 Talk about ebb and flow.  
 Canada led by two goals. The U.S. got a goal back. Canada
clung to the one-goal advantage inside the final minute, when
the partisan crowd in Vancouver rose to its feet and got loud.
Really loud. Bordering on bonkers. The countdown to a coronation
was on.  
 And then it was off.  
 The puck found its way from behind the net and onto the
stick of Zach Parise, who swept it past goaltender Roberto
Luongo with 24.4 seconds left. Oh, no, Canada.  
 Thrilling Finish  
 That set up one devil of a finish.  
 “I just tried to shoot it quickly,” said Crosby, the
Stanley Cup-winning captain of the NHL’s Pittsburgh Penguins who
became a legend 7:40 into the extra session. “I barely looked
at the net.”  
 What Sid the Kid didn’t see was the puck going through U.S.
goaltender Ryan Miller’s legs. Or, as they say in hockey, five
hole.  
 Pandemonium.  
 A dejected Miller, the sensational U.S. goaltender, didn’t
harp on what had just been lost. Instead, he spoke of what was
won.  
 “A lot of respect,” the Olympic Most Valuable Player told
NBC, which actually carried the game live. Not plausibly live.
Or kinda live. Or sorta live. But live live -- as in as it was
happening.  
 “We came here with every intention of winning,” Miller
said. “One shot short.”  
 One shot.  
 Deciding Moments  
 That’s why we watch, isn’t it? For that one shot. Or that
one slip, that one-one-thousandth of a second.  
 The postgame handshake is still the best tradition in all
of sports. Did you see Miller being congratulated and consoled
by Team Canada assistant Lindy Ruff, who happens to be Miller’s
coach with the NHL’s Buffalo Sabres.  
 Great stuff.  
 So was watching the Canadian players, arm in arm, singing
their national anthem. They were accompanied by some 18,000
backup singers, including Mark Messier, Wayne Gretzky and Mr.
Hockey himself, Gordie Howe.  
 Even International Olympic Committee President Jacques
Rogge got caught up in the moment, inviting even more adulation
for Crosby with a few waves of his right hand. This from a guy
who chastised Usain Bolt for putting on a show in Beijing.  
 ‘Our Gold’  
 It’s hard for most U.S. fans to comprehend just how much
this game meant to Canadians, who, had they been given the
choice to own the podium or own the puck -- let’s just say
that’s an easy choice.  
 “Our Game, Our Gold,” read one of the signs at the arena.  
 Whew. A nation on edge can exhale, party and, at some
point, rest easy. Sweet vulcanized rubber dreams, Canada.  
 The NHL must now decide whether it wants its players to
participate in the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. There
are drawbacks to NHL participation. Like the two-week hiatus.  
 On a side note, the Detroit Red Wings, led by Mike Babcock,
Canada’s coach, play tomorrow night in Colorado. Good luck
getting fired up for that one, Mike.  
 Whatever obstacles exist are outweighed by the benefit of
casual sports fans, the kind hockey so desperately needs, seeing
a game like USA-Canada. Of seeing Crosby and being introduced to
Parise, whose only presence in the crowded New York sports
market is a billboard on the Jersey Turnpike.  
 USA-Canada was the kind of game that other professional
athletes wanted to see. Among those all atwitter on Twitter were
New York Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez, Arizona Cardinals wide
receiver Larry Fitzgerald and Phoenix Suns guard Steve Nash, a
Canadian who was among those who lit the flame during the
opening ceremony.  
 “Sid the Kid,” Nash tweeted. “What can you say?”  
 One shot. One goal. One country. One collective sigh of
relief.  
 One more moment to remember.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        