-- How to Create 3 Million Jobs With Pencil, Ruler: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-03-01T02:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-28/how-to-create-3-million-jobs-with-pencil-ruler-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             The way Washington works, something
is true today if we thought it was true yesterday and the day
before.  
 This is great news for bad ideas. Once a career government
official hard-wires a belief into the bureaucracy, it is there
forever.  
 This helps explain the mess we are in. An ossified
regulator sets up a stiff and inflexible regime of rules,
confident it will be effective. Those being regulated adjust
their behavior and get away with economic murder.  
 Likewise in fiscal policy, the tyranny of dead ideas
funnels taxpayer dollars toward ineffective programs. The best
example is the $862 billion economic stimulus.  
 Last week the Congressional Budget Office  reported  that the
stimulus enacted a year ago created 1.4 million to 3 million
full-time-equivalent jobs in the fourth quarter. The CBO drew
heavily on commercial forecasting models and the macroeconomic
model used by the Federal Reserve.  
 Both of these old-school Keynesian models, by the CBO’s own
admission, “tend to predict greater economic effects” from
legislation like last year’s stimulus.  
 As the CBO put it, the range of estimated job creation was
“intended to encompass most economists’ views and thereby
reflect the uncertainty involved in such estimates.”  
 Really?  
 Let’s pause for a short history.  
 Era of Models  
 Back in the 1960s, economists thought that large Keynesian
models like those relied upon by the CBO could enable them to
simulate with great precision the response of the economy to
different policies. After an explosion of model building,
activity in this area ground to halt, not because the perfect
model was developed, but because the effort was convincingly
discredited.  
 I received my Ph.D. in the 1980s from the University of
Pennsylvania, which was a center of macro model building in the
1960s and 1970s. By my time there, such modeling had become no
more than a footnote in the graduate curriculum.  
 The large-scale Keynesian forecasting models were discarded
by most of the profession because they didn’t work. One of the
first to demonstrate this was  Charles R. Nelson  of the
University of Chicago, who in 1972 showed that forecasts based
on simple extrapolations significantly outperformed theory-laden
macroeconomic models in competitions.  
 ‘So Inaccurate’  
 About a decade later, Virginia Tech economist  Richard
Ashley  performed a similar exercise that found the big macro
models “so inaccurate that simple extrapolation of historical
trends is superior for forecasts more than a couple of quarters
ahead.” To paraphrase Ashley, all you need to outperform the
fancy models is a ruler and a pencil.  
 Economists went on to refine techniques that correlate the
way things move with each other over time, relying on hard
evidence rather than Keynesian theory. These techniques
generally find that policies like last year’s stimulus have much
smaller effects than the macro models would suggest.  
 Yet the analysis of job creation of the stimulus bill
essentially ignores this vast literature.  
 Here is the best sign of how bad it is. Last month, one of
the leaders of the macroeconomics profession,  Robert Barro  of
Harvard University, wrote a  piece  for the Wall Street Journal
that drew on his own experience studying the response of the
economy to fiscal policy.  
 Lower GDP  
 Barro has been one of the primary contributors to the
macroeconomic time-series literature that has tried to estimate
effects from observed economic data, rather than assume effects,
as Keynesian models do. He is a lock to win a Nobel Prize
someday. Barro wrote that his work suggests that the stimulus
increased output last year by about 0.8 percent -- an estimate
below the range that the CBO claimed would characterize the
breadth of views of economists.  
 If the stimulus gave a smaller boost in gross domestic
product, it also created fewer jobs.  
 Rather than rely on large-scale computer models that are
filled with tenuous assumptions to simulate what might have
happened, a better approach is simply to let the data speak.
Many countries, including the U.S., have tried economic stimulus
measures. We can study the evidence of what happened.  
 The CBO’s estimate range, which would have been correct in
1969, is silly today. Its analysis is based almost exclusively
on speculation within the context of old-fashioned Keynesian
models. The fact that these effects are inconsistent with actual
experience, as captured by analysis like Barro’s, is inexcusably
ignored.  
 CBO’s Rosy View  
 When political leaders ask the CBO what will happen if a
big stimulus bill is adopted, they get an intellectually
indefensible, rosy scenario. If you wonder why the stimulus was
so large, perhaps it’s because the CBO told Democrats that it
would be so good. The fact is, our giant, ineffective stimulus
was designed for economic models that were discarded when
 Richard Nixon  was president.  
 It’s a safe bet that if 8-year-old Sasha Obama ever becomes
president like her father, the bureaucracy will still be using
the same models.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        