-- Sex Addicts Give New Impetus to Job Creation: Caroline Baum
-- Editors: [bn:PRSN=1] Steve Dickson []
-- 2010-03-01T02:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-28/sex-addicts-give-new-impetus-to-job-creation-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Congress is itching to spend
more money to create jobs. The House of Representatives
passed a $154 billion bill in December while the Senate
voted for a smaller, $15 billion measure last week.  
 Why spend more of the taxpayer’s money when the
political classes have what it takes to generate organic
job growth? Between sexual dalliances (Republicans) and
financial hanky-panky (Democrats), our elected
representatives can do for overall employment what Tiger
Woods did for the  consulting industry .  
 A species known as “ crisis reputation adviser ”
evolved to coach Tiger on his televised apology and
interpret his body language (wooden) for the rest of us.  
 Politicians should adapt that model and use their own
indiscretions to create the jobs of tomorrow. Here are a
few possibilities:  
 1. Appalachian Trail Guide  
 When South Carolina Governor  Mark Sanford  disappeared
into the arms of his Latin soul mate in June, he told his
wife and staff he was hiking the Appalachian Trail. His
actual destination was Buenos Aires.  
 Every politician should have an opportunity “to clear
his head,” as Sanford’s communications director told the
press when his boss was incommunicado for four days.
Sanford’s wrong turn is a strong argument for beefing up
staff at the  National Park Service  -- for those who really
want to take a hike before the wife insists on it.  
 2. Spanish-as-a-Second-Language Teacher  
 New York Congressman  Charles Rangel , chairman of the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, can’t seem to get his
own income taxes right. He failed to report $75,000 of
rental income on a Dominican Republic villa he purchased
with a tax-free loan, just two of many ethical lapses for
which he’s being investigated. (Last week, the  House Ethics
Committee  gave him a slap on the wrist for accepting
corporate-sponsored trips.)  
 Rangel blamed “cultural and language barriers” for
his failure to understand the financing arrangements for
his beach house. (I bet he understood “zero percent
financing” in a variety of languages.)  
 Spanish is the primary language of half the members of
his congressional district, which includes Harlem,
according to the  New York Times . What’s more, his Web site
can be  translated into Spanish  with “two clicks of a
computer mouse,” the Times said. (Actually it’s only one
click.)  
 Sorry, Charlie.  
 As long as the Caribbean holds an allure for the
multihome-owning members of Congress, Spanish language
instruction should be required of all freshmen.  
 3. DNA Diaper Swiper  
 Former North Carolina Democratic Senator  John Edwards 
got caught in a pack o’ lies (and on camera) trying to
conceal his affair with Rielle Hunter, a “campaign
videographer” --another potential job-growth category --
and a child he fathered by her.  
 Andrew Young, who was a top campaign aide to Edwards
during the 2008 Democratic presidential primaries, says his
boss asked him to  swipe a dirty diaper  from the baby so
Edwards could perform a DNA test to determine paternity.  
 With more family values Republicans getting caught
with their pants down (Senators  John Ensign  and  David Vitter  come to mind), the opportunities to harness the
synergies between technology and trysting, and create
entire new industries, are endless.  
 4. Character Coach  
 Just as Republicans excel at preaching moral values
and living their lives by lesser standards, Democrats rail
against  income inequality  as they pad their pockets.  
 It takes a committee chairman, however, to rise to the
level of a  Chris Dodd , who heads the Senate Banking
Committee.  
 As a designated “friend of Angelo” --  Angelo Mozilo ,
former chief executive of Countrywide -- Dodd was given
sweetheart  mortgage  deals on various properties.  
 Countrywide was Fannie Mae’s biggest mortgage
supplier. The Banking Committee has oversight
responsibility for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two
government-sponsored housing finance agencies Republicans
wanted to rein in -- before they collapsed. You don’t need
a sharp pencil to connect those dots.  
 Dodd’s other real estate transaction, the purchase of
a  cottage  on 10 acres on Ireland’s West Coast, reeked so
badly of  swapping  political and financial favors his
approval rating slumped. The senior senator from
Connecticut decided in January not to seek re-election this
year.  
 Character isn’t Dodd’s strong suit. He and his 534
colleagues in the Senate and House could all use some
therapy, a 12-step program or character coaching.  
 My Name Is Tiger  
 Tiger has the means and the motivation to check
himself into a sex addiction clinic to get help with his
image, I mean, disorder. With more generous health-care
benefits promised with ObamaCare, lawmakers may have the
same access to treatment.  
 The current version of the Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders,  DSM-IV , published by the
American Psychiatric Association, does not recognize sex
addiction as a diagnosis. If the eagerly awaited
publication of DSM-V in 2013 designates new categories of
addiction, politicians will have another excuse, besides
denial, for their sexual and financial indiscretions: It
wasn’t my fault.  
 Then again, most of them use that one already.  
 (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 For Related News and Information:
More Baum columns: NI BAUM <GO>
More columns: OPED <GO>
Stories on ObamaCare: STNI OBAMAHEALTHBILL <GO>
  
          
          


  


        