-- Ex-mortgage CEO may face criminal charges: AG
-- By Jonathan Stempel
-- Tue Apr 10, 2007 7:06pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/10/businesspro-crime-mortgagelenders-dc-idUSN1044004820070410

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Connecticut won a court order that may 
clear the way for it to file criminal charges against former 
Mortgage Lenders Network USA Inc. Chief Executive Mitchell 
Heffernan over the company's bankruptcy, the state's attorney 
general said. 

  The state's Department of Labor has said it applied last 
month for an arrest warrant charging Heffernan with failing to 
pay about $3 million, mostly sales commissions, to 61 former 
employees of the Middletown-based provider of subprime 
mortgages, which are to people with poor credit histories.  Any charges would be the first against a former top 
executive of a large U.S. subprime lender since the industry 
began struggling in recent months under a surge of homeowner 
delinquencies and defaults.  Mortgage Lenders had been the 15th-largest U.S. subprime 
home loan provider before seeking Chapter 11 protection on 
February 5.  "The judge rightly ruled that the federal bankruptcy court 
lacks authority to halt a state criminal prosecution," Attorney 
General Richard Blumenthal said in a statement on Tuesday. He 
called Heffernan's attempt to block possible prosecution 
"spurious and specious."  It was not immediately clear whether or when Heffernan 
would be charged.  A spokeswoman for Blumenthal declined further comment. 
Calls to lawyers for Heffernan and U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter 
Walsh, who is overseeing Mortgage Lenders' bankruptcy, were not 
immediately returned. Calls to Timothy Liston, a state lawyer 
in the case, were not answered.  Heffernan had argued in a March 27 court filing that the 
commissions were disputed and that he had no control over them. 
He also said four other U.S. bankruptcy courts had ruled that 
criminal charges would be improper if they were "intertwined" 
with a bankruptcy case.  A labor department spokeswoman, Nancy Steffens, told 
Reuters last month that the state's purpose in seeking 
prosecution "is to get people money owed to them. If we can 
work out a settlement without criminal charges, that's great."  Mortgage Lenders had employed 1,800 people nationwide, 
including 950 in Connecticut, before seeking court protection 
from its own creditors. It expects to liquidate this year.