-- Madagascan Opposition Leaders Among 21 Arrested After Referendum Protests
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-11-12T10:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/madagascan-opposition-leaders-among-21-arrested-after-referendum-protests.html
Three leading members of
Madagascar’s opposition were among 21 people detained by
security forces following demonstrations on Nov. 10 against next
week’s constitutional referendum.  All 21 will be charged with “participation in a forbidden
demonstration, destruction of public property and refusal to
obey security forces,” Hanitra Razafimanantsoa, a lawyer for
the detained, said by phone today.  Police had banned opposition parties from holding a
demonstration in a sports stadium in the capital, Antananarivo,
and used tear gas to disperse crowds that gathered there. Those
arrested included Fetison Andrianirina, head of the opposition
Tiako I Madagasikara party, Zafilahy Stanislas Rakotomandimby, a
deputy in the same party, and Edouard Tsarahame, of the National
Union for Development and Democracy.  Madagascar has been in political crisis since March 2009,
when the mayor of Antananarivo  Andry Rajoelina  ousted his
predecessor President  Marc Ravalomanana  with the help of the
military. Opposition parties oppose next week’s referendum,
which aims to pave the way to elections next year, saying they
weren’t consulted over the new constitution.  The opposition boycotted government-led talks in September
that led to the announcement of an electoral calendar and the
proposed constitution, after Rajoelina reneged on earlier power
sharing accords brokered by international mediators.  The objective of the opposition “is to prevent the
referendum from taking place, and we can’t allow that,” Colonel
Richard Ravalomanana, head of security in the capital, said by
phone this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 