-- Thailand to Impose Loan Curbs to Avert Asset-Price Bubble in Real Estate
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-11-12T08:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/thailand-to-impose-loan-curbs-to-avert-asset-price-bubble-in-real-estate.html
Thailand’s  central bank  plans to
impose new lending restrictions for some condominium and
residential property purchases to help avoid an asset-price
bubble in the nation’s real estate market.  Commercial banks will have to increase the so-called risk
weighting on loans for condominiums valued at less than 10
million baht ($335,345), Deputy Governor  Krirk Vanikkul  said
today. The new measure will take effect on Jan. 1, he said.  Sales of residential condominiums have jumped as record low
borrowing costs and economic growth fuel demand. Developers
including  Land & Houses Pcl  and  Pruksa Real Estate Pcl  have
built more condominiums priced below 3 million baht to tap
demand from first-time homebuyers.  “This is a preemptive action to encourage banks to be more
cautious in mortgage lending,” said Krirk. “We decided to
introduce the measure now before the situation gets worse beyond
our ability to resolve.”  Loans for condominium purchases where the downpayment is
less than 10 percent of the property’s total value will attract
a higher risk weighting based on the central bank’s formula,
according to the Bank of Thailand’s statement.  “The measure doesn’t signal the central bank’s intent to
prohibit these mortgage loans,” Krirk said. “It requires the
commercial banks to set aside reserves for riskier loans.”  Property, Banking Stocks Fall  Shares of property developers and banks extended declines
after the announcement.  Land & Houses dropped 1.5 percent to 6.6 baht as of 3:39
p.m., after falling 5 percent yesterday.  Bangkok Bank Pcl , the
nation’s biggest by assets, slid 2.3 percent to 147.5 baht,
after declining 2.6 percent yesterday.  Krung Thai Bank Pcl , the
second biggest, fell 3.4 percent to 16.9 baht.  The central bank will also impose similar curbs on mortgage
loans for the purchase of residential houses from January 2012,
it said.  “Higher competition has led to a reduction in downpayments
for the purchase of residential property,” the central bank
said. “This may increase the mortgage loan risk and lead to an
increase in non-performing loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  