-- Malaysia Holds Main Rate a Second Month on Easing Inflation, Global Growth
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-12T10:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/malaysia-holds-main-rate-a-second-month-on-easing-inflation-global-growth.html
Malaysia’s central bank left
borrowing costs unchanged for a second consecutive meeting as
inflation and global growth eased, avoiding an increase that may
attract capital inflows and strengthen the nation’s currency.  Bank Negara Malaysia kept its  benchmark overnight policy
rate  at 2.75 percent, it said in a  statement  in Kuala Lumpur
today, a decision predicted by all 16 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. This was the central bank’s final rate-setting
meeting for 2010.  “Growth in the global economy has moderated in the third
quarter,” the central bank said. “International financial
market conditions have become more volatile with increased
capital flows to emerging markets. This shift in global
liquidity has brought with it risks to macroeconomic and
financial stability in the emerging market economies.”  Malaysia started raising rates before any other central
bank in Asia this year to reduce what it said was the risk of
financial imbalances that may be caused by keeping borrowing
costs too low for too long. The delay in adding to its three
rate increases since early March avoids widening a gap with
borrowing costs in advanced economies that’s contributed to a
9.8 percent gain in the ringgit this year.  “While we think that the bias is still towards further
tightening given the impending inflationary risks going forward,
Bank Negara has enough room to hold steady for now as it is
ahead of the curve compared to many of its regional peers,”
 Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore,
said before the report. “We expect the central bank to
reinitiate its hiking cycle from early 2011 onwards.”  ‘Appropriate’ Rate  Policy makers led by Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  increased
the key rate by 0.75 percentage point from March to July. With
the  inflation rate  falling to a three-month low of 1.8 percent
in September, Zeti has said the current level of borrowing costs
is “appropriate.”  The current interest-rate level is “appropriate and
consistent with the latest assessment of the economic growth and
inflation prospects,” the central bank said today. “The stance
of monetary policy continues to remain accommodative and
supportive of economic growth.”  Efforts by the region’s central banks to withdraw monetary
stimulus are slowing as policy makers from the U.S. to Japan
take steps to shore up growth by keeping interest rates near
zero and introducing quantitative easing policies. South Korea
and Thailand have kept interest rates unchanged at their most
recent meetings.  Capital Flight  The U.S. Federal Reserve announced plans this month to buy
$600 billion of long-term government bonds in its second effort
at so-called quantitative easing, prompting policy makers from
Asia to South America to say the stimulus could depress the
dollar and spark capital flight to emerging markets.  “While domestic financial conditions remain orderly,
greater vigilance will be accorded to the potential risks
arising from large and volatile capital flows,” Malaysia’s
central bank said.  The ringgit is this year’s second-best performing currency
in Asia excluding Japan, behind the Thai baht. The benchmark
stock index reached a record high this week.  Malaysia isn’t considering capital controls for now, though
the central bank is monitoring inflows, Second Finance Minister
 Ahmad Husni Hanadzlah  said in an interview this week. Officials
at a recent Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting discussed
the idea of joint, “multilateral” measures in the future
should the need arise, he said.  Exports Slow  “We are benefiting from the capital inflows and the
appreciation of the ringgit,” he said.  While a stronger currency results in cheaper imports, it
also makes the country’s overseas shipments more expensive.
Malaysia’s exports rose at the slowest pace in 10 months in
September as shipments to the U.S. and China eased.  The Southeast Asian  economy , whose products include IOI
Corp. palm oil and Intel Corp. computer chips, may experience
some deceleration in the final quarter of 2010, International
Trade & Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said last month.  The economy is forecast by the government to grow 7 percent
this year, before expanding as much as 6 percent in 2011. Third-
quarter gross domestic product figures will be released Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  