-- Taleb Says Fed Policymakers `Do Not Understand Risk'
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-12T17:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/taleb-says-federal-reserve-doesn-t-understand-risks-of-quantitative-easing.html
The risks stemming from the Federal
Reserve’s efforts to stimulate the economy through bond
purchases are “humongous” and the central bank doesn’t fully
understand the potential effects, said  Nassim Taleb , author of
“The Black Swan.”  “These people do not understand risk,” Taleb said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” program with
 Erik Schatzker . He compared U.S. central bank policy makers to
the managers of Long-Term Capital Management LP, the hedge fund
that failed in 1998.  The Fed, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , announced a plan
to buy an additional $600 billion in government debt last week
to support the economy after purchasing $1.7 trillion of assets
from December 2008 through March. Bernanke doesn’t understand
that the plan risks unintended consequences such as
hyperinflation and that it may ultimately backfire and introduce
a new crisis to global markets, Taleb said.  “He is someone who talks about returns without talking
about risk,” Taleb said. “It’s identical to a pilot talking
about speed and not talking about safety. The measure he’s
taking, quantitative easing, may work but should it fail the
risks are humongous.”  Rejection  Bernanke defended the expansion of record monetary stimulus
last week, dismissing the idea the central bank will increase
inflation higher than it prefers. “I have rejected any notion
that we are going to raise inflation to a super-normal level in
order to have effects on the economy,” Bernanke said Nov. 6 in
a panel discussion at a Fed conference in Jekyll Island,
Georgia.  Taleb said Bernanke’s background as a former Princeton
University economist who studied the Great Depression doesn’t
mean he can grasp the consequences of the central bank’s asset
purchases, just as the managers of the LTCM hedge fund didn’t
foresee the hidden risk of their strategies.  “You had brilliant people with great academic records and
they blew up their fund and almost blew up Wall Street,” Taleb
said of the hedge fund, led by  John Meriwether , whose collapse
destabilized financial markets worldwide.  Bernanke “is sort of risk blind,” Taleb said. “Did he see
the crisis? No. Did he see the risk of hidden risk in the
system? No. He was flying the plane and he crashed because he
didn’t know about hurricanes or things that can cause turmoil.”  Ancient Misconception  Taleb wrote the 2007 best-seller “The Black Swan: The
Impact of the Highly Improbable,” which argues that history is
littered with rare, high-impact events that can roil markets.
The black-swan theory stems from the ancient misconception that
all swans were white.  As the founder of New York-based Empirica LLC, a hedge-fund
firm he ran for six years before closing it in 2004, Taleb built
a strategy based on options trading to protect investors from
market declines while profiting from rallies. He now advises
Universa Investments LP, a Santa Monica, California-based fund
that bets on extreme market moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 