-- `Biggest Ever' Karachi Bombing Shows Taliban War's Spread to Finance Hub
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-11-12T07:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/taliban-escalate-pakistan-violence-with-bombing-of-karachi-police-station.html
The bombing of a police headquarters
in the heart of Karachi marks an escalation in Pakistan’s
financial capital of the war between security forces and Taliban
militants, police officials and analysts say.  The Taliban claimed responsibility for the evening attack
yesterday on a building housing the Crime Investigation
Department, whose counter-terrorism unit had arrested a group of
Taliban guerrillas in the city. At least 21 people died in the
raid, said Imran Ahmed of the  Edhi Foundation  ambulance service.  The bomb, the most powerful ever to detonate in Karachi,
showed the Taliban “are now bringing their game into this city
as their final fight,” said the operations chief for Karachi
police, Deputy Inspector General Iftikhar Tarrar. “Karachi
police started gaining the upper hand recently after we arrested
several of their men,” Tarrar said in a phone interview.  Karachi, a city of 18 million people, is home to Pakistan’s
main  stock exchange , its central bank and offices of companies
such as Rotterdam-based Unilever and London-headquartered
Standard Chartered Plc. Political street battles, notably
between ethnic Mohajirs, immigrants from India, and a burgeoning
population of Pashtuns who have moved from impoverished and
Taliban-dominated parts of northwestern Pakistan, have escalated
this year. At least 66 people were killed over four days of
violence last month.  Gunmen attacked the police building’s outer gate, letting
another man drive a truck bomb into the compound and detonate
it. The blast collapsed much of the building and shattered
windows in the neighborhood, which includes the provincial
governor’s residence, the U.S. Consulate and major hotels.  Militants Flee  Pakistani officials have voiced concern that army
offensives that began last year in several northwestern
districts prompted Taliban militants to flee to Karachi.  “Such militants attacking the cities are more dangerous
than those fighting in the mountains because they are
challenging the core authority of the government by entering
their strongholds, paralyzing the economic and development
activities of the country,” said Rana Saba, the criminology
department chief at the  University of Karachi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  