-- Amazon.com, EU, LimeWire: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-12T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/amazon-com-european-union-patent-impasse-limewire-intellectual-property.html
Amazon.com Inc. , the world’s largest
online retailer, received a patent on a method of helping users
avoid unwanted gifts.  Patent 7,831,439, issued Nov. 9, covers a system under
which the user can specify the rules for receiving a gift, or
the undesired gift can be converted to something else.  According to the patent, the gift-giving experience through
network shopping services “would be improved for both senders
and recipients if enhanced systems and methods were provided for
converting gifts.”  Amazon Chairman and President Jeffrey P. Bezos is one of
the two named inventors on the patent. Seattle-based Amazon
applied for the patent in March 2006 with assistance from
 Knobbe, Martens, Olson & Bear LLP  of Irvine, California.  EU Impasse on Patent Rules Harms Europe, Helps China, U.S.  The European Union failed to find a compromise on a system
to make it easier to obtain region-wide patent protection,
potentially harming Europe’s ability to compete with the U.S.
and China.  EU ministers in Brussels failed Nov. 10 to agree on a
proposal most governments had hoped would break the deadlock.
Michel Barnier, the EU’s internal-market commissioner, had said
the plans would have brought the 40-year-old idea of the region-
wide patent closer than ever.  “The non-existence of an appropriate protection that’s
also acceptable in terms of costs puts us in Europe at a great
disadvantage against the U.S., Japan and China,” Thierry Sueur,
vice-president of intellectual property at  Air Liquide SA , the
world’s biggest producer of industrial gases, said in an
interview. “We’re really shooting ourselves in the foot.”  Attempts to reach an agreement since 2000 have faltered
over the question of what languages would be used. The 27 EU
nations today share 23 official languages and numerous proposals
and compromises have failed to satisfy political demands or
risked increasing translation costs for companies.  The “discussions show once again, unfortunately, that a
compromise at 27 seems impossible to reach,” Barnier said in a
statement after the ministers deadlocked. “The current system
for the patent is too expensive, it costs 10 times more” than
in the U.S. and the renewed failure by the EU will have
“serious consequences.”  Spain has been one of the strongest opponents to the plans,
rejecting the proposal to make English, French and German the
official languages of the system.  “The proposal on the table now discriminates against the
Spanish language,” Spanish EU Affairs Minister Diego Lopez
Garrido told reporters Nov. 10  The European Commission in July made a proposal it said
could cut costs for an EU patent covering the region’s 27
nations to 6,200 euros ($8,500) from the current 20,000 euros it
can cost to get a European patent covering only 13 European
countries. An EU patent could cut companies’ costs by 90 percent
compared with now, Belgium Enterprise Minister Vincent Van
Quickenborne said Nov. 10.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Finland Gets Official Name Protection for Dried Reindeer Meet  Finland’s Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry was  granted
a protected designation  of origin and geographic indication for
“ Lapin Poron Kuivaliha ,” a kind of dried reindeer meat.  According to the specifications published in the Official
Journal of the European Union, the term is limited to dried
reindeer meet produced, processed and processed in an area of
Finland between 65 and 70 degrees north latitude. The meat is
tracked through ear tags placed on the animal immediately after
birth or no later than it arrives for slaughter.  Lapin Poron Kuivaliha is air-dried outdoors between
February and April, based on methods that date back to at least
the 16th century, according to the specifications.  The term was officially entered into the European
Commission regulations on Oct. 28.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  LimeWire, Shut down by Court, Is Secretly Resurrected  LimeWire LLC, the New York-based file-sharing service shut
down by court order in October, has been resurrected as LimeWire
Pirate Edition by a secret development team.  The official LimeWire website bears a  notice  demanding that
whoever revived the system without authorization quit infringing
LimeWire’s name and trademark.  U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood in Manhattan ordered the
LimeWire service shut down on Oct. 26. LimeWire, its directors
and officers, are “taking all steps to comply with” the court
order, according to the company statement.  LimeWire was accused in a 2006 lawsuit of designing and
distributing software that enabled unauthorized downloading of
songs and other media, leading to “massive infringement.”  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 1:06-cv-
05936-KMW-DCF, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  FBI to Investigate Anti-Copyright Denial-of-Service Attacks  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking onto the
denial-of-service attacks against the U.S. Copyright Office,
anti-piracy and content-owners groups in the past month, Cnet
News  reported .  The attacks, which came from an anonymous anti-copyright
group, also hit the U.K.’s IP Office and several rights groups
in Europe, and didn’t raise much public protest,  the Recording
Industry Association of America  told Cnet News.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Sorin Royer Cooper Expands IP Litigation Group With New Hire  Sorin Royer Cooper LLC  hired Barry L. Cohen for its
intellectual-property litigation practice, the King of Prussia,
Pennsylvania-based firm said in a  statement .  Cohen  joined from  Thorp Reed & Armstrong LLP  of Pittsburgh.
He does IP litigation and licensing and trade secrets and
employment work. Among clients he has represented are American
Sports Goods Corp., Rolex Watch Co., Sun Hill Industries Inc.,
Harmon Group Inc. and the U.S. Olympic Committee, according to
Bloomberg data.  He has an undergraduate degree in economics from Emory
University and a law degree from Temple University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 