-- Ambac, Workflow, Taylor Bean, Rock US: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-12T13:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/ambac-workflow-taylor-bean-rock-us-agri-best-pff-bancorp-bankruptcy.html
Holders of securities insured by
Ambac Assurance Corp. are challenging the proposed
rehabilitation of the insurance company and the Chapter 11
reorganization of parent  Ambac Financial Group Inc.   Holders of residential mortgage-backed securities
guaranteed by Ambac Assurance said the Wisconsin insurance
commissioner “failed in its statutory duty to protect
policyholders.” They contend it’s improper for the commissioner
to let Ambac Financial keep ownership of the insurance business
while also retaining much of the $7 billion in tax-loss
carryforwards, according to a press release.  The security holders say the proposal negotiated between
the Ambac parent and the commissioner would “divert billions of
dollars of tax attributes from the insurance company” while
proposing a rehabilitation that “impairs claims of
policyholders.” They say the proposal, contained in a non-
binding term sheet, was “arranged behind closed doors” with an
objective to “strip policyholders of valuable assets.”  The proposal would enable the Wisconsin insurance
commissioner to complete the rehabilitation of a so so-called
special account he created in March to hold more than $57
billion in Ambac Assurance policies covering credit-default
swaps, residential mortgage-backed securities, the Las Vegas
Monorail and some student loans. The remainder of Ambac
Assurance’s business isn’t in the rehabilitation.  Under the commissioner’s rehabilitation plan for the
special account, holders of allowed claims would be paid 25
percent in cash and 75 percent in notes. The plan is up for
approval in the Wisconsin court during a hearing beginning Nov.
15. The policyholders are objecting.  The commissioner said through a spokesman that the
allegations are “inaccurate” and “misleading” and were
previously rejected by the Wisconsin court. For other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  The parent, Ambac Financial, said when filing in Chapter 11
this week that the term sheet is intended to be the “basis for
further negotiations with the ad-hoc committee” representing
bondholders of the parent.  Ambac Financial’s petition listed liabilities on a non-
consolidated basis of $1.69 billion, including $1.22 billion on
six issues of senior unsecured notes and $400 million in
subordinated notes. The insurance unit halted dividends to the
parent in 2007 and stopped writing new business in mid-2008.  The case is In re Ambac Financial Group Inc., 10-15973,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Updates  Workflow Files Revised Plan with Full Payment for All  Workflow Management Inc. , a provider of promotional
marketing services and business documents, filed a revised
reorganization plan that allows shareholders to retain their
stock while aiming to pay all creditors in full.  There will be a hearing on Dec. 15 to approve the
explanatory disclosure statement.  Holders of about $137 million in first-lien debt would
receive a new 3 1/2-year note with interest paid quarterly at
7.5 percent. Amortization payments would begin in mid-2011 at $4
million a year and rise to $12 million at an annual rate.  Second-lien creditors, owed about $205 million, would
receive a note maturing at the end of 2015 paying 8.75 percent
interest in cash and an additional 2.75 percent in more notes.
There would be no principal payments until maturity.  For voting purposes, the plan puts creditors in separate
classes if they own both first- and second-lien debt.  Holders of $91 million in unsecured notes would have their
obligation reinstated, with no interest accruing during the
Chapter 11 case and the non-default rate paid thereafter.  Unsecured creditors with about $12.7 million in claims
would receive half when the plan is implemented and the other
half two months later, without interest.  Workflow filed in Chapter 11 after some holders of first-
and second-lien debt blocked an out-of-court restructuring,
according to court papers. The Dayton, Ohio-based company said
initially that it owed $146.5 million on first-lien debt,
including $30.2 million on a revolving credit, and $111.5
million on a term loan. The second-lien debt was $196.5 million
at the outset, according to court papers.  With 49 offices, 17 distribution centers and nine plants,
Workflow had revenue of about $600 million last year.  The case is Workflow Management Inc., 10-74617, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Norfolk).  Taylor Bean Schedules Jan. 19 Confirmation Hearing  Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., once the largest
independent mortgage originator in the U.S., won court approval
of the disclosure statement explaining the liquidating Chapter
11 plan.  The bankruptcy judge on Nov. 10 also set aside Jan. 19 for
a hearing to confirm the plan. The judge will hold a hearing
Nov. 19 to consider approving supplemental disclosure materials
explaining a settlement with Wells Fargo Bank NA.  Supported by the official creditors’ committee, the plan
will administer $322 million to $521 million. After paying
claims with higher priority, between $264 million and $354
million will remain for unsecured creditors with claims totaling
more than $8 billion, according to the disclosure statement.  The expected distribution to unsecured creditors is between
3.3 percent and 4.4 percent. The largest claim, $3.25 billion,
belongs to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The claim was
settled and will be paid under the plan.  Taylor Bean filed under Chapter 11 in August 2009, three
weeks after federal investigators searched the offices of the
Ocala, Florida-based company. The day after the search, the
Federal Housing Administration, Ginnie Mae and Freddie Mac
barred the company from issuing new mortgages and terminated
servicing rights.  Taylor Bean managed an $80 billion mortgage-servicing
portfolio. Assets and debt both exceed $1 billion, the petition
showed.  The case is Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., 09-
07047, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  Rock US Holdings Plan for Buildings Half Confirmed, More Today  U.S. units of Rock Joint Ventures Ltd. confirmed one of two
reorganization plans on Nov. 9. The plan for the second property
comes up for approval today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  The units filed under Chapter 11 on Sept. 15, seeking quick
confirmation of a plan to sell the two buildings for a combined
$168.7 million. The buildings are 100-104 Fifth Avenue and 183
Madison Avenue in Manhattan. The confirmed plan covered the
Fifth Avenue building.  The companies originally didn’t intend to hold an auction
for the buildings. The original offers were $93.5 million for
the Fifth Avenue property and $75.2 million for the Madison
Avenue building.  Scott Pudalov and Alan Wildes, whom the Rock units
described in court filings as “disgruntled former employees,”
submitted a $76.2 million offer for the Madison Avenue property.  Bank of Scotland Plc , the agent for the senior and
subordinated secured lenders, accepted the sale plan before the
Chapter 11 filing. The lenders are owed $267 million on the
senior debt and $26 million on the subordinated obligation. No
creditors aside from senior lenders will receive anything under
the plan.  Assuming both plans are confirmed at the original prices,
the plan would give senior lenders a 63 percent recovery. The
$98.1 million deficiency claim would be treated as an unsecured
claim, receiving nothing. There is another $381,000 in unsecured
claims, a court filing shows.  The parent is in administration in the U.K. The
administrators control the U.S. companies that filed in Chapter
11.  The case is In re Rock US Holdings Inc., 10-12892, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Agri-Best Selling Choice Strip Steak for $4.25 a Pound  Agri-Best Holdings LLC , a processor and distributor of meat
products for the restaurant industry, was authorized this week
to sell 200,000 pounds of choice strip steak to RCH Enterprises
Inc. for $4.25 a pound.  The company filed a motion to sell the remaining 50,000
pounds of choice strip in inventory to the same buyer for the
same price, unless a better offer turns up before the sale-
approval hearing on Nov. 17.  Agri-Best this week also received final approval for $1
million in financing from secured lender Wells Fargo Bank NA.  The company, known in the trade as Protein Solutions, filed
under Chapter 11 on Oct. 5 in its hometown of Chicago. Agri-Best
owed $14.6 million to Wells Fargo, which has a lien on accounts
receivable and inventory with a book value of $14.2 million.  Another $5.9 million is owed to equity-holder Advantage
Capital Partners on a secured claim. Advantage has a lien on all
assets, court papers say.  The book value of all assets is almost $20 million and
annual revenue is about $140 million, the company says.  The case is In re Agri-Best Holdings LLC, 10-44595, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Illinois (Chicago).  PFF Bancorp Settles PBGC Claims, Allows Committee to Sue  PFF Bancorp Inc., the holding company for a failed bank,
settled the disputed claim of  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.  and
is allowing the creditors’ committee to file preference
lawsuits.  The PBGC filed three claims against each of the five PFF
companies in Chapter 11. Ten of the claims for funding
contributions and premiums didn’t specify an amount. The last
five claims were for $4.2 million each, claiming entitlement to
a priority requiring payment in full.  The PBGC agreed to settle in return for one priority claim
of $31,000 and a general unsecured claim for $4 million. For
details on PFF’s objections to the PBGC claim, click here for
the June 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The company agreed that the creditors’ committee can file
lawsuits to recover preferences and fraudulent transfers. For
the most part, the committee will be suing the same creditors it
represents.  The committee won’t be permitted to sue current directors
and officers, nor can it sue the former auditor, KPMG LLP.  The motion to allow lawsuits by the committee is on the
calendar for a Nov. 22 hearing. The motion for approval of the
PBGC settlement is set to be heard Dec. 22.  PFF’s bank subsidiary, PFF Bank & Trust, was taken over by
regulators in November 2008. The holding company’s Chapter 11
case began in December 2009. The bank’s deposits were
transferred to  U.S. Bank NA . The petition listed assets of $7.8
million and debt of $131.7 million.  The case is In re PFF Bancorp Inc., 08-13127, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Coast Crane Sold to Essex Rental for $101 Million  Coast Crane Co. from Seattle is in bankruptcy court today
seeking approval for the sale of the business to  Essex Rental
Corp.  for $101.3 million.  Coast rents, sells, and services tower cranes and
forklifts. The winning bid includes $30 million cash and the
assumption of debt. The price rose more than $20 million at
auction.  Coast filed under Chapter 11 in September, owing $90.5
million to secured lenders with PNC Bank NA serving as agent.
The company owed another $9.6 million on a purchase money
security interest and $2.2 million to unsecured creditors.  The case is In re Coast Crane Co., 10-21229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Exchange Offer News  Marsico Fund Manager Parent Closes $600 Million Swap  Marsico Parent Co., an affiliate of mutual fund manager
Marsico Capital Management, completed an exchange offer where
the $600 million of 10.625 percent senior subordinated notes due
in January 2016 were swapped for an equal amount of senior
subordinated notes due in 2020, Standard & Poor’s reported.  The new debt will be issued by a newly created holding
company named Marsico Holdings LLC. Interest on the new notes
will vary between nothing and 15 percent, depending on cash
flow. The holders also will receive 30 percent of the equity of
the new holding company.  Marsico has seen funds under management decline by more
than half to $48 billion since the peak in 2007.  Managed assets were $106 billion at the time of the debt-
financed management buyout in late 2007. Denver-based Marsico
specializes in investing in large-capitalization growth stocks,
according to S&P.  Briefly Noted  International Garden Gets Final Approval of $7.5 Million Loan  International Garden Products Inc. , which filed for Chapter
11 protection in Delaware on Oct. 4, was given final approval on
Nov. 10 for a $7.5 million credit from a lending group led by
Harris NA.  IGP, based in Damascus, Oregon, supplies independent garden
stores, landscapers and landscape suppliers. It produces dwarf
conifers and Japanese maples through affiliate Iseli Nursery
Inc. Weeks Wholesale Rose Grower, an affiliate, is one of the
largest growers of roses in the U.S.  IGP owes $30.7 million on a secured revolving credit and
$13 million on a secured term loan. EF Private Equity Partners
(Americas) LP holds more than half of the common stock and the
Series A preferred stock.  The case is In re International Garden Products Inc., 10-
13207, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Everglades on the Bay Sold, Plan Formally Confirmed  The Chapter 11 plan for Cabi Downtown LLC, the owner of the
49-story  Everglades on the Bay  condominium in Miami, was
formally approved when a confirmation order was signed by the
bankruptcy judge on Nov. 5. To read about the events leading to
acquisition of the property by Rockwood Capital LLC, click here
for the Oct. 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Cabi filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in August 2009,
just after the secured lender began foreclosure. The company is
owned by  GICSA , which says it is the largest real-estate
developer in Mexico.  The case is In re Cabi Downtown LLC, 09-27168, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  KeyLime Cove Water Park Case Dismissed after Sale  The Chapter 11 case of KLCG Property LLC and Gurnee
Property LLC, previously owners of the  KeyLime Cove  indoor water
park in Gurnee, Illinois, was dismissed on Nov. 10. After
professionals are paid, about $143,000 will remain for
distribution to unsecured creditors under an agreement with the
creditors’ committee.  The property was sold in September to secured lender
 Dougherty Funding LLC  under an agreement approved in March.
Dougherty exchanged ownership for $65 million of the pre-
bankruptcy secured debt and a $2.8 million loan to finance the
Chapter 11 case. Dougherty was owed $89.5 million on a
construction loan.  The 30-acre water park, next to Six Flags Great America
Theme Park, has a 414-room hotel. The water park opened in 2008
at a cost of $136 million and filed for reorganization in
December 2009.  In addition to the construction loan, another $4.3 million
is owed on an investor’s loan.  The case is In re KLCG Property Inc., 09-14418, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Ambac, TerreStar, GECC-Black Crow, and Involuntaries: Audio  An interim truce between  Ambac Financial Group Inc.  and the
Internal Revenue Service, murmurings of discontent about the
sale of TerreStar Networks Inc., the fight between  General
Electric Capital Corp.  and  Black Crow Media Group LLC , and the
cost of filing an unsuccessful involuntary bankruptcy petition
are covered in the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal
and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Hamilton Applies on Expenses Too, 10th BAP Says  The Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for the 10th U.S. Circuit
became the second appellate court to answer a question the U.S.
Supreme Court didn’t directly address earlier this year in a
case called Hamilton v. Lanning.  Where the Supreme Court held that actual income must be
taken into consideration in deciding how much an individual must
pay unsecured creditors in Chapter 13, the appellate panel for
the circuit based in Denver ruled Nov. 4 that actual expenses
must be in the calculation.  The case involved a husband and wife who owned a home. They
intended during bankruptcy to turn the home over to the lender,
thus eliminating $4,200 in monthly mortgage payments.  The bankruptcy judge, in confirming a Chapter 11 plan
before the Supreme Court decided Hamilton v. Lanning, deducted
the mortgage payments in calculating projected disposable
monthly income.  Although this year’s Supreme Court case only involved
income, the appellate panel decided that the same rule must
apply to expenses. The case was reversed and sent back to the
bankruptcy court to determine the bankrupts’ actual income and
expenses.  The Denver panel followed a decision from the circuit court
of appeals in Cincinnati called Darrohn v. Mildebrand (In re
Darrohn), 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  The new case is Zeman v. Liehr (In re Liehr), 10th Circuit
Bankruptcy Appellate Panel (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 