-- Manchester City Wants to Sign Dzeko in January, Guardian Says: Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-12T09:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/manchester-city-wants-to-sign-dzeko-in-january-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Abu Dhabi Talks  Manchester City wants to sign Wolfsburg striker Edin Dzeko
as it prepares for a busy January transfer window, the  Guardian 
reported.  City’s chief executive  Garry Cook  is meeting club officials
in Abu Dhabi to discuss targets and how to trim the squad, the
newspaper said.  Shaun Wright-Phillips  and  Roque Santa Cruz  are among
players that may be released, the Guardian said.  Cahill Interest  Tottenham is considering a bid for Gary Cahill after Bolton
said it may have to sell its top players to cut debt, the  Daily
Mirror  reported. The  Guardian  said Arsenal may make a formal bid
for the defender, who is not cup-tied for European competition.  Cahill’s buyout clause rose to 17.5 million pounds ($28.1
million) since he made his England debut in September, the
Mirror said.  Liverpool Offer  Zenit St. Petersburg striker Alexander Kerzhakov says
Liverpool has made him an offer, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 27-year-old said he won’t answer the proposal until the
Russian league season ends this month, according to the Mail.  Reds coach Hodgson wants to bring in strikers to take
pressure off  Fernando Torres , the Mail said.  Peace Offering  Blackburn’s  Morten Gamst Pedersen  wants to invite  Joey Barton  to dinner as a peace offering after the Newcastle
midfielder punched him during a game, the  Mirror said .  Barton was suspended three games for hitting Pedersen in
the stomach during Blackburn’s 2-1 win at St. James’ Park two
days ago.  Pedersen says he has no hard feelings and wants to have
dinner with Barton to “put this case to bed,” the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 