-- Anheuser-Busch Sues Major League Baseball Over Deal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/anheuser-busch-sues-major-league-baseball-over-promotional-rights-accord.html
Major League Baseball Properties
Inc. was accused in a lawsuit by  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  of
breaking an exclusive agreement making the brewer’s Budweiser
brand the “Official Beer of Major League Baseball.”  MLBP, which manages trademarks for the 30 teams in Major
League Baseball, demanded that Anheuser-Busch renegotiate a
renewal agreement signed in April and pay “an exponentially
higher rights fee,” according to a complaint filed by the beer
maker yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  “The MLBP sponsorship is critical to Anheuser-Busch’s
marketing efforts,” the brewer said in the complaint. “These
rights enable Anheuser-Busch to reach millions of customers and
prospective customers on a daily basis during baseball season.”  Anheuser-Busch InBev, based in Leuven, Belgium, seeks a
court declaration enforcing the deal and preventing MLBP from
negotiating with any other brewers for sponsorship rights. The
lawsuit doesn’t request money damages.  “We have a different view of what has been reported,”
said Matt Bourne, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, who
declined to comment further.  The brewer has been a sponsor of Major League Baseball
since 1980 and is a former owner of the St. Louis Cardinals
baseball team. The company was based in St. Louis before 2008,
when Anheuser-Busch Cos. merged with InBev, creating the world’s
biggest  brewer .  18 Sponsors  Anheuser-Busch is one of 18 sponsors of Major League
Baseball listed on  MLB.com . Other sponsors include  Nike Inc. ,
MasterCard Inc. and PepsiCo Inc. Anheuser-Busch said it has
sponsorship deals with 26 Major League clubs.  Anheuser-Busch claims the parties reached a renewal
agreement in April, which was to be included in a long contract
between both sides. According to the complaint, MLBP said the
April agreement wasn’t binding and said it would offer the
sponsorship rights to other beer companies.  “In 2010 alone, Anheuser-Busch will invest tens of
millions of dollars in advertising and promotions related to
Major League Baseball,” the company said in the complaint.  The case is Anheuser-Busch Inc. v. Major League Baseball
Properties Inc., 10-cv-8513, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 