-- IPad Sales May Miss Estimates as Customers Trim Spending
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-12T21:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/apple-ipad-sales-may-miss-sales-estimates-as-customers-lower-spending.html
Apple Inc.’s iPad and other
tablets may not sell as well as analysts had estimated as
customers cut back spending on new technology or opt for new
smartphones and laptops instead, according to Rodman & Renshaw
LLC.  Apple, which sold 4.19 million iPads last quarter, may have
trouble hitting some analysts’ estimates of 6 million sold in
the fourth quarter, said analyst Ashok Kumar, who predicts
Cupertino, California-based Apple may sell as few as 5 million
of the touch-screen tablets.  Tablet computers, which let customers watch videos and read
digital magazines and books, are still a “tweener” niche with
limited capabilities that might prevent consumers from adopting
the technology as quickly as some industry analysts had
forecast, Kumar said. Samsung Electronics Co. is cutting its
planned production by about 50 percent for the Galaxy after poor
sales, he said, citing discussions with suppliers.  “It’s a nice-to-have product, for those of us who don’t
have a budget, but is it a must-have product? I don’t think
so,” said New York-based Kumar, who rates the shares “market
outperform” and doesn’t own any.  Apple has allowed other retailers, including Verizon
Wireless, AT&T Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., to sell the device
in the U.S. as it looks for ways to increase sales. The company
had captured 95 percent of the global tablet market in the third
quarter, according to researcher Strategy Analytics.  Tablet Market  A number of handset makers are betting on growth in the
tablet market. Sales of the devices will almost triple worldwide
to 54.8 million units next year as they invade the markets for
netbooks, e-readers, gaming devices and media players,
researcher Gartner Inc. said in a report last month.  Research In Motion Ltd., which makes the BlackBerry line of
smartphones, will release a tablet for less than $500 in North
America in the first quarter to compete with the iPad. Dell Inc.
has released its Streak tablet with a five-inch screen. Motorola
Inc. is also planning a tablet release early next year, co-Chief
Executive Officer Sanjay Jha has said.  Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment.
The Galaxy Tab has only been available in some markets for a few
days and it’s too early to make predictions about sales, said
Kim Titus, spokesman for Samsung’s U.S. business.  “We do expect this device to be a very hot holiday
device,” he said in an interview.  Apple declined $8.63, or 2.7 percent, to $308.03 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have
gained 46 percent this year. Samsung, based in Suwon, South
Korea, rose 1.4 percent to 778,000 won in Seoul trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 