-- Harris County-Houston Sports Authority Uses $5 Million Reserves in Buyback
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-11-12T18:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/harris-county-houston-sports-authority-uses-5-million-reserves-in-buyback.html
Harris County-Houston Sports
Authority,  which financed venues for three professional sports
teams, dipped into reserves to reimburse insurers for $5 million
they spent to buy back its bonds.  The insurers,  MBIA Inc.  and its reinsurer National Public
Financial Guaranty Corp., were forced to buy the Series 2001C
and 2001D variable-rate bonds by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the buyer
of last resort required under the debt’s terms. The bank
accelerated repayment after the global financial crisis led to a
cut in MBIA’s credit ratings, according to Moody’s Investors
Service, and after a stand-by purchaser for the debt was lost.  The Harris County authority is required to have a purchaser
available to buy the debt from investors who no longer want it.
The authority faces having to repay about $115 million of
variable-rate bonds by 2014 rather than 2030, plus the cost of
unwinding an interest-rate swap, because of JPMorgan’s action.  The authority disclosed the “unscheduled draws on credit
enhancements and unscheduled draws on debt-service reserves” in
a regulatory filing yesterday.  Moody’s had predicted the authority would be forced this
month to use reserves when it cut the rating on $988 million of
its debt to non-investment grade in August. It said the
accelerated payments would reduce revenue available for debt
service, resulting in a default as soon as March.  Ratings Cut  Moody’s reduced its senior-lien ratings on the authority in
to Ba3, its third-highest non-investment grade level, from Baa2,
according to a news release. Moody’s also lowered its rating on
junior-lien debt to B2 from Baa3 and its grade on third-lien
bonds to B3 from Baa3.  Standard & Poor’s cut ratings on $475 million of authority
debt to junk in September. S&P reduced the authority’s junior-
lien and third-lien debt by five levels to B, its fifth-highest
non-investment grade, from BBB-, it said in a release. S&P
confirmed its BBB rating on $399 million of senior-lien debt.  J. Kent Friedman , chairman of the authority, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The authority financed Minute Maid Park, home to the
Houston Astros Major League Baseball team; Reliant Stadium, for
the Houston Texans National Football League team; and Toyota
Center, for the Houston Rockets National Basketball Association
team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net 
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  