-- Harvard Buys Brazil, Mexico, Korea Emerging Market Funds in Third Quarter
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-11-12T23:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/harvard-buys-brazil-mexico-korea-emerging-market-funds-in-third-quarter.html
Harvard University, the nation’s
richest school, bought shares of exchange-traded funds that
track emerging markets in the third quarter.  The value of shares held by Harvard Management Co., the
Boston-based company that oversees the school’s $27.6 billion
endowment, rose to $1.54 billion as of Sept. 30 from $1.44
billion three months earlier, according to a filing today with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Harvard’s biggest ETF purchases were funds tracking markets
including Brazil, South Korea and Mexico, the filing shows. The
MSCI EM Index of emerging markets gained 17 percent in the
period. The fund also bought $14.4 million in shares of real
estate investment trust  Pebblebrook Hotel Trust  and $11.1
million of  Airgas Inc.,  subject of a $5.5 billion hostile
takeover offer from Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  John Longbrake , a spokesman for the Cambridge,
Massachusetts school, didn’t immediately have a comment.  The filing doesn’t reflect most of Harvard’s holdings.
Managers who oversee more than $100 million in equities must
file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s end to list
their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible bonds. The
filings don’t show non-U.S.-listed securities or how much cash
the firms hold. Much of Harvard’s endowment is managed by
external firms.  Harvard’s investments rose 11 percent in the year ended
June 30, beating the school’s own benchmark while trailing the
returns of a broad group of institutions. The fund recouped some
of its record losses from the previous year, when investments
dropped 27 percent. Following the loss,  Jane Mendillo , chief
executive officer of Harvard Management, moved to reduce the
influence of independent firms that oversee two-thirds of the
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 