-- Asian Currencies Decline This Week on Risk of Capital Controls Expansion
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-12T22:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/asian-currencies-head-for-weekly-loss-as-g-20-struggles-to-find-agreement.html
Asian currencies fell this week, led
by South Korea’s won and the Philippine peso, on speculation
policy makers around the region will impose controls to temper
the effect of surging inflows on their currencies.  Officials from the Group of 20 nations repeated after
meetings in Seoul that they will refrain from “competitive
devaluations” of their currencies, the same comments that were
made last month. South Korea is considering raising taxes or
introducing bank levies as possible options to control capital
inflows,  Shin Hyun Song , presidential adviser for international
economy, said at a press conference yesterday.  “They were pretty vague in what they promised and nobody
was committing to anything specific,” said  David Cohen , head of
Asian forecasting at Singapore-based Action Economics. Policy
makers “will continue to resist too rapid appreciation” in
their currencies, he said.  The won declined 1.8 percent this week to 1,127.84 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Indian rupee slid 1.2 percent to 44.73, the peso dropped 2.4
percent to 43.73, and Malaysia’s ringgit fell 1 percent to
3.1170.  Finance ministers from the G-20 will work next year on a
set of so-called indicative guidelines designed to identify
large economic imbalances and actions needed to fix them,
according to a joint statement released yesterday as the Seoul
summit ended.  ‘Market-Determined’  The G-20 will move “toward more market-determined
exchange-rate systems, enhancing exchange-rate flexibility to
reflect underlying economic fundamentals, and refraining from
competitive devaluation of currencies,” the statement said.  China had rejected criticism that it keeps the yuan
undervalued to support exporters to the detriment of U.S.
businesses, instead directing criticism at the Federal Reserve’s
monetary easing.  “If we don’t see a breakthrough at the G-20, then Korean
authorities may try to intervene more to control capital flows
and that will weaken the won,”  Kim Si Jun , an analyst at
Samsung Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the conclusion of
yesterday’s talks. “The government has been wary of capital
controls in other countries, and they can’t just sit there
without doing anything about it.”  Asian economies may need to take measures as monetary
easing in the U.S. threatens to create asset bubbles, World Bank
Managing Director  Sri Mulyani Indrawati  said on Nov. 8.  South Korea may revive a 14 percent tax on treasury and
central bank bonds held by foreigners as early as January to
temper foreign-exchange volatility, ruling party lawmaker  Kim Song Sik  said on Nov. 10.  ‘Attractive for Growth’  Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission said on Nov. 9
that global funds can only invest up to 30 percent of their
portfolios in the island’s bonds and money-market products.  The Philippine peso fell the most in Asia this week as the
central bank limited the supply of dollars to banks to curb
gains in the currency, which touched 42.47 on Nov. 4, the
strongest level since May 2008.  Asia’s developing economies will see growth of 9.4 percent
in 2010, outpacing the 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6.  “There’s a reasonable sense that the global economy will
avoid a double-dip and in that environment the Asian region will
be the most attractive for growth,” said Cohen from Action
Economic. “That will probably attract financial inflows over
the medium term.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.3 percent during the
week to 8,926 per dollar and China’s yuan gained 0.17 percent to
6.6370. The Taiwan dollar weakened 0.7 percent to NT$30.762, the
Thai baht dropped 0.5 percent to 29.83 and Singapore’s dollar
declined 0.8 percent to S$1.2977.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 