-- Tata Steel to Raise $1.6 Billion to Expand, Cut Interest Costs
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-11-12T15:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/tata-steel-returns-to-profit-on-higher-car-demand-output-at-european-unit.html
Tata Steel Ltd. , India’s biggest
producer of the alloy, plans to raise 70 billion rupees ($1.6
billion) this financial year to expand and reduce the cost of
loans taken mainly to fund the acquisition of its European unit.  The company may sell stock, foreign-currency convertible
bonds or shares with differential voting rights, Chief Financial
Officer  Koushik Chatterjee  said at a media briefing today in
Mumbai after announcing second-quarter results. Tata Steel plans
to spend 150 billion rupees this year ending March 31 and will
soon approach shareholders for fundraising approval, he said.  “While investors may not like the fundraising plan in the
short term because of equity dilution, in the longer term the
dilution will have its gains,” said  Rahul Jain , an analyst at
RBS Equities India in Mumbai. “It will de-leverage the balance
sheet and give them the flexibility when they plan a capital
expenditure or an acquisition.”  The funds will add to the 3.53 billion pounds ($5.6 billion)
of loans Tata Steel obtained on Sept. 29 to replace debt used to
buy Corus Group Plc in 2007 for $12.9 billion. In another
reorganization bid, Tata Steel in August sold the Teesside Cast
Products unit of Corus to Thailand’s biggest maker of hot-rolled
steel  Sahaviriya Steel Industries Public Co.  for $500 million.  “We’ll decide when to raise the funds and what mix to
choose at the right time,” Chatterjee said, without elaborating.
Tata Steel repaid $600 million of debt in the first half, he
said.  Turn to Profit  Tata Steel said today it turned to a second-quarter group
profit, aided by demand in India, Southeast Asia and Europe.  Net income , including that of Tata Steel Europe, was 19.8
billion rupees ($442 million) in the three months ended Sept 30,
compared with a 27.1 billion rupee loss a year earlier, the
Mumbai-based company said today in a statement. The average
profit estimate of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 14.2
billion rupees. Sales rose 11 percent to 280.9 billion rupees.  Tata Steel  shares fell 3.8 percent to 606.95 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai today. The benchmark Sensitive Index
fell 2.1 percent. The results were announced after the market
closed.  Rising income levels lifted India’s car sales by more than
30 percent each month in the July-to-September period, according
to data from the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers, a
trade body. The price of the benchmark hot-rolled steel, used in
making cars and motorcycles, rose 18 percent in the second
quarter to $668 a metric ton from $565 a year earlier, according
to Steel Business Briefing.  Rising Costs  India’s steel consumption is likely to grow by as much as
11 percent in the coming three years to more than 75 million
metric tons, Steel Secretary P.K. Misra said on Oct. 28.  Raw material costs rose 11 percent to 94.1 billion rupees
in the quarter, Tata Steel said. Tata Steel Europe, which
accounts for more than two-thirds of group output, faced an
increase in prices of key steelmaking ingredients after global
suppliers including  Vale SA  and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  ended a system
of setting benchmark prices in favor of quarterly pricing. Iron
ore prices more than doubled and coking coal prices surged 73
percent in the quarter.  While prices in India are rising, demand and prices in
Europe are expected to improve after January, Managing Director
H.M. Nerurkar said at the conference. The European unit operated
at 90 percent capacity in the last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  