-- Mauritius Commercial Bank First-Quarter Profit Rises on Fees, Commissions
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2010-11-12T16:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/mauritius-commercial-bank-first-quarter-profit-rises-on-fees-commissions.html
Mauritius Commercial Bank Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest lender by market value, said first-quarter
profit rose 20 percent from a year earlier on increased fees and
commissions because of higher regional trade financing.  Net income advanced to 945.8 million rupees ($32 million)
for the three months through September from 791.2 million
rupees, the company said in a statement published on the Port
Louis-based  Stock Exchange of Mauritius’s  website today.
Interest income rose to 2.51 billion rupees from 2.35 billion
rupees, it said.  “At the current price of 150 rupees, the stock is trading
on a price-earnings multiple of 10.4 times, which places it at
an 18 percent discount to the market,” Kishen Nadassen and
Madhvi Bhylagee, analysts at Port-Louis based Cim Stockbrokers
Ltd., said in an e-mailed note to clients today. “With further
upside potential for earnings growth as reflected by an 11
percent increase in the interim dividend, we maintain our ‘buy’
recommendation.”  Mauritius’s SEMDEX index  is on a price-earnings multiple of
15.56 times. The Indian Ocean island nation’s central bank cut
the benchmark repo rate to 4.75 percent on Sept. 27 to try to
arrest slowing economic growth in what Governor Rundheersing
Bheenick said was an exceptional one percentage-point interest-
rate reduction. The government has warned that weak economies in
Europe, its main trading region, may harm growth this year and
in 2011.  ‘Caution’  “Appropriate caution should be exercised in view of the
uncertain economic context and subdued investor mood, which, if
left unaddressed, might hamper the wealth creation capacity of
the country and thence the activities of the group,” MCB’s
Chief Executive Pierre-Guy Noel said in an e-mailed statement.  The lender said net interest income increased by 7 percent
“in spite of lower income from securities in a market
characterized by typically low yields on treasury bills, while
fee and commission income was up by 29.6 percent, fueled by
revenue linked to regional trade financing, loan facilities and
bank guarantees.”  There is evidence of a pick-up in some areas of the economy
and the company will probably report improved results for the
first half of the year compared with a year earlier,  Mauritius
Commercial Bank  said. It declared an interim dividend of 2.50
rupees for the year through June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kamlesh Bhuckory  in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  