-- Rain Delays May Curb Australia Wheat Export Pace, Rabobank Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-19T06:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/australia-plague-locusts-begin-swarming-as-farmers-start-harvesting-crops.html
Wheat shipments from Australia, the
fourth-largest exporter, may decline next month from a year ago
as wet weather delays harvesting and reduces crop quality,
Rabobank Groep NV said.  Shipments may be less than December last year, when there
was a strong first-quarter for the year ended September,  Wayne Gordon , a Sydney-based agricultural commodities analyst at the
company said by phone. Exports last December were 1.077 million
metric tons, government data show.  Rain has disrupted the start of the eastern Australian
harvest and caused downgrading of some crops in Queensland state
amid a decline in global wheat supplies because of weather. The
United Nations’ Food and Agricultural Organization this week cut
its outlook for world 2010-11 grain output because of drought in
Russia and “excessive” rain in the European Union and Canada.  “We are probably about two weeks behind, maybe a little
more,” Gordon said of harvesting progress. “We have clients in
northern New South Wales who are usually finished by mid-
November and they are only broadly getting underway now.”  Wheat for March delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade fell
0.2 percent to $6.8325 at 3:28 p.m. Melbourne time. The futures
have gained 26 percent this year.  Australia shipped 14.6 million tons of wheat in the year
ended Sept. 30, according to government data. Indonesia was the
largest market followed by Vietnam and Japan, the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics-Bureau of Rural
Sciences said in a report this week.  New South Wales grain areas will have a return to dry
weather over the weekend after rain over much of the state in
the past seven days, according to the  Bureau of Meteorology .  Dry Weather  “The area is going to get little if any rain over at least
the next four days and quite likely out through to the end of
next week,” duty forecaster Jake Phillips said from Sydney.  Wheat production this harvest may reach 25.1 million tons
compared with 21.7 million tons last season, according to the
Canberra-based Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource-
Bureau of Rural Sciences, as rain in the eastern states offsets
dry weather in the nation’s west.  “We have ended up with big yielding crops, but the
proteins on average are lower,” Gordon said. “The reality is
that high protein, good quality, hard wheats will be hard to
come by.”  Harvesting started in Queensland in September and typically
finishes in southern regions in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  