-- Australian Top Banks Defy Prime Minister Gillard With Higher Lending Rates
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-11-12T06:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/australian-top-banks-defy-prime-minister-gillard-with-higher-lending-rates.html
Australia’s  four largest banks 
raised mortgage interest rates more than the central bank
increased borrowing costs, defying Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
and risking a set of new rules to increase competition.  Westpac Banking Corp.  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. 
today announced increases to their standard variable home-loan
rates, following  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  and
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. All surpassed the Nov. 2
quarter-percentage point move by the Reserve Bank of Australia.  Interest-rate gains that outpace those of the central bank
have triggered a backlash against Australia’s largest lenders
after they reported higher profits. Gillard has said there’s no
justification for such “arrogant conduct” and is working on
measures to make it easier for customers to find cheaper
options.  “It shows the banks’ total disregard for public concern
at their dominance,” said Frank Zumbo, competition lecturer at
the Australian School of Business in Sydney. “It will
strengthen the resolve of politicians to deal with them.”  Australia’s four biggest lenders avoided state bailouts
during the global financial crisis and swallowed smaller rivals.
Commonwealth Bank,  Westpac,  National Australia Bank and ANZ Bank
account for about 87 percent of the  home lending market ,
according to the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.   Mortgage rates are a topic of public debate in Australia,
where more than 90 percent of homeowners have  variable-rate home
loans . The banks argue that they are absorbing higher costs
because the crisis made it more expensive to raise funds.  ‘Empower Consumers’  Gillard said this week the government was working on
changes to the banking industry that would “empower consumers
to walk away from their bank,” according to a transcript of a
Nov. 10 press conference in Seoul.  Westpac will raise its home-loan rate 35 basis points to
7.86 percent, it said in a statement today. National Australia
Bank said its equivalent rate will rise 43 basis points to 7.67
percent.  ANZ Bank on Nov. 10 announced a 39 basis-point rise to 7.80
percent, while Commonwealth Bank said Nov. 2 its standard
variable home loan rate would increase 45 basis points to 7.81
percent. A basis point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Angus Whitley  at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  