-- Tax Increase Should Be `Off the Table,' Camp Says
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/tax-increases-should-be-off-table-in-deficit-reduction-fight-camp-says.html
Congress shouldn’t raise taxes as
part of a U.S. deficit-reduction plan, said Michigan
Representative  David Camp , a Republican who becomes chairman of
the tax-writing U.S. House  Ways and Means Committee  in January.  “I think revenue’s off the table, particularly now in a
recession and when we haven’t been serious about cutting
spending,” Camp said during an interview yesterday on
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend on
Bloomberg Television.  Camp is a member of a presidential commission whose co-
chairmen proposed on Nov. 10 a $3.8 trillion deficit-cutting
 plan  that would reduce Social Security and Medicare and slash
government spending. It would increase income taxes by $100
billion a year by cutting marginal rates while ending all tax
breaks.  The Ways and Means panel oversees taxes, Social Security
and trade. Camp said he expects that the U.S. will reach a trade
agreement with South Korea after failing to do so this week.  Legislation to push China to raise the value of its
currency won’t be an immediate priority next year, he said. A
proposal now in Congress should be expanded to include other
matters such as intellectual property and piracy, he said.  “I don’t think we’ll see anything move quickly on that
issue because we need to do that one right,” he said.  The deficit-cutting plan proposed by commission chairmen
 Erskine Bowles , who served as chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton , and  Alan Simpson , a former Republican senator from
Wyoming, is “an impressive and significant proposal” that
needs more work, Camp said.  ‘Don’t Like the Idea’  About one-fourth of the savings in the Bowles and Simpson
plan would come from tax increases, while three-fourths would
come from spending cuts.  “I don’t like the idea of tax increases,” Camp, 57, said.
“If we raise revenue, we’ll never get to the reductions in
spending that we need to see to have a more sustainable
government.”  Camp, who represents a district in northern Michigan, was
negative about any compromise on extending Bush-era income-tax
cuts that are scheduled to expire at year’s end. The 2001 and
2003 tax cuts are on the agenda for a lame-duck session of
Congress, starting next week, during which Democrats will still
control the House and the Senate.  Republicans want to continue the cuts for taxpayers at all
income levels. President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats support keeping the reductions only for the first
$200,000 of income for individuals and $250,000 for married
couples.  ‘Fiscally Irresponsible’  After the Nov. 2 elections put Republicans in control of
the House in January and gave them six additional seats in the
Senate, Obama said he was willing to negotiate. Still, at a news
conference yesterday in Seoul, the president said extending tax
policies that benefit high-income earners would be “fiscally
irresponsible.”  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat who will
lose that title in January, told National Public Radio that she
would also fight efforts to extend policies that benefit high-
income taxpayers.  “That’s a lot of money to give a tax cut at the high
end,” Pelosi said. “I remind you that those tax cuts have been
in effect for a very long time, they did not create jobs.”  Camp said he believes all of the tax cuts should be
extended permanently because “the minute you put in an
expiration time, people start calculating the uncertainty.”
Uncertainty about taxes and regulations has kept the U.S.
economy from growing, he said.  Targeted Tax Cuts  Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia said in a
separate Bloomberg Television interview that he favors allowing
tax cuts for the wealthiest people to lapse and using the
additional revenue for “targeted business-tax cuts” to
encourage companies to hire more workers.  “Democrats are right” that a permanent extension of tax
cuts for the highest-income Americans would add $700 billion to
the deficit, said Warner, a former businessman who started a
cellular telephone company. “Republicans are right” to argue
that “if you take that money out of the economy you could
perhaps stall the recovery,” he said.  Unlike other Republicans, Camp passed up an opportunity to
criticize the Federal Reserve’s second round of quantitative
easing. Fed policy makers said Nov. 3 that they will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries to boost growth.  ‘Somewhat Neutral’  “I’m somewhat neutral on it,” he said. “I’d rather see
Congress move on other policies.”  On trade, Camp said he believes the administration and
South Korea will overcome a sticking point on automobiles and
beef sales that kept the two sides from completing a free-trade
agreement earlier this week.  With almost $68 billion in trade between the nations, the
deal would be the U.S.’s largest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994 and would help Obama meet his goal of
doubling American exports in five years.  Ford Motor Co.  and the
United Auto Workers oppose the trade agreement and are seeking
changes in South Korea’s tax and regulatory rules.  “I do” think a deal is likely to be reached, Camp said.
“It depends on the Koreans. And I think what the Koreans are
being asked to do is not hard for them to do.”  Camp said it would take longer to complete legislation on
China’s foreign-exchange policy.  On Sept. 29 the House passed legislation that would let
U.S. companies seek duties on Chinese  imports  to compensate for
the effect of a weak yuan. Though the Senate may consider the
measure in the lame-duck session, the issue is likely to be put
off until next year.  “I would favor a multi-issue as well as a multilateral
approach to China,” Camp said. “We really need to go back in a
more thoughtful way” to address the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  