-- Bank of Ireland Falls in Dublin as Its Loan-To-Deposit Ratio Rises to 160%
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-12T09:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bank-of-ireland-falls-in-dublin-as-its-loan-to-deposit-ratio-rises-to-160-.html
Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s
largest lender, fell in Dublin trading after its loan-to-deposit
ratio increased, requiring greater reliance on funding from
monetary authorities.  The bank’s  shares  fell 3.7 percent to 37 cents at 9:29
a.m., the lowest in more than 19 months. Bank of Ireland’s loan-
to-deposit ratio rose to about 160 percent from 145 percent on
June 30, as the Dublin-based lender used “contingent collateral
to obtain replacement funding, primarily from monetary
authorities,” it said in a statement today.  “Of most concern is a deterioration in the funding
position caused by deposit outflows,” said  Ciaran Callaghan , an
analyst with Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers. The analyst
estimated that the change in the bank’s loan-to-deposit ratio
“implies outflows of over 10 billion euros” ($13.7 billion).  Irish bonds slumped for a 13th consecutive day yesterday on
investor concern the government will require assistance from the
 European Union  and the International Monetary Fund. Still, Irish
bond prices rose today and the extra yield investors demand to
hold the country’s 10-year debt instead of German bunds narrowed
40 basis points to 606 basis points at 9:29 a.m. in London. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Irish retail customer deposit base “has been stable,”
though “we have had outflows of ratings-sensitive customer
deposits in our capital markets business,” Bank of Ireland said
in the statement.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said yesterday Ireland won’t
need outside aid. This was reiterated by Energy Minister  Eamon Ryan  to reporters today.  Yields Rise  Bank of Ireland said its full-year underlying operating
profit before impairment charges is expected to drop “circa 35
percent to 40 percent” from 1.5 billion euros for 2009 as a
result of rising higher funding costs.  The lender said that “bond yields have increased
significantly for peripheral European countries” since its
interim trading results in August “due to heightened concerns
in international debt markets about the level of fiscal deficits
in these countries and the impact of these deficits on their
economies”.  While economic conditions “remain challenging,” Bank of
Ireland reiterated that impairment charges on loans “peaked in
2009 and that the overall charge will progressively reduce in
each of 2010, 2011 and 2012.”  Retail deposits from the bank’s joint venture with the
British Post Office “are exceeding our expectations,” it said.  Arrears on the lender’s Irish mortgage books continue to
rise, yet “there is evidence that these are stabilizing,
particularly for owner-occupier borrowers” it said. Loan losses
on the Irish mortgage portfolios “are in line with our
expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  