-- Bank Negara Indonesia Sees $160 Billion in Project Loans Demand
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-12T06:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bank-negara-indonesia-says-country-needs-160-billion-loans-for-projects.html
Indonesia needs loans from overseas
banks to help plug an infrastructure investment shortfall of as
much as 1,425 trillion rupiah ($160 billion), according to
state-owned PT Bank Negara Indonesia.  Lenders in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy “need to
increase dialogue with foreign banks to find a solution,”
 Oswald Tambunan , head of syndication at Bank Negara, said at an
Asia-Pacific Loan Market Association conference in Jakarta on
Nov. 10. “It’s necessary in order to fund infrastructure
projects like toll roads,” he said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting economic
expansion of as much as 6.6 percent this year, and has said he
plans to double spending on roads, ports and airports to $140
billion by 2014 after inadequate infrastructure hampered growth
in the world’s largest exporter of power-station coal and the
second-biggest exporter of palm oil.  Lending in Indonesia rose to a record $7.9 billion since
January from $7.1 billion the same period of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Six of the top 10 arrangers were
foreign banks, matching the same period last year and down from
seven in the same period of 2008, the data show.  Bank Negara, Indonesia’s third largest state-owned lender,
helped arrange the most loans this year with a 9 percent market
share, the data show.  PT Pertamina , Indonesia’s state oil and
gas company, was the biggest borrower.  Domestic banks “face limitations” in their ability to
finance long-term projects, which require loan maturities of 10
years or more, said Chairani Sari, a loan syndication manager at
Bank Negara, without elaborating.  Roads, Airports  “The cost of building one kilometer of toll road is 40
million rupiah, and with almost 1,000 kilometers to build this
is a big opportunity,” she said. “Jakarta airport was built to
handle 22 million people but last year 34 million passengers
passed through. There’s a need for more airports.”  Indonesia’s loan market is “coming of age,” and lenders
are able to achieve a fair return on risk when benchmarked to
the rest of the region, said  Amit Khattar , head of Asia loan
trading and syndication at Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 