-- Banks Must Show Adequate Capital to Increase Dividends, Fed's Tarullo Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-12T13:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/banks-must-show-adequate-capital-to-increase-dividends-fed-s-tarullo-says.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said that banks seeking to increase dividends will be
required to undergo a stress test showing they would have
sufficient capital for two years.  “Our approach to considering such requests will be a
conservative one,” Tarullo said today in prepared remarks in
Washington. “We will expect firms to submit convincing capital
plans that demonstrate their ability to absorb losses over the
next two years under an adverse economic scenario that we will
specify, and still remain adequately capitalized.”  Concerns that bank capital was under pressure from souring
loans prompted Fed officials in February 2009 to issue a letter
to its regional supervisors telling them banks “should reduce
or eliminate dividends” when earnings decline or the economic
outlook deteriorates. The new guidelines may show the Fed’s
confidence in banks’ health is being restored.  Tarullo said firms must also have a “sound estimate of any
significant risks that may not be captured by the stress
testing, such as potential mortgage putback exposures, and the
capacity to absorb any consequent losses.” Firms must also be
able to demonstrate their capital will conform with the Basel
III requirements and any adjustments required under financial
overhaul legislation passed this summer.  The Fed will “soon” be issuing the guidelines for the
first quarter of next year, said Tarullo, 58, who is playing a
lead role in overhauling the Fed’s supervision of financial
firms after President  Barack Obama  signed legislation remaking
the financial regulatory system in July.  Dodd-Frank  The legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Act, creates a
consumer bureau housed at the Fed, a council of regulators to
monitor firms for systemic risk to the economy and a mechanism
for liquidating large financial firms whose collapse could
threaten economic stability.  Tarullo said U.S. banks and regulators would adopt the
guidelines of Basel III.  “Basel III is not a perfect agreement, of course,” he
said at the George Washington University Law School. “There are
things we would have done differently if we were writing a
capital regulation on our own.”  Advantages of the agreement include that it “will raise
minimum requirements substantially, ensure that regulatory
capital is truly loss absorbing, and discourage some of the
risky activities for which the pre-crisis regime required far
too little capital.”  Economy, Monetary  Tarullo didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy. As a governor, he has a vote at each meeting of
the Federal Open Market Committee. Tarullo was appointed to the
central bank by President Barack Obama in January 2009.  Tarullo also said that banks need to do more to correct
documentation flaws that have delayed foreclosure processing in
some states.  “It just cannot be the case that foreclosure is preferable
to modification -- including reductions of principal -- for a
significant proportion of mortgages where the deadweight costs
of foreclosure, including a distressed sale discount, are so
high,” he said.  Tarullo said he hoped mortgage services would take the
occasion to “invigorate the modification process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  