-- Banks Get One-Year Reprieve as G-20 Told to Wait for Measures
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-11-12T18:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/banks-win-one-year-reprieve-on-limiting-risks-as-g-20-delays-rules-accord.html
The world’s largest banks won a
reprieve of at least a year before facing extra measures that
would force them to rein in risk as divisions within the Group
of 20 nations delayed an agreement on such rules.  The  Financial Stability Board , which brings together G-20
finance ministers, regulators and central banks, told leaders
meeting in Seoul earlier today that steps to prevent the
collapse of systemically important financial firms will be
suggested by the end of 2011. The G-20 had asked for a proposal
by the end of this year.  G-20 leaders approved another set of rules that requires
all banks to hold more capital. Those were agreed to by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in September. Divisions
between Basel committee members, as well as lobbying by banks,
led to the softening of the capital rules and put off final
decisions about liquidity standards.  “You can tell from the FSB statements that there’s been
huge amount of controversy,” said  Barbara Matthews , managing
director of BCM International Regulatory Analytics LLC in
Washington. “Some of these issues have been on the
international agenda for decades, and still there’s no end in
sight to the debate.”  ‘Loss Absorbency’  The board said it will identify the firms that should be
subject to stricter rules by the middle of next year and also
complete studies by then on the additional “loss absorbency”
the largest banks will need. National regulators will be able to
select “from a menu of viable alternatives” depending on their
individual circumstances, the board wrote in a report to the G-
20 leaders released today.  The options being considered include a straightforward
capital surcharge for the systemically important banks,
contingent capital and bail-in instruments. Contingent capital
is debt that automatically converts to stock under stressful
conditions. Bail-in instruments require bondholders to take a
pre-set loss when a lender collapses. A capital surcharge would
raise the equity-to-assets ratio that the largest banks must
hold compared with smaller firms.  “How this greater capacity is going to be addressed by
different institutions will depend on what these institutions
are, what is their history,” said FSB Chairman  Mario Draghi  in
an interview with Bloomberg News last week.  Failing Banks  Individual countries should also establish systems for
resolving failing banks quickly, without destabilizing the
global financial system or subjecting taxpayers to risks, the
board said in its report. Resolution authorities must cooperate
with each other and share information, the board said. The FSB’s
mandate has been to design a cross-border resolution mechanism
to deal with a failure such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008. Work on that will continue next year, the FSB said.  The G-20 set up the board last year to oversee the work of
groups setting international standards to strengthen global
regulation following the worst credit crisis since the Great
Depression.  The capital and liquidity standards agreed to by the Basel
committee this year will reduce the likelihood and severity of
any potential crisis going forward, the board’s chairman,  Draghi 
wrote in a letter to the G-20 that was released today. Draghi,
63, is also Bank of Italy governor.  Liquidity Rules  While most disagreements about Basel capital rules have
been resolved, regulations about bank liquidity have been put on
hold. The rules, which for the first time would require banks to
keep certain amounts of cash and easy-to-sell assets, have been
delayed under pressure from banks that say proposed requirements
would significantly suffocate the extension of credit.  A short-term liquidity ratio would make sure banks have
enough cash to meet liabilities coming due in a month. A long-
term ratio would add some other cashable assets to be considered
liquid and look at payments due in a year. Regulators agreed to
observe banks’ ratios for several years before coming up with a
final version of the rules, which are for now set to go into
effect between 2015 and 2018.  The long-term liquidity requirement would force European
banks to sell $3.5 trillion of new debt, the International
Monetary Fund estimated in a report last week.  Capital rules that measure banks’ credit risks are also
awaiting final tweaks over the next two months, committee
members and others with knowledge of the discussions have said.
The so-called counterparty credit-risk rules try to correct the
mistake of ignoring banks’ ties to other financial institutions
that could go bust, increasing capital charges for inter-bank
trades and lending relations.  The FSB is also prepared to focus on tougher rules for
firms that “don’t reside only within the banking sector,”
Draghi said in the interview. Over the next two years, the board
will focus on “the progressive enlargement of what we call the
regulatory perimeter to include the most important segments” of
the “shadow financial sector,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 