-- Bank of Ireland Says Full-Year Profit to Fall on Funding Costs
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-12T08:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bank-of-ireland-s-operating-profit-poised-to-drop-as-much-as-40-this-year.html
Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s
largest lender, said full-year underlying operating profit
before impairment charges may fall up to 40 percent as a result
of higher funding costs.  The Irish retail customer deposit base “has been stable,”
though “we have had outflows of ratings-sensitive customer
deposits in our capital markets business,” the Dublin-based
lender said in an statement today.  Underlying operating profit before impairment charges is
expected to drop “circa 35 percent to 40 percent” from 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) for 2009, it said. The loan-to-
deposit ratio rose to about 160 percent from 145 percent at the
end of June as the bank uses “contingent collateral to obtain
replacement funding, primarily from monetary authorities.”  Irish bonds slumped for a 13th consecutive day yesterday on
investor concern the government will require assistance from the
 European Union  and International Monetary Fund. On Oct. 26, the
government announced plans to seek 15 billion euros in spending
cuts and tax increases to 2014, to bring the deficit below 3
percent of gross domestic product from about 12 percent this
year. Bank bailout costs bring the figure to 32 percent of GDP.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said yesterday Ireland won’t
need outside aid and central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  said
on Nov. 10 he expects the government to be able to return to the
bond market next year.  Bank of Ireland said that “bond yields have increased
significantly for peripheral European countries” since its
interim trading results in August “due to heightened concerns
in international debt markets about the level of fiscal deficits
in these countries and the impact of these deficits on their
economies”.  Arrears ‘Stabilizing’  While economic conditions “remain challenging,” Bank of
Ireland reiterated that impairment charges on loans “peaked in
2009 and that the overall charge will progressively reduce in
each of 2010, 2011 and 2012.”  Retail deposits from the bank’s joint venture with the
British Post Office “are exceeding our expectations,” it said.  Arrears on the lender’s Irish mortgage books continue to
rise, yet “there is evidence that these are stabilizing,
particularly for owner-occupier borrowers” it said. Loan losses
on the Irish mortgage portfolios “are in line with our
expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  