-- Bank of America, Merrill, Milan Banks, JPMorgan, UBS, WestLB in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-12T13:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bank-of-america-merrill-milan-banks-jpmorgan-ubs-westlb-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. lender, asked a federal judge to throw out a lawsuit
brought by foreclosed homeowners who accuse it of racketeering.  Dwayne Ransom Davis and Melisa Davis sued last month in
Indianapolis, claiming Bank of America “routinely” submitted
perjured affidavits to support  foreclosures . They lost their
Knightstown, Indiana, home last year.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, in papers filed
Nov. 10 with U.S. District Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson, said the
Davises were improperly using a federal court to attack a state
court proceeding and hadn’t shown they were injured.  “While plaintiffs claim they do not seek to overturn the
judgment in the foreclosure action, it is clear they are trying
to do precisely that,” in violation of federal law, Bank of
America told the court.  The Davises didn’t ask the court to reverse their September
2009 foreclosure. They said in their complaint that the use of
“robo-signers”, or people who sign affidavits attesting to
facts underlying foreclosures without actual knowledge of them,
constitutes racketeering.  They seek class-action, or group, status for anyone whose
home was taken under such circumstances since October 2006, and
compensatory damages, which would be tripled under U.S.
racketeering laws.  The case is Davis v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc., 10cv1303,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  Merrill Banker Indicted With 18 in Brazil Says He’s Scapegoat  Just before dawn on a cool June morning, six submachine-
gun-wielding federal agents charged into Alexandre Caiado’s Sao
Paulo apartment. After arresting him, they hustled Caiado into a
pickup truck for a 30-block drive to  Merrill Lynch & Co. ’s
office, where he had been working as a private banker for two
years, Bloomberg News’ Alexander Ragir and Michael Smith report.  As the agents scoured Caiado’s desktop computer, Mary
Livingston, a lawyer for Merrill, sat down alone with Caiado.
“She gave me very specific instructions,” says Caiado,
recalling the scene in 2006. “I wasn’t supposed to say what I
really did.”  Prosecutors charged Caiado with arranging illegal fund
transfers for Merrill clients -- part of what has become a four-
year investigation into bankers helping clients secretly move
undeclared money abroad to evade Brazilian income taxes,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its December issue.  Caiado’s work at Merrill was part of a pattern in which
bankers helped clients move undeclared money in and out of
Brazil in ways that couldn’t be tracked by tax authorities, says
Deltan Dallagnol, a prosecutor handling Caiado’s case.  Livingston, the lawyer who was with Caiado on the day he
was arrested, says Merrill sent her and two or three other
lawyers to the office to help Caiado. She says she talked to him
as police were searching for records. She declined to confirm or
deny that she told Caiado to not tell police what he really did.  “I’m not responding to that,” she says. Asked if she
disputes Caiado’s account, she says, “I am not going to dignify
his story with an explanation.” He has no credibility because
he’s suing Merrill, she says.  Merrill spokesman Bill Halldin says the firm is fighting
the lawsuit.  “We are vigorously defending ourselves in that matter,”
Halldin says. No Merrill officer or director in Brazil has ever
been charged with a crime, he says.  For more, click here.  BASF Wins Appeal Over Customers’ Vitamin-Cartel Suit  BASF SE ,  Roche Holding AG  and Sanofi-Aventis SA can’t be
sued by a group of customers who claim they paid too much for
vitamins during a price-fixing cartel in the 1990s, a U.K.
appeals court ruled.  The Court of Appeal in London today ruled the companies
missed a two-year deadline for filing the lawsuit. The ruling
upheld the  Competition Appeal Tribunal ’s decision that the court
couldn’t extend the time limit.  “There was and is no power to extend time” to sue, Judge
Timothy Lloyd wrote in the unanimous ruling from a three-judge
panel. “The claim was rightly dismissed.”  The European Union in 2001 fined Roche, BASF, Aventis SA
and five other companies a then-record 855.2 million euros ($1.2
billion) for working together to inflate vitamin prices. The
collusion was “the most damaging series of cartels the
commission has ever investigated,” Mario Monti, who was then EU
Competition Commissioner, said at the time.  “This is a good result for business,” said Clare Canning,
BASF’s lawyer at the firm Mayer Brown LLP in London. “It
provides certainty in this economic climate, in which the
limitation of financial damage is ever more important.”  The customers, including BCL Old Co. and Grampian Country
Food Group Ltd., sued in March and May 2008, just before they
believed the statute of limitations was about to expire. They
based the deadline on the cartel’s appeal of the EU fines in
Brussels. In May 2009, the U.K. Court of Appeal ruled the group
had missed the deadline because the cartel appealed only the EU
fines and not the price-fixing allegations.  After that court loss, the customers asked the Competition
Appeal Tribunal, which handles U.K. antitrust cases, to use its
discretion to extend their window for suing. The tribunal in
November denied the request, which lead to the latest appeal.  A call to the law firm representing the customers, Taylor
Vinters, wasn’t returned and the individual customers couldn’t
immediately be reached.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Milan’s Banks Failed to Shop Around, Prosecution Witness Says  The four banks on trial for fraud for misselling
derivatives to the City of Milan failed to shop around for
competing quotes that would have made the cost of the swaps more
transparent, a prosecution witness said.  Gianluca Fusai, a finance professor at the University of
East Piedmont, told a court in Milan on Nov. 10 that the banks,
which had been hired to arrange a bond sale and subsequently
proposed swaps to adjust the interest payments on the bonds,
acted as consultants to the city. As such, the securities firms
should have found the best swap prices for the client, he said.  The lenders “didn’t examine the cost of doing the swaps
with other banks,” Fusai said. A range of bids for the
derivatives would have brought transparency, he said after more
than 10 hours of questioning over three hearings since Oct. 27.  Deutsche Bank AG , Depfa Bank Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
UBS AG are accused of misleading Milan and earning 101 million
euros ($139 million) in hidden fees from the transactions. The
banks first sold interest-rate swaps to the city on 1.7 billion
euros of bonds. The banks deny the allegations.  Italian municipalities are required to sell repayment bonds
or create a payment plan if they sell a so-called bullet bond
which is repaid at maturity.  Fusai said that Milan should have considered the option of
selling repayment bonds, which wouldn’t have required a swap.
Local governments including the regions of Lazio, Sicily and
Sardinia have successfully sold the bonds, some with durations
of as long as 30 years, he said. Instead, Milan sold a bullet
bond with an amortizing swap arranged by the banks, he said.  Fusai said the banks charged Milan 52 million euros at the
start of the swap. He said that so-called implicit cost marked
the difference between the city’s and the banks’ credit risks.
He didn’t account for the cost the banks faced in arranging the
transactions in his calculation, he said.  Milan is making money on the transactions and has received
about 30 million euros by swapping the fixed rate on its
borrowings for a variable rate with Deutsche Bank, the bank’s
lawyer said at a hearing on Nov. 3. The city has a mark-to-
market gain on the contract at current prices, said the lawyer.  “This is a partial picture,” said Fusai. “It doesn’t
reflect the risks assumed.” The city is receiving money today
and has pushed back its borrowings, Fusai said. “We’re not
interested in the mark-to-market at a generic date but when the
contract is agreed.”  Officials for Deutsche Bank declined to comment. Officials
for JPMorgan, UBS and Depfa couldn’t immediately comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Morgan Stanley Oil Chief Denied $30 Million in Finra Ruling  Morgan Stanley’s  former oil-trading chief, Olav Refvik,
lost a demand for $30 million after accusing the firm of
“wrongful termination” and other mistreatment, according to a
ruling by industry arbitrators.  Refvik, who left the firm in 2008, had also levied claims
including breach of implied contract, unjust enrichment and
improper forfeiture of vested stock and options, according to
the Oct. 27 ruling released by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The ruling doesn’t provide details on the allegations
or the rationale for the arbitrators’ decision.  Refvik left the bank and the board of TransMontaigne
Partners LP, an oil transportation and storage company owned by
Morgan Stanley, the unit said in October 2008, about three
months after the bank gave his responsibilities to a colleague.
He filed a claim in March 2009, the ruling shows.  “We’re obviously very pleased with the ruling,” said Mark
Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley, declining
to elaborate on the dispute. The bank is the sixth-largest in
the U.S. by assets.  Refvik didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking
comment. He retired from Morgan Stanley after 18 years at the
firm, according to his  biography  on the website of Arrowhawk
Capital Partners, a Darien, Connecticut-based hedge-fund manager
that he helped found. He joined Noble Group Ltd. this year as
global head of oil and oil-products trading, energy-news website
SparkSpread reported in September.  Calls also weren’t returned from two lawyers listed by
Finra as representing him, Jeffrey Liddle and Christine Palmieri
of New York-based Liddle & Robinson LLP.  For more, click here.  WestLB Loses Trial Over Valuation Claim Against Nomura  A  Nomura Holdings Inc.  unit doesn’t owe  WestLB AG  the $22.3
million the German lender bailed out during the financial crisis
was seeking at trial, a London court ruled.  While Nomura International Plc “acted irrationally” in
valuing securities in an investment fund after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., WestLB failed to prove that
valuation resulted in it losing any money it wouldn’t have
otherwise, Judge Nigel Teare ruled yesterday.  WestLB “failed to prove on the balance of probabilities
that the shares had a value in excess of the defendants’ fee and
so has failed to prove that it has suffered any damage,” Teare
said in his judgment. The value of the securities determined by
Nomura isn’t binding, he said. The judge denied WestLB
permission to appeal.  WestLB claimed at a trial in the High Court in London that
Nomura International last year used a “fraudulent” bidding
procedure to determine the value of shares in an investment fund
after missing a deadline to deliver notes that were linked to
the shares rather than pay their cash value.  Nomura “acted irrationally in limiting its investigation
of value to a dealer poll,” yet it didn’t act “dishonestly,”
Teare said in the judgment.  The head of the trading desk in Nomura International’s
structured credit group conducted a dealer poll in February by
sending bid requests on the securities to banks including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Standard
Chartered Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG,
according to the judgment. None of the dealers were interested,
so the Tokyo-based lender concluded the shares were worthless.  “We are surprised and disappointed at the judge’s ruling
and are considering an appeal,” West LB said in an e-mailed
statement. The German lender would have to apply directly to the
Court of Appeal in London to challenge the ruling.  WestLB, based in Dusseldorf, had claimed Nomura should have
used the $22.3 million cash value of the notes established by
the fund’s manager, Mauritian International Trust Co., or Mitco.
Nomura said that valuation wasn’t reliable because it didn’t
outline its methodology or the fund’s underlying assets.  “Nomura is satisfied with today’s decision,” the bank
said in an e-mailed statement. “We have always maintained that
WestLB’s claim was without foundation. We now consider the
matter concluded.”  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  British Court to Consider BAE Radar Deal in Tanzania Nov. 23  A U.K. court will start considering on Nov. 23 whether to
approve a “plea agreement” under which BAE Systems Plc will
pay as much as 30 million pounds ($48.4 million) in compensation
to Tanzania.  The date was given in an e-mailed statement Nov. 10 from
the British High Commission in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania’s
commercial capital.  Europe’s biggest defence contractor reached the deal this
year with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office to end a five-year probe
into whether it enticed Tanzanian officials to buy a radar
system with payments. The proposed settlement package needs
court approval.  Alstom Gets Eurostar Trial Date for October 2011  Alstom SA said the High Court of London set October 2011 as
a date for a trial to judge on the fairness of a tender in which
Eurostar Group Ltd. picked high-speed trains made by German
rival Siemens AG.  In a preliminary hearing Nov. 10, the court ordered Eurostar
to disclose the documents relating to the evaluations of the
offers, Alstom also said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 