-- Barclays to Reimburse Gay Workers for Taxes on U.S. Benefits
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-12T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/barclays-joins-google-to-reimburse-gay-workers-for-taxes-on-u-s-benefits.html
Barclays Plc , Britain’s third-
largest bank, is joining  Google Inc.  and a small number of
companies in reimbursing U.S. employees for federal tax they pay
on health benefits provided to same-sex domestic partners.  The aim is to offset the tax on benefits for same-sex
partners that doesn’t apply to spouses in heterosexual marriages
because same-sex partnerships aren’t recognized as marriages
under U.S. law, the London-based bank said today in a statement.
The change will take effect Jan. 1, according to the bank, which
bought the U.S. business of bankrupt Wall Street firm Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Barclays may be leading the U.S. financial-services
industry in offering such tax-equalization payments. Google, in
Mountain View, California,  Cisco Systems Inc ., based in San
Jose, California, and San Francisco-based Kimpton Hotels &
Restaurants are the only other for-profit companies to publicly
disclose such reimbursement benefits, according to the
Washington-based Human Rights Campaign.  “We are introducing this payment to proactively offset the
additional tax,”  Mark Lane , a spokesman for Barclays Capital,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that by offering
this, we will further our efforts to promote an inclusive
environment.” Barclays will reimburse employees through a
separate payment rather than an increase in base salary, Lane
said.  Several financial companies, including  Citigroup Inc. ,
 Morgan Stanley , and HSBC North America, have joined the
Campaign’s  Business Coalition for Benefits Tax Equity , an effort
for equal benefits.  ‘Civil Rights Issue’  Same-sex partners pay an average of $1,069 more in federal
tax than people in heterosexual marriages with the same
benefits, according to a 2007  study  conducted by the Center for
American Progress and the Williams Institute. Employers also pay
added administrative costs of tracking the dependent status of
covered same-sex partners and spouses and maintaining separate
payroll functions, the study said.  Reimbursements or “gross-up” benefits offered by Google
and Barclays would increase costs for the employers but could
improve employee retention, said  Todd A. Solomon , a partner with
the employee-benefits group of law firm McDermott Will & Emery
in Chicago.  “It’s simply to provide equal pay for equal work in this
civil rights issue, there’s really no financial incentive,”
Solomon said in a phone interview. “The bottom line is more
than how much cash you spend today, it may help the bottom line
to be seen as the employer of choice.”  Barclays, which said in September that U.S.-born President
 Robert Diamond , 59, will succeed Chief Executive Officer  John Varley  at the end of March, doesn’t disclose how many people it
employs in the U.S. In its annual report, the bank said it
employed 88,500 people outside the U.K. at the end of last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 