-- BASF Wins Appeal Over Customers’ Vitamin-Cartel Suit
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-12T14:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/basf-roche-win-u-k-appeal-over-group-s-pursuit-of-vitamin-cartel-lawsuit.html
BASF SE , the world’s biggest
chemicals maker, can’t be sued by a group of customers who claim
they paid too much for vitamins during a price-fixing cartel in
the 1990s, a U.K. appeals court ruled.  The Court of Appeal in London today ruled the companies had
missed a two-year deadline for filing the lawsuit. The ruling
upheld the  Competition Appeal Tribunal ’s decision that the court
couldn’t extend the time limit. The lower court’s ruling also
applied to a parallel case against drugmakers  Roche Holding AG 
and Sanofi-Aventis SA, which wasn’t appealed.  “There was and is no power to extend time” to sue, Judge
Timothy Lloyd wrote in the unanimous ruling from a three-judge
panel. “The claim was rightly dismissed.”  The European Union in 2001 fined Roche, BASF, Aventis SA
and five other companies a then-record 855.2 million euros ($1.2
billion) for working together to inflate vitamin prices. The
collusion was “the most damaging series of cartels the
commission has ever investigated,”  Mario Monti , who was then EU
Competition Commissioner, said at the time.  “This is a good result for business,” said  Clare Canning ,
BASF’s lawyer at the firm Mayer Brown LLP in London. “It
provides certainty in this economic climate, in which the
limitation of financial damage is ever more important.”  Two groups of customers, including BCL Old Co. and Grampian
Country Food Group Ltd., sued in March and May 2008, just before
they believed the statute of limitations was about to expire.
They based the deadline on the cartel’s appeal of the EU fines
in Brussels. In May 2009, the U.K. Court of Appeal ruled the
group had missed the deadline because the cartel appealed only
the EU fines and not the price-fixing allegations.  After that court loss, the customers asked the Competition
Appeal Tribunal, which handles U.K. antitrust cases, to use its
discretion to extend their window for suing. The tribunal in
November denied the request, which lead to the latest appeal.  A call to the law firm representing the customers,  Taylor
Vinters , wasn’t immediately returned and the individual
customers couldn’t immediately be reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 