-- Bernanke's Stimulus Plan Pummels Northrop, Wal-Mart Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-12T18:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bernanke-s-stimulus-plan-pummels-northrop-wal-mart-bonds-credit-markets.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s latest plan to stimulate the U.S. economy is
pummeling investors owning the longest-maturity corporate bonds.  The price of 30-year debt from  Northrop Grumman Corp ., the
largest U.S. Navy shipbuilder, has dropped 4.2 percent since
Nov. 2, the day before the Fed’s announcement.  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.  bonds due in 2040 have slipped 3.6 percent in the period to
about the lowest level since the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
retailer sold the securities last month.  U.S. corporate bonds due in 15 years or more have lost 2.5
percent since the Fed committed to buying $600 billion of
Treasuries, compared with a decline of 0.4 percent for the
investment-grade market overall, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. That signals investors expect the Fed
will succeed in bolstering growth and avoiding deflation,
leading to higher interest rates.  Longer-dated debt is being hurt by the Fed’s policy of so-
called quantitative easing, “particularly high-quality names
that have issued at very tight spreads,” said  Norval Loftus ,
chief investment officer of Allegra Asset Management in London.
“Even the slightest hint that inflation could pick up is enough
to send these names into a tail spin.”  Yields on debt due in 15 years or more have climbed to 5.81
percent, about the highest in more than three months, from a
record-low 5.37 percent on Aug. 26, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. Amid historically cheap borrowing costs,
companies have accelerated offerings of the longer-dated bonds.  Entice Investors  Falling prices may entice investors seeking higher returns
than Treasuries offer, said  Burt White , chief investment officer
at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston, which oversees $293 billion.  “You could see a decoupling as investors realize this is
still a yield-starved market and you are getting very good
yields from longer-dated corporates,” White said. “There is a
point as prices move lower and yields move higher that these
bonds become quite attractive.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debentures
rose 1 basis point yesterday to 167 basis points, or 1.67
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate index. Yields rose to 3.508
percent from 3.498 percent on Nov. 10.  The cost of protecting company bonds from default rose in
the U.S. to the highest since Nov. 1. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 2.9 basis points to a mid-price of
93.3 as of 1:40 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Bondholder Protection  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Stater Bros. Holdings Inc., the privately owned Southern
California supermarket operator, plans to sell $255 million of
eight-year notes as it seeks to buy back debt due in 2012. The
securities may be priced as soon as today, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The senior unsecured debt will be
privately placed, the San Bernardino, California-based company
said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire that didn’t
specify the timing of the sale.  Sales of longer-dated bonds are accelerating as companies
lock in record low borrowing costs, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Issuance this year of 30-year corporate debt has
climbed to $80.6 billion, 52 percent of which has come since the
end of June. That compares with $77.3 billion in the
corresponding period of 2009.  Declining Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own the longest-
maturity U.S. corporate bonds has fallen 4 basis points to 197
basis points this month.  Time Warner Cable Inc., the second-largest cable operator
by subscribers after  Comcast Corp ., PPL Corp. unit Kentucky
Utilities Co. and Los Angeles-based Northrop Grumman are among
borrowers that have sold $5.09 billion of 30-year bonds this
month, Bloomberg data show. That’s the fastest start to a month
since August, when issuance of the debt reached $14.2 billion.  The duration of investment-grade company debt, a measure of
the securities’ price sensitivity to yield changes, reached 6.64
years in August, the highest since 1999, before falling to 6.43
years yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate
Master index shows. That compares with 5.64 years in October
2008, a month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy.  Rates Near Zero  The Fed has driven borrowing costs down by holding
benchmark lending rates near zero and purchasing $1.7 trillion
of long-term debt. The central bank said it planned about $75
billion of additional purchases a month through June and “will
adjust the program as needed,” according to a Nov. 3 statement.  Yields on 30-year Treasuries rose for five straight days,
the longest streak since July, after the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York said 86 percent of the buying would target bonds coming
due in 2.5 to 10 years.  That’s helped extend losses on the longest-maturity
corporate bonds, which have declined 1.5 percent in November,
falling for a third straight month after returning 4.49 percent
in August, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporates 15+ Years index.  Northrop Grumman  Northrop Grumman’s $300 million of 5.05 percent notes due
November 2040 have slumped 4.2 cents to 96.66 cents on the
dollar since Nov. 2, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory data. The
bonds were issued Nov. 1 at 99.88 cents on the dollar.  The company’s $700 million of 3.5 percent notes due March
2021, sold the same day, have declined 0.55 cent to 99.2 cents
since Nov. 2, Trace data show.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, sold $1.25 billion
of 5 percent, 30-year bonds on Oct. 18 as part of a $5 billion
offering. The bonds have fallen 3.68 cents since Nov. 2 to 97.66
cents, Trace data show.  Northrop Grumman spokesman  Dan McClain  didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment. Wal-Mart’s  Greg Rossiter  didn’t
immediately provide comment.  “There is a post-QE2 hangover,” said  Perry Piazza ,
director of investment strategy at Contango Capital Advisors in
San Francisco, who helps oversee about $2 billion of assets.
“We’ve seen this increase in inflation expectations creep into
a lot of markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 