-- BJ's Wholesale Options Are Best Way to Play Chances of a Buyout, UBS Says
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-11-12T14:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bj-s-wholesale-options-are-best-way-to-play-chances-of-a-buyout-ubs-says.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc.  is likely
to be a leveraged-buyout target in the next three months, and
options trades are the best way for investors to seek profit
from that possibility, according to UBS AG.  Options  strategies are a useful way to play the
possibilities that the LBO will either occur around $50 a share,
or not occur, causing the stock to fall to the mid- to high
$30s, according to UBS options strategist  Mitchell Revsine . He
cites the view from UBS’s fundamental analyst  Neil Currie  that
there’s a 75 percent chance BJ’s will be taken private “and
that this could occur in the next three months.”  BJ’s shares
 fell  0.3 percent yesterday to $47.19.  “An opportunity to employ options to express our view does
exist,” Revsine said in a note yesterday, “because we view BJ
as having a binary event, while the option-market view is of a
wide range of outcomes, across a spectrum of stock prices.”  A “conservative” way to profit from a possible buyout
would be to buy a March $45 and March $50 call spread, Revsine
said. The biggest risk to owning the call spread instead of the
stock is “if the deal gets done, but at a price well above
$50,” he said. A spread strategy cuts the cost of the
transaction while capping potential profit.   March $45 calls fell 4.2 percent yesterday to $4.36, while
March $50 calls declined 2.3 percent to $2.10. That means the
spread costs about $2.26.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Investors use options
to guard against fluctuations in the price of securities they
own, speculate on share-price moves or bet that volatility, or
stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  