-- Boeing, Caterpillar, Citi, Google, Wal-Mart: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-11-15T13:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/blockbuster-biosante-fortune-hyatt-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 7:43 a.m. in New York.  Microchip Technology Inc.  (MCHP US),  LSI Corp.  (LSI US) and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  (AMD US) are possible leveraged
buyout candidates in the semiconductor business, Susquehanna
International Group LLC analyst  Chris Caso  said in a note to
clients.       Aastrom Biosciences Inc.  (ASTM US): The developer of
treatments to repair human tissue using stem cells said it
granted Atek Medical LLC exclusive rights to manufacture the
company’s cell cassette product. Aastrom also filed plans with
the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell as much as $75
million in securities.  Accelrys Inc.  (ACCL US): The maker of molecular modeling
software said it will buy back as much as $6 million in shares
by March 31.  Amtech Systems Inc.  (ASYS US) surged 10 percent to $19. The
maker of products for manufacturing computer chips and solar
cells reported fourth-quarter earnings of 58 cents a share,
beating the 33-cent estimate of Merriman Curhan Ford & Co.  AOL Inc.  (AOL US): The Internet company spun off from Time
Warner Inc. said it plans a beta test of a redesigned e-mail
service, the New York Post reported.  BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc.  (BPAX US): The developer of
hormone replacement products reported a third-quarter loss of 16
cents a share, 19 percent wider than the average of two analyst
estimates.  Blockbuster Inc.  (BLOAQ US): The video-rental retailer
operating in Chapter 11 bankruptcy reported its third-quarter
loss narrowed to $53.5 million from $114.1 million a year
earlier. Sales fell 19 percent to $736.6 million.  Boeing Co.  (BA US) gained 0.4 percent to $63.31. The
world’s second-largest commercial-jet builder may be headed for
its first victory in aircraft orders in three years, buoyed by
demand for the 737 jet as larger rival Airbus SAS defers a
decision on whether to offer a new engine on its A320. Boeing
booked 480 net orders through October, compared with Airbus’s
369.  Caterpillar Inc.  (CAT US) slipped 1.3 percent to $80. The
world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment said
it agreed to buy  Bucyrus International Inc.  (BUCY US) for about
$8.6 billion, including net debt. Bucyrus, whose shareholders
will receive $92 per share, surged 30 percent to $90.36.  Citigroup Inc.  (C US) rose 1.2 percent to $4.34. The bank,
which claims 2,500 of the world’s 3,000 largest corporations as
clients, now says it also is targeting U.S. companies with less
than $20 million of annual sales, and plans to hire about 200
bankers by the end of 2011 to court them.  Diana Shipping Inc.  (DSX US): The carrier of commodities
including iron ore and coal reported third-quarter earnings of
42 cents a share, beating the 41-cent average estimate.  Fortune Brands Inc.  (FO US): The maker of Titleist golf
balls, Moen faucets and Jim Bean bourbon may work on a breakup
plan with investor Bill Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Genzyme Corp.  (GENZ US) advanced 1.7 percent to $71. The
biotechnology company started talks with Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. to try to sell itself for more than $18.5 billion, the Mail
on Sunday reported, citing a person familiar with the matter.  Google Inc.  (GOOG US) gained 0.8 percent to $608.01. The
owner of the world’s most popular Internet search site said it
may unveil the relaunch of Boutiques.com at an event in New York
City on Nov. 17 in an attempt to take on EBay Inc., Gizmodo
reported.  Hyatt Hotels Corp.  (H US): The Pritzker family hotel chain
that raised $1.09 billion in an initial public offering last
year was given a new “buy” rating at Buckingham Research by
equity analyst Cameron McKnight. The 12-month price target is
$48.  Lowe’s Cos.  (LOW US) slipped 0.8 percent to $21.51. The
second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer lowered its full-
year forecast and may miss analysts’ estimate. The company also
reported third-quarter earnings that beat estimates.  Naugatuck Valley Financial Corp.  (NVSL US) and  Southern
Connecticut Bancorp  (SSE US): The two Connecticut-based banks
mutually agreed to terminate their merger agreement, according
to a joint statement. The companies said they were unable to
obtain regulatory approval.  Rino International Corp.  (RINO US) slid 8.3 percent to
$10.10. The provider of water treatment systems for steelmakers
lowered its full-year sales forecast to less than the average
analyst estimate. The company also reported third-quarter
earnings that missed estimates.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  (WMT US): The world’s largest retailer
is prepared to increase market share in Japan through
acquisitions, Wal-Mart Asia Chief Executive Officer  Scott Price 
told the Wall Street Journal. Price said the company has
aggressive growth plans in China, the Journal reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 