-- Bloody Macbeth at BAM, Teller's Spooks, Divas, Jazz, Goya: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bloody-macbeth-at-bam-dark-magic-goya-divas-n-y-weekend.html
Three geniuses converge at the
 Brooklyn Academy of Music’s  Next Wave Festival for “Throne of
Blood.”  Ping Chong’s Noh-inspired theater piece is based on  Akira Kurosawa ’s adaptation of “Macbeth.” Chong, who mixes Japanese
stagecraft with modern multimedia, created this exquisite
production for the  Oregon Shakespeare Festival .  Friday night at 7:30 at the BAM Opera House, 30 Lafayette
Ave., Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-636-4100;  http://www.bam.org   Saturday  Return to the Harlem Renaissance at Charles Smith’s “Knock
Me a Kiss.” With Tony-winning actor  Andre De Shields  as the
black intellectual and activist W.E.B. Du Bois, the new play
concerns the marriage of the poet Countee Cullen to Du Bois’s
daughter. Had you been going to premieres at Woodie King Jr.’s
 New Federal Theater  for years, you would have seen the early
work of such future stars as  Denzel Washington . Don’t miss this
chance see one of the still-greats.  New Federal Theater performs at the Abrons Arts Center, 466
Grand St. Information: +1-212-598-0400;
 http://www.newfederaltheatre.org .  On the opera front: Plummy diva  Anna Netrebko  has fun in
“Don Pasquale” and so will you, in this revival also starring
Matthew Polenzani and Mariusz Kwiecien. John Del Carlo plays the
old goat.  James Levine  conducts.  William Christie finally makes his  Metropolitan Opera  debut
with  “Cosi fan tutte,” in a pretty production starring Miah
Persson and Isabel Leonard as the misbehaving sisters, Danielle
de Niese as their cynical maid Despina and Pavol Breslik and
 Nathan Gunn  as the silly lovers.  “Pasquale” is at 1 p.m. “Cosi” at 8 p.m.  Lincoln Center, Broadway at West 66th Street. Information:
+1-212-362-2000;  http://www.metopera.org   Next door to the Met there’s a rare sighting of
“Intermezzo,” a comedy  Richard Strauss  wrote about himself and
his famously annoying wife. (After the world premiere in 1924,
when Frau Strauss was congratulated on the musical love letter
from her husband, she said, “I don’t give a damn.”) Mary
Dunleavy plays the ex-diva with considerable panache.  At 8 p.m. at the  New York City Opera , David H. Koch
Theater, Lincoln Center. Information: +1-212-870-5570;
 http://www.nycopera.com/   Another option Saturday night for jazz lovers: Guitarist
John McLaughlin, one of  Miles Davis ’s original co-conspirators
in the development of fusion, makes a rare appearance at  Town
Hall  with his latest group, the 4th Dimension. They’re promoting
a new album “To the One,” a riff on  John Coltrane ’s
masterpiece, “A Love Supreme.”  At 123 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-307-4100;
 http://www.ticketmaster.com   Sunday Afternoon  Head to the  Frick Collection  for a luxurious time with
Spanish drawings.  Don’t miss Jusepe de Ribera’s two-chalk technique in
“David and Goliath,” along with works by Carducho, Maella and
Bayeu in the first room. Then move on to admire works from
Goya’s eight cycles featuring the themes of his day, like
mutilation, mystery and torture.  Before leaving, stop by the Oval Room for a look at
Velazquez’s recently cleaned, but still doleful, portrait of
Philip IV of Spain.  “The Spanish Manner: Drawings from Ribera to Goya” is up
through Jan. 9.  At 1 E. 70th St. Information: +1-212-288-0700;
 http://www.frick.org   Sunday Evening  If your date isn’t clutching you for comfort at “Play
Dead” in Greenwich Village, it may be time to find another
companion.  Before the lights go out, master of deathly ceremonies Todd
Robbins warns that you won’t see be able to see your own hands
in the pitch dark. It’s true. Modeled on the “midnight spook
show,” an American institution from the 1930s to the 1970s,
“Play Dead” is a fright-filled magic show. Folks with weak
tickers should probably steer clear. Teller, of the magic team
Penn & Teller, co-wrote and directed.  At the  Players Theatre , 115 MacDougal St. Information: +1-
800-982-2787;  http://www.playdeadnyc.com   Afterward have a drink, amazing pasta and even better
people-watching at  Mario Batali’s  Lupa Osteria Romana.  At 170 Thompson St. Information: +1-212-982-5089.  (With assistance from  Zinta Lundborg ,  Lili Rosboch  and
 Philip Boroff .  Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse,
the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 