-- Bob Dylan Experts Decipher Mystery Muse Johanna, Sexy Snow Portrait: Books
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bob-dylan-experts-decipher-mystery-muse-johanna-sexy-snow-portrait-books.html
It’s 1962, and an unknown folk
singer stands awkwardly in the Gaslight Cafe strumming his
guitar. Some customers ignore him.  Others listen and spread the word at Greenwich Village’s
nearby Folklore Center about a hot talent named  Bob Dylan .  One of the regulars is 11-year-old  Sean Wilentz , whose life
will become bound up with Dylan’s.  In 1963, Dylan meets poet  Allen Ginsberg  in an apartment
above the Wilentz family bookshop. Sean is blown away by “The
Freewheelin’ Bob Dylan” with its cover image of Dylan and Suze
Rotolo in snowy Greenwich Village, “a picture that, with its
hip sexiness, was more arousing than anything I’d glimpsed in
furtive schoolboy copies of Playboy.”  In 1964, Sean hears Dylan, then 23, play Philharmonic Hall
and is chilled by the line “a black branch with blood that kept
dripping.”  Wilentz grew up to be a Princeton professor known for his
expertise on the U.S. Revolutionary era -- and, later,
Bobdylan.com’s “historian in residence.” He connects the dots
in “ Bob Dylan in America ,” arguing that American culture and
Dylan’s work influenced each other.  “There isn’t an inch of American song that he cannot call
his own,” Wilentz writes, dropping historical objectivity to
show his fandom.  Unlikely Influences  The hundreds of Dylan books include surveys of politics,
literature and religion -- though nothing of this breadth. There
are chapters devoted to possible Dylan links with composer  Aaron Copland  (both blended folk with another musical form, both paid
homage to America and the common man) and Blind Willie McTell
(based on Dylan’s song that name checks the blues singer).  It’s much quicker to get Dylan’s own list of influences in
his autobiography “Chronicles: Volume One”:  Woody Guthrie , of
course, and Robert Johnson among them.  Wilentz -- whose father edited an anthology called “The
Beat Scene” -- is more interesting when writing about Dylan’s
friendships with Ginsberg and other poets, which he saw up
close. Especially worthwhile are his memories of the
Philharmonic Hall show, which included  Joan Baez .  Granted access to unreleased studio recordings, Wilentz
gives a detailed account of the making of the 1966 LP “Blonde
on Blonde.”  Clinton Heylin has already explained much in “Dylan:
Behind Closed Doors,” though Wilentz provides great details,
such as how a lyric called “Freeze Out” gradually became
“Visions of Johanna,” a song fans have been trying to decipher
for decades. The identity of Dylan’s muse Johanna remains
unknown, even as the song’s twilight imagery is untangled.  Greil Marcus  Wilentz’s friend Greil Marcus has been placing rock in a
broader cultural context for decades.  His latest book, “ Bob Dylan by Greil Marcus : Writings
1968-2010,” compiles many perceptive articles, such as the
liner notes to the 1975 release of “The Basement Tapes.”  Marcus praises  Martin Scorsese ’s concert film “The Last
Waltz,” noting “the mystery that still hangs on Dylan like a
cloak.” The insights here don’t do much to remove Dylan’s
mystery: That’s what keeps the fans fascinated and will spur
more tomes.  Scorsese is quoted on the Wilentz cover, saying the book is
“as thrilling and surprising as listening to a great Dylan
song.” Still, give me a choice between reading these hardbacks
and listening to some unheard Dylan (such as “The Witmark
Demos,” released on Oct. 19) and I know what I would choose.  “Bob Dylan in America” by Sean Wilentz is from Doubleday
in the U.S. and the U.K. (390 pages, $28.95, 20.95 pounds). To
buy this book in North America, click  here .  “Bob Dylan by Greil Marcus: Writings 1968-2010” is from
Public Affairs (481 pages, $29.95). To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 