-- BOE's Fisher Says Market View of Slow Rate Increases for Years `Plausible'
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/boe-s-fisher-says-market-view-of-slow-rate-increases-for-years-plausible-.html
Bank of England Markets Director
 Paul Fisher  said that the slow U.K. interest-rate increases
assumed by investors for the next few years seem “plausible,”
in comments delivered at a seminar last month.  “If you take the market’s interest-rate futures curve you
get a very, very slow and delayed increase in interest rates
over the years ahead,” Fisher said on Oct. 20 at Warwick
Business School in a discussion broadcast on its  website . “From
where I sit, that seems reasonably plausible, but I’m certainly
not going to commit to that.”  The remarks came the same day the Bank of England revealed
a three-way split on the Monetary Policy Committee at its
decision last month and before the revamp of its forecasts
unveiled this week by Governor  Mervyn King . His colleague  Andrew Sentance , speaking alongside Fisher at the same event,
reiterated his call to start raising the  benchmark interest rate 
to combat inflation.  “If we find inflation expectations stick up, we will
certainly be increasing interest rates faster than otherwise
expected,” Fisher said. “If we find the economy falls over,
we’ll be doing something else.”  Economists predict the Bank of England will keep its rate
at 0.5 percent until the third quarter of next year, according
to the median of 41 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fisher, questioned on the likelihood of a renewed
recession, said that the experience of the 1930s was
particularly motivating officials to be careful.  ‘Nervous’ BOE  “A genuine second recession coming so hard off the first
one would be very unusual, but not unprecedented, and the way it
would come about is if there was a second shock,” he said. “In
the Great Depression, it was a premature tightening of policy,”
which is “one of the reasons we’re so nervous now about the
exact timing of a policy change. It’s certainly not the central
case but you can’t rule it out.”  With the interest rate at a  record low  since March last
year, Fisher said that this could also create problems in the
economy.  “I am very nervous about a long period with rates at half
a percent and what that does to the economic system,” he said.
“Just for example, people may get used to mortgage rates as low
they are. That’s a bit of a concern.”  Fisher said that inflation expectations aren’t showing a
“dramatic surge upwards” and he doesn’t predict “a
generalized inflation hitting the economy.” He said that the
bank assesses the amount of spare capacity in the economy at
“somewhere in the 3 to 6 percent range.”  Economic Capacity  “That implies that there’s been some destruction of
capacity which we don’t quite see,” he said.  The Bank of England this week predicted that  inflation  will
exceed its 2 percent target through next year. Fisher, who spoke
three weeks before the release of those figures, predicted that
inflation “could easily be somewhere between 3 and 4 percent”
in the first quarter after the government raises sales tax.  Sentance, another member of the bank’s rate-setting panel,
reiterated the need to “gradually” increase interest rates and
said that “there’s a lot of common ground in terms of my views
with Paul and my other colleagues.”  “Sometimes when you’ve got people who are having a
disagreement about the policy judgment, as is the case at the
moment on the Monetary Policy Committee, it’s important to
emphasize that there can still be a lot of agreement on the
analysis of where we are,” he said.  Sentance said that “headwinds” to growth include a
potential slowdown in the world economy and the government’s
 deficit-reduction program .  Budget Squeeze  “The fiscal tightening is obviously an issue,” Sentance
said. Still, “through the 1990s we had a broadly comparable
fiscal tightening” and “the economy weathered that really
quite well.”  Sentance reiterated that keeping the interest rate at the
current record low at a time when  inflation  is running above the
government’s 3 percent limit may hurt the central bank’s
credibility.  “I see there’s a bit of a credibility gap that’s in danger
of opening up for the Monetary Policy Committee -- that while
the public is experiencing relatively high inflation, that we
are keeping our policy settings very loose and not doing
anything about it,” he said.  Sentance has voted since June to raise the interest rate,
while his colleague  Adam Posen  last month favored an increase in
the bank’s bond-purchase plan. Fisher and the remaining six
policy makers opted to keep the current level of stimulus
unchanged. The bank did so again this month and minutes of the
Nov. 4 decision will be released on Nov. 17.  The webpage of the video of the discussion was last revised
on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  