-- BofA Sells BlackRock at Discount as Capital Deadline Approaches
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-11-12T21:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bofa-sells-blackrock-at-a-discount-as-capital-raising-deadline-approaches.html
Bank of America Corp.,  under
pressure to meet a year-end deadline for raising capital, sold
most of its  BlackRock Inc.  stake for 6 percent less than the
market price.  Bank of America sold 43.6 million BlackRock shares on Nov.
8 at $163 each, and will sell 2.45 million more directly to
Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s third-largest bank, the
Tokyo-based company said today. BlackRock shares, which hadn’t
traded that low since Sept. 23, closed at $173.04 on Nov. 2, the
day before the stock offering was announced.  Federal regulators demanded Bank of America, the biggest
U.S. lender, boost common equity by $3 billion through asset
sales as part of the company’s accord last year to escape the
Troubled Asset Relief Program and repay $45 billion in bailout
funds. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based company sold assets
such as stakes in Mexican and Brazilian banks, recording $1.9
billion in net gains as of Sept. 30.  While the discount isn’t unusual given current market
conditions, “it’s a shame that they have to sell it --
BlackRock is taking share everywhere they go,” said  Chris Whalen , a former Federal Reserve Bank of New York analyst and
co-founder of Institutional Risk Analytics in Torrance,
California. “It says more about Bank of America, that they have
to sell it to raise capital, than anything else.”  Possible Profit  The share sale’s price exceeded the $156.43 estimate by
Macquarie USA analyst  Roger Smith  in a Nov. 2 report. Prices of
secondary share offers have averaged 9.6 percent less than when
the transaction was initially announced, Smith said in the
report.  Bank of America would collect more than $8.3 billion from
the sales, including its plan to sell 5.21 million more shares
in the next 30 days to meet investor demand, BlackRock said on
Nov. 8. Profit on the sale before taxes may have been about $350
million, based on the difference between $163 and the carrying
value of the BlackRock shares of about $156 each as of Sept. 30.  The sales show the bank’s “strategy to narrow the focus of
our franchise and insure that every activity we have at Bank of
America is core to our three customer groups -- consumers,
companies and institutional investors,” spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski  said.  The bank’s economic interest in BlackRock would decline to
7.1 percent from 34 percent, pending completion of the sales,
according to the BlackRock filing. BlackRock declined to comment
on who acquired the shares, spokesman  Brian Beades  said.  BlackRock closed at $169.09 on Nov. 8, on the day Bank of
America sold its stake, and gained $1.87, or 1.1 percent, to
$173.07 today in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Bank
of America fell 25 cents, or 2 percent, to $12.12.  Market Conditions  Overall, the stock offering will more than double the
number of BlackRock shares trading, the Macquarie report said.  “That is a huge amount of stock to sell in one fell
swoop,” and investors shouldn’t be surprised by the discount,
said  Jaime Peters , a senior equity analyst at Morningstar Inc.  Some investors expected a smaller discount of 3 percent to
3.5 percent, said  Michael Nix , a portfolio manager at Greenwood
Capital Inc., a Greenwood, South Carolina firm that managed $807
million as of June 30.  “Because of how the financial markets are performing, it’s
a pretty difficult environment now to sell  stakes  like this,”
Nix said. Knowledge among traders of Bank of America’s pending
deadline suggested “some type of fire sale was occurring,” he
said.  BlackRock dropped 25 percent  this year , giving it a $32.5
billion market capitalization. The firm, which went public in
1999, became the world’s largest money manager last year with
the $15.2 billion purchase of Barclays Global Investors, the
biggest seller of exchange-traded funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 