-- Bond Sales Drop 23% in Europe as Irish Debt Woes Spook Issuers
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-11-12T11:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bond-sales-drop-23-in-europe-as-irish-debt-woes-spook-issuers.html
Corporate bond sales fell to a
three-month low in Europe this week as the region’s worsening
debt crisis sidelined issuers facing the biggest jump in
borrowing costs since May.  Sales slowed 23 percent to 4.8 billion euros ($6.6 billion)
from the previous week, the lowest since Aug. 15, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest
steelmaker, and HSBC Holdings Plc led sales with each raising 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion).  Investor concerns that the euro region’s most indebted
nations will need a bailout drove bond yields to records in
Ireland and Portugal. The sovereigns’ debt woes weighed on
corporate credit where relative yields on investment-grade debt
surged 10 basis points to 173 basis points over benchmark German
debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “The sovereign-induced weakness that has plagued the
markets for two weeks added to the poor liquidity and left
markets in a fragile state,”  Juan Esteban Valencia , a credit
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in a note to
investors. “Unsurprisingly, cash spreads have been widening.”  The leaders of the euro-region’s peripheral governments are
struggling to convince investors they remain viable amid
mounting debt burdens. Group of 20 leaders in Seoul discussed
Ireland’s debt crisis as the yield premium on Irish bonds
relative to German bunds climbed to a record yesterday.  Doux Postponement  The market turmoil prompted Doux SA, Europe’s largest
chicken producer, to postpone its first bond sale, according to
a person with knowledge of the transaction. The Chateaulin,
France-based company had planned to raise as much as 400 million
euros from seven-year, high-yield notes.  ArcelorMittal cut its borrowing costs by almost half on its
new seven-year notes, helped by near-record low benchmark
government bond yields. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker sold 1
billion euros of debt priced at 4.742 percent, having issued the
same amount of similar-maturity notes in May 2009 at 9.5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Benchmark government bond yields are being kept lower by
policy makers’ attempts to stimulate growth. Ten-year German
bund yields fell to 2.43 percent, from 3.43 percent at the start
of 2010. Europe’s benchmark government security reached a record
low of 2.087 Aug. 31, Bloomberg data show.  HSBC, the U.K.’s biggest bank, sold 1 billion euros of
securities due in 2017 priced to yield 78 basis points more than
the benchmark swap rate, according to Bloomberg data. Lender
Iccrea Banca SpA similarly sold notes, issuing 400 million euros
of two-year floating-rate debt.  Delta Lloyd NV , the Dutch unit of London-based insurer
Aviva Plc, raised 575 million euros from seven-year bonds
yielding 190 basis points more than swaps, Bloomberg data show.  -- Editors:  Andrew Reierson ,  Michael Shanahan   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  