-- Bonds Are `Skewed Against' Investors, Morgan Stanley's Gregory Peters Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-11-12T16:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bonds-are-skewed-against-investors-morgan-stanley-s-gregory-peters-says.html
The Federal Reserve’s decision to
purchase as much as $600 billion of Treasuries is unlikely to
help bond investors, according to  Gregory Peters , global head of
fixed-income research in New York at Morgan Stanley.  “You’re looking at all-time low yields in a variety of
fixed-income asset classes, so the asymmetry of return is highly
skewed against you,” Peters said in an interview on
“InBusiness” with  Margaret Brennan . “It’s a matter of when
these yields are going to move higher.”  The bond market’s reaction to the Fed’s decision to engage
in a second round of  purchases  of government securities has been
“much more muted” than the rally amid the initial speculation,
with less depreciation of the dollar and smaller drops in yields
for Treasuries maturing in five- to seven-years, Peters said.
“It’s tempering our enthusiasm around those trades.”  The Federal Open Market Committee embarked on a second
round of unconventional monetary stimulus, known as quantitative
easing, on Nov. 3 after a benchmark interest rate near zero and
an earlier program to buy $1.7 trillion of government and
mortgage-related securities failed to bring down an unemployment
rate that’s near a 26-year high.  QE2 Risk  “We’re still very much in the camp that QE2 is going to be
supportive for risk assets, but I think it’s important to note
there are stresses that are starting to show,” Peters said.
“You can’t ignore the inflation numbers coming out of China”
and the renewal of sovereign risk in Europe.  While Ireland may not miss any debt payments, “at some
point” the country will need to seek assistance from the
European Union policy makers, Peters said. “You have to tackle
the bank issue.”  Bonds in Ireland, Portugal and Greece have plummeted since
EU leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s proposal for a permanent rescue mechanism as of
2013 that would involve debt restructuring with losses for
private holders of sovereign bonds.  “The market already is pricing in a restructuring of
Ireland and even Portugal to some degree,” Peters said. “Spain
is really what we’re watching most closely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  