-- Bovespa Falls on Petrobras Earnings, China Tightening Concern
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-12T20:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bovespa-stock-index-futures-fall-on-concern-china-will-raise-interest-rate.html
The  Bovespa  stock index tumbled for
a fourth day, completing a weekly decline, as Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s earnings missed some estimates and concern grew
that China will take more steps to cool its economy.  Petrobras , the state-controlled oil company, slid the most
in three weeks.  Vale SA , the iron-ore producer whose top export
market is China, retreated with metals prices.  Fibria Celulose
SA , the world’s largest pulp producer, dropped 3.6 percent after
commodities fell the most in 18 months.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes , Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by
revenue, helped lead declines in real-estate companies after net
income fell by a third.  The  Bovespa  lost 1.2 percent to 70,367.15 as of the 3 p.m.
New York time close, completing a weekly drop of 3.1 percent,
its first since Oct. 22. Three stocks fell on the index today
for each that gained. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.7222
per dollar. The benchmark equity gauge slid yesterday as company
earnings fell short of estimates.  “The tightening is obviously bad, especially for
commodities,” said  Young Kim , who oversees $1.1 billion as
chief investment officer of Mirae Asset Global Investments
Brasil in Sao Paulo. Petrobras “needs really good news to
convert this bad sentiment.”  Petrobras Earnings  Petrobras reported third-quarter net income rose to 8.57
billion reais ($5 billion), or 97 centavos a share, from 7.94
billion reais in the year-earlier period. Profit, excluding some
items, was forecast to be 8.74 billion reais, according to the
average estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The shares fell 27 percent this year before today, trailing
the Bovespa’s 3.8 percent increase, as its $70 billion stock
offering in September sparked concern earnings per share will be
reduced. Today they slumped 3.3 percent to 25.85 reais.  Commodities retreated on speculation that China will
increase borrowing costs to damp inflation, eroding demand for
energy, crops and metals. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of 19 raw materials fell as much as 3.7 percent, led by
plunges in sugar and nickel.  China’s central bank may raise interest rates within weeks
after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 25 months in
October, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The country is
the world’s largest metals consumer.  Vale , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, dropped 1.8
percent, the most since Oct. 21, to 49.11 reais while the
 Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index  lost 3.7
percent. Fibria slipped the most since August, dropping to 29.18
reais.  ‘Risk-Free’  Cyrela’s third-quarter profit fell 33 percent on project
delays and after one-time gain last year wasn’t repeated. Net
income plunged to 176 million reais from 264.1 million reais a
year earlier, the Sao Paulo-based company said in a regulatory
filing yesterday. The stock fell 1.2 percent to 20.91 reais as
the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index  declined 2.1 percent.  Brazilian  stocks  may rally as much as 70 percent by the end
of next year as low interest rates worldwide and attractive
valuations lure investors, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  The  Bovespa  may climb to 122,000 next year in JPMorgan’s
“positive” scenario that assumes “risk-free” interest rates
remain low, New York-based strategist  Ben Laidler  wrote in a
research report today. The Bovespa may fall 14 percent in
JPMorgan’s “cautious” scenario that assumes earnings decline,
Laidler wrote.  The  Bovespa  trades for 11 times analysts’ 2011 earnings
estimates, compared with a ratio of 11.6 for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index and 15.5 for Mexico’s IPC, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.1 times the
reported profits of its companies, down from 25.5 times a year
ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  