-- Brazil's September Retail Sales Slow Less Than Expected on Jobs, Credit
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-11-12T17:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/brazil-s-september-retail-sales-rise-more-than-expected-11-8-vs-year-ago.html
Brazil’s  retail sales  slowed less
than expected in September, expanding for a fifth straight month
on record low unemployment and  credit  expansion.  Sales rose 0.4 percent in September from August, down from
a revised 1.9 percent in the previous month, the national
statistic agency said today. The result exceeded the forecasts
of 24 of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median
estimate was for no change. Sales rose 11.8 percent from a year
ago, beating the 11.1 percent median forecast of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Traders are wagering policy makers may be forced to resume
interest rate increases in the first quarter of next year as
demand stokes inflation, according to Bloomberg estimates based
on interest rate futures contracts. The central bank kept the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 10.75 percent at each of
the last two policy meetings, after raising the Selic by 2
percentage points from a record low 8.75 percent to prevent the
economy from overheating.  “The figures highlight the strength of domestic demand,
though the trajectory of economic expansion poses risks on
inflation,”  Flavio Serrano , senior economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said in an interview from Sao Paulo.  The yield on the interest rate future contract maturing in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 11.51 percent at 12:12 p.m.
New York time. The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7217 per U.S.
dollar.  Sales in September rose on fuel, furniture, office and home
supplies and personal items, the statistics agency said. Sales
of office supplies jumped 5.6 percent in September, from 2
percent in August, the agency said.  Jobs, Credit  Gross domestic product will grow 7.6 percent this year, the
fastest pace in a quarter of the century, according to the
median estimate in a Nov. 5 central bank  survey  of about 100
economists released this week.  The same survey shows economists expect consumer prices
will rise 4.99 percent next year.  Brazil’s  unemployment  rate unexpectedly fell to a record
low of 6.2 percent in September, signaling Latin America’s
biggest economy continues to expand at a pace that may stoke
inflation.  Bank  lending  in the same month rose at the fastest pace
since June as interest rates charged on consumer debt fell to a
record low, adding to pressures on policy makers to take steps
to cool the economy.  Outstanding loans expanded for a 19th straight month in
September to total 1.671 trillion reais ($972 billion), boosting
Brazil’s credit-to-GDP ratio to a record 46.7 percent.  Policy Balance  Brazil’s central bank is ready to take measures if
necessary to ensure inflation converges to its 4.5 percent
target, bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said yesterday.  Policy makers are closely monitoring food prices in the
country since it’s clear that they are contributing to
inflationary pressures, Meirelles said.  Brazil’s inflation quickened to an eight-month high in
October of 0.75 percent on food prices, the national statistics
agency said Nov. 9. Food prices rose 1.89 percent in October
after a 1.08 percent climb a month earlier.  “The bank can’t fight food inflation with interest rates,
but they can avoid its propagation,” Serrano said.  Policy makers forecast inflation will slow to 4.6 percent
next year should the overnight interest rate remain unchanged
without any additional rate increases, according to the Sept. 30
quarterly inflation report.  Lojas Americanas SA , Brazil’s biggest discount retailer,
said Nov. 5 third-quarter profit rose almost sixfold to 45.1
million reais from 7.9 million reais a year earlier, as it
opened stores to benefit from economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at   wfaries@bloomberg.net  