-- Bride Revolts, Cranach's Nudes, Gauthier, Red-Light Bar: Brussels Weekend
-- B y   J i m   R u a n e
-- 2010-11-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/bride-revolts-cranach-s-nudes-gauthier-red-light-bar-brussels-weekend.html
The soprano is crouched in a
refrigerator, solemnly observing us when the curtain goes up on
Janacek’s “Katya Kabanova.”  That’s not where the composer expected her to spend any
part of his story about a sensitive girl trapped in a stifling
marriage with a twit who is dominated by the matriarch from
hell.  But in Andrea Breth’s stark, gray staging, poor Katya is a
lustful rebel, who escapes bourgeois family values to tryst with
a local hunk.  Evelyn Herlitzius is radiant in the title role and Renee
Morloc stands out as the chilly mother-in-law who ends up on a
table mounting her paramour and gets comically entangled in his
suspenders without missing a note.  The decor (Annette Murschetz) is in the dusty, flea-market
style fashionable on German stages. Leo Hussain conducts
vibrantly with a feeling for the drama’s nuances.  “Katya Kabanova,” sponsored by Allianz SE, is at La
Monnaie/De Munt, Place de la Monnaie/Muntplaats, tonight at 8
p.m. Information:  http://www.lamonnaie.be  or +32-70-23-3939.  There’s no intermission (blame the director, not Janacek).
Sustenance awaits around the corner at the Belga Queen. Slurp
oysters and champagne in the restaurant’s front bar or descend
into the former bank’s vaults. At 32 Rue du Fosse aux
Loups/Wolvengracht. Information:  http://www.belgaqueen.be  or
+32-2-217-2187.  Saturday  Lucas Cranach ’s plain-faced, voluptuous nudes star in a
survey at Bozar. The elegantly organized exhibition features
some 150 works by the German Renaissance artist and
contemporaries, including Durer and Metsys. The show is full of
masterworks that situate Cranach on the cusp between rigid
medieval imagery to a more natural style of representation.  Also at Bozar is a show of “gothic” works by  Wim Delvoye ,
better known for his painted Chinese pigs and obsessive interest
in the mechanics of the digestive tract. These new metal
sculptures -- twisted circles of crucifixes and lace-like
structures, including a startling mini-cathedral -- form an
impressive counterpoint to the Cranach exhibition.  “The World of Lucas Cranach, an Artist in the Age of
Durer, Titian and Metsys” runs through Jan. 23, 2011. The show
transfers to the Musee du Luxembourg, Paris, in February 2011.
“Wim Delvoye, Knockin’ on Heaven’s Door” also runs until Jan.
23. Bozar, 23, Rue Ravenstein/Ravensteinstraat. Information:
 http://www.bozar.be  or +32-2-507-8200.  Saturday Night  Al Barmaki, on a narrow street off the Grand’ Place, serves
a superb selection of mezze and other Lebanese specialities. The
main room is comfortably open and the service welcoming.  Al Barmaki, 67 Rue des Eperonniers/Spoormakerstraat.
Information:  http://albarmaki.be  or +32-2-513-0834.  Mary Gauthier’s  songs are like tarnished rhinestones
reflecting her raucous, damaged life. The Baton Rouge,
Louisiana-born Gauthier, who had a semi-hit with “Drag Queens
in Limousines,” would probably be categorized as alt-country
though she has roots in the  Patsy Cline  tradition of scorched
women sharing tales of pleasure and abandonment. Gauthier will
be performing an acoustic set in the small, upper room of a
city-center music hall. U.K. singer-songwriter  Ben Glover  opens.  Ancienne Belgique, 8 p.m., 110 Rue Anspach/Anspachlaan.
Information:  http://www.abconcerts.be  or +32-2-548-2424.  Sunday  A Belgian from Flanders who lives in Mexico City, Francis
Alys is concerned with borders. One of the most intriguing items
in the retrospective at the Wiels arts center is a video of Alys
walking -- he seems to walk a lot -- through Jerusalem with a
can of green paint letting drip a line across the city that
reflects the armistice after the 1948 Arab-Israeli War.  The show, sponsored by Societe Generale Private Banking, is
at Wiels, 354, Avenue Van Volxemlaan, through Jan. 30, 2011.
Information:  http://www.wiels.org  or +32-2-340-0050.  Sunday Night  Fusion cuisine still reigns at Bar Bik, next to the Royal
Flemish Theater in the red-light district. The day’s specials
listed on the blackboard are usually inventive combinations and
the wine selection, though limited, is smart and inexpensive.
The opening hours are erratic, so it’s best to call.  Bar Bik, 3 Quai aux Pierres de Taille/Arduinkaai.
Information:  http://www.barbik.be  or 32-2-219-7500.  Peter Sellars will introduce his staging of  Gyorgy Kurtag ’s
“Kafka Fragments” at the theater next door. The Hungarian
composer’s virtuoso work, based on some 40 extracts from the
author’s letters and diaries, will feature soprano  Dawn Upshaw 
and violinist Geoff Nutall. If you stroll to the rear of the
main neo-Renaissance building, you’ll notice a giant metal
cement mixer squatting in the square. It’s a newly installed
sculpture by Wim Delvoye.  “Kafka Fragments” is at the KVS, 9 Quai aux Pierres de
Taille/Arduinkaai, at 8 p.m. Information:  http://www.kvs.be  or
32-2-210-1112.  ( Jim Ruane  is Editor at Large for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jim Ruane  in Brussels at 
 jruane1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 