-- Buttocks in a Bundle Recall the Sorry End of Captain Cook: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/buttocks-in-a-bundle-recall-captain-cook-s-end-lewis-lapham.html
When American Captain John Kendrick
sailed into Kealakekua Bay in 1789, he was aware of what had
happened to James Cook a decade earlier.  Despite an early enthusiastic reception from the residents,
hostilities had soon broken out, and Cook was killed by an
enraged mob. When his grieving crew asked for the body, they
received a bundle containing a piece of his buttocks, all that
was left.  The rest of the captain had been distributed, with the
skull going to the chief, his intestines used to rope off a
temple.  Kendrick’s was the fifteenth ship of record after Cook to
arrive in what is now Hawaii, and his visit turned out
differently. Naked women came alongside his vessel in canoes or
swam out in the clear waters of the bay. Some had flowers in
their hair and necklaces of shells.  Unlike the native women Kendrick’s crew had encountered in
the Pacific Northwest, these women were not expecting to trade
sex for trinkets. They wanted romance, and as one officer noted,
they “seemed not to esteem chastity a virtue.”  With most everyone vying for the job, Kendrick left three
of his men to establish a permanent American trading post in the
Kona district.  I spoke with  Scott Ridley , author of “ Morning of Fire ,”
on the following topics:  1. Global Transformation  2. U.S. Weak, Divided, in Debt  3. British Stranglehold  4. Privateer John Kendrick  5. Control of Pacific Trade  To listen to the podcast, click  here . To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 