-- Cameras to Catch Terrorists Triple in New York With Bomb Plots
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/cameras-to-catch-terrorists-triple-since-june-in-new-york-with-bomb-plots.html
New York City, after tripling since
June the number of cameras to monitor signs of terrorism, is
almost halfway to its goal of installing 3,000 of the devices as
part of its security network.  The spurt in additions to the $201 million initiative,
which officials said is to be completed by 2013, may represent
an increased urgency to finish the project. It comes in a year
that saw federal convictions starting in June based on plots to
bomb Times Square, John F. Kennedy International Airport and
synagogues in the Bronx.  The New York Police Department unveiled the Lower Manhattan
Security Initiative in 2005 as a proposed web of cameras,
license-plate readers and radiation detectors. Advocates of the
effort said a terrorist strike in the 1.7 square miles south of
Canal Street, like the one on Sept. 11, 2001, might send
financial shockwaves across the nation and around the globe.  “This is a critical component of the nation, indeed of the
world’s financial system,” said  Brian Michael Jenkins , a
terrorism specialist at the Rand Corp., a Santa Monica,
California-based policy group. “A major disruption caused by a
terrorist attack inside this perimeter could have cascading
economic consequences across the planet.”  About 1,300 cameras are connected to the network as of this
month, according to  Paul J. Browne , a spokesman for the NYPD. In
June, the network, which will be spread out to include Midtown
Manhattan, had only 450 cameras, New York Police Commissioner
 Raymond W. Kelly  has said.  As of February 2009, he said there were 300 cameras.  Evenly Divided  Browne said the cameras installed to date are about evenly
divided between the original plan area and Midtown, which lies
between Manhattan’s 30th and 60th streets. They currently
include 586 subway cameras added last month in Times Square,
Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal.  The system is to be 90 percent funded by the U.S. Homeland
Security Department. Its projected cost has grown from $81.5
million in 2006 to $201 million, of which about $136 million was
approved for spending, Browne said by e-mail.  Another $42 million has been requested, and the city will
ask for the rest in the future, since the project “will take
several years to complete,” said  Jason Post , deputy press
secretary to Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg , the founder and
principal owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  At a ceremony Nov. 9 at the New York City Police Museum in
lower Manhattan, Kelly said the  rapid expansion  over the past
five months is “great,” noting the recent addition of transit
system cameras to the network.  Alarms and Algorithms  “These are cameras that you can use as alarms, you can put
algorithms in to sound an alarm if someone leaves a package in
an area for an extended period of time or if you want to go back
and look at somebody in a red shirt who passed by a camera in
the last 30 days,” Kelly said.  The commissioner attributed the five years it has taken to
approach the midway point to complications of technology and
topography.  “There’s always technology challenges,” he said. “It’s
just not a question of turning on a switch. It’s a very complex
environment. The topography doesn’t lend itself to a lot of the
things that we want to do easily.”  “Transmissions, the camera positioning: all of that
because of the layout of Lower Manhattan makes it difficult to
do,” Kelly said.  ‘Moving Target’  “It’s been a moving target for a long time,” City
Councilman  Peter F. Vallone Jr. , chairman of the council’s
 Public Safety Committee , said of the initiative. “The first
goal as always is to get federal funding for things.”  Amy Kudwa , a Homeland Security spokeswoman, said the
department “can’t speculate on future competitive grant
disbursement.”  The Lower Manhattan area is home to landmarks such as the
site of the World Trade Center attacks, the New York Stock
Exchange and City Hall. Midtown includes Times Square, where a
Pakistani immigrant tried to detonate a car bomb in May, and the
headquarters of many major U.S. banks and securities firms.  The surveillance system combines cameras, owned by the city
and partners in the public and private sectors, with automated
license-plate readers and biological, chemical, nuclear and
radiation detectors, according to the police department.  Public ‘Stakeholders’  Fourteen business and public “stakeholders” own about 400
of the Lower Manhattan cameras, Browne said. They include the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and companies such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. , the fifth biggest U.S. bank by assets. The
bank’s headquarters on 200 West Street are across an
intersection from ground zero, where the twin towers once stood.  The police will start to add cameras from partners in
Midtown next month, Browne said. The current network can
accommodate 3,000 camera feeds and is designed to be expandable.  Andrea Raphael , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, and
Jeffrey Smith, a spokesman for the Federal Reserve Board of New
York, declined to comment.  There are “memorandums of understanding that have evolved
because of technology differences because all cameras are not
alike,” Kelly said. “Meshing them together is not an easy
thing to do.”  A command center opened two years ago in a Broadway office
building a few blocks south of Wall Street. Personnel from the
NYPD and its partners examine feeds from the cameras, alerts
from license-plate readers and reports from 911 calls.  ‘Force Multiplier’  “It’s a force multiplier” for the police, said  Andrew
Wartell , a security consultant who was Goldman Sachs’s
representative to the project and the bank’s vice president of
global security from 2004 to 2008. “They don’t have to put
cameras out on the same street that a company already has
cameras on to watch their own facility.”  The system is based in part on the City of London’s “Ring
of Steel,” a camera network in the square-mile financial
district in the 1990s after Irish Republican Army bombings.  New York’s system links cameras with a fiber-optic network,
completed in July, that lets investigators search through a
month’s worth of video, Kelly said.  The department this year began using analytic software in
some cameras that can spot suspicious signs, such as unattended
packages and movement in restricted areas, he said.  “It doesn’t do you any good to put 3,000 cameras out and
then have an expectation that anyone’s going to watch any of
them,” said Wartell, explaining the need for software. “That’s
certainly the thing you’ve seen in London with the Ring of
Steel. They have tons of cameras, but they don’t have tons of
people watching.”  Times Square Attack  In the probe of the attempted May 1 bombing of Times
Square, surveillance cameras caught  Faisal Shahzad ’s vehicle as
it traveled along West 45th Street before being left at a curb
near Broadway theaters, officials said. Shahzad pleaded guilty
to the bombing attempt June 21 in Manhattan federal court.  In London, images from security cameras helped
investigators there identify four suicide bombers who attacked
that city’s transit system in July 2005, killing 52 people.  “People can say, ‘Well, the cameras in London didn’t
prevent the bombings from happening,’ and that’s correct,” said
 Fredrik Nilsson , general manager of Lund, Sweden-based Axis
Communications AB, a maker of surveillance equipment. Nilsson
said he was staying in a Times Square hotel on the day of
Shahzad’s attempt. “For forensics, it was invaluable to figure
out where it happened and who did it.”  JFK, Synagogues  In the 2007 plot to blow up JFK Airport fuel lines and
tanks, static surveillance cameras weren’t a key issue because
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with the help of an
informant, was already following and recording the conspirators.  This was also the case in a 2008 plan hatched by four New
York men to bomb Bronx synagogues. The JFK plotters were
convicted Aug. 2 in Brooklyn, New York, federal court. The Bronx
conspirators were convicted in Manhattan federal court Oct. 18.  “We’re not saying technology alone is the answer, but it
helps,” said Browne, the NYPD spokesman, in an e-mail.  In addition to delays tied to cuts in federal terrorism
grants, the camera network also faces opposition from civil
liberties advocates. The proposal invades privacy and doesn’t
prevent terrorist attacks, according to the New York Civil
Liberties Union.  ‘Enormous Implications’  The group sued the NYPD and the Homeland Security
Department, claiming freedom-of-information requests yielded too
little data on a program with “enormous implications for
privacy rights.”  The NYCLU is seeking to learn how the police will use the
information, who else will see it and how long the data will be
kept, according to its complaint.  The NYPD case, filed two years ago, is pending in New York
State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The suit against Homeland
Security is in New York federal court in Manhattan. The
government has moved for a judgment in its favor.  “Our main concern is that it’s unlike most police
activity, which is focused on people who are suspected of
unlawful activity,” said  Christopher Dunn , associate legal
director of the NYCLU, the state affiliate of the American Civil
Liberties Union. “In fact, 99.99 percent of people who are
captured in the system are just going to be people walking
around, going about their business.”  Privacy Guidelines  Police  privacy guidelines  state that the cameras are aimed
at public places “where no legally protected reasonable
expectation of privacy exists” and stipulate that video
recordings must be disposed of within 30 days unless the deputy
commissioner for counterterrorism orders otherwise.  “The law is settled that there is no privacy right in a
public area,” said Vallone, of New York’s city council. “None
of us are thrilled about being observed in public places, but I
think the vast majority of New Yorkers understand that it’s
necessary.”  The government argues that the project information sought
by the NYCLU is being legally withheld because it’s used for law
enforcement purposes and disclosure would expose “critical
infrastructure” to attack.  Patrick Lynch , president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent
Association, the  union  representing about 22,000 city police
officers, said that while cameras can help investigate a
terrorist attack, “they don’t help prevent it.”  “A camera has never arrested an armed robber or thwarted a
terrorist threat,” Lynch said in a statement. “You need police
boots on the ground to make that happen, and with 6,000 fewer
police officers on our streets than in 2001, the NYPD is already
stretched too thin.”  Browne, the police spokesman, said there’s no doubt that
cameras help in investigations.  Brooklyn Bridge  In 2003, cameras on the Brooklyn Bridge discouraged a
possible attack there, according to federal prosecutors. Iyman
Faris, who is serving a 20-year prison sentence for plotting
with al-Qaeda to bring down the span, sent a message to
colleagues in Pakistan that the “weather is too hot,”
indicating that cameras and other security measures made the
plot unlikely to succeed, the U.S. said.  Browne said the efficacy of a camera network has already
been proven in some New York City neighborhoods.  “While it’s harder to document when the crime hasn’t
occurred because of cameras, we know that crime in public
housing plummeted by a third within a year after cameras were
installed,” he said.  The lawsuits are New York Civil Liberties Union v. New York
City Police Department, 112145-2008, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan), and New York Civil Liberties
Union v. U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 1:09-cv-05325,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 