-- Canada's Dollar Falls to One-Week Low on China, Ireland, Decline in Stocks
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-12T22:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/canadian-currency-weakens-for-a-second-day-on-china-rate-outlook-equities.html
Canada’s dollar slid to the lowest
level in more than a week as concern China may raise interest
rates to cool growth pushed stocks and commodities lower.  The loonie posted its first five-day drop in three weeks
versus the greenback, which has rallied against all of its most-
traded counterparts as the sovereign-debt crisis in Ireland
spurred demand for a refuge. Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told reporters in Seoul following a two-day summit that
Group of 20 leaders failed to find an agreement on tackling
imbalances in currencies and trade, though progress was made.  “There’s a fair bit of volatility with the drama over
G-20, euro-zone periphery and China right now influencing a
squaring of short-dollar positions and risk-off from an equity
perspective,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at National Bank of Canada, said by phone from Toronto. “That
has caused a number of currencies to falter against the U.S.
dollar, the Canadian dollar being one of them.” A short
position is a bet a currency will fall.  Canada’s currency declined as much as 1.1 percent to
C$1.0146 per U.S. dollar, the weakest level since Nov. 3, before
trading at C$1.0123 at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It was the biggest
intraday drop since Oct. 19. The loonie closed at C$1.0033
yesterday after touching parity with the greenback for a fifth
straight day. One Canadian dollar buys 98.78 U.S. cents. The
loonie fell 1.2 percent this week.  Euro Versus Loonie  The euro rose for the first time in six days against the
Canadian dollar, gaining 1 percent to C$1.3860 as European
finance ministers sought to reassure investors who have driven
bond yields to record highs in Ireland and Portugal on
speculation the European Union will need to provide a bailout.  Officials from Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the U.K.
issued a statement saying a crisis-resolution mechanism they’re
discussing that may force bondholders to share the cost of a
bailout wouldn’t apply to outstanding debt.  Canada’s shorter-term bonds were little changed, with the
yield on two-year debt up one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.59 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent security
maturing in December 2012 dropped 1 cent to C$99.86.  Crude oil for December delivery tumbled as much as 3.8
percent to $84.52 a barrel. The contract rose yesterday to
$88.63, the highest level since October 2008. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 1.2 percent.  The G-20 achieved “nothing substantive, and as a result
the market has taken that as a sign of non-confidence,” Spitz
said. “Equities are faltering from that perspective as well,
which drives the U.S. dollar up, which drives commodities down,
which drives commodity currencies down too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  