-- Centrica to Raise U.K. Domestic Gas, Electricity Tariffs by 7% on Average
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-11-12T16:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/centrica-to-raise-u-k-domestic-gas-electricity-tariffs-by-7-on-average.html
British Gas, a unit of  Centrica Plc ,
the country’s biggest energy supplier, will raise natural gas
and electricity prices for U.K. households by 7 percent,
becoming the second supplier to do so this year.  The increase, starting Dec. 10, will raise the average
weekly bill for about 8 million customers by 1.50 pounds
($2.40), Centrica said today in a statement. Based on
consumption of 20,500 kilowatt-hours for gas and 3,300 kilowatt-
hours for power, the typical bill will rise by 80 pounds a year.  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc said two weeks ago that it
would raise household gas prices by 9.4 percent in December.
Centrica said its increase reflects a 25 percent rise in the
wholesale gas price, costs of environmental programs and rising
network charges. The utility plans to invest 15 billion pounds
in the next decade on power plants and securing gas supplies.  “The decision to raise bills by seven per cent is
completely unjustified,” Andrew Horstead, risk analyst at
Utilyx Ltd., a London-based adviser to industrial energy buyers,
said in an e-mail. “The gas market is well supplied at the
moment and we expect this to continue for months to come.”  Centrica’s earnings before interest and tax from its
residential gas supply unit were 387 million pounds in 2009,
according to  data it submitted  to Ofgem in June. Centrica was
the only one of the six biggest utilities to post a profit.  Scottish & Southern posted a loss of 60 million pounds from
its domestic gas supply business. Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power,
Electricite de France SA, E.ON AG, and RWE AG also said they
made a loss in their U.K. residential gas supply businesses, in
 reports submitted  to Ofgem, Britain’s energy regulator.  Centrica rose 1.3 percent to 340.2 pence in London trading,
its highest closing price since Sept. 20. The stock has risen 21
percent this year, valuing the company at 17.5 billion pounds.  The increase won’t apply to the 300,000 most vulnerable
customers until the winter is over, and 1.6 million customers on
fixed-price deals won’t be affected, the utility said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  