-- Nigeria Bars Lenders From Property Investments, Ends Universal Banking
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-11-12T11:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/central-bank-of-nigeria-says-universal-banking-to-end-in-country-on-nov-15.html
Nigerian commercial banks won’t be
allowed to buy investment properties or offer loans and gifts to
political parties under new industry rules, the central bank
said.  Lenders will be prohibited from purchasing any real estate
other than for their offices and branches, the Abuja-based
 Central Bank of Nigeria  said today in a statement on its
website. The rules come into effect on Nov. 15.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country and biggest oil
producer, is tightening laws after firing the chief executive
officers of eight of the country’s 24 lenders last year after
bad debts, much of them from loans to speculators in the local
stock market, threatened the industry. The central bank pumped
620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) into banks and set up the
state-owned Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria that will buy 2.2
trillion naira of bad debts from them this year.  Banks must operate as commercial, merchant and specialized
lenders, with universal banking falling away, the central bank
said today. They have 90 days to submit a compliance plan, it
said.  Under the rules, lenders won’t be allowed to give loans for
people to invest in the primary issues of shares of banks, the
central bank said.  Cecilia Ibru , the former chief executive officer of Oceanic
Bank Plc, one of those bailed out during the debt crisis, was
convicted by the Nigerian High Court last month for bank fraud.
She forfeited 191 billion naira in assets and funds, including
94 properties in the U.S., Dubai and Nigeria and shares in 100
companies, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos via Accra at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 