-- McFerrin Toots, Tweets, Beeps in Choral Revue, Yearns to Jam With Clapton
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/mcferrin-toots-tweets-in-concert-seeks-gig-with-eric-clapton.html
Vocalist  Bobby McFerrin , known for
his uncanny ability to emulate bumble bees and bassoons, was
originally hooked on the piano.  It wasn’t until he hit his late 20s that he discovered the
instrument within and found himself singing jazz,  blues  and
Mozart. The 10-time  Grammy Award-winning  McFerrin will showcase
his musical roots tonight and Saturday in his  Jazz at Lincoln
Center  debut, when he takes the stage at the Rose Theater.  “I never felt that I was just a jazz singer,” McFerrin,
60, said in a phone interview. “My parents, who were singers,
exposed me to classical music, rock, jazz, basically everything.
This is the kind of home I grew up in.”  The switch from keyboard to voice unleashed a singing
voyeur who gets a kick out of abandoning convention. At Lincoln
Center, he’ll perform solo hits and music from his genre-
blending April release, “VOCAbuLarieS,” his first recording in
8 years, a collection of choral songs with strokes of world and
a cappella music.  A 43-member choir will share the spotlight with him, which
includes 30 members of the Denmark-based a cappella group  Vocal
Line ; rhythm and blues singer Lisa Fischer; and Joey Blake, Dave
Worm and LaTanya Hall, plucked from McFerrin’s Voicestra
ensemble.  Roger Treece, a Voicestra member and co-producer of
VOCAbuLarieS, will lead the chorus.  Sing Along  McFerrin said he’ll nudge those in the audience to join in
with him and the choir on some of the tunes from his latest CD.  “The best part is when I’m surprised by the incredible
talent out there, when people get up there with their hearts
open and vulnerable,” he said. “That’s a beautiful thing.”  McFerrin’s first music mentors were his parents. His
father, baritone Robert, Sr., was the first black American man
under contract to sing at the  Metropolitan Opera . His mother and
voice teacher, Sara, sang in Broadway shows and regional opera
houses.  “I didn’t want to be a classical singer,” McFerrin said.
“To learn singing, I spent six years working on technique, and
then I spent time deliberately not listening to singers.”  After releasing his self-titled debut in 1982 and “The
Voice,” two years later, he produced “Simple Pleasures” and
the smash hit CD, “Don’t Worry, Be Happy,” which won the 1988
Grammies for Song of the Year, Record of the Year and Best Male
Pop Vocal Performance.  Mozart Manifesto  “The Voice,” which features him singing solo, without any
instruments, established his signature approach to vocals. In
the 1990s, McFerrin finally returned to classical music and
jazz, collaborating with pianist Chick Corea on “Play” (1992)
and “The Mozart Sessions” (1996) and with cellist  Yo-Yo Ma  on
the multi-platinum-selling recording, “Hush” (1992).  An orchestral conductor, McFerrin held the creative chair
of the  St. Paul Chamber Orchestra  in Minnesota beginning in
1994. In that post, he performed works by Mozart, Bach and
Tchaikovsky and experimented with modern approaches to choral
tradition.  “There’s no difference in doing jazz or classical, not for
me,” McFerrin said. “My attitude was always the same. Let’s
have fun, and let’s have discovery in this music.”  With classical, jazz and pop music covered in his
repertoire, McFerrin wants to make a rock recording in the
future.  “Project wise, I make it up as I go along, but I have a
dream of one day working with  Eric Clapton ,” said McFerrin, who
lists the guitarist’s 1970s single with Derek and the Dominos,
“Bell Bottom Blues” as his favorite Clapton tune. “Hard-rock
blues is a genre I’ve participated in, and I think Eric would be
the cat to work with.”  McFerrin and guests perform tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m.
at Jazz at Lincoln Center’s Rose Theater, 60th and Broadway in
Manhattan. Information and tickets:  http://www.jalc.org  or +1-
212-721-6500.  ( Patrick Cole  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 