-- Chavez Promotes Venezuela General Criticized for Threat Against Opposition
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-11-12T04:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/chavez-promotes-venezuela-general-criticized-for-threat-against-opposition.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
promoted a general criticized for vowing not to cooperate with
opposition leaders should they take power after 2012 elections,
raising tensions in the run-up toward the vote.  Henry Rangel Silva will take over as General-in-Chief,
Chavez said last night on  state television . The military won’t
tolerate an opposition government because it would try to
“sell” the country, the general said in a Nov. 8 interview
published in  Ultimas Noticias .  “The imperialist oligarchs will never have an Armed Forces
subordinated in the shadows to their gross interests,” Chavez
said yesterday in announcing the appointment.  The promotion coincides with the opposition’s rising
popularity amid  soaring inflation , rising crime and a shrinking
economy. Chavez lost his two-thirds majority in the National
Assembly in September and will seek a third six-year term in
2012 that would allow him to rule until 2019.  Chavez, a 56-year-old former paratrooper who was jailed in
1992 for a failed coup attempt, took power in 1998 elections.
Chavez also lashed out against Jose Miguel Insulza, Secretary
General of the Organization of American States, who called
Rangel’s remarks “unacceptable” in an interview published
yesterday in  the Miami Herald .  ‘You’re Irresponsible’  “Now Insulza is saying that he’s calling for a coup,”
Chavez said. “Don’t be ridiculous. You’re irresponsible,
unworthy. Get the facts first.”  Chavez said Rangel is free to express his political
opinions and that the opposition won’t be able to sway favors in
the military ranks.  “The Armed Forces don’t have partial loyalty, rather
complete loyalty to the people, a life project and a Commander-
in-Chief. We’re married with this project,” Rangel said during
the Nov. 8 interview.  Chavez said yesterday he fell victim to generals earlier in
his presidency that were aligned with the U.S. He was briefly
ousted from power in a coup in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  