-- Chavez's Bank Law Won't Spark Nationalizations, Venezuela's Escotet Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-11-12T19:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/chavez-s-banking-law-won-t-spark-nationalization-venezuela-s-escotet-says.html
Venezuela’s  Juan Carlos Escotet ,
president of the  Banking Association , said that a bill being
discussed by lawmakers to tighten control of the industry won’t
usher in a general nationalization.  “We’re studying the bill closely because it allows greater
control of banks, but it’s not a first step in a state takeover
of the industry,” Escotet said today during a news conference
in Caracas. “The bill includes a separation between private and
public banks so deposits aren’t at risk.”  Lawmakers aligned with President Hugo Chavez presented the
banking bill yesterday in the National Assembly. The legislation
would force banks to surrender 5 percent of their pre-tax profit
for social programs and declares the industry to be of social
interest, making it easier to nationalize banks that fail to
comply with the law.  The bill, which Escotet called “excessive” and
“discretionary,” was approved in a first vote yesterday and
must pass a second vote in the assembly dominated by Chavez
allies before being signed into law and published in the
Official Gazette. According to  Softline Consultores , 5 percent
of Venezuelan bank profits amounted to 314 million bolivars
($73.1 million) in 2009 and to 168 million bolivars in the first
half of this year.  Imposing Rules  Chavez said yesterday that he’ll impose rules on private
banks to finance middle-class housing projects to resolve the
country’s deficit and won’t hesitate to nationalize banks that
refuse to support government-led initiatives.  The government has closed more than a dozen banks in the
past year for unauthorized mergers and noncompliance with
capital requirements.  “Let’s get organized and put that money in a fund,”
Chavez said on state television. “Private banks that don’t
follow the law, nationalize them.”  Banks are already forced to dedicate 16 percent of their
loan portfolios for mortgages and home building which totals 25
billion bolivars, Escotet said.  Banks are also hoping that the government honors 4.8
billion bolivars in outstanding loans from companies that have
been expropriated by Chavez, he said.  ‘Accept the Challenge’  Escotet, who is also president of  Banesco Banco Universal ,
one of the largest private banks in the country, said the
association will present a plan to the government to work
together in a bid to build 1 million homes in four years.  “The bankers understand. After 13 bank takeovers, we know
the government will act firmly against the sector,” Escotet
said. “We accept the challenge to work on the housing issue.”  New York-based Citigroup Inc., Bilbao, Spain-based Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, and Toronto-based Bank of Nova
Scotia all hold stakes in banking operations in Venezuela.  Madrid-based Banco Santander SA sold its local bank to the
government for $1.05 billion last year. The state now controls
about 25 percent of the industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  