-- Fuel Squeeze in China Drives Crude Toward $100: Energy Markets
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-12T15:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/china-diesel-squeeze-boosts-refineries-as-100-oil-looms-energy-markets.html
China’s drive to curb energy use is
exacerbating a shortage of diesel, sending refining profits to
the highest level in almost two years and raising the likelihood
oil will trade at $100 a barrel in coming months.  The  return  from processing Dubai crude into diesel, or
gasoil, climbed above $14 a barrel in Singapore today to the
highest level since January 2008, after service stations ran dry
in China’s eastern and southern coastal provinces, according to
prices from PVM Oil Associates, a London-based brokerage. The
margin from turning Brent into gasoil in Europe rose 15 percent
since Nov. 5, prices on the ICE Futures Europe exchange show.  China is limiting power supplies to meet Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s goal of cutting energy use under a five-year plan that
ends next month. That’s prompting factories to resort to using
their own diesel-powered generators, driving up demand for the
fuel and forcing refiners such as PetroChina Co., Asia’s biggest
company, to process more crude. Refining rose to a record in
October, Chinese government data showed yesterday.  “We expect this to have a bullish impact on not only the
regional diesel market, but it may converge with other factors
to create a perfect storm in driving up the oil price,” said
 Paul Ting , president of Paul Ting Energy Vision LLC, an energy
research company in New Jersey.  Oil for December delivery rose to a two-year high
yesterday, trading at $88.63 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. It was at $85.75 a barrel at 3:36 p.m. London time,
bringing its gain this year to 8 percent.  Record Refining  “With international oil prices likely to rally above $100
a barrel in the coming months, expect fuel shortages to
exacerbate ahead,” said  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.  China processed 37 million metric tons of oil, or 8.8
million barrels a day, last month, China Mainland Marketing
Research Co., which compiles data for the National Bureau of
Statistics, said from Beijing. The previous all-time high was
8.6 million barrels. The nation will account for more than a
third of global oil demand growth next year, according to the
International Energy Agency.  The dearth of fuel is raising the likelihood that Chinese
diesel imports will exceed exports for the first time since
2008, when Beijing hosted the Olympic Games. Net exports were
220,000 tons in September, down from 290,000 tons in August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Imports rose fivefold
to 5.6 million tons in 2008 as the country built stockpiles.  Tightening Market  “Exporters are hoping that the diesel shortage emerging
here may make China a net diesel importer again,” said  Victor Shum , Singapore-based senior principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc., a
U.S. energy consultant. “If the diesel shortage continues, and
I expect it to continue at least through the end of this year,
then this is going to help tighten the regional gasoil-diesel
market.”  The profit from processing Dubai crude into gasoil, the so-
called  crack spread , climbed to $14.49 a barrel today in
Singapore, the highest level since Jan. 15, 2009, according to
PVM Oil. It has averaged $11.16 this year. The European  spread 
was at $12.85 a barrel today, compared with last week’s close of
$11.19, ICE Futures Europe exchange data show. It has averaged
$10.42 this year.  Investors should take advantage of rising demand to buy
January gasoil futures, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
The contract rose to $768.25 a ton on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange yesterday, the highest level since May 4. It
traded at $747.50 a ton today.  ‘Structural Shift’  “The diesel shortage is acute, and we expect pressure on
supplies to last until China’s five-year plan is over at the end
of the year,”  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman
Sachs in New York, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“There is a global structural shift occurring, in that demand
growth is being led by diesel rather than gasoline. China will
become a significant diesel exporter once the shortage ends.”  Rising diesel prices in Asia are eroding the profit from
shipping  cargoes to Europe  for winter heating. More than 300,000
tons were delivered to Europe from South Korea and Japan in
September as traders took advantage of price differences. The
discount of Singapore prices to Europe’s was $12 yesterday, down
from $23.73 on Sept. 30, according to PVM data.  Even before the efficiency drive cut power supply, China’s
diesel demand growth in the first nine months of the year was a
“gangbuster” 13 percent, Ting of Paul Ting Energy said. It was
“always teetering on being diesel neutral,” he said.  While the five-year plan to cap consumption expires in
December, truckers in the country are still likely to face lines
at pump stations next year, according to Mirae Asset’s Kwan.
More than 2,000 retail stations closed after running out of
diesel fuel, the official Xinhua News agency said Nov. 7.  “The best long-term solution is to deregulate fuel prices,
but I doubt this will happen any time soon,” Kwan said. “As
long as China distorts demand and supply by regulating domestic
fuel prices, diesel shortages will still happen
intermittently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  