-- China's Faster Inflation Fuels Speculation Rate-Rise Near
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T05:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/china-may-raise-interest-rates-again-after-inflation-surges-survey-shows.html
China’s central bank may raise
interest rates within weeks after  inflation  accelerated to the
fastest pace in 25 months in October, a Bloomberg News survey of
economists showed.  The benchmark one-year lending rate will rise to 5.81
percent by year-end from 5.56 percent, according to the median
forecast of 11 analysts polled after yesterday’s price data. The
deposit rate may climb to 2.75 percent from 2.5 percent, the
survey showed.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index slid 2.6 percent
as of 1:01 p.m. local time on speculation that officials may
move as early as today or this weekend after increasing banks’
reserve requirements on Nov. 10. Higher rates could complicate
government efforts to limit gains in consumer and property prices
by luring more money to the fastest-growing major economy.  “We know there’ll be more tightening given how inflation
has accelerated and home prices haven’t come down, but the
sudden talk that there may be an interest-rate hike as early as
the end of today really spooked the markets,” said  Mark Tan , who
helps oversee $12 billion at UOB Asset Management Ltd.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday that October’s
economic data indicated Chinese growth was “firm” and more
“policy tightening” is needed.   Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and China Vanke
Co. led lenders and property developers lower as the benchmark
index fell the most in three months.  Reserve Requirements  Price pressures in China’s economy may be exacerbated by
the nation’s currency curbs and imbalances in trade and capital
flows that Group of 20 leaders are meeting in Seoul to tackle.
The central bank announced a 0.5 percentage point increase in
lenders’ reserve requirements this week after the customs bureau
reported that October’s trade  surplus  surged to $27.1 billion.  Some lenders including Bank of Communications Co., had an
additional increase, meaning their requirements rose a full
percentage point, two people with direct knowledge of the
situation said yesterday.  Brian Jackson , an emerging markets strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in Hong Kong, said yesterday that more interest-rate
increases are “clearly on the way.”  The central bank raised rates last month for the first time
since 2007 as part of an exit from crisis policies that included
scrapping in June the yuan’s peg to the dollar.  A record expansion in  lending  has added to concern that
China’s inflation, now centered on food costs, will broaden. In
October, new lending was a more-than-forecast 587.7 billion yuan
($89 billion), a central bank report showed yesterday.  While the latest inflation number was above all 28
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, it matched
rumors cited before the data by firms including Guoyuan
Securities Co. in Shanghai.  “There’s talk of an interest-rate hike over the weekend,”
said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “It’s quite possible given how
inflation has accelerated.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  