-- China's Stocks Rebound From Biggest Drop in Year, Led by Drugmakers, Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-15T08:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/china-s-stocks-decline-on-inflation-concerns-sliding-commodity-prices.html
China’s stocks rebounded  on
speculation the equity market’s plunge last week by the most in
a year was excessive given the economy’s growth prospects.  Gauges of drugmakers and consumer companies jumped more
than 2 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended those
industries. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. paced gains for
lenders after Caixin Online reported it and China Construction
Bank denied a report that loans to property developers have been
halted. Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. led
a retreat for metal producers as China International Capital
Corp. said further policy curbs may extend their declines.  China’s stock valuations are “very reasonable,” said
Bin Hu, Chief Executive Officer of BNY Mellon Western Fund
Management Co. in Shanghai. “As long as the Chinese economy
grows at about 8 to 10 percent, corporate earnings should grow
faster than that.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 1 percent to 3,014.41
at the close at 3 p.m. The index fell 5.2 percent on Nov. 12,
the most since Aug. 31, 2009. The losses halted a six-week rally,
as investors speculated policy makers may raise rates for the
second time in two months to curb inflation. The CSI 300 Index
climbed 0.7 percent to 3,314.89 today, while the CSI Smallcap
500 Index rose 2.8 percent after falling 6.1 percent on Nov. 12.  A  gauge of health-care stocks  gained 5.1 percent for the
biggest advance in the CSI 300 Index today. A measure of
consumer staples surged 3.9 percent and an index of consumer
discretionary companies rose 2.3 percent. Adrian Mowat, JPMorgan
Chase’s chief Asian and emerging-market strategist, recommended
these industries, saying in a Bloomberg Television interview
they will benefit from the government’s efforts to restructure
its economy away from exports towards consumption.  Growth Prospects  Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co. led gains for drugmakers,
jumping 8.7 percent to 22.09 yuan. Kweichow Moutai Co., a
spirits maker, paced an advance for consumer companies, rising
3.5 percent to 183.69 yuan.  “The medium-term outlook is good,” said HSBC Private Bank’s
 Arjuna Mahendran , the head of investment strategy for Asia in
Singapore at HSBC Private Bank, a unit of Europe’s largest
lender overseeing $460 billion globally. “This is an opportunity
to buy stocks at decent prices.”  The Shanghai Composite now trades at 19.4 times reported
earnings, compared with 26.4 times at the beginning of the year,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy surpassed that of Japan in the third
quarter, Japan’s government said. The gross domestic product in
the three months ended September was $1.415 trillion, compared
with Japan’s $1.372 trillion, Japan’s Cabinet Office said today.  Bank Loans  China Real Estate Business reported that the four biggest
state banks won’t issue new loans to developers for the
remainder of the year. The banks had met their allotted targets
for loans to property developers for the year, the newspaper
reported.  Agricultural Bank of China and China Construction Bank Corp.
denied the report, Caixin Online reported today, citing
unidentified people at the banks. Agricultural Bank of China
rose 1.1 percent to 2.75 yuan, erasing a 1.5 percent drop
earlier. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the biggest
lender, jumped 6.8 percent to 5 yuan.  Wang Zhenning, a Beijing-based press official at ICBC said
he wasn’t clear about the issue. Yang Yan, a press official at
Construction Bank, couldn’t immediately comment. Calls to the
other two banks’ press offices weren’t answered.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the brokerage remains
“constructive” on the country’s equities in the coming quarter
and would view any decline as “buying opportunities” for medium
term upside, analysts led by Helen Zhu said in a report.  ‘Market Confidence’  Interest rates aren’t close to levels to impair growth,
valuations are “far from over-stretched” and more funds will
shift to equities from property and other commodities, they said.  “Despite high likelihood of rapid monetary tightening, we
remain constructive on the markets over the coming quarters,”
the analysts said. “Historical precedent shows that early stage
tightening tends to reinforce market confidence in growth
momentum.”  Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October, the fastest
pace in two years, and more than the 4 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists, according to the
statistics bureau. September prices rose 3.6 percent. The
government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  The People’s Bank of China on Nov. 10 ordered an increase
in bank reserve requirements by 50 basis points, the first
nationwide boost since May. Some lenders, including Bank of
Communications Co., have to lift their reserve ratios by
an additional 50 basis points, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said. The increases take effect this
week.  Metal Outlook  China’s metals producers may extend declines in the “near
term” on speculation the country will further tighten monetary
policy, according to CICC.  Jiangxi Copper, the nation’s largest producer, slumped 3.7
percent to 39.78 yuan. Chalco, as the aluminum producer is known,
fell 1.7 percent to 11.35 yuan, extending the 8.1 percent slump
on Nov. 12.  “If you look at China’s actual commodity demand, it is not
growing that much at the moment,” Mowat said. Investors are
“ignoring this because of QE2,” he said, referring to the U.S.
government’s quantitative easing program based on U.S. debt
purchases to boost its economy.  -- Chua Kong Ho ,  Irene Shen . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3048 or
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  