-- China Real-Estate Bubble Concern Fails to Deter Investors
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-11-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/china-real-estate-bubble-concern-fails-to-deter-global-investors-in-poll.html
Most global investors think China is
experiencing a real estate bubble, even as they say the world’s
fastest-growing major economy offers the best opportunity for
making money over the next year.  Two-thirds of the people surveyed in the latest Bloomberg
Global Poll say a bubble is inflating property values in China,
where the economy grew at a 9.6 percent annual rate in the third
quarter. Still, when asked to identify one or two markets
offering the best opportunities in the next year, 33 percent of
investors cite China, more than any other country. Brazil ranks
second at 31 percent, followed by India with 29 percent and the
U.S. at 23 percent.  Only 10 percent of respondents describe China as cooperative
and willing to compromise. Almost nine of 10 say the Asian
superpower pursues its own interests, even at the risk of
creating tensions with other countries, in the quarterly poll of
1,030 analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  China “has definitely taken advantage of the fact that it
is the big player on the global scene,” said poll respondent
 Will Aston-Reese , vice president for money-market sales at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., in New York. “Seeing China act
less cooperatively and more in its own self-interest would be a
natural byproduct.”  Investors Optimistic  Fifty-nine percent of investors say they’re optimistic that
the policies of Chinese President  Hu Jintao , 67, will help his
country’s investment climate. Among eight world leaders, only
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , 56, ranks higher at 61 percent.  Almost two-thirds of respondents from Asia and Europe are
optimistic about the impact of Hu’s policies, compared with 53
percent of investors in the U.S.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted on Nov. 8 by Selzer
& Co., of Des Moines, Iowa, and has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 10 percent growth
this year in China’s gross domestic product.  China’s record $28 billion trade surplus with the U.S. in
August heightened criticism that its government is keeping its
currency weak to spur exports. U.S. President  Barack Obama , who
has pledged to  double exports  within five years, has sought to
make the currency debate more than a U.S.-China issue by linking
it to a worldwide effort to rein in trade imbalances.  At a summit of the Group of 20 nations yesterday, China
rejected policy proposals that fault its exchange-rate regime
and criticized the Federal Reserve’s decision to pump $600
billion into the U.S. economy to spur growth, an action known as
quantitative easing.  Other People’s Medicine  “Don’t make other people take the medicine for your
disease,” Yu Jianhua, a director general at China’s Ministry of
Commerce, told reporters at the Seoul meeting. “Quantitative
easing will have a very big impact on developing countries
including China.”  Asian investors are more likely to say China is in a real
estate bubble. Seventy-four percent of respondents in Asia hold
that view, compared with 64 percent in the U.S. and 63 percent
in Europe.  Rising real estate values in China reflect the abundance of
“cheap money,” said poll respondent  Gordon Murray , senior
credit analyst at Belle Haven Investments Inc., in White Plains,
New York. “Anytime there’s a lot of idle money and a desire for
yield, you can have a boom.”  Home Prices  China’s property prices rose in October at the slowest pace
in 10 months, after the government raised interest rates.  Home
prices  in 70 cities climbed 8.6 percent from a year earlier, a
pace slower than September’s 9.1 percent increase.  China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange this week
announced rules that would force banks to hold more foreign
exchange and strengthen auditing of overseas fund-raising as
part of its efforts to reduce money inflows that may inflate
asset bubbles. The measure underscores concerns outside the U.S.
that the Federal Reserve’s expanded monetary stimulus will cause
capital to flood into emerging markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  