-- China May Start Soybean Sales From Reserves Next Week, Oils Analyst Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T10:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/china-may-start-soybean-sales-from-reserves-next-week-oils-analyst-says.html
China may begin selling stockpiled
soybeans from next week to slow gains in food  prices , helping
trigger a sell-off of oilseeds today, said an analyst at China
Cereals & Oils Business Net.  Total sales may be 2.6 million metric tons, said Cao Huimin
of the Beijing-based vegetable oil research company, citing
discussions with traders. The sale may be held in Heilongjiang
province, said Cao. “We haven’t received confirmation, but that
concern is helping drive down prices,” Cao said.  Soybeans, soy oil and palm oil in Dalian plunged by the
daily limit amid talk of sales and as investors speculated
policy makers may raise interest rates for the second time in
two months as early as today to curb inflation. The government
has sold aluminum, zinc, sugar, cotton and corn this year in an
effort to ease supply shortages and curb price gains.  “A round of tough control measures on the grain market is
being worked out and large volumes of stockpile sales and
policies aimed at curbing speculation may come out anytime,”
Cnyouzhi.com, a website owned by China Grain Reserves Corp.,
said in a report today, citing a state researcher Liu Xiahui.  The government will “install mechanisms” to curb
speculation in essential commodities, Zhou Wangjun, deputy
director of pricing at the National Development & Reform
Commission, said in on-line  interview  Nov. 10.  Soybeans Plummet  Asian equities  and U.S. stock-index futures also slid on
concern China may raise interest rates as consumer prices jumped
4.4 percent in October, the fastest pace in two years. The
People’s Bank of China boosted its benchmark one-year lending
rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56
percent, the first increase since 2007.  Soybeans for September delivery on the Dalian Commodity
Exchange delivery slipped as much as 4 percent to 4,584 yuan
($690) a ton. Soybean oil declined the same amount to 9,992 yuan
a ton and palm oil lost 5 percent to 9,154 yuan.  There were also talks the government may sell some soybean
oil and rapeseed oil, China Cereals’ Cao said.  “Even as the fundamentals on oilseed products are bullish,
traders who have been building up their positions now find
themselves caught” by selling pressure given policy
uncertainties, Cao said.  China has bought about 5 million to 6 million tons of
soybeans from farmers in Heilongjiang for temporary reserves in
the past two years, according to official data. China’s soybean
inventory by Sept. 30 may be 16.6 million tons, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture forecast Nov. 9, revising the
inventory up 5.9 percent from its October projection.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  