-- China Sells Zinc From Stockpiles at Below-Market Prices; Futures Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T02:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/china-sells-zinc-from-stockpiles-at-below-market-prices-futures-decline.html
China, the world’s biggest metals
consumer, sold almost all the zinc on offer from state reserves
at below-market prices in the latest auctions held in an attempt
to curb price gains. Shanghai futures fell by the daily limit.  The government sold 49,992.97 metric tons of 50,000 tons on
offer through auctions on Nov. 9 at an average price of 19,511
yuan ($2,946) a ton, said the State Bureau of Material Reserve,
which is under the National Development and Reform Commission.
Shanghai. The highest price was 19,750 yuan and the lowest
19,110 yuan.  Zinc prices in Shanghai rose to the highest in nine months
in October and the sales follow auctions of aluminum last week.
The government has sold paper pulp, magnesium, sugar, cotton and
corn from state reserves this year to ease supply shortages and
curb high prices and tame inflation, which gained to the highest
level in two years last month.  “A series of releases from the state reserves sent the
message that the price increase of commodities are unacceptable,
and the government can and is ready to take actions,” Zeng
Tong, an analyst at data provider Shanghai Metals Market, said
before the announcement.  China’s consumer price index climbed to 4.4 percent in
October, the National Bureau of Statistics said Nov. 11,
building the case for the central bank to add to last month’s
interest-rate increase.  Taming Prices  Metal for May delivery on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
dropped 5 percent from the previous settlement price to 19,935
yuan a ton today. It reached 21,785 yuan on Oct. 26, the highest
level since January. Zinc on the London Metal Exchange declined
3.6 percent to $2,450.50 a ton.  “Some of the metal was produced a few decades ago, so a
slightly lower prices is acceptable,” Wang Xiang, an analyst at
Cofco Futures Co. said.  Some metals producers in China have been ordered by the
local governments to suspend operations as regional government’s
strive to meet Beijing’s energy-saving goal set for the end of
2010. Aluminum smelters have been affected the most.  Shaoguan smelter of Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan Nonfemet Co.
has started to suspend operations since Oct. 21 after
authorities found that excessive levels of thallium were
discharged by the plant into a river. Zhongjin is the nation’s
third-largest zinc producer.  Still, “zinc smelters have not been seriously affected by
the power constraint, and there is no supply shortage,”
Shanghai Metals’ Zeng said.  The bureau will sell 34,500 tons of lead on Nov. 16.  -- Helen Sun . With reporting by  Feiwen Rong . Editors: Richard
Dobson, Jake Lloyd-Smith.  000060 CH <Equity> CN  To contact the Bloomberg News staffs on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Shanghai at 
 fron2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  