-- China to Ask Foreigners for Home Ownership Proof, Securities Times Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T04:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/china-adds-curbs-for-home-purchases-by-foreigners-securities-times-says.html
China will require first-time
foreign buyers to prove they don’t own other properties in the
country as it steps up restrictions to curb the flow of
speculative money, the Securities Times reported, citing a
statement issued by the housing and currency regulator.  Foreigners will have to provide statements before home
purchases to show they don’t own other properties in the country,
along with proof of at least a year’s employment in China, the
newspaper said. Overseas companies are only allowed to buy
offices in cities where they are registered, it said.  China’s central bank raised bank reserve requirements this
week to tame inflation and restrain foreign capital after the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing monetary policy.
China also has tightened rules on down payments, suspended
mortgages for third homes, and last month raised interest rates
for the first time in three years.  “The government aims to curb both property prices and
speculative capital, and the measure may have some impact both
on commercial and residential property in big cities where there
has been more foreign capital,” said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “But it also depends
on how strict they will implement the policy.”  The  measure  on the Shanghai Composite Index tracking
property stocks fell 3.2 percent to a one-month low at the 11:30
a.m. break.  China Vanke Co. , the country’s biggest developer,
dropped 3.4 percent to 8.87 yuan in Shenzhen, and rival Poly
Real Estate Group Co. declined 3.7 percent to 13.43 yuan.  New Policy  The requirement for home ownership statements is the first
for the nation, Du said. In the past, foreigners have been able
to buy multiple properties in different cities because the
ownership records were maintained locally, he said.  The  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  and the
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development didn’t immediately
respond to a faxed query. The newspaper didn’t specify when the
policy will be effective.  China will introduce new rules on currency provisioning and
tighten management of banks’ foreign-debt quotas, the foreign
exchange regulator said in a  statement  on Nov. 9, forcing banks
to hold more foreign exchange and strengthen auditing of
overseas fund raising to curb hot-money inflows that may inflate
asset bubbles.  China’s  property prices  rose 8.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in 10 months, the statistics
bureau said this week. The Royal Bank of Canada said after the
release of the data that the government would want further
easing of property prices and the “policy bias” is in favor of
more interest rate increases.  Policy makers may introduce more measures in the fourth
quarter amid signs of a price recovery, according to Nomura
Securities Co. The likely policies include a property tax and
the enforcement of the so-called land added-value levy in the
“overheated cities,” the brokerage said in a Nov. 4 report.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  