-- Chrysler Works to Improve Resale Values as Part of Turnaround
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-12T18:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/chrysler-works-to-boost-resale-values-building-on-grand-cherokee-success.html
Chrysler Group LLC is working to
raise the resale value of its vehicles, seeking to replicate its
effort with the redesigned Jeep Grand Cherokee, to increase
revenue from leases and improve the company’s image.  Changes from the previous model and Chrysler’s volume and
pricing strategy boosted the residual value of the Grand
Cherokee’s four-wheel-drive version to 45 percent in the third
quarter from 35 percent a year earlier, according to researcher
ALG Inc. Residual values are projected resale values that
determine buyers’ monthly lease payments.  Chrysler used testing that simulated three years of use
while developing the Grand Cherokee to make it more reliable,
and the vehicle’s third-quarter deliveries rose 35 percent, with
a higher percentage coming from leases. The automaker is working
to repeat that success with 15 other new or refreshed models,
most of which begin production late this year.  “Beyond any shadow of a doubt, the leasing factor on the
Grand Cherokee is the reason it’s having an outstanding sales
rate,” said Dan Frost, a Chrysler dealer in suburban Detroit.  The Grand Cherokee’s percentage of sales from leases
climbed to 25 percent in September from 2 percent in the same
month last year, according to Edmunds.com.  Chrysler last week reported its best quarter since emerging
from bankruptcy and raised its 2010 forecast. The third-quarter
net loss narrowed to $84 million, and net revenue rose 5.2
percent from the second quarter to $11 billion, driven by Grand
Cherokee sales, Chief Financial Officer  Richard Palmer  said.  Leases Increase  The percentage of sales from leases on Chrysler’s four
brands this year increased to 11 percent from 2.6 percent in
2009, while still trailing the industry’s 21 percent, according
to Edmunds. Chrysler’s overall residual values rose to 50
percent in September from 36 percent a year ago, according to
CNW Research. The industry average in September was 76 percent.  “We obviously make money leasing vehicles,” Palmer said
on a Nov. 8 conference call. “The residual values on our
vehicles are improving, especially as we improve, as we
introduce the new products. So we expect that to grow.”  The new or refreshed vehicles include the midsize Chrysler
200 sedan, Dodge Durango and Fiat 500.  Resale value predictions haven’t yet been computed for most
of Chrysler’s new vehicles, Fernando Ubeda, ALG data analytics
manager, said in an e-mail this week.  Chrysler’s residual values had been hurt, in part, by last
year’s uncertainty around the company, Jim Morrison, the head of
Jeep product marketing, said in an interview in San Antonio in
late October. Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy in June 2009
under the control of  Fiat SpA .  Reliability Reports  None of Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler’s vehicles
scored above average in Consumer Reports’ annual reliability
survey released last month. Twelve of the 20 Chrysler models for
which enough data were available for a rating scored below
average, the magazine said.  The U.S. automaker spent extra time in the past year trying
to improve the Grand Cherokee’s resale value, believing it would
help drive sales through better leasing, executives said in
interviews last month. As part of its increased testing, the
company had 72 Jeeps driven nonstop for 36,000 miles, which
represents about three years of use, said Philip Jansen, chief
engineer on the Grand Cherokee.  “You start to see any issues,” he said. “It really helped
just kind of pull out stuff that historically we would not have
found for three or four months into production.”  The automaker met with ALG in March about plans for the
vehicle, including specifications and production plans, then
returned in May with the new Jeeps, Morrison said.  Better Position  “After getting a chance to drive it, we felt the changes
put the Grand Cherokee in a better competitive position,” Ubeda
said in an e-mail explaining the Santa Barbara, California-based
firm’s higher rating.  Chrysler is making similar efforts to win higher residual
value ratings on the new vehicles, Morrison said.  “It’s really just good communications,” Morrison said.
“We’ve mirrored it for all of the rest of the brands.”  The new Grand Cherokee began production in May and full
volumes started arriving in showrooms during the third quarter,
Chrysler officials said.  “I’ve never seen a product have this kind of sort of
support from people who are in the business of evaluating
vehicles,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
Chrysler and Fiat, said on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  