-- CIBC Suspends Two Employees in Montreal Following OSC Tipping Allegations
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-12T16:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/cibc-suspends-two-advisers-in-osc-trading-probe-update2-.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
suspended two investment advisers accused by Ontario’s
securities regulator of trading on insider information of
Barrick Gold Corp.’s takeover of Placer Dome Inc. and three
other deals passed on by a Toronto lawyer.  The Ontario Securities Commission  alleges  that Mitchell
Finkelstein, a lawyer for  Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg  LLP,
along with CIBC advisers Paul Azeff and Korin Bobrow of
Montreal, were engaged in an illegal insider “tipping and
trading scheme” between November 2004 and May 2007.  “As a result of the charges filed by the staff of the
Ontario Securities Commission yesterday, these two individuals
have been suspended immediately,” CIBC spokesman  Rob McLeod 
said today in a statement. “We have and will continue to
cooperate fully with the OSC investigation.”  Finkelstein, a partner in Davies’ corporate finance and
mergers and acquisition practices in Toronto, was alleged to
have sought out and acquired details of takeovers, which he
leaked to CIBC’s Azeff, according to a statement of allegations
filed yesterday by the Canadian regulator.  Those deals included  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. ’s 2004
bid for Masonite International Corp., Barrick’s takeover offer
for Placer Dome in 2005, and Sherritt International Corp.’s
acquisition of Dynatec Corp. in 2007.  Azeff shared the information with his co-worker, Bobrow,
and they would then trade the stocks based on the undisclosed
details. The pair also recommended the stocks to family, friends
and clients, the OSC said.  TD Waterhouse  The regulator also named former TD Waterhouse Canada
investment advisers Howard Jeffrey Miller and Man Kin Cheng,
also known as Francis Cheng, accusing them of insider trading
and tipping. Miller learned of the material from one of Azeff’s
clients, according to the statement.  “We have a strong risk and governance culture and take the
trust our clients place in us very seriously,” Maria Leung, a
Toronto-Dominion spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We fully cooperate with and support the regulatory
authorities, in this instance the OSC.”  Finkelstein, who left the firm yesterday, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  “Davies has recently been informed of the allegations
against a former member of our firm and has cooperated fully
with the OSC,” managing partner  Shawn McReynolds  said in an e-
mailed statement. “We have reviewed the allegations and have
concluded they are isolated to actions allegedly taken years ago
by one individual.”  Azeff, Bobrow, Miller and Cheng couldn’t be reached for
comment.  A hearing has been set for Jan. 11  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  