-- Citigroup Suit Shows Why Most Wall Streeters Walk: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-11-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/citigroup-suit-shows-why-most-wall-streeters-walk-ann-woolner.html
Citigroup Inc. investors either fell
on their faces or cleared a high hurdle when a federal judge
this week killed (part of) their securities fraud case.  So contradictory were the spins on the ruling that both
sides declared victory. Each side won something, so each lost
something, too.  The ruling underscores how tough it is to hold firms or
people liable for the financial disaster that Wall Street helped
visit on families and funds across the country. It also shows
that the task isn’t impossible, although two recent U.S. Supreme
Court rulings and a 1995 law make it harder.  Bankers and brokers can be dead wrong about what securities
are worth, they can be made stupid by greed, and still stave off
a civil suit for securities fraud.  To lose, they have to have been so reckless that they
abandoned ordinary standards of care, the danger so obvious that
they knew of it or should have, as U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  wrote in the Nov. 9 Citigroup ruling.  Even then, or even if bankers outright lied to
 shareholders , the investor lawsuit still can’t jump that first
hurdle without pretty good evidence of extreme recklessness or
intentional deceit.  You’ve got to have something resembling a smoking gun to
sue for securities fraud, plus a claim that you were shot by it.
And you have to find that evidence before you can delve into the
company’s records or question its people.  That’s according to the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act, specifically aimed at making it tougher to sue. It
works.  Countrywide Case  Given that high bar, it’s remarkable that any such case
survives. This year judges have tossed out other shareholder
suits against Citigroup and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit.  And yet, investors suing Countrywide Financial Corp. for
alleged securities fraud made that jump and then won class-
action status late last year. Before things got worse,
Countrywide parent Bank of America and accounting firm KPMG
agreed to a $624 million settlement.  In the current case, Citigroup investors sued in 2007
hoping to represent everyone who bought  shares  in the bank
during a five-year period when the stock price dropped from $50
to less than $4. They claimed Citigroup and 14 officers or
directors deliberately understated the bank’s risks and
overstated the value of its assets.  Surviving Claims  Of the many financial instruments that posed risk for
 Citigroup , Stein threw out the claims pertaining to all but one
of them -- collateralized debt obligations. He reduced the
covered period from five years to 15 months and dismissed the
case against seven of the 14 accused individuals.  What’s left are claims that the bank and seven  officers 
misled investors about the value and risk of CDOs. The company
allegedly concealed the fact that, beyond underwriting CDOs,
Citigroup itself owned more than $45 billion of the stuff.  “The claims that were sustained clearly represent the
heart of our complaint,” investors’ lawyer  Ira Press  of the
Kirby McInerny firm in New York said in a telephone interview.
“We certainly are happy that investors are allowed to
proceed.”  There was cheer all around.  “We are pleased the court has dismissed the great majority
of plaintiffs’ claims and substantially reduced the class period
at stake,” Citigroup said in a statement.  It has taken three years to get to this point in the case,
and yet it is in an early stage.  Looks Like Smoke  The plaintiffs have yet to win the right to turn it into a
class action for other  Citigroup  investors to join. And, of
course, they haven’t yet proven their claims.  They have only shown that they’ve got what looks like a
smoking gun, but only for claims involving CDOs.  By denying or understating Citigroup’s CDO exposure in
public statements during 2007 and 2008, the company and some
officers showed an “incongruity between word and deed,” the
judge wrote.  By then, the bank had to have known its situation was risky
and was working internally to try to stabilize, if evidence the
plaintiffs have so far offered is borne out, he said.  They don’t have to prove “that defendants were
clairvoyant,” and were certain of future losses, Stein wrote.  Citigroup says it’s confident it can fend off those claims
as the case proceeds.  But then, Press says he’s confident investors will win.
Already they’ve made it through a course that defeated others,
with at least a little weight left to carry them on.  It shouldn’t have been this hard.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  