-- Colombia Bonds Post Biggest Weekly Drop Since September on China's Rates
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-12T21:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/colombia-bonds-post-biggest-weekly-drop-since-september-on-china-s-rates.html
Colombia’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields to their biggest weekly increase since September, on
speculation China may raise interest rates, eroding demand for
the nation’s commodity exports.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 rose 35 basis points in the past week, its biggest increase
since the period ended Sept. 10. The yield rose 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 7.33 percent today at 3:18 p.m. New
York time, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price plunged 0.878 centavo to 124.768 centavos per peso.  “Investors are selling riskier assets given the high
uncertainty we’re seeing in global markets, first with the
European debt crisis, and now with rates in China,” said  Felipe Campos , head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Alianza Valores.  China may increase interest rates within weeks after
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 25 months in
October, according to a Bloomberg survey. Irish bonds rose
today, ending 13 days of declines, as Group of 20 officials said
they’re working on ways to resolve the debt crisis.  Oil accounts for about 40 percent of Colombia’s total
exports and coal accounts for about 15 percent. In the first
nine months of the year, Colombia sent 6 percent of its exports
to China, its second-biggest trading partner after the U.S.
which accounted for 42 percent of the South American nation’s
sales abroad.  Yields on Colombia’s benchmark 2020 bonds rose 16 basis
points yesterday, the biggest increase on a closing basis since
May. The securities triggered stop-loss levels when they touched
7.10 percent, pushing investors to sell the debt, according to
Campos.  ‘Excuse’  The Finance Ministry said this week its TES auctions are
finished for the year after it issued 15 trillion pesos ($8
billion) of the peso securities.  Local investors may also be selling some of their holdings
of the government peso bonds, known as TES, in order to purchase
corporate bonds that are being offered in the local market,
according to Campos.  Isagen SA, a Colombian state-controlled power producer,
sold 400 billion pesos of inflation-linked securities in the
domestic market yesterday. Ecopetrol SA may sell as much as 1
trillion pesos of bonds in the Colombian market during the week
of Nov. 22 or Nov. 29,  Laura Ramirez , a member of the sales
group at Correval who is involved in managing the oil company’s
debt sale, said in an interview earlier this week.  “Some investors are looking for an excuse to sell and bond
offers like that of Isagen or Ecopetrol give them another reason
to get out of TES,” said Campos.  The peso slid for a sixth day, weakening 0.5 percent to
1,867.33 per U.S. dollar, from 1,858.50 yesterday. It dropped
2.5 percent this week, its biggest decline since the period
ended May 7. The drop pared the peso’s gain this year to 9.5
percent, the best performance among the six most-traded Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  