-- Commodities Tumble Most in 18 Months on Chinese-Rate Concerns
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-12T23:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/commodities-worldwide-slide-on-china-rate-rise-concern-copper-oil-drop.html
Commodities fell the most in 18
months on speculation that China will increase borrowing costs
to damp inflation, eroding demand for crops, metals and energy.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
fell 3.6 percent, the most since April 20, 2009. Sugar fell by a
record 12 percent in London and the most in 22 years in New
York. Corn and soybeans in Chicago dropped by the exchange
limit.  China is the world’s leading consumer of many commodities,
and  consumer prices in the country last month topped a two-year
high. On Nov. 9, raw materials rose to a 25-month peak as gold
surged to a record, while cotton and copper headed for all-time
highs. Wheat and rice also slumped today, and the grain
component in the CRB had the biggest drop at 5 percent.  “The risk of rising Chinese rates increases the chances
for demand to slow,” said  Dale Durchholz , the senior market
analyst at AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois. “The message
is, China is taking a more aggressive stance to cool inflation
and push speculative money out of commodities.”  The CRB index dropped 11.25 to settle at 303.6, with every
component down. The gauge dropped 3.2 percent this week,
snapping an 11-week rally. The measure is up 7.1 percent this
year.  The People’s Bank of China boosted its benchmark one-year
lending rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to
5.56 percent, the first increase since 2007. The central bank
may raise interest rates within weeks, a Bloomberg News survey
of economists showed.  Weekend ‘Talk’  “There’s talk of an interest-rate hike over the weekend,”
said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “It’s quite possible given
how inflation has accelerated.”  Commodities in China including copper, zinc, cotton, sugar,
rubber, corn and soybeans fell by the daily limits on concern
that another rate increase and additional sales from reserves of
raw materials would slash demand.  “Investors took profits after the recent rally in
commodities,” said  Judy Zhu , an analyst at Standard Chartered
Bank in Shanghai. “The rumor that China may raise interest
rates also contributed to the general panic selling.”  This week, commodity exchanges in the U.S. and Europe
increased the cost of trading after rallies earlier this month
in cotton, sugar and soybeans. ICE Futures U.S. boosted margins,
or the amount of money traders must keep on deposit, by 81
percent to $5,460 per speculative sugar contract.  Raw-sugar futures in New York tumbled 12 percent, the most
since July 1988. Yesterday, Europe announced plans to increase
exports.  ‘Risk Averse’  “The commodity market overall has turned bearish, and a
lot of traders have become risk averse,” said Ricardo Scaff, a
trader at Rabobank International in New York. “The European
Union news is negative, and it has become expensive for some
funds to hold positions with the jump in the margin
requirements.”  Copper tumbled the most in four months in New York and fell
from a record in London. China is the biggest consumer.  “China sent shivers through the market,” said Michael
Gross, an analyst at OptionsSellers.com in Tampa, Florida.
“Prices will continue to fall next week.”  Gold futures tumbled the most in four months to settle at
$1,365.50 an ounce in New York. On Nov. 9, the price reached a
record $1,424.30.  “From a technical perspective, it’s not over for gold,”
said Leonard Kaplan, the president of Prospector Asset
Management in Evanston, Illinois. “Gold just had a really bad
day. If it goes under $1,315, then you can go on the promenade
deck and wave the rally goodbye.”  Cotton futures fell 5 cents a pound, the most allowed by
ICE. China is the world’s biggest consumer of the fiber.  ‘Brake’ on Demand  “Raising rates has a negative psychological impact and
will put a brake on the rising demand,” said Keith Brown, the
president of Keith Brown & Co., a brokerage in Moultrie,
Georgia.  On Nov. 10, cotton reached $1.5195, the highest level in
140 years of trading. The price has jumped 91 percent in the
past 12 months as demand climbed in China, eroding inventories
in the U.S., the biggest exporter.  Crude oil fell the most in more than three weeks. China is
the world’s biggest energy-consuming country.  “Anything that provides evidence of a slowing Chinese
economy is likely to be reflected in oil-demand estimates,”
said Adam Sieminski, the chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank
AG in Washington. “It would also tend to moderate bullish views
for where oil prices will be in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  