-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Climbs to Five-Month High
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-12T21:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/consumer-sentiment-index-in-u-s-increased-to-69-3-in-november.html
Consumers in the U.S. gained
confidence in November for the first time in three months,
raising the odds that an improving job market and increasing
wages and stock prices will lift spending.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
sentiment  index  rose to 69.3, in line with the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the highest level
since June, from 67.7 in October. The measure averaged 88.9 in
the five years to December 2007, when the last recession began.  Retailers from  J.C. Penney Co.  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  are
still planning on using discounts to entice customers during the
holiday season, typically merchants’ biggest sales and hiring
period, as  unemployment  holds near 10 percent. The report also
signals the end of political campaigning following the election
may help dispel pessimism over the economic outlook.  “It’s a very good sign for spending in the months ahead,”
said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in Detroit. “We are seeing a little bit better numbers on
the job front,” he said. Additionally, “the uncertainty we had
approaching the elections is over and the improvement in the
stock market suggests to a lot of Americans that maybe the
economy is slowly improving.”  Economists forecast the measure would increase to 69,
according to the  median  of 66 projections in the Bloomberg
survey. Estimates ranged from 66 to 75.  Shares Fall  Stocks slumped, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its biggest weekly drop in three months, on concern China will
try to rein in economic growth and inflation by raising interest
rates and slow the global recovery. The S&P 500 fell 1.2 percent
to 1,199.21 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  The S&P 500 rose 3.7 percent in October after an 8.8
percent gain the prior month, the best back-to-back performance
in more than a year.  Shares rallied last month as Fed policy makers telegraphed
they stood ready to take more action to spur growth, bring the
jobless rate down and prevent prices from falling. The central
bank last week announced plans to buy an additional $600 billion
in Treasury securities through June in a bid to lower borrowing
costs.  Today’s sentiment report showed consumers saw inflation
picking up over the next 12 months, while maintaining longer-
term forecasts.  Households said they expect an inflation rate of 3 percent
a year from now, up from the 2.7 percent projected in October.
Over the next five years, the measure tracked by the Fed,
Americans’ forecast held at 2.8 percent for a second month.  Current Conditions  The increase in confidence this month was paced by a gain
in the measure of current conditions, a reflection of Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether it is a
good time to buy big-ticket items like cars. The gauge of
 expectations  for six months from now, which more closely
projects the direction of consumer spending, also rose.  J.C. Penney, the third-largest U.S. department-store
company, today said third-quarter profit rose 63 percent, helped
by sales of its  Liz Claiborne  clothing. The Plano, Texas-based
company said the holiday shopping environment will “remain
highly promotional.”  The merchant’s middle-income customers are “probably the
most constrained” as the U.S.  jobless rate  lingers near 26-year
highs, Chief Marketing Officer  Mike Boylson  said in a Nov. 8
interview.  More Jobs  Signs the labor market is improving may be helping to
reassure consumers. Employers added 151,000 workers to payrolls
in October, boosted the workweek and raised wages, a Labor
Department showed last week. The average number of Americans
filing  claims  for jobless benefits over the past four weeks
dropped to the lowest level in two years, the agency said this
week.  The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago,
the most since 2006.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, will grow at a 2.4 percent annual pace this
quarter, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg this month. That is up from the 2 percent gain
projected last month.  Purchases increased at a 2.6 percent rate in the third
quarter, the most since the end of 2006, and the economy
expanded at a 2 percent annual pace, according to figures from
the Commerce Department.  Americans’ discontent with the economy gave Republicans a
majority in the House of Representatives and allowed the party
to add six seats in the Senate. The end of campaigning may help
ease uncertainty about the direction of policy.  “Elections have a way of depressing the way people feel
about things,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’ve
certainly seen a number of episodes where consumer sentiment has
fallen leading up to elections and then got a bit of a pop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  