-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Likely Rose in November on Jobs
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-12T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-probably-improved-in-november-after-job-gains.html
U.S. consumers’ outlooks probably
improved in November for the first time in three months after
employment and incomes increased, economists said before a
report today.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
sentiment  index  rose to 69 from a final reading of 67.7 in
October, according to the  median  of 66 projections in a
Bloomberg News survey. It would be the highest level since June.  Growing confidence raises the odds retailers from  Macy’s
Inc.  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  will see sales climb during the
holiday season, typically their biggest shopping and hiring
period. The report may also be an early gauge of how the Nov. 2
election results will influence Americans’ views.  “People are not splurging, but they’re spending at a
little bit faster rate than earlier in the year and that
reflects employment coming back slowly,” said  Sal Guatieri , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “We
anticipate a little better holiday-shopping season this year.”  The report is scheduled for around 9:55 a.m. New York-time.
Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 66 to 75.  Signs the labor market is improving may be helping to
reassure consumers. Employers added 151,000 workers to payrolls
in October, boosted the workweek and raised wages, a Labor
Department showed last week. The average number of Americans
filing  claims  for jobless benefits over the past four weeks
dropped to the lowest level in two years, the agency said this
week.  Raising Forecasts  Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department store chain,
last week reported a 2.5 percent gain in sales for October and
raised its profit forecast for the second half of the year. This
week, the company posted earnings for the third quarter that
were stronger than analysts forecast as sales rose.  “While we experienced some softness in sales early in
October given the unseasonably warm weather, we ended the month
with a strong trend going into the holiday selling season,”
Chief Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said in a Nov. 4
statement.  The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago,
the most since 2006.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, will grow at a 2.4 percent annual pace this
quarter, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg this month. That is up from the 2 percent gain
projected last month.  Spending Picking Up  Purchases increased at a 2.6 percent rate in the third
quarter, the most since the end of 2006, and the economy
expanded at a 2 percent annual pace, according to figures from
the Commerce Department.  Americans’ discontent with the economy gave Republicans a
majority in the House of Representatives and allowed the party
to add six seats in the Senate. The end of campaigning may help
ease uncertainty about the direction of policy.  “Elections have a way of depressing the way people feel
about things,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’ve
certainly seen a number of episodes where consumer sentiment has
fallen leading up to elections and then got a bit of a pop.”  Rising stock prices may also be helping prop up sentiment
and spending. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  rose 3.7 percent
in October after an 8.8 percent gain the prior month, the best
back-to-back performance in more than a year.  Shares rallied as Federal Reserve policy makers telegraphed
they stood ready to take addition action to spur growth, bring
the jobless rate down and prevent prices from falling. The
central bank last week announced plans to buy an additional $600
billion in Treasury securities through June in a bid to lower
borrowing costs.  The  average  interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage
dropped to 4.17 percent in the week ended yesterday, according
to Freddie Mac. That was the lowest level since the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance started keeping records in 1971.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  