-- Ireland Urged to Take Aid by Officials Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-12T18:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/cowen-says-ireland-cooperating-with-eu-as-debt-crisis-threatens-region.html
Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen 
said he is working with fellow European leaders as his nation’s
sovereign debt crisis threatens the stability of European
markets.  While reiterating that his debt-strapped country has not
sought to tap an EU rescue fund, Cowen told reporters today that
“there are issues affecting the wider euro area of which we are
a member” and that he and his counterparts were working to
“ensure that the bond markets respond positively to the euro.”  Irish bonds rose from a record low today, gaining for the
first time in 14 days as traders bet a bailout was near.
European governments sought to calm investor concerns, saying
they won’t be forced to share the cost of a rescue. Irish
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  nevertheless said in an interview
with RTE Radio it “makes no sense” to request help as the
government is fully funded to mid-2011.  “It seems difficult for Ireland to avoid tapping the fund
unless they have new rabbits to pull out their hat,” said
 Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Capital in
London.  It is very likely Ireland will seek support from the 750-
billion-euro ($1 trillion) fund, Reuters reported, citing euro-
zone sources it didn’t name. The Finance Ministry in Dublin
denied talks were under way.  Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for
the EU’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn ,
called the report “pure speculation.”  Brussels Meeting  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
the panel of euro-area finance ministers, said there was “no
immediate reason” to think Ireland will request cash and that
officials would not meet before regular monthly talks in
Brussels next week.  The premium that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
sovereign bonds over the benchmark German bonds was 564 basis
points at 3:59 p.m. in London, down from a record 646 points
yesterday.  Yields on bonds of Spain and Portugal jumped earlier in the
week amid concern that fallout from Ireland would spread. The
extra  yield  that investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds climbed to a record 484 basis
points on Nov. 11. The Spanish 10-year bond snapped a 13-day
drop on Nov. 12, matching the longest run of declines since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1993.  ‘Circuit Breaker’  A decision by Ireland to use the European Financial
Stability Facility would be a “circuit breaker” for the market
turmoil and boost the euro,  Emma Lawson , a Hong Kong-based
currency strategist at Morgan Stanley, said in a report today.  At the end of European  trading  today the euro was poised
for its  biggest weekly loss  since August although it climbed
today from a six-week low against the dollar.  Ireland’s woes formed part of the debate at the Seoul
summit of Group of 20 leaders, from which the finance chiefs of
Germany, France, the U.K., Spain and Italy said the crisis-
resolution program now being debated to have investors cover
future bailout costs would have “no impact whatsoever” on
existing debt.  The drafting of the post-2013 crisis plans hasn’t “been
helpful,” Cowen said in an interview with the Irish Independent
newspaper published today. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rejected such criticism, saying in Seoul today “the future
crisis mechanism has nothing to do with the debate going on
right now.”  “Clarification was needed and it is good news it’s now out
there,” said  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  Bailout Fund  EU countries established the bailout fund in May to protect
the euro area from the fallout of the Greek-led debt crisis.
Speculation has grown that Ireland would need it after a
housing-led recession and the need to save its biggest lenders
plunged it into fiscal turmoil.  Bailing out Ireland’s financial system could cost as much
as 50 billion euros under a “stress case” scenario compiled by
the Finance Ministry and central bank. The country’s gross
funding need for 2011 will be 23.5 billion euros, falling to
18.6 billion euros in 2014, the nation’s debt agency said today.  Irish officials have indicated they hope a 2011 budget, due
for release on Dec. 7, will placate markets as they try to cut a
budget deficit which will be about 12 percent of gross domestic
product this year, or 32 percent when the costs of the banking
rescue are included. Lenihan’s plan includes 6 billion euros of
spending cuts and tax increases next year.  Time Needed  “The more time elapses, the bigger is the chance that the
results of fiscal policies will show,” said  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London. “The
more time elapses before a country taps the fund the better.”  Ireland’s banks are nevertheless becoming more dependent on
the European Central Bank after it said in September saving its
lenders may cost as much as 50 billion euros as the state sinks
more funds into nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and other
lenders. Lenders’ borrowings from the ECB rose 7 percent last
month, according to statistics published on the central bank’s
website today.  “The chances are rather big that at some point they need
to ask for financial assistance just to calm down the
situation,”  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV
in Amsterdam, said today. “There will have to be a solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  