-- Czech Economic Output Grows Most in Nine Quarters
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-11-12T09:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/czech-economic-growth-accelerates-to-fastest-in-nine-quarters-on-exports.html
The Czech economy grew at the
fastest pace in nine quarters in the three months through
September as exports continued to benefit from a recovery in
western Europe.  Gross domestic product  rose an annual 3 percent, compared
with 2.4 percent in the second quarter, the
 statistics  office in Prague said in a flash estimate on its
website today. GDP growth beat the median estimate of 2.5
percent by seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
economy expanded 1.1 percent from the previous quarter.  “It’s without a doubt that the domestic recovery is still
receiving a strong impulse from Germany, which reported robust
3.9 percent growth in the third quarter,” said  Pavel Sobisek ,
chief economist at Czech unit of UniCredit SpA.  The Czech Republic, where exports including cars made by
Skoda Auto AS account for about 70 percent of the economy, is
recovering from the worst recession since the end of communism
two decades ago. The trade surplus widened to 12.4 billion
koruna ($691 million) in September from 765 million koruna in
the previous month, with Germany as the largest single market
for the country’s exports.  Growth was driven by expansion of industrial output
and trade, while the creation of fixed assets and services
stagnated. The statistics office didn’t publish a breakdown of
third-quarter GDP. It will release detailed data on Dec. 9.  “If the detailed statistics reveal that growth of private
consumption also accelerated in quarter-on-quarter terms in the
third quarter, then the GDP development would argue for a
discussion about an earlier interest-rate hike in the Czech
Republic,” said  Radomir Jac , chief analyst at Generali PPF
Asset Management in Prague.  The central bank on Nov. 4 raised its forecast for 2010
economic growth to 2.3 percent from 1.6 percent. The bank kept
its benchmark  two-week  repurchase rate unchanged at a record-low
0.75 percent last week, saying the inflation rate will be
“close” to its 2 percent target in the next two years.  The bank’s new forecast also signaled that the likely
increase in interest rates had been postponed toward the end of
2011 as government budget cuts are expected to curb economic
growth next year.  The koruna was 0.15 percent weaker to the euro at 24.668 as
of 10:07 a.m. in Prague today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  