-- Czech Senate Approves Cabinet Bills Cutting Spending For 2011 Deficit Goal
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-11-12T15:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/czech-senate-approves-cabinet-bills-cutting-spending-for-2011-deficit-goal.html
The Czech Senate endorsed four bills
today cutting state spending in 2011, in line with the
government’s efforts to speed up approval of legislation needed
to meet its fiscal-deficit target next year.  Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’ Cabinet, which aims to halve the
 deficit  in three years, initiated a fast-track legislative
process after the opposition won a majority in the Senate
elections last month. The opposition will formally assume the
majority in the Prague-based upper house after the term of one
third of 81 senators expires on Nov. 13.  The lower house of parliament approved the four laws,
including measures to eliminate some tax breaks and subsidies on
some savings plans, on Nov. 2 after the Cabinet invoked the
“legislative emergency.”  Approving laws on the last day government parties have a
majority in the Senate is “simply wrong in terms of good
manners,” the opposition Social Democrats said in a statement
on its website. They had threatened to veto government bills
with their Senate majority.  The three-party ruling coalition, which has enough seats in
the lower house to override a Senate veto, plans to cut the
 deficit  below 3 percent of  gross domestic product  by 2013.  The government aims to bring the public finance shortfall,
which is the fiscal yardstick for assessing a European Union
member’s readiness to join the euro area, down to 4.6 percent of
economic output, from the 5.3 percent ceiling this year.  Bohuslav Sobotka, Deputy Chairman of the Social Democrats
and the party’s acting head, said on Nov. 2 that his party will
appeal to the Constitutional Court to annul laws passed during
the legislative emergency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  