-- TDC Announces Fund Owners Will Sell Part of Holdings
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-12T12:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/tdc-announces-fund-owners-will-sell-part-of-holdings-update1-.html
TDC A/S , a Danish telephone company
controlled by five private buyout funds, announced that the
owners will sell a portion of shares to other investors. The
 stock rose  as much as 4.5 percent in Copenhagen trading.  TDC  and its shareholders didn’t announce a volume, price or
timetable for the offering, preferring to test the market first,
Chief Executive Officer  Henrik Poulsen  said on a call with
reporters. The buyout funds intend to remain “significant”
shareholders, TDC said.  TDC, Denmark’s largest phone company, is controlled by NTC
SA, a holding company for the shares of Apax Partners LLP,
Blackstone Group, KKR & Co. LP, Permira Advisers, and Providence
Equity Partners Inc. Poulsen declined to put a value on the
company, while citing as selling points its projected  dividend 
flow, number-one market position domestically, and ownership of
Denmark’s largest cable television operator.  “There’s room for another telco in the market,
particularly in the Nordics, since investors there tend to
invest internally,” said  Jason Willey , a London-based equity
analyst with Standard & Poor’s, adding that he couldn’t comment
on TDC’s offer. “From a pan-European perspective, institutional
investors have shied away from Nordic operators because they pay
lower dividends and are exposed to the perceived risk in
emerging markets. That would be less the case with TDC.”  TDC climbed  as much as 2.25 kroner to 52.75 kroner and
traded at 52.25 kroner as of 1:26 p.m., giving the company a
market value of 51.8 billion kroner ($9.5 billion).  Bookrunners Named  TDC is expected to sell about 16 billion kroner of shares,
valuing the company at 9 billion euros ($12.3 billion),
including debt, the Financial Times reported, without saying
where it got the information.  “The funds will now get the next portion of their profit
on the restructuring of TDC,” said  John Strand , owner of
Copenhagen-based Strand Consult, which advises phone companies.
“They won’t sell as much as people expected and they’ve
announced a big share buyback program to ensure the price will
be high.”  The investors named 12 banks to help with the offering,
with J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd., Morgan Stanley & Co.
International Plc, and the Danish branch of Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken AB as joint global coordinators and joint
bookrunners. Deutsche Bank AG and UBS Investment Bank will be
bookrunners.  Market Share  The buyout funds have agreed to hold their remaining shares
for 180 days after the sale, Copenhagen-based  TDC  said in a
statement today. The offering is intended for Danish domestic
investors and international institutional investors, and the
proportion reserved for Danish buyers hasn’t been determined in
advance, Poulsen said on the call.  The buyout firms acquired 88 percent of TDC for $15.3
billion in 2005. Poulsen has sold off the company’s Swiss
subsidiary and paid down debt in preparation for restructuring
the company’s ownership.  The company estimates its Danish residential market shares
at 38.1 percent for mobile voice, 28.5 percent for mobile
broadband, 55 percent for pay television, 60.5 percent for fixed
data lines, and 71.1 percent for fixed phone lines, according to
a review of its operations  published  for prospective investors
today. Its Danish business market shares are higher, it said.  Competitors in Denmark include Norway’s Telenor ASA,
Sweden’s TeliaSonera AB and 3. TDC also sells business services
in Norway, Sweden and Finland.  Cash Flow  “You can say we have our core Nordic business in common
with other Nordic operators,” Poulsen said, mentioning
 TeliaSonera , Telenor, and Finland’s Elisa Oyj. The company’s
overall business profile is more similar to Belgacom SA,
Swisscom AG and KPN NA, he said.  “Swisscom is a great example of a stock that’s expensive
relative to peers and very attractive to the local investor base
from its dividend perspective but its overall European
attractiveness is smaller,” said Willey of Standard and Poor’s.
“ Elisa  is probably more like what TDC would be like -- a
focused operator offering an attractive dividend yield, limited
perceived risk, and trading at a higher multiple than the
sector, showing there is demand for that type of story.”  Dividend  Policy  The  company  has improved its margin for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 41 percent
from 28 percent in the past five years, said Poulsen. He joined
TDC in November 2008 and was previously an executive vice
president with the Lego Group and an operating officer of KKR
Capstone, which is associated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.  “We’ve proven our ability to generate a very high cash
flow on the back of continued operational improvement, and
that’s a cash flow we intend to hand back to the shareholders on
an ongoing basis,” Poulsen said on the teleconference. “We do
believe in the current market there’s a significant appetite for
shares yielding a very high  dividend  like  TDC  would.”  TDC has remained listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange
because ATP, Denmark’s biggest pension fund, refused to sell its
5.5 percent stake.  The company intends to adopt a long-term dividend policy of
80 to 85 percent of equity free cash flow, following a dividend
of 4.35 kroner per share in 2011, it said in a separate
statement. It has proposed a share buyback in lieu of a dividend
for 2010.  TDC reported third-quarter profit fell 9 percent to 643
million kroner from a year earlier, in a statement on Nov. 3.
Sales were little changed at 6.46 billion kroner. The company
said it expects Ebitda to rise 2 percent this year and in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  