-- Deficit-Cutting Proposals May Survive Opposition to Debt Commission's Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-11-12T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/deficit-cutting-proposals-may-survive-opposition-to-debt-commission-s-plan.html
Congress may take a serious look in
coming years at many proposals by the leaders of President
 Barack Obama ’s debt-cutting commission even though the overall
 plan  stands little chance of being adopted.  Ideas such as one to overhaul the tax code by clamping down
on scores of tax breaks -- including the home mortgage interest
deduction -- will live on, said  Jim Horney , director of federal
fiscal policy at the Washington-based Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities.  “All of the areas you will see again -- not necessarily
right away, but in efforts over the next few years to really do
something about longer-term deficits,” said Horney, former
Democratic staff director of the Senate Budget Committee.  The deficit panel’s co-chairmen drew heavy criticism Nov.
10 when they proposed a $3.8 trillion deficit-cutting plan that
would pare Social Security and Medicare, throw out hundreds of
tax breaks, slash defense-related spending, raise the gas tax
and take aim at health-care costs by overhauling medical-
malpractice laws.  The plan would cut the annual deficit to $400 billion by
2015 from this year’s $1.3 trillion. Even with all the spending
cuts and tax increases, it wouldn’t produce a balanced budget
until 2037.  The plan to overhaul the U.S. tax code by reducing or
eliminating tax breaks would offer something to lawmakers in
both parties, said Rich Meade, former Republican staff director
of the House Budget Committee.  Income-Tax Rates  Republicans would get a chance to reduce marginal income-
tax rates, a long-standing goal of the party. For Democrats,
Meade said, it could mean boosting overall tax revenue, which
would relieve some of the pressure to cut spending.  Rudy Penner, an economist at the Urban Institute, said he
agreed that a tax overhaul offers the most promise for
consensus.  “They almost invite it” by offering various options for
an overhaul, Penner said. “It will be the basis for the debate
going forward.”  The plan was announced in Washington by debt commission co-
chairmen  Erskine Bowles , a Democrat who served as a White House
chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton , and former Senator
 Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican. The National Commission on
Fiscal Responsibility and Reform needs agreement from 14 of its
18 members before a plan can be sent for an up-or-down vote in
Congress.  Tom Block , a consultant and former head of government
relations for JP Morgan Chase & Co., said lawmakers will likely
agree on cutting the government’s payroll.  Federal Workforce  “There is a general view that the federal workforce has
gotten too large,” Block said. “That’s relatively easy to
build consensus around.”  Former  Congressional Budget Office  Director
 Robert Reischauer , discussing the panel’s proposal to put limits
on spending approved each year by Congress, said, “I think
there’s very little doubt that sometime in the not-too-distant
future we’re going to put discretionary spending caps in
place.”  There was a glimpse of bipartisan support earlier this year
for paring Social Security when both House Majority Leader
 Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, and House Minority Leader  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, separately called for raising the
retirement age and other changes to shore up the program’s
finances.  Hoyer said June 22 that Congress should consider raising
the age for collecting Social Security and providing lower
Social Security and Medicare payments to wealthier beneficiaries
than those with lower incomes.  ‘Behind Closed Doors’  “There’s an acknowledgement behind closed doors that we
have to do something about it,” said Block, though he predicted
lawmakers won’t tackle the issue before the 2012 election.  Even though a proposal to cut as much as $100 billion in
defense spending faces a fight in Congress,  Robert Bixby ,
executive director of the nonpartisan Concord Coalition, said
lawmakers may find agreement on cutting some Pentagon spending.
Bixby’s group promotes balanced budgets.  Representative  Howard McKeon , a California Republican and
the likely next chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
said he opposes “cutting defense in the midst of two wars.”  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican and member of
the debt commission, has urged colleagues to consider supporting
cuts to the Pentagon budget.  “We should start by taking common-sense steps like
freezing defense spending until the Pentagon can pass an audit
and remove all nondefense spending from the Pentagon’s budget,”
he said in a Nov. 4 op-ed column in the Washington Examiner.  ‘We Need to Listen’  Obama, in Seoul during a 10-day tour of Asia, urged
congressional leaders to join him in making difficult decisions
about taxes and spending.  “Before anybody starts shooting down proposals, I think we
need to listen. We need to gather up all the facts,” Obama said
at a press conference. “If people are, in fact, concerned about
spending, debt, deficits and the future of our country, then
they’re going to need to be armed with the information about the
kinds of choices that are going to be involved.”  The panel meets again next week to consider changes to the
proposal, which Simpson and Bowles stressed was only a first
draft. Industry groups that would be hurt by the changes joined
a number of lawmakers in criticizing the plan after it was
announced.  “Those who say don’t do this, don’t do that, don’t do
anything -- they owe it to the American people to tell us what
would they do” Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat and a member of the commission, said in an
interview yesterday with
Bloomberg Television.  “The alternative of doing nothing is far more severe”
than the chairmen’s proposal because “a failure to act is
consigning this country to second-class economic status,”
Conrad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  