-- Denver Transit Bonds Defy Build America Glut in Issuance Boom: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/denver-transit-bonds-defy-build-america-glut-in-issuance-boom-muni-credit.html
Denver’s Regional Transportation
District, which runs the Colorado capital’s mass-transit system,
took advantage of pledged sales-tax revenue to win the lowest
borrowing cost of the week’s five largest Build America Bonds.  The transit agency’s $300 million borrowing, rated third-
highest by Moody’s Investors Service at Aa2, the same as three
of the biggest issues, paid the least amount of extra yield
above  30-year Treasuries,  according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The sale came amid a supply surplus that drove the
 average yield  to an almost four-month high.  About $4 billion in Build Americas are being sold this
week, the most ever for a holiday-shortened week, according to
Bloomberg data. States and municipalities are issuing about
$11.2 billion in municipal debt this week, the most since Oct.
29, Bloomberg data show.  The sales-tax revenue backing RTD’s deal “is very secure
funding to support the payments to our lenders,” Chief
Financial Officer Terry Howerter said in a phone interview.
“Our sales taxes come in, and our debt is serviced before we
make payments for operations, etc.”  The agency’s 40-year obligations, its first Build America
sale, priced to yield 5.84 percent, or 160 basis points above
30-year Treasuries. That compares with so-called spreads of 160
basis points for  Santa Clara Valley Transportation
Authority ’s 22-year bonds, 240 basis points on University
of California 38-year bonds, and 167 basis points for New York
City Municipal Water Finance Authority’s 34-year debt. A
basis point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  New York  The New York City authority’s debt is backed by water and
sewer charges, while the university bonds are secured by pooled
revenue of the system’s five medical centers.  While sales taxes are pledged to the Santa Clara and Denver
offerings, RTD receives 1 percent compared with 0.5 percent for
the California transport agency, preliminary offering documents
show.  The Los Angeles County Public Works Financing Authority,
rated A1, fifth-highest, by Moody’s, issued about $688 million
in Build America and Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds.
Bonds maturing in 30 years were priced to yield 345 basis points
above Treasuries.  RTD’s sale followed the rejection of three referendums on
the state ballot that would have limited municipal issuance. Had
the measures passed, the agency’s financing plans would have to
have been approved by voters, which can only be done in November
of each year, Howerter said.  “They would have had a very negative effect on our ability
to finance our projects, even projects previously approved by
voters,” said  Scott Reed , a spokesman for the Denver-based
transit agency. “We’re thankful that voters rejected them.”  Tax-Exempt Portion  While demand for taxable securities was strong, RTD cut the
size of its tax-exempt sale by about 21 percent to $79 million
yesterday amid rising municipal rates. The agency’s November
2038 bonds were priced to yield 4.6 percent, about  50 basis
points  above a Bloomberg Valuation index of AAA 28-year
securities.  The spread between  2- and 30-year AAA debt  reached 376
basis points yesterday, the most since Dec. 16, according to
Bloomberg Valuation indexes, as investors took more defensive
positions against possible future inflation.  “I would say it’s a concerned market,” said  Mark Steffen ,
chief operating officer at White Plains, New York-based Belle
Haven Investments, which oversees $450 million in munis.
“Investors have been a little bit nervous. Two-years and
shorter are rallying because it’s a good hiding place.”  Top-Rated Bonds  Yields on  30-year AAA  bonds surged 29 basis points midweek,
the biggest one-day jump since April 20, while  two-year bond
yields  fell three out of four days this week, Bloomberg
Valuation indexes show.  The general drop in municipal yields is likely to persist
next week as increased issuance continues to overwhelm demand,
Steffen said. About $18.4 billion is scheduled for next week,
which would be the most since at least 2003, Bloomberg data
show.  “Given the heavy supply next week, it will continue to
sell off,” Steffen said. “There’s naturally a pickup in demand
at the end of the year, but we’re not there yet.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  CALIFORNIA , the largest issuer of municipal debt, plans to
sell $12 billion next week, including $10 billion in one-year,
tax-exempt revenue anticipation notes and $2 billion in taxable
Build America Bonds. The short-term notes, which are payable by
California’s general fund, will shore up the state’s cash needs
to pay bills for the rest of the year. California’s BABs issue
will fund public works projects. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will
market the RANs issue, which is rated MIG 1 by Moody’s, the
highest rating for short-term municipal debt, SP-1 by Standard &
Poor’s, second-highest, one level above Fitch Ratings’ F2 grade.
Underwriters led by Citigroup will market the Build Americas,
which is ranked A1 by Moody’s, fifth-highest, two levels
above Fitch’s A- rating. (Added Nov. 12)  ILLINOIS , which shares the worst state credit rating with
California, will sell $1.5 billion in tobacco revenue settlement
bonds through the Railsplitter Tobacco Settlement Authority, an
entity established to sell the bonds, as early as next week. The
bonds, backed by payments from a 1998 settlement with tobacco
companies, will be used to pay its bills and balance its budget.
The state has been the recipient of $3.3 billion of tobacco
settlement payments, according to the offering statement.
Underwriters led by Citigroup will market the issue. Illinois is
rated A1 by Moody’s and A+ from S&P, both fifth-highest. (Added
Nov. 12)  TEXAS PUBLIC FINANCE AUTHORITY, the agency responsible for
issuing debt for state agencies, plans to sell $1.2 billion in
tax-exempt bonds for the Texas Workforce Commission as early as
next week. The revenue bonds, backed by a tax on the state’s
570,000 employers, will replenish the Texas unemployment trust
fund and pay back almost $2 billion in advances from the federal
government, according to an S&P report. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch will lead the group marketing the bonds, which mature in
July 2011 through January 2018 and are rated AAA by S&P and one
level lower by Fitch and Moody’s. (Added Nov. 12)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which owns the
World Trade Center site in addition to operating Newark Liberty
International, John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia
airports, will sell more than $800 million in tax-exempt bonds
next week. The issue will fund expansion of JFK’s Terminal Four,
according to a Fitch press release. Citigroup Inc. will market
the issue, which is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P, both
one level above junk, and BB by Fitch, second-highest
speculative grade. (Added Nov. 12)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 