-- Denzel Chases Runaway Train; Ford's Cranky Newsman; 'Cool It': Rick Warner
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/denzel-chases-runaway-train-harrison-s-cranky-newsman-movies.html
Tony Scott  loves runaway trains.  After directing the remake of “The Taking of Pelham 1 2
3,” the British action junkie returns to the rails with
“ Unstoppable ,” a thriller about an unmanned freight train
hurtling through the Pennsylvania countryside with a potentially
disastrous load of toxic chemicals.  Veteran engineer Frank Barnes ( Denzel Washington ) and
rookie conductor Will Colson ( Chris Pine ) are on a train headed
straight toward the out-of-control locomotive, which took off by
itself when the driver hopped out of his cab to change the track
switch and accidentally left the engine in full throttle.  Barnes and Colson make a heroic attempt to save the day,
but the real stars are the trains, which get more screen time
than either of them.  The red-and-yellow, half-mile long train with the doomsday
cargo is ominously described as a “missile the size of the
Chrysler Building.” The blue-and-yellow locomotive in its path
is older, smaller and slower. On paper, it looks like the worst
mismatch since Tyson-Spinks.  Scott mixes overhead shots of the trains with close-ups of
the actors, using quick cuts to heighten the tension. He also
eschews computer effects in favor of real stunts, like running
on top of moving rail cars, jumping from a truck onto a speeding
train and dangling from a helicopter.  Safety Lesson  It makes the film, based on a 2001 incident in Ohio,
scarier than the blockbusters created by tech geniuses sitting
in front of a computer screen. (I could have done without the
silly subplot about a group of schoolchildren taking a field
trip to learn about train safety.)  Though Washington and Pine don’t have much to say,
screenwriter Mark Bomback gives them enough angst to foster
sympathy. Barnes is a widower estranged from his two teenage
daughters and about to lose his job. Colson is separated from
his wife and son and resented by his new colleagues because he
got his job through family connections.  Their corporate bosses want to derail the runaway train
before it reaches a midsize city with a winding track that
almost guarantees a lethal crash. Instead, they attempt a risky
maneuver that involves running their train in reverse until it
gets close enough to link with the runaway, then pulling in the
opposite direction to slow it down.  With help from a calm yardmaster (Rosario Dawson), a nerdy
safety inspector (Kevin Corrigan) and an audacious welder (Lew
Temple), Barnes and Colson proceed with their tug-of-war plan.
Get onboard if you love to be terrified.  “Unstoppable,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Morning Glory’  Listening to  Harrison Ford ’s raspy mumbling in “ Morning
Glory ” is a painful experience. He sounds like a cross between
a foghorn and a sick frog.  His voice is one of many annoying aspects of this romantic
comedy about a struggling TV morning show with feuding anchors
(Ford and  Diane Keaton ), a workaholic young producer ( Rachel McAdams ) and a cynical network boss ( Jeff Goldblum ) who only
cares about ratings.  A shallow script by Aline Brosh McKenna (“The Devil Wears
Prada”) and slipshod direction by  Roger Michell  (“Notting
Hill”) don’t do the cast any favors.  Ford plays a gruff legendary newsman who balks at being
associated with morning fluff like cooking segments, pet stories
and weatherman jokes. Keaton is a former beauty queen who grows
tired of Ford’s condescension and ends up trading insults with
him on the air.  McAdams has a fling with a fellow producer ( Patrick Wilson )
and tries to boost ratings with goofy stunts like having the
weatherman ride a roller coaster, parachute and get a tattoo on
his rear end.  I couldn’t care less. “Morning Glory” is as exhilarating
as a morning-show segment on nail care.  “Morning Glory,” from Paramount Pictures, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘Cool It’  “Cool It” is Bjorn Lomborg’s answer to Al Gore’s “An
Inconvenient Truth” the Oscar-winning documentary that predicts
planetary disaster if major steps aren’t taken to halt global
warming.  The Danish academic argues that Gore exaggerates the
problem. While he doesn’t deny that global warming exists, he
favors solutions that he claims are quicker and more cost
effective.  Lomborg makes his case in “ Cool It ,” a temperate
documentary that includes many of the same techniques that Gore
used in his movie -- slide shows, testimony from scientists,
biographical snippets and clips from his globetrotting
educational campaign.  Whiter Clouds  Gore calls for wider use of fuel-efficient vehicles,
fluorescent light bulbs and solar panels, while Lomborg prefers
alternatives such as whiter, heat-absorbing pavement and “cloud
brightening,” where seawater mist is sprayed into the
atmosphere to thicken clouds so less solar heat will reach the
earth.  Lomborg’s 2001 book, “ The Skeptical Environmentalist ,”
made him a pariah in academia and his criticism of “An
Inconvenient Truth” led to even more backlash. Since I’m not a
scientist, I can’t tell you who is right and which solutions are
best. I can say that Lomborg presents his case in a rational way
that at least merits consideration.  “Cool It,” from Roadside Attractions,” is playing in
major U.S. cities. Rating: **1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 