-- Diller's Daily Beast to Combine With Newsweek Magazine
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-11-12T17:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/diller-s-daily-beast-website-to-combine-with-harmon-s-newsweek-magazine.html
Barry Diller ’s Daily Beast news
website will combine with Newsweek magazine in a joint venture
to be owned equally by  IAC/InterActiveCorp  and  Sidney Harman .  Tina Brown , among the founders of Daily Beast in October
2008 and the former top editor of Vanity Fair and New Yorker
magazines, will be editor-in-chief of the new venture, according
to a  statement  today. Daily Beast President,  Stephen Colvin ,
will serve as chief executive officer of the combined entity,
Newsweek Daily Beast Co.  “The metabolism of the Daily Beast will help power the
resurgence of Newsweek, and Newsweek amplifies the range of
talent and audience the Daily Beast can reach,” Brown said in a
prepared statement. “The two entities together offer writers,
photographers and marketers a powerful dual platform.”  Harman, 92, bought Newsweek from  Washington Post Co.  in
September for $1 after the publisher said it could no longer
sustain the magazine’s losses. Newsweek’s print advertising
revenue dropped 30 percent in this year’s first nine months to
$114.3 million, compared with a 2.6 percent gain industrywide,
according to  data  from Publishers Information Bureau.  Diller, CEO of New York-based IAC, and Harman, the founder
of audio-equipment maker Harman International Industries Inc.,
will be directors of the new entity. Harman will be executive
chairman, according to the statement. Harman and Diller will
each appoint one additional board member.  Talks between Harman and IAC to merge the two companies
broke down last month, according to Diller, who at the time said
that he would continue to seek a partner for Daily Beast.  “I am really excited we were able to finally put this
together,” Diller said in a prepared statement today.  IAC fell 13 cents to $27.95 at 11:56 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has gained about 37 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 