-- Disney Gains After Analysts Say Adjusted Profit Beat Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-11-12T21:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/disney-climbs-most-in-six-months-after-analysts-say-profit-beat-estimates.html
Walt Disney Co. , the world’s biggest
media company, rose the most in six months after analysts said
fourth-quarter  profit  topped estimates.  Excluding restructuring and impairment costs of $216
million, profit amounted to 50 cents a share, according to
 Michael Nathanson , an analyst at Nomura Securities International
Inc. in New York. That beat the 47-cent average of 25 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Disney gained $1.82, or 5.1 percent, to $37.75 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the biggest advance
since May. Disney Chief Financial Officer  Jay Rasulo  fully
disclosed restructuring, programming and film studio writedowns
during the company’s conference call after U.S. markets closed
yesterday.  “Upon scanning the press release, the results seemed
weak,” Nathanson wrote in a note today. “However, it turns out
that you can’t judge a quarter by a press release.”  Yesterday the stock fell $1.06, or 2.9 percent, to $35.93
after the report was released early, before U.S. markets closed.
The company said it is investigating how the information became
available.  Net income fell 6.7 percent to $835 million, or 43 cents a
share, from $895 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, Burbank,
California-based Disney said yesterday. Sales slid 1.3 percent
to $9.74 billion in the period ended Oct. 2, missing the $10
billion average of 20 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Disney had a $100 million writedown of film inventory, a
$58 million charge for programming writeoffs at its Lifetime
network, and restructuring and impairment charges of $58
million, Rasulo said on the call.  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst with Barclays Capital in New
York, also told clients in a note today that adjusted earnings
amounted to 50 cents a share excluding the above items. Disney
reported adjusted per-share earnings of 45 cents.  DiClemente and Nathanson recommend buying the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Andy Fixmer  in Palm Springs, California, at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  