-- Doctor Heading Italy's New Atomic Agency Pledges to Sell Nuclear Revival
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-11-12T10:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/doctor-heading-italy-s-new-atomic-agency-pledges-to-sell-nuclear-revival.html
The head of Italy’s new nuclear
safety agency said he will persuade the public to embrace atomic
power more than two decades after the nation voted to dismantle
its reactors.  “It is safe, people are uninformed -- they are afraid of
phantoms and I have been fighting phantoms all my life,” said
 Umberto Veronesi , an 84-year-old oncologist and a senator for
the opposition Democratic Party. “We are the only major
European country without nuclear. We can’t afford to stay out.
The benefits for jobs, energy prices and work for a myriad of
our industries are huge.”  Members of Veronesi’s own party criticized the
effectiveness of his agency after Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government appointed only two nuclear
specialists to the five-member board earlier this month. The
body will have to assess reactor designs and approve locations,
making it critical to the plans of Italy’s largest utility,  Enel
SpA , to start building the first plant in 2013.  “Safety is paramount, that means we will hire people to
write the rules, to verify the methodology, to check the
companies involved,” Veronesi said in an interview in Rome on
Nov. 10. “I will surround myself with experts to give
independent and fair assessments.”  Italy, whose scientists including Enrico Fermi helped
develop the first nuclear reactors, is the only Group of Eight
country without nuclear power after a 1987 referendum forced the
dismantlement of existing plants. After legislation last year,
Enel and French partner  Electricite de France SA  plan to build a
new generation of reactors.  Enel’s Conti  Enel Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  said in an
interview in September that political backing is essential to
ensure Italy’s nuclear revival. Building the four reactors will
cost about 18 billion euros ($25 billion).  The creation of the agency allows the “identification of a
clear, rigorous and safe path” to nuclear development in Italy,
Conti said in a Nov. 5 e-mailed statement. A fully operational
agency will allow Enel to start providing Italian households
with nuclear energy by 2020, he said.  The agency will hire about 50 people mainly from national
energy agencies ENEA and ISPRA and from abroad, Veronesi said.
“We’ll have to bring back people that left in the 1980s and
we’ll have to train a lot of young people. It’s an exciting
time,” he said.  Smoking, Hunting  Veronesi, a former health minister, is known in Italy for
his work on non-invasive treatment of breast cancer and a series
of campaigns against smoking, hunting and eating meat, and in
favor of peace and disarmament. His fellow board members include
two nuclear scientists, an anti-terrorism judge and a law
professor who works at the Environment Ministry.  “There are various issues that need to be addressed
including financing, which is scarce and makes it difficult to
recruit,” said Carlo Stagnaro, head of energy research for
think tank Istituto  Bruno Leoni . There’s also “the fact that
there are no legal guarantees of the body’s independence, which
is only dependent on the board’s personal credibility.”  Veronesi declined to give any details on when sites for the
reactors will be chosen, saying he needed to put together his
staff first. Regarding what technology Italy will use, Veronesi
said he favors France’s EPR reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 