-- Dynegy Rises After Analyst Says Blackstone May Boost Bid
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-12T23:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/dynegy-rises-after-analyst-says-blackstone-may-boost-bid.html
Dynegy Inc ., the U.S. power producer
with a shareholder vote scheduled Nov. 17 on a $540 million
takeover by  Blackstone Group LP , rose after a Pritchard Capital
Partners analyst said the private equity firm may increase its
$4.50-a-share offer to win approval.  Dynegy, based in Houston, rose 6 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
$4.69 a share at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. It had risen above the offer price yesterday after
shareholder Seneca Capital, an opponent of the Blackstone offer,
proposed replacing two members of Dynegy’s board.  Today, billionaire New York investor  Carl Icahn  said in a
filing he is offering the company a $2 billion line of credit.
That “appears to address liquidity concerns raised by Dynegy
management and others” who support Blackstone’s takeover,
 Charles Fishman , an analyst for Pritchard based in Falls Church,
Virginia, wrote today in a note to clients. He rates the stock
“neutral” and owns none.  Icahn’s goal “is to try to get shareholders to vote this
thing down,” Fishman said today in an interview. Fishman has
advised shareholders to reject the Blackstone offer, saying
Dynegy’s assets are worth at least $8 a share.  “Adding more debt is not a step that results in greater
stockholder value,”  David Byford , a Dynegy spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. More borrowing would be “pushing out the
time when stockholders can receive any real value,” he said.  ‘Open Process’ Sought  In a separate filing later in the day, Icahn wrote in a
letter to Dynegy that the line of credit he’s offering will
allow Dynegy to sell up to $1.5 billion of assets without
requiring a prepayment. He also said he will waive fees if
Dynegy engages in a “prompt, even handed, open marketing
process for the entire company” if the Blackstone offer is
voted down by shareholders.  “While we have not determined to do so, we reserve the
right to be a bidder in this process,” Icahn wrote in a letter
dated today and addressed to Bruce Williamson, chief executive
officer of Dynegy.  Blackstone’s offer was accepted by Dynegy’s board in
August. Icahn and Seneca are Dynegy’s two largest shareholders.
Icahn controls 13 percent of Dynegy shares, he said in today’s
filing. Seneca has 9.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: D
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 