-- East Europe Economies Grow More Than Forecast on German Demand for Exports
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-11-12T11:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/east-europe-economies-grow-more-than-forecast-on-german-demand-for-exports.html
East European economies expanded
more than forecast in the third quarter as Germany, the region’s
biggest export market, forecasts the fastest growth since 1991.  The Czech Republic, the largest eastern economy to report
gross domestic product today, reported 3 percent annual  growth ,
compared with the median estimate of 2.5 percent from seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Hungary’s  GDP expanded 1.6
percent, beating the 1.2 percent estimate, and Slovakia grew 3.7
percent. Romanian GDP shrank as budget cuts damped local demand.  “Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic all expanded at
a much faster pace than we had expected, while the Romanian
economy shrank by less than we thought likely after last
quarter’s fiscal squeeze,” said  Neil Shearing , a London-based
senior economist at Capital Economics. “The key driver was
probably a rebound in industrial exports on the back of
continued strong growth in Germany.”  Germany’s economy will expand 3.7 percent this year, the
fastest pace in 19 years, the government’s council of economic
advisers forecast this week. Third-quarter GDP, adjusted for
seasonal effects, rose 0.7 percent from the previous three
months, when it surged 2.3 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today.  Estonia said yesterday that its economy grew an annual 4.7
percent in the third quarter, the fastest annual pace in almost
three years. Latvian GDP rose 2.7 percent, the first annual
increase since the country entered the European Union’s deepest
recession in 2008, according to figures released Nov. 9.  Sluggish at Home  “The macroeconomic side has been surprisingly positive
across eastern Europe, especially on exports, while domestic
demand remains sluggish, with the exception of Poland,” said
 Lars Christensen , head of emerging-markets research at Danske
Bank AS in Copenhagen.  While Danske Bank’s outlook for the region is positive,
2011 growth will depend on how the euro-region debt crisis is
resolved and the impact of U.S. Federal Reserve asset purchases,
know as quantitative easing, on the dollar, Christensen said.  East European countries, home to factories owned by
 Volkswagen AG  and  Samsung Electronics Co.,  are recovering from
their deepest recessions since the end of communism two decades
ago. Still, domestic demand is growing slowly as the European
Union requires governments to reduce budget deficits that
swelled during the crisis.  Romania’s economic decline accelerated in the quarter after
the administration cut public-employee wages and raised the
value-added tax by 5 percentage points to reduce its fiscal gap
and qualify for international loans. GDP shrank an annual 2.5
percent, after a 0.5 percent decline in the second quarter.  Czech Rates  Czech growth was driven by expansion of industrial output
and trade, while the creation of fixed assets and services
stagnated, the statistics office said. The country’s trade
surplus widened to 12.4 billion koruna ($691 million) in
September from 765 million koruna in the previous month, with
Germany as the largest single market for the country’s exports.  “If the detailed statistics reveal that growth of private
consumption accelerated in quarter-to-quarter terms in the third
quarter, then GDP development would argue for a discussion about
an earlier interest rate increase,” said  Radomir Jac , chief
analyst at Generali PPF Asset Management in Prague.  In Hungary, the first European Union member to get an
International Monetary Fund-led bailout in 2008, the government
plans to boost growth to more than 5 percent by 2014 through
cuts in the personal and corporate income taxes.  “Retail sales edged into positive territory,”  Gergely Suppan , an economist at Takarekbank Zrt. in Budapest, said in a
phone interview. “That’s tremendous improvement. I expect that
on a quarterly basis, there will be further” economic “growth
in the fourth quarter.”  Industrial Production  Still, the expansion of Hungary’s  industrial production 
slowed to an annual 10.9 percent in September from 15.1 percent
in August, according to final figures released today by the
statistics office. Growth in industrial output also slowed last
month in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and Romania,
according to data from their statistics offices.  East European growth rates, quarter-on-quarter, aren’t
likely to improve in coming quarters, with the exception of
Romania, Shearing said.  “The key issue is whether the German export machine can
withstand the renewed slowdown in the global economy that
appears likely over the next year or so,” Shearing said.
“We’re cautiously pessimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  