-- East African Development Bank to Invest at Least $1 Billion Over 5 Years
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2010-11-12T07:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/east-african-development-bank-to-invest-at-least-1-billion-over-5-years.html
The  East African Development Bank 
plans to lend at least $1 billion over the next five years, much
of it for housing and infrastructure projects, said Vivienne
Apopo, the bank’s director general.  For the first two years of the 2011-2015 strategy program,
the bank will lend $100 million a year, before increasing that
to an annual $300 million, Apopo said in an interview today in
Kigali, Rwanda’s capital.  “There is a huge backlog of infrastructure needs in
transport, energy, housing, etc.,” Apopo said. “We cannot do
everything at once, so we are consulting with the various
governments to agree on priorities.”  The bank plans to finance expansion of an airline based in
one of its four member states, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and
Rwanda, Apopo said, without giving details. It will also look to
develop housing and tourism sites, particularly in Rwanda. The
bank will work with specialized institutions in housing, such as
 Shelter Afrique , which is owned by various African governments,
she said.  The East African Development Bank will also invest in
existing venture funds, after it dropped plans to create its own
fund, Apopo said.  Initial investments will be financed through member-state
contributions and bond sales starting next year. Burundi will
probably become a member of the bank by 2012, she said.  When investment picks up in three years, the bank will turn
to its traditional sources of funds, such as the African
Development Bank, Apopo said.  The bank made a profit of $1.85 million in 2009, after a
loss of $8.7 million in 2008, according to the 2009  financial
report . Its asset base is $224.4 million as of 2009, the report
shows.  In the same year, the bank approved projects worth $19.9
million, down 63 percent from the year earlier, the report
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Malingha Doya  in Kigali via Johannesburg at
   asguazzin@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin  at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 