-- Trichet Is Buyer of Only Resort as Debt Woes Worsen
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 2010-11-12T08:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/ecb-s-trichet-is-bond-buyer-of-only-resort-as-euro-s-debt-crisis-worsens.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  is the buyer of only resort as the euro
area’s bond market melts down.  Just six months after he threw out his rule book to prevent
Greece’s debt crisis from splintering the euro area, the 67-year
old Frenchman may again be the only policy maker able to prevent
the collapse in Irish and Portuguese bonds from spreading. That
may require him to ignore opposition from Bundesbank President
 Axel Weber  to the ECB’s bond-buying program and expand purchases
of sovereign assets, according to Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc.  The pressure on the Frankfurt-based ECB reflects its status
as the only institution in the 27-nation European Union able to
act fast enough to placate bondholders. The premium investors
charge to hold Irish and Portuguese debt over German bunds
reached records yesterday and the euro today fell to a six-week
low against the dollar.  “The ECB’s lack of action is puzzling to say the least and
begs the question as to whether it’s fulfilling its financial-
stability mandate,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland in London. “The more the
ECB waits, the bigger the purchase program will have to be.”  After reporting no settled transactions for three weeks,
the ECB last week completed 711 million euros ($973 million) of
purchases. Traders familiar with the transactions said it acted
again this week by buying Irish assets under an emergency
program set up to support the euro during the Greek rescue.  Market Rout  Scaring investors away from the bonds of Europe’s so-called
peripheral nations is doubt over their ability to finance
themselves and cut budget deficits fast enough.  Concern that those countries may end up restructuring their
debt sent  Irish bonds  lower for 13 straight days, pushing the
yield on 10-year debt to 8.9 percent yesterday from 6.9 percent
at the end of October. The bonds snapped that decline today,
with the yield falling 11 basis points to 8.8 percent.  When  Greece  faced a market rout in May, the ECB agreed to
buy government bonds for the first time and European governments
created a fund to provide cash to countries in need in return
for them accepting stringent conditions.  With Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  “now having virtually
lost access to capital markets,” Cailloux said the ECB must
“extend dramatically” its bond purchases. He called on it to
buy  Spanish assets  to limit contagion and spend an additional
100 billion euros by the beginning of next year. So far, the ECB
has spent a total of 64 billion euros.  Forced to Act  “The ECB is being forced to deal with damage caused by
others,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at
Citgroup in London. “Trichet has been clear he wants to have
the market functioning and so they may have to consider doing
more.”  One potential obstacle is Weber, a contender to replace
Trichet as ECB president next year, who said last month that the
central bank should terminate its purchase program.  “Given the controversy surrounding the securities markets
program, the ECB is unlikely to step up its purchases to such an
extent that market pressure abates,” said  David Mackie , chief
European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Weber is not the only German publicly disagreeing with
Trichet. Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has quarreled with the central
bank chief, whose tenure runs out on Oct. 31, 2011, over the
terms of a permanent rescue facility now being debated by the
European Union.  Sharing the Cost  Trichet says Merkel’s demand that bondholders be forced to
share the cost of a future bailout risks undermining investor
confidence. It was Merkel’s push for burden-sharing at a
European Union summit last month that triggered this month’s
sell-off, according to Mackie.  At a Nov. 4 press conference, Trichet contrasted Merkel’s
approach with the International Monetary Fund’s assumption that
aid recipients will respect debts to private creditors.  “The IMF does not make the ex-ante working assumption that
the normal refinancing by markets -- by investors and savers --
is interrupted,” Trichet said. “It can be, but it is not the
ex-ante normal assumption.”  European finance ministers today clarified their plans by
saying in a statement that any new system for handling future
crises would have “no impact whatsoever” on outstanding debt
and may include a range of ways for investors to share the
burden.  G-20 Meeting  The statement was released in Seoul where a summit of Group
of 20 leaders discussed Ireland’s woes and Merkel told reporters
that “preparations are in place” for any aid request.  Trichet may ultimately lobby Ireland and Portugal to tap
the EU rescue fund for fear volatile markets will derail the
ECB’s plan to keep withdrawing liquidity, or even impinge on its
ability to set monetary policy for 16 nations, said  James Nixon ,
co-chief European economist at Societe Generale SA in London.  ECB Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  yesterday said the
central bank intends to proceed with its exit strategy and its
bond-purchase program is “temporary.”  “It is only a matter of time before the ECB is privately
advising Portugal and Ireland to accept a bailout,” said Nixon,
a former ECB forecaster. “The alternative appears to be either
an interest rate that is too low for Germany or an appreciation
of the euro that will condemn the euro’s peripheral economy to a
long, slow death.”  Irish Budget  While the Irish government says it’s fully funded through
the middle of next year, economists including  Julian Callow  of
Barclays Capital still identify it as the most likely to seek EU
support, although it may try to wait until after the Dec. 7
announcement of its 2011 budget in the hope that measures to
reduce the deficit by 6 billion euros will placate markets.  The question then is whether use of the EU stabilization
fund is enough to end the crisis, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
chief interest-rate strategist  Francesco Garzarelli  says, or if
investors will just turn their sights on another economy, as
predicted by Cailloux.  “The key message is we’re rapidly reaching a T-junction
and we can’t keep going in a straight line,” Callow, Barclays’
chief European economist, said of Ireland. “The current
situation is flatly unsustainable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 James Hertling  in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  