-- Economists Ask to Help U.S. Fight Health-Care Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-12T21:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/economiststs-seek-to-file-brief-oppposing-florida-in-heath-care-lawsuit.html
A group of 35 economists, including
three Nobel laureates, asked a U.S. judge for permission to file
a brief backing the Obama administration’s bid to end a lawsuit
challenging its health-care overhaul.  Nobel Prize-winning economists  Kenneth Arrow ,  George Akerlof  and  Eric Maskin  are among the scholars who filed papers
today asking U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola,
Florida, to allow them to submit a brief they say will give the
court “insight.”  Nineteen states have joined in the lawsuit brought by
Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum  on March 23, which
claimed the health-care legislation signed by President  Barack Obama  earlier that day is overbroad and unconstitutional.  “Everyone gets sick, suffers an injury at some point in
their life or must address the vicissitudes of aging and seek
medical care,” the economists’ lawyer, Richard Rosen, wrote in
today’s filing. “Those medical costs typically arise at
unpredictable times and, when they occur, often exceed the
ability to pay of all but the very wealthiest of Americans.”  The states, in court papers, have claimed the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, unlawfully forces
individuals to buy health insurance and compels states to
participate in a “greatly expanded and fundamentally
transformed Medicaid program.”  Several Petitions Filed  The U.S. has asked Vinson to throw out the lawsuit, arguing
that it was filed prematurely because the bulk of the act
doesn’t take effect until 2014. The administration has also said
the states don’t identify any injury sustained by them or by
individuals compelled to obtain coverage.  The economists’ petition to participate in the proceedings
is one of several that have been filed with the court in advance
of an oral argument scheduled by Vinson for Dec. 16.  Eight Republican U.S. senators, including leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky,  John Cornyn  of Texas and Utah’s  Orrin Hatch , today filed their own request for submission of a brief
backing the states’ contention the act is unconstitutional.  The senators said in their filing that they are “in the
best position to underscore that where Congress legislates
without authority,” as the states allege was done in mandating
individuals must obtain health care coverage.  A parallel challenge to the legislation, filed by Virginia
Attorney General  Kenneth Cuccinelli , is pending in federal court
in Richmond.  Joining Florida in its lawsuit are Alabama, Alaska,
Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington.  A spokeswoman for McCollum, Sandi Copes, said the attorney
general will “wait to see whether the court grants these
motions.”  The Florida case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, 3:10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 