-- Edmund Hillary Watch Sale May Be Blocked by New Zealand as Family Argues
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-12T05:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/edmund-hillary-watch-sale-may-be-blocked-by-new-zealand-as-family-argues.html
New Zealand may block a proposed
auction of Rolex watches owned by  Edmund Hillary , the first man
to climb Mount Everest, amid reports that a family split over
the sale may spill into the courts.  The  Ministry of Culture and Heritage  is seeking a legal
opinion on whether the watches are covered by the Protected
Objects Act, which is designed to prevent items of significant
value to New Zealand being exported without permission. The
watches will be offered at an auction in Geneva on Nov. 14.  “We are in the process of checking whether the watches
come under the cover of the Act,” Lucy Orbell, a spokeswoman at
the ministry in Wellington, said in an interview. “It’s
trickier with personal effects.”  Hillary, who with Sherpa  Tenzing Norgay  conquered the
summit of the world’s tallest mountain in 1953, died in 2008.
His widow’s decision to sell the collection of watches,
including an Oyster Perpetual he was presented with after his
historic climb, has been opposed by his son and daughter, the
New Zealand Press Association reported today.  The siblings have instructed lawyers to seek an injunction
at the Auckland High Court, stopping the sale, the news service
reported, without saying where it got the information. They
claim that under the terms of Hillary’s will the watches are
owned by the family not the widow, who was his second wife.  Auctioneer  Antiquorum  estimated the watch presented to
Hillary in 1953, and which was subsequently worn by him on an
overland cross of Antarctic, is worth as much as 20,000 Swiss
francs ($20,470), according to an Oct. 20 statement posted on
the Geneva-based company’s website.  The ministry is also considering how it could get the
watches back from Switzerland if they’re designated objects
under the Act.  “We’re actually working out where we stand with that,”
said Orbell. “We can’t comment and say we’re able to do
anything because we’re still investigating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  