-- Heebner Beats Yacktman as Market Rewards Recovery Bet
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-11-12T17:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/heebner-beats-yacktman-as-stock-market-rewards-bet-on-recovery.html
Ken Heebner , whose top-performing
mutual fund was mired in a two-year slump, is among the main
beneficiaries as the rally that lifted stocks 17 percent in 10
weeks rewards managers betting on an economic recovery.  Heebner’s $3 billion  CGM Focus Fund  rose 32 percent from
Aug. 26, the day before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
hinted at fresh quantitative easing, through last week, best for
a diversified U.S. mutual fund with at least $500 million,
according to Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. Laggards included
 Donald Yacktman , whose $1.7 billion  Yacktman Focused Fund  beat
99 percent of large-company value rivals in the past decade.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks advanced in
nine of 10 weeks to reach its high for the year on Nov. 5, two
days after the Fed said it would buy an additional $600 billion
in Treasuries through June in an attempt to stoke economic
growth. Technology, energy and materials were the strongest
industry groups, while telecom services, consumer staples and
utilities trailed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market has been favoring economically sensitive
companies rather than names which are more defensive,”
Yacktman, whose fund climbed 11 percent in the rally, said in a
telephone interview from Austin, Texas. “I am starting to sense
a little bit of speculation.”  Heebner’s top two holdings were Dearborn, Michigan-based
 Ford Motor Co.  and Phoenix-based Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. as of Sept. 30, according to a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. He sold most of his stake in
Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc. in the third quarter.  ‘Big Bold Bets’  CGM Focus beat all diversified U.S. mutual funds in the 10
years ended Oct. 31, averaging 18 percent annual returns in a
span in which the S&P 500 changed little, Morningstar data show.  The 70-year-old Heebner is known for concentrating his fund
in industries from homebuilding to commodities and for a
willingness to shift direction quickly.  In 2007, CGM Focus jumped 80 percent as commodity and
energy prices soared. The next year, it lost 48 percent, worse
than 96 percent of its large-company growth peers, when those
industries tumbled amid the global recession. In 2009, Heebner
trailed 99 percent of rivals after he sold financial stocks in
the first quarter, missing a rebound in those shares.  “When you make big bold bets like he does, it may work or
it may not,”  Courtney Dobrow , a Morningstar analyst, said in a
telephone interview.  The fund’s investors pulled out $1.48 billion from January
2009 through Sept. 30 of this year, Morningstar data show.  Martha Maguire, a spokeswoman for Boston-based Capital
Growth Management LP, which oversees the fund, said in an e-mail
that Heebner wasn’t available to comment.  Miller Gains 24%  The $1.9 billion  Legg Mason Capital Management Opportunity
Trust,  run by  Bill Miller , has also had its ups and downs. The
fund fell 65 percent in 2008 and rose 83 percent in 2009. In the
latest rally, it gained 24 percent.  “We’ve positioned the fund to benefit from an economic
recovery,” said  Samantha McLemore , assistant portfolio manager,
in a phone interview from Baltimore. The largest stake at
midyear was Chicago-based airline  United Continental Holdings
Inc ., whose shares have more than doubled in 2010 on speculation
that ticket prices will rise.  Miller, 60, is best known for a record streak guiding his
largest fund, the $4.1 billion Legg Mason Value Trust, to better
returns than the S&P 500 every year from 1991 through 2005.  Columbia Select  Small-capitalization specialists including the $523 million
 Columbia Select Small Cap Fund  were among the leaders during the
past 10 weeks, Morningstar data show. Columbia Select increased
29 percent as smaller companies outpaced mid-cap and large-cap
names, according to Bloomberg data.  Yacktman Focused, which averaged returns of 12 percent over
the past 10 years, was among the worst 10 performers during the
rally, according to Morningstar.  The manager looks for companies that offer the greatest
long-term returns adjusted for risk, taking a buy-and-hold
approach. Yacktman’s fund turns over an average of 8 percent of
its portfolio each year, compared with 464 percent for
Heebner’s, according to Morningstar.  Yacktman’s top five holdings include consumer staples
companies such as Purchase, New York-based  PepsiCo. Inc.  and
Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co .  “I have rarely seen so many good businesses selling for
below-average prices,” said Yacktman, 69.  The run-up in economically sensitive stocks has been based
in part on assumptions of future growth “that may be
unrealistic,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  