-- Heebner Sold Most of His Apple Stake in Third Quarter
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-11-12T19:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/heebner-sold-most-of-his-stake-in-apple-in-third-quarter-bought-priceline.html
Kenneth Heebner , manager of the top-
performing diversified U.S. mutual fund in the past 10 years,
sold most of his stake in  Apple Inc . in the third quarter.  Heebner’s Capital Growth Management LP sold 1.04 million
Apple shares, leaving his holdings in the Cupertino, California-
based maker of iPhones and computers at 110,000 shares,
according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Heebner bought stakes in Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.,  Priceline.com Inc . and  Southwest Airlines
Co.  in the quarter.  Apple fell $7.41, or 2.3 percent, to $309.25 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 1:37 p.m. in New York. Apple’s iPad and
other tablets may not sell as well as analysts had estimated as
customers cut back spending on new technology or opt for new
smartphones and laptops instead, Rodman & Renshaw LLC said in a
report.  Heebner unloaded shares of other technology companies, the
SEC filing shows. He eliminated his stakes in SanDisk Corp., a
Milpitas, California-based maker of flash data-storage products,
and  Micron Technology Inc. , a Boise, Idaho-based chipmaker.  Freeport, based in Phoenix, is the largest publicly traded
copper producer. Shares of Norwalk, Connecticut-based Priceline,
the online travel firm, rose 88 percent this year as demand
climbed for hotels stays and international flights.  Airline Holdings  Southwest, based in Dallas, is the largest U.S. discount
carrier. Heebner also owns shares in Atlanta-based Delta Air
Lines Inc, the filing shows. The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index
gained 30 percent in 2010.  The 70-year-old Heebner is known for concentrating in
industries from homebuilding to commodities and a willingness to
shift directions quickly. His largest fund, the $3 billion  CGM
Focus Fund , turns over its stocks four times more often than the
typical equity fund, data from Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.
show.  CGM Focus Fund returned an average of 18 percent a year in
the decade ended Oct. 31, a period in which the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was little changed, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. The fund has gained 12 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  