-- Electronic Arts Developer Spicy Horse to Expand China Studio
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T01:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/electronic-arts-developer-spicy-horse-plans-to-double-workforce-in-china.html
Electronic Arts Inc.  content
developer  Spicy Horse Games  aims to double its workforce as the
American-owned, Shanghai-based company looks to sell online
games in China, the world’s largest Internet market by users.  The game-software creator, whose “Alice: Madness Returns”
is nearing completion for release by Electronic Arts next year,
plans to increase the number of employees to 160 to 200 in the
next 18 months, from about 80 currently, founder  American McGee ,
37, said in an interview yesterday.  Spicy Horse, originally established to develop content for
export and use on Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox and Sony Corp.’s
PlayStation consoles that are banned in China, now aims to tap
demand in the local games market, which is projected to double
to $10 billion by 2014. The company will need a local publisher
to help it meet Chinese laws that bar foreign-owned companies
from directly operating online games, McGee said.  “The whole reason I came to China was I could see six
years ago that the Western game-development and publishing model
was starting to break down and malfunction,” the former
Electronic Arts game designer, who founded Spicy Horse in 2006,
said. “I wanted to be in China to gain access to what was
happening in online games production, and monetization.”  Designed in China  “Alice: Madness Returns”  title will be the first console
game entirely designed and developed in China for export and is
a sequel to “American McGee’s Alice” that was released by
Electronic Arts for personal computers in 2000 and sold more
than 1.5 million copies.  Closely held Spicy Horse has received about $11 million in
advances on royalties to develop titles including the “Alice”
sequel for Redwood City, California-based Electronic Arts, and
an online game called “American McGee’s Grimm.” The developer
has hired Wedbush Securities Inc. to explore financing options
for its expansion in China, McGee said.  The “Alice” sequel has been produced for about half the
$30 million that such a title might have cost in the U.S., where
the original title was developed, McGee said. The game follows
Alice “on a journey through a wildly corrupted and shattered
Wonderland to uncover the truth behind her haunted past and
tortured psyche,” Electronic Arts said in a statement
announcing the sequel in July.  Facebook Inc. game developers Kabam and Zynga Game Network
Inc. last month said they will increasingly turn to Chinese
software designers to make games. While Kabam has 35 employees
at a studio in Beijing, and Zynga acquired XPD Media with its
40-strong Beijing workforce, both have said for now they won’t
try to operate their games in the highly regulated local market.  Online Multiplayer Game  China is home to  Tencent Holdings Ltd. , the world’s biggest
online games company by market value. The most popular title it
operates, “Crossfire,” is licensed from South Korea’s Neowiz
Games Corp. NetEase.com Inc., China’s second largest online game
company, is the local operator of Activision Blizzard Inc.’s
“World of Warcraft.”  Spicy Horse is convinced there is room for others, McGee
said. The studio has recently begun developing its first online,
multiplayer game to target the China market, he said, without
disclosing details of the new game.  China’s videogame market will double to $10 billion by 2014,
researcher BDA China Ltd. said last month. About 280 million
Internet users play games on-line that will generate revenue of
$5 billion this year, according to the Beijing-based firm.  “It’s time to start bringing more Western-style production
to bear on the Chinese local market,” McGee said. “We’re going
to force our way in.”  -- Edmond Lococo . Editors:  Suresh Seshadri ,  Jonathan Annells   To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  