-- Emerging Stocks Decline for Third Day on China Interest-Rate Speculation
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-12T05:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/emerging-stocks-decline-for-third-day-on-china-interest-rate-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day on speculation Chinese policy makers may raise
interest rates for the second time in two months as early as
today to curb inflation.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.9 percent to
1,128.37 as of 1:29 p.m. in Taipei. The gauge is on course for a
2.4 percent retreat this week, the most since Aug. 13. China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index  retreated 3.3 percent, set for the
biggest loss in more than four months. The  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index  decreased 1.6 percent to the lowest level in
almost two months. Thailand’s  SET  Index dropped 1.6 percent.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and China Vanke
Co. led the nation’s lenders and developers lower after a report
yesterday showed consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in two
years. Raw material suppliers fell, paced by  Jiangxi Copper  and
PT International Nickel Indonesia, as commodities plunged.  “There’s talk of an interest-rate hike over the weekend,”
said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “It’s quite possible given
how inflation has accelerated.”  ICBC, the world’s largest bank, dropped 1.6 percent in Hong
Kong.  China Vanke  fell 3.9 percent in Shenzhen trading, set for
the lowest level since Oct. 12.  China’s consumer prices increased 4.4 percent from a year
earlier, boosted by food costs, a statistics bureau report
showed in Beijing yesterday, more than the 4 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists. Property
prices rose in October at the slowest pace in 10 months, after
the government raised interest rates.  Inflation, Policy Risks  The People’s Bank of China may raise its benchmark one-year
lending rate to 5.81 percent by year-end from 5.56 percent,
according to the median forecast of 11 analysts polled after
yesterday’s consumer price data. The deposit rate may climb to
2.75 percent from 2.5 percent, the survey showed.  Inflation and policy risks will cloud “earnings visibility”
at China’s banks in 2011,  Alistair Scarff  and Michael Li,
analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report.
“Earnings momentum may decelerate due to lower volume, higher
provisions, and potential margin squeeze.”  Metals, grains and oil fell. Zinc for three-month delivery
fell to $2,438.50 a metric ton in London and tumbled by the 5
percent daily limit to 19,935 yuan a ton in Shanghai after China
sold 49,993 tons at auction to cool domestic prices. Cotton
dropped 7.5 percent and sugar declined 5 percent in China. Crude
oil decreased 1.6 percent to $86.42 a barrel in New York after
rallying to the highest in two years yesterday.  Jiangxi Copper  slumped 4 percent in Hong Kong. Inco, as
Indonesia’s largest nickel producer is known, lost 1 percent.
 Cnooc Ltd. , China’s largest offshore explorer, retreated 2.6
percent while  PTT Pcl , Thailand’s largest energy company, fell
1.2 percent.  Philippine Stocks  In the Philippines, shares fell for a sixth straight day.
The benchmark, Asia’s worst performer this month, will extend
losses for the rest of 2010 as investors speculate a recent
rally was overdone, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  Manila Water Co. , the utility that serves half of the
Philippine capital, decreased 2.6 percent after Macquarie
lowered the stock’s rating to “neutral” from “outperform.”  “Share prices have gone up so much in a short time,” said
 Alex Pomento , a Manila-based strategist at Macquarie. “We will
see a correction from here until the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  