-- Memory-Price Slump May Halt Chip Stock Rally: Chart of the Day
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-11-12T11:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/memory-price-slump-may-halt-chip-stock-rally-chart-of-the-day.html
Plunging prices of computer memory
chips may signal the end of a two-month rally in shares of
semiconductor makers.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index, the gauge of 30 industry leaders including
Intel Corp. and Texas Instruments Inc. that has surged 24
percent since Aug. 31, with prices for dynamic-random-access-
memory chips, or DRAMs, and Nand flash memory. Chip prices have
slumped amid tepid demand for computers.  Investors use orders and prices for memory chips as a
leading indicator of electronics demand as the components take
as long as three months to manufacture, making them among the
first parts to be ordered. Chipmaker stocks have surged on
optimism that efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the
economy will boost purchases of electronics. The fall in memory
prices may show that demand isn’t materializing.  “DRAM prices obviously reflect a shift to a state of
oversupply,” said Ioan Smith, a director at Knight Capital
Europe in London. “Semiconductor stocks have rallied given the
monetary stimulus being pumped into the economy. The concern
going forward is that consumers won’t upgrade their smartphones,
tablet PCs, et cetera.”  The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index fell 1.3 percent
yesterday as Cisco Systems Inc., the biggest maker of computer
networking equipment, led a selloff in technology stocks after
its forecasts missed estimates. The company misread demand from
some customers, Chief Executive Officer John Chambers said on a
Nov. 10 conference call.  “Clearly pricing is coming down pretty precipitously and
we expect that to continue in the fourth quarter,” said Tristan
Gerra, an analyst at Robert W. Baird in San Francisco. “We
haven’t seen the worst.”  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  