-- ESPN Shuts Down Australia Extreme Sports Event for X Games Infringement
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-11-12T00:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/espn-shuts-down-australia-extreme-sports-event-for-x-games-infringement.html
ESPN Inc., the sports network owned
by  Walt Disney Co. , won a federal court judgment prohibiting an
Australian organizer from staging a sports festival in Sydney
under the name XSport Games.  Judge Jayne Jagot in Sydney ruled the name infringed ESPN’s
“X Games” trademark. Andrew Thomas, owner of the “XSport
Games” trademark, canceled the event that was scheduled for
Nov. 13 and Nov. 14 at the Sydney Showgrounds, according to
court papers.  XSport Games was touted as “Australia’s biggest action
sports festival,” featuring freestyle BMX, skateboarding and
rough riding, with organizers promising to broadcast the event
to more than 100 countries, according to BMX freestyle’s
 website . The XSport Games  website  has been shut down.  “I do not believe that I have done anything wrong and I do
not admit any fault,” Thomas wrote ESPN’s lawyers in an e-mail
that was cited by the judge. Thomas didn’t appear in court and
asked ESPN’s lawyers to show the e-mail to the judge.  The  X Games , put on by ESPN at venues around the world,
features sports such as skateboarding and motorcycle jumping,
aimed at an audience under 30 years of age. The 16th annual
version of the event was held July 29 to Aug. 1 in Los Angeles.  Jagot said ESPN, based on the preliminary evidence, had
established that its trademark was infringed.  ESPN “has substantial and valuable goodwill and reputation
in and in relation to the X Games,” Jagot wrote in her ruling
yesterday. Thomas “acted with his eyes open to the position of
the applicant objecting to the conduct and promotion” since
late August, she said.  The case is ESPN Inc. v. Thomas, NSD1525/2010, Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 