-- European Stocks Post Weekly Decline on Government Debt Concern; Banks Fall
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/european-stocks-post-weekly-decline-on-government-debt-concern-banks-fall.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly decline in six weeks amid renewed concern that some of
the region’s most indebted nations will struggle to reduce their
budget deficits.  Banks retreated as the extra yield investors demand to hold
Irish and Portuguese government bonds instead of German bunds
widened to records. Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer, slid
2.9 percent as regulators were said to be considering tighter
rules for the industry. Alcatel-Lucent SA led technology shares
lower as Cisco Systems Inc.’s forecast missed estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.7 percent to 270.18 this
past week, the biggest drop since Oct. 1. The benchmark gauge
rallied 2.3 percent over the previous five days, reaching a six-
month high, after the U.S. Federal Reserve unveiled another
round of bond purchase to boost the world’s largest economy, a
tactic known as quantitative easing.  “The last two months has seen everybody focused on the Fed
and its QE2 package,” said  Ioan Smith , a London-based director
at Knight Capital Europe Ltd. “Now that it has been announced,
the market is refocusing on the continuing sovereign debt
problems in Europe.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets, except Norway and Denmark. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  dropped
1.3 percent and France’s CAC 40 Index slid 2.2 percent. Spain’s
IBEX 35 plunged 1.9 percent, Portugal’s PSI-20 sank 2 percent
and Ireland’s ISEQ declined 1 percent.  Irish Risk Premium  The risk premiums investors demand to hold Irish and
Portuguese government bonds over German bunds soared to all-time
highs this week, while Spain neared June’s euro-era record.  Group of 20 leaders meeting in Seoul discussed Ireland’s
debt crisis amid concern the European Union will need to step in
with a bailout. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said it
“makes no sense” for Ireland to request aid as the country is
fully funded to mid-2011.  Natixis SA led banks lower, falling 9.5 percent. The French
investment bank said third-quarter profit dropped 16 percent to
305 million euros ($419 million) after changes in value of its
own debt curbed revenue, trailing the 366 million-euro average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Commerzbank AG  retreated 6.1 percent after Germany’s
second-biggest bank reported third-quarter net income of 113
million euros, missing the 148.4 million-euro average projection
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  UniCredit SpA fell 2.9 percent after Italy’s biggest bank
reported third-quarter earnings that also missed estimates as
lower trading income overshadowed a drop in bad-loan provisions.  Insurers Slide  Allianz  slid 2.9 percent, dragging a measure of insurers to
the biggest decline since August. Aviva Plc, the U.K.’s second-
largest insurer, retreated 4 percent and Prudential Plc dropped
3.6 percent.  The Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision are considering including insurers in
measures to safeguard the world economy from crises at so-called
systemically important financial institutions, two people close
to the discussions said.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA declined 2.6 percent after
Europe’s third-biggest insurer reported third-quarter net income
that trailed analyst  estimates .  Alcatel, Cisco  Alcatel-Lucent, France’s largest telecommunications-
equipment maker, dropped 7.2 percent, leading an index of
technology companies to the biggest decline since August. Cisco,
the world’s biggest maker of computer networking equipment,
plunged 16 percent in New York trading on Nov. 11 after
forecasting earnings and revenue that missed estimates.  United Internet AG tumbled 17 percent, the most since March
last year, after reporting an 8.3 percent drop in nine-month
pretax profit.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc  sank 9.3 percent after
owner of the Holiday Inn brand reported third-quarter costs of
$74 million that exceeded analyst estimates because of employee-
incentive payments.  Mediaset SpA plunged 9.4 percent after the broadcaster
controlled by Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  reported
a bigger-than-expected net loss in the third quarter of 49
million euros.  About 61 percent of the companies in the  Stoxx 600  that
have announced results since Oct. 7 have beaten analysts’
estimates for per-share earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Auto-industry shares limited declines in the Stoxx 600,
rallying 2 percent as a group. Volkswagen AG climbed 5.9 percent
and Porsche SE surged 11 percent as Lower Saxony Prime Minister
 David McAllister , the German state shareholder with veto power,
said the automakers’ merger is unlikely to be derailed by U.S.
investor lawsuits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 