-- European Ministers Hold Ireland Debt Crisis Talks at G-20
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-12T05:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/european-ministers-hold-crisis-talks-at-g-20-amid-ireland-bailout-concern.html
Group of 20 leaders discussed
Ireland’s debt crisis, which has driven  bond yields  to records
and weakened the euro on concern the European Union will need to
step in with a bailout.  Finance ministers from Germany, France and the U.K. are
monitoring developments and will probably issue a joint
statement later today, said  Steffen Seibert , a spokesman for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . G-20 leaders spent a
considerable time discussing Europe’s debt woes, said a U.S.
official who participated in the meetings in Seoul and spoke to
White House reporters on condition of anonymity.  “Preparations are in place” for any aid request by
European Union countries facing a debt crisis, Merkel told
reporters in the Korean capital. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said individual EU countries must decide for
themselves whether to seek aid.  The premium investors charge to hold Irish debt over German
bunds climbed to a record yesterday and the euro fell to a six-
week low against the dollar today. Yields on 10-year Irish bonds
added 31 basis points to 9.07 percent.  Bailing out Ireland’s financial system could cost as much
as 50 billion euros ($68 billion) under a “stress case”
scenario compiled by the finance ministry and central bank. The
euro fell to $1.3612 as of 1:12 p.m. in Tokyo after sliding to
$1.3601, the weakest since. Sept. 30.  Investor Pessimism  A majority of global investors predict Ireland will default
on its sovereign debt, showing government efforts haven’t
allayed creditworthiness concerns. As the government puts the
finishing touches on a plan to find 15 billion euros in savings,
51 percent of respondents in the latest Bloomberg Global Poll
say they regard a default as likely, compared with 42 percent
who say it is unlikely. The ranks of those anticipating an Irish
default have tripled since a poll in June.  Germany is the biggest contributor to this year’s 860
billion euros in loans and pledges to stem Europe’s debt crisis.
Bonds of the euro area’s so-called peripheral nations have
tumbled since EU leaders on Oct. 29 backed Merkel’s demand to
set up a permanent rescue system by 2013 that makes bondholders
foot part of the cost of any future debt crisis.  The three-country statement will rebut criticism from
Ireland and others that talking about debt restructuring in the
post-2013 system is widening bond spreads, Schaeuble said in
Seoul.  Bondholder Contribution  “The future crisis mechanism has nothing to do with the
debate going on right now,” Merkel said.  Germany will spell out to what extent bondholders would
contribute to a sovereign bailout next week, rather than wait
until a European Union summit in December, the Financial Times
Deutschland reported yesterday, citing the finance ministry.
 Bertrand Benoit , a ministry spokesman, declined to comment.  Merkel, who faces elections next year in states with 25
percent of Germany’s population, says her goal is to enforce
fiscal discipline in the euro area and avoid putting German
taxpayer money on the line in any future bailout.  “There may be a conflict here between the interests of the
financial world and the interests of politicians,” Merkel said
in Seoul yesterday. “We can’t constantly explain to our voters
that taxpayers have to be on the hook for certain risks rather
than those who make a lot of money taking those risks.”  Losing Streak  Irish government bonds tumbled for a 13th day yesterday on
mounting concern the nation will be forced to restructure its
finances, extending the longest losing streak in at least three
years. The 5 percent security maturing in October 2020 slipped
1.65, or 16.5 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 74.09.  Yields on 10-year Irish bonds are the highest since the
advent of the euro in 1999, and the premium over German bunds is
more than seven times what it was two years ago. Ireland’s
budget deficit as a share of gross domestic product was the
highest in the 16-nation euro area at the end of 2009.  “We are monitoring the situation in Ireland on a permanent
basis,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said in
Seoul yesterday. Europe has “all the necessary instruments in
place” to offer financial help “if necessary,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Seoul at  tczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  