-- Europe's Growth Slows as Deficit Cuts Dent Recovery
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-12T12:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/europe-s-economic-growth-slows-as-peripheral-countries-lag-behind-germany.html
Europe’s economic growth weakened in
the third quarter from the fastest pace in four years as
governments’ austerity measures to cut record budget deficits
dented the recovery.  Gross domestic product  in the 16-nation euro area rose 0.4
percent from the second quarter, when it increased 1 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Economists expected a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 35
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Industrial output 
fell 0.9 percent in September from the previous month, the
largest drop in 18 months, separate data showed.  Europe’s economic expansion is cooling as leaders grapple
with how to handle the sovereign-debt crisis, which has pushed
 Irish bond yields  to records and weakened the euro on concern
the EU may need to step in. Ireland and Greece have failed to
restore economic growth as they contend with bloated deficits
and soaring borrowing costs, while Germany’s expansion slowed
from the record pace in the second quarter.  “The squeeze from fiscal consolidation programs on the
periphery will build,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-zone
economist at BNP Paribas in London. “That contrast between
Germany driven by strong demand for its exports and the
periphery really struggling is going to become more rather than
less pronounced.”  Six-Week Low  The euro sank to a six-week low against the dollar on
concerns about the sovereign-debt crisis and slowing economic
growth. The European currency, which is set for its biggest
weekly loss since August, traded at $1.3689 at 12:01 p.m. in
London, up 0.2 percent on the day.  German  GDP increased 0.7 percent from the previous three
months, when it surged a record 2.3 percent, while third-quarter
growth in France slowed to 0.4 percent from 0.7 percent in the
prior period, the statistics office said. Italy’s expansion
slowed to 0.2 percent from 0.5 percent and the Netherlands’
economy contracted 0.1 percent following growth of 0.9 percent
in the prior quarter.  Greece’s economy contracted 1.1 percent in the latest three
months and Spain stagnated, today’s data showed. Portugal’s
growth accelerated to 0.4 percent in the quarter from 0.2
percent in the previous three months. The statistics office
didn’t publish data for Ireland.  New Mechanism  Group of 20 leaders meeting in Seoul discussed Ireland’s
debt crisis, and European finance ministers there sought to
reassure bondholders about a new system to handle future crises
in euro-area nations. Bonds of Ireland and Portugal have tumbled
since EU leaders on Oct. 29 backed a German demand to set up a
permanent debt-rescue mechanism by 2013. Germany wants
bondholders to foot part of the cost of any future crisis.  “Any new mechanism would only come into effect after mid-
2013 with no impact whatsoever on the current arrangements,”
the ministers of Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the U.K. said
in a statement in Seoul. The G-20 leaders endorsed gradual
changes in exchange rates and agreed to develop early-warning
indicators to monitor policies that exacerbate trade imbalances.  From a year earlier,  euro-area GDP  rose 1.9 percent, the
same rate as the second quarter, today’s report showed. The
statistics office will publish a detailed breakdown of the data
on Dec. 2. The report also showed the U.S. economy grew 0.5
percent in the third quarter, based on an EU measure.  ‘Big Probability’  Europe’s recovery may be restrained as governments step up
budget cuts to reduce deficits and restore investor confidence.
The yield premium on  Irish  and  Portuguese  10-year debt over the
equivalent German security rose to records this week on investor
concern that they won’t be able to fund themselves.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said on Nov. 8 there’s a “big probability” that
Ireland and Portugal will turn to the EU and the International
Monetary Fund for help unless “markets suddenly calm down.”  The European Central Bank kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record low of 1 percent on Nov. 4 and President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled that the bank will stick to its exit strategy
even as a faltering economy makes it harder for governments to
plug shortfalls. The ECB has purchased government bonds and
provided banks with emergency liquidity to bolster lending.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  last week decided to buy
more assets to prop up the world’s largest economy. The  Bank of
Japan  said on Nov. 5 that the recovery “seems to be pausing”
after pledging to keep borrowing costs near zero.  Mounting Debts  Concern about governments’ ability to push down mounting
debts sparked a 15 percent drop by the euro against the dollar
in the first half of the year, helping to boost exports.
 HeidelbergCement AG , the world’s No. 3 maker of cement, said on
Nov. 4 that third-quarter profit more than doubled.  Daimler AG ,
the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury vehicles, last month
increased its full-year earnings forecast.  European companies remain dependent on faster-growing
economies in emerging markets to bolster earnings as euro-area
 unemployment  at a 12-year high restrains consumer spending.
 Continental AG , Europe’s second-largest car-parts maker, on Nov.
3 raised its 2010 forecasts, citing demand in Asia and South
America.  L’Oreal SA , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, said
in October that nine-month sales in Western Europe lagged other
markets.  “It’s clear that the budget consolidation and weaker
global demand are weighing on an expansion,” said  Carsten Brzeski , a senior economist at ING in Brussels. “But we’re
still far from a double-dip recession.”  Budget Consolidation  Industrial production  in the euro region rose 5.2 percent
in September from a year earlier after jumping 8.4 percent the
previous month, today’s report showed. Production of durable
consumer goods declined 3 percent from August, while output of
intermediate goods fell 1.3 percent.  Nations such as China and Brazil are powering the global
expansion, widening a gap with advanced economies that are
struggling to revive domestic demand. The Washington-based IMF
said on Oct. 6 that developing nations will grow 6.4 percent
next year, almost three times the pace projected for
industrialized economies including Europe and the U.S.  “The recovery which is there, obviously, is uneven because
there’s a significant difference between emerging economies and
advanced economies,” Trichet said on Nov. 8 after a meeting
with global counterparts. “There is a degree of uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Ross-Thomas  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  