-- European Officials Seek to Reassure Bondholders on Debt System
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-12T06:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/european-officials-seek-to-reassure-bondholders-on-new-debt-rescue-system.html
European finance ministers said
plans for a new system to handle future debt crises in euro-
region countries won’t apply to outstanding debt and may include
a range of ways for bondholders to share the burden.  “Any new mechanism would only come into effect after
mid-2013 with no impact whatsoever on the current
arrangements,” the ministers of Germany, France, Italy, Spain
and the U.K. said in a statement distributed to reporters in
Seoul today during the Group of 20 summit.  The role of private investors might involve different
forms, including a voluntary commitment to maintain bond
holdings, an agreement to roll over existing debt or the
inclusion of collective-action clauses in future bond sale
documents, the statement said.  Bonds of Ireland and Portugal have tumbled since EU leaders
agreed on Oct. 29 to consider a German demand to set up a 
permanent rescue mechanism by 2013 that makes bondholders foot 
part of the cost of any future debt crisis. Ireland has said 
restructuring talk is worsening its debt woes and Portugal urged 
the EU to come up with details of the plan.  Today’s statement didn’t mention any country, while noting
that the EU set up a financial backstop for indebted nations
this year “and its activation does not require private-sector
involvement.”  The premium investors charge to hold Irish debt over German
bunds climbed to a record yesterday and the euro fell to a six-
week low against the dollar today. Yields on 10-year Irish bonds
added 31 basis points to 9.07 percent.  German Contribution  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , whose country is the
biggest contributor to this year’s 860 billion euros ($1.17
trillion) in loans and pledges to stem the European debt crisis,
rejected criticism that the EU agreement last month is widening
bond spreads. “The future crisis mechanism has nothing to do
with the debate going on right now,” she said during the G-20
summit.  “There may be a conflict here between the interests of the
financial world and the interests of politicians,” Merkel said
in Seoul yesterday. “We can’t constantly explain to our voters
that taxpayers have to be on the hook for certain risks rather
than those who make a lot of money taking those risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Seoul at  tczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  