-- Europe Tries to Stem Bond Rout as G-20 Leaders Discuss Irish Debt Crisis
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-12T11:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/european-leaders-try-to-stem-bond-rout-as-g-20-leaders-discuss-irish-debt.html
European finance ministers sought to
reassure investors who have driven bond yields to records in
Ireland and Portugal as leaders at a Group of 20 summit in Seoul
addressed the Irish debt crisis amid speculation the European
Union will need to step in with a bailout.  Officials from Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the U.K.
issued a statement in South Korea saying a crisis-resolution
mechanism they’re discussing that may force bondholders to share
the cost of a bailout wouldn’t apply to outstanding debt.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said a financial backstop
agreed upon by the EU in May is “in place” if any country
needs it. She rejected criticism by Ireland and others that her
push to hold bondholders accountable in any debt crisis after
mid-2013 worsened Europe’s current woes.  “Any new mechanism would only come into effect after mid-
2013 with no impact whatsoever on the current arrangements,”
the finance ministers of the five countries said in a statement
distributed today at the G-20 summit.  The statement marked a damage-control effort after a
Merkel-led push at an Oct. 29 EU summit to make bondholders
contribute in bailouts “proved devastating for confidence,”
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland in London, said today.  The premium investors charge to hold Irish debt over German
bunds climbed to a record yesterday and the euro fell to a six-
week low against the dollar today. Irish bonds rose today for
the first time in 14 days, sending the yield on 10-year notes
down 70 basis points to 8.42 percent. The spread against German
bunds narrowing 73 basis points to 5.73 percentage points.  G-20 Talks  G-20 leaders spent a considerable time discussing Europe’s
debt woes, said a U.S. official who participated in the meetings
in Seoul and spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity.  Bailing out Ireland’s financial system could cost as much
as 50 billion euros ($68 billion) under a “stress case”
scenario compiled by the Finance Ministry and central bank in
Dublin. The euro rose to $1.3765 as of 3:48 p.m. in Frankfurt
after sliding to $1.3601 in Tokyo, the weakest since. Sept. 30.  An Irish bid for aid from the 750 billion-euro backstop for
the euro “is looking increasingly unavoidable but they have a
little time” as they have no immediate funding needs,  Janet Henry , chief European economist at HSBC Bank Plc in London, said
in a phone interview.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in a statement
today that Ireland’s European Union partners have full
confidence in the country’s budget strategy.  Irish Needs  Ireland is fully funded until the middle of next year. Its
gross funding need for 2011 will be 23.5 billion euros, falling
to 18.6 billion euros in 2014, the nation’s debt agency said
today.  Even so, a majority of global investors predict Ireland
will default on its sovereign debt, showing government efforts
haven’t allayed creditworthiness concerns. As the government
puts the finishing touches on a plan to find 15 billion euros in
savings, 51 percent of respondents in the latest Bloomberg
Global Poll say they regard a default as likely, compared with
42 percent who say it is unlikely. The ranks of those
anticipating an Irish default have tripled since a poll in June.  Germany is the biggest contributor to this year’s 860
billion euros in loans and pledges to stem Europe’s debt crisis.
Bonds of euro-area nations such as Ireland and Portugal have
tumbled since EU leaders on Oct. 29 backed Merkel’s demand to
consider setting up the permanent rescue system by 2013.  Merkel Not ‘Helpful’  Those plans “haven’t been helpful,” Irish Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen  said in an interview with the Irish Independent
newspaper published today. Portugal has urged European officials
to spell out how the plan might involve bondholders.  The statement by the EU ministers, who meet at their
monthly gathering in Brussels next week, provided some detail.  The role of private investors might take different forms,
including a voluntary commitment to maintain bond holdings, an
agreement to roll over existing debt or the inclusion of
collective-action clauses in future bond sale documents, it
said.  Merkel, who faces elections next year in states with 25
percent of Germany’s population, defended her stand. “The
future crisis mechanism has nothing to do with the debate going
on right now,” she said in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Seoul at  tczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  