-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: China Commodities Decline on Cooling Concerns
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-11-12T05:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/europe-commodity-day-ahead-china-commodities-decline-on-cooling-concerns.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE EVENTS:  
Metal Prices: ($/ton)  Last   %Chg
Aluminum        2,420   -1.5
Copper          8,638   -2.2
Lead            2,533   -3.0
Zinc            2,441   -4.0
Nickel         23,508   -2.1
Tin            26,400   -2.2  Other Markets:  Last   %Chg      %YTD
 U.S. Dollar Index      78.376  +0.2      +0.7
Crude Oil            $86.45   -1.6      +8.9
Gold              $1,389.25   -1.4      +27
 MSCI World Index    1,244.57   -0.3      +6.5 *T  TOP STORY:  China Commodities Slide on Tightening Concern as Inflation Gains  China’s commodities futures tumbled today with cotton,
sugar and rubber falling by the daily limits after gains to
records were seen as excessive and on concern China may take
additional measures to curb inflation, possibly reducing demand.
Copper, zinc, soybeans and palm oil also slid.  EXCLUSIVES:  Rubber Imports by India to Rise on Shortage, Tiremakers Say  Natural-rubber imports by India, the fourth-biggest
producer, may climb at least 18 percent this year as excess rain
lowers output and tire demand increases in Asia’s second-fastest
growing market for cars.  Coal India Said to Mull Massey Mine for Its First U.S. Purchase  Coal India Ltd., the world’s largest coal producer, is
considering a Massey Energy Co.  mine for its first asset
purchase in the U.S., three people with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  Panasonic Getting ‘Strong Responses’ From Electric-Car Makers  Panasonic Corp.  is receiving “strong responses” from
automakers as it seeks new buyers for batteries to be used in
electric cars, a company official said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Drops From Record on LME, by Limit in Shanghai, on China  Copper tumbled from a record in London and dropped by the
daily limit in Shanghai, as some investors deemed the rally
excessive on concern that China may step up measures to tighten
economic policy, potentially curbing demand for industrial
metals. Other base metals also slumped.  China Sells Stockpiled Zinc at Below-Market Prices; Prices Drop  China, the world’s biggest metals consumer, sold almost all
the zinc on offer from state reserves at below-market prices in
the latest auctions held in an attempt to curb price gains.
Shanghai futures fell by the daily limit.  Aluminum Stockpiles to Remain Tight, United Co. Rusal Says  United Co. Rusal said it expects aluminum stocks to remain
tight for the “foreseeable future,” with premiums supported at
current levels, according to a statement from the company to the
Hong Kong stock exchange today.  Copper May Drop After Advancing to Record Price, Survey Shows  Copper may drop as investors judge that the metal’s climb
to a record level leaves prices no longer reflecting the outlook
for demand, a survey showed.  Deutsche’s Choi Says ETFs May Boost Copper, Lead Prices: Video  Soozhana Choi, Singapore-based Asia head of commodities
research at Deutsche Bank AG, talks about the outlook for metals
and the potential impact of exchange-traded funds.  MINING:  Rusal Says Third-Quarter Profit Falls 55% on Derivatives  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
posted a 55 percent drop in third-quarter profit as the value of
embedded derivatives fell.  Kepco Ends Talks With Berkeley Resources on Uranium Project  Korea Electric Power Corp., South Korea’s biggest
electricity producer, said it ended discussions with Berkeley
Resources Ltd. on buying a stake in the Australian uranium
explorer’s Salamanca project.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold, Silver Drop as European Debt Concerns Drive Dollar Higher  Gold fell for the first time in three days as concern that
some European governments are struggling to finance themselves
boosted the dollar against the euro, eroding the metal’s appeal
as an alternative asset.  Vietnam May Impose Gold Export Tariff at 20%, Thoi Bao Reports  Vietnam’s ministry of finance has been seeking opinions
from relevant ministries on a plan to impose a gold export
tariff at 20 percent, Thoi Bao Kinh Te Vietnam newspaper
reported without saying where it got the information.  Gold May Advance as European Debt Woes Spur Demand, Survey Shows  Gold may advance as European debt concerns boost demand for
bullion as a protection of wealth, a survey found.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Declines on Speculation U.S. Farmers to Boost Planting  Corn futures  dropped for a fifth day, set for a first
weekly decline in three, on speculation that the U.S., the
largest grower and exporter, may boost planting of the crop next
year, easing global supply concerns.  Rubber Slumps From 30-Year High as China May Curb Inflation  Rubber in Tokyo slumped from a 30-year high while futures
in Shanghai tumbled by the daily limit amid concern that China,
the largest user, may take additional steps to curb inflation.  Orange Juice May Decline 10%, Infinity Says: Technical Analysis  Orange-juice futures , up 21 percent this year, may drop
almost 10 percent, according to a technical analysis by Infinity
Trading Corp., a Medford, Oregon-based brokerage.  N.Z. May Be Unable to Eradicate Kiwifruit Disease, Minister Says  A vine disease threatening New Zealand’s NZ$1.4 billion
($1.1 billion) kiwifruit industry may be difficult to eradicate
because it is airborne and easily spread, Biosecurity Minister
David Carter said.  Sugar May Decline as EU Plans to Increase Exports, Survey Shows  Sugar futures may decline as the European Union plans to
increase exports and lift import duties, according to a survey.  ECONOMIES:  G-20 Back Gradual Currency Moves, Early-Warning System on Trade  Group-of-20 leaders endorsed gradual changes in currency
values and agreed to develop early-warning indicators to monitor
policies that exacerbate trade imbalances and threaten to
disrupt the global economy, officials said.  Japan GDP Probably Peaked Last Quarter as Yen Weighed on Growth  Japan’s expansion may slow toward the end of this year
after getting a temporary boost in the third quarter as a
surging yen crimps exports and fading stimulus measures force
consumers to pare outlays.  Yuan Leads Asia Gains on Inflation, G-20 Pressure: China Credit  China is allowing the yuan to lead Asian currency gains
this week as it struggles to contain the fastest inflation in
two years and faces calls for more balanced global trade at a
Group of 20 nations’ summit.  OTHER MARKETS:  ECB’s Trichet Is Buyer of Only Resort as Debt Crisis Worsens  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet is the
buyer of only resort as the euro area’s bond market melts down.  China Diesel Squeeze Lifts Refining Profit, Oil: Energy Markets  China’s drive to curb energy use is exacerbating a shortage
of diesel, sending refining profits to a three-month high and
raising the likelihood that oil will trade at $100 a barrel in
coming months.  Oil Drops From Two-Year High as Equities Slide, Dollar Rises  Oil declined from a two-year high in New York as Asian
equities dropped and a strengthening dollar curbed investor
demand for commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  