-- Facebook Investor Milner Says His Stakes Are Alternative to IPO
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-11-12T07:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/facebook-investor-milner-says-his-stakes-are-alternative-to-ipo.html
Yuri Milner , the Russian financier
famous for buying stakes in social media sites such as Facebook
Inc. and Zynga Game Network Inc., said his investments often
give companies an alternative to selling shares to the public.  “Some companies want privacy for the next few years and
we’ve been playing the alternative by taking 10 percent off the
table,” Milner said in an interview last night at a media
conference in Monaco.  Milner’s Digital Sky Technologies bought 2 percent of
Facebook for $200 million in 2009 and he said he has increased
the stake to less than 10 percent since then. Last year, he
spent $180 million for a stake in online games maker Zynga, and
in April took the majority of a $135 million financing round for
Groupon Inc., a Chicago-based site offering coupons for
restaurants and museums.  The former physicist is still seeking to invest a minimum
of about $100 million in companies active in the social space,
focusing on China, Russian, South Korea and Japan. His other
company,  Mail.ru Group Ltd. , for which he serves as chairman,
raised $1 billion in what he said was Europe’s largest public
offering of an Internet business.  Born in Moscow, Milner studied at  Wharton Business School 
in the U.S. and worked for the World Bank before returning to
Russia. His first investment 10 years ago was for less than $1
million, he said.  When he met  Mark Zuckerberg , Milner said the  Facebook 
founder wasn’t wearing socks or a tie and was curious about
Russian social networking.  ‘Very Lucky’  “I’d been following the company for a long time and I knew
I wanted to invest at that point,” Milner said. “The company
was growing 1 percent every day without advertising.”  Today, Facebook boasts more than 500 million users and is
the most visited U.S. website. Milner said he paid more for
Facebook than most companies were willing to at that time. “If
you have one investment like this in your life you’re very
lucky.”  He declined to comment on recent speculation that he would
invest in social site Twitter Inc. He said his company would
continue to focus on making late-stage investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  