-- Replacing Fannie Overseer May Limit Loan Putbacks, Rosner Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-11-12T20:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fannie-freddie-overseer-may-signal-limited-loan-repurchases-rosner-says.html
Efforts by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac to force sellers to repurchase soured  mortgages  may be
weakened by the replacement of their “very aggressive”
regulator, Graham Fisher & Co. analyst  Joshua Rosner  said.  Under government conservatorships managed since August 2009
by Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director  Edward J. DeMarco , the companies have been the biggest cause of so-called
putback requests to lenders, with outstanding amounts related to
mortgages they directly own or insure totaling $13.3 billion on
Sept. 30, according to securities filings.  The companies have also joined groups of investors in
 mortgage bonds  without government-backed guarantees seeking to
enforce their rights as owners of the securities, which analysts
including at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  say may be a bigger threat to
banks. DeMarco’s agency itself has also issued 64 subpoenas to
companies including JPMorgan and Capital One Inc. seeking files
related to such securities.  “His understandings have led him to be very aggressive on
putbacks as he has a firm belief on what the role of a
conservator should be,” said Rosner, an analyst at the New
York-based research firm who in 2007 predicted the collapse in
so-called non-agency mortgage bonds. “I’m not sure a political
appointee without as much experience will be as devout.”  President  Barack Obama  will nominate North Carolina Banking
Commissioner  Joseph A. Smith Jr . to replace DeMarco, the White
House said today in a statement. The agency has overseen Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee about half of U.S.
mortgages, since they were seized in September 2008 amid a
financial crisis that pushed them to the brink of collapse.  Forced Repurchases  DeMarco, who joined a predecessor agency in 2006, has led
FHFA since former Director  James Lockhart  resigned. He
previously worked with Lockhart as assistant deputy commissioner
at the Social Security Administration. DeMarco has said that by
forcing repurchases of mortgages whose quality failed to meet
sellers’ representations, the companies can limit their U.S.
aid, which so far totals about $150 billion.  “The losses are extraordinary and we owe it to the
American taxpayer to find out where these losses are coming
from,” he told a House Financial Services subcommittee on Sept.
15.  “We’ve appreciated Ed DeMarco’s attention to this issue,”
 Chris Katopis , executive director of the Association of Mortgage
Investors, said today in a telephone interview. The Washington-
based trade group for buyers of home-loan securities was formed
earlier this year.  Loss Estimates  Lenders’ losses from repurchasing home loans in securities
guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may reach as much as
$35 billion, according to an Oct. 29 report by JPMorgan
analysts. Losses on first mortgages packaged into other bonds
may total $85 billion in a “stress” scenario, with second
mortgages adding as much as an additional $8 billion. Some
liable lenders have failed, they said.  Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia, was among bondholders that
also included Pacific Investment Management Co. and the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York that told Bank of America Corp. in an
Oct. 18 letter that the bank is aware that the quality of loans
packaged into securities by its Countrywide Financial Corp. unit
was misrepresented and that it is improperly overseeing
outstanding debt. Washington-based Fannie Mae isn’t part of the
group.  A larger group of investors with more than $600 billion of
bonds coordinating through Dallas lawyer  Talcott Franklin 
includes at least Fannie Mae, people familiar with the matter
have said. Investors are banding together because they typically
must own at least 25 percent of securitizations to access loan
files or force action by bond trustees.  Smith’s Background  Before being named banking commissioner in 2002, Smith was
a lawyer with Thacher Proffitt & Wood, a New York law firm. From
1991 to 2000, he was general counsel and secretary for Centura
Banks Inc. in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. Prior to that he was
a partner with Poyner & Spruill in Raleigh, North Carolina.  “While I don’t know his views, it’s notable that he comes
from North Carolina,” Rosner said. Bank of America is based in
Charlotte and Wachovia Corp., another big lender, had its
headquarters there before being purchased by San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo Co.   Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina Democrat who
argued for leaving DeMarco in place, called Smith a “straight-
shooter”  in a telephone interview.  “There was concern in the early summer that DeMarco would
be pushed out for someone more sympathetic to the banks,”
Miller said. “I very much hope Joe will continue to pursue any
potential liability that will reduce taxpayers’ ultimate loss.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  