-- Farmland Values Rise in Central U.S. as Crop Prices Gain, Fed Bank Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-11-12T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/farmland-values-rising-in-central-u-s-kansas-city-fed-says.html
Farmland values in the Central U.S.
increased in the third quarter as higher prices for corn, wheat
and soybeans sparked demand for rural properties, the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City  said.  Land prices in some areas rose as much as 12 percent from a
year earlier, the biggest jump in any farmland category since
the fourth quarter of 2008, the bank said today in a report. The
bank’s region includes all or parts of seven central and western
states. A majority of rural bankers surveyed said land values
will climb in the next few months.  Land values  are increasing in tandem with  commodity prices ,
which are rising as the economic recovery boosts demand, while
drought in Russia and Eastern Europe cuts grain supplies. Corn,
soybean and wheat futures gained at least 28 percent this year
through yesterday in Chicago trading, while cattle rose 19 and
hogs 15 percent. Farm income may rise 24 percent to $77.1
billion this year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture forecast
in August.  The increase in land values is being “driven by strong
farmer demand coming off of the summer price rally,” said  Brian 
Briggeman, a bank economist.  “Ranchland values were up,” Briggeman said this week in a
telephone interview. “Livestock incomes have improved from
stronger demand, but many bankers did note that future profits
might be strained with rising feed costs. We’ll have to see how
that plays out.”  Capital Spending  The gains are driving increased purchases of  Deere & Co .
tractors, grain-storage bins and other farm equipment, the bank
said in the report.  In the Kansas City Fed region, the value of non-irrigated
cropland increased 6.4 percent, the bank said without giving a
dollar figure. Irrigated land jumped 9.6 percent while ranchland
rose 4.3 percent. The Fed did not provide a total covering all
three types of farmland in its region, which includes Kansas,
Colorado, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, northern New Mexico and
western Missouri.  In Kansas, the second-biggest U.S. wheat producer, prices
for non-irrigated and irrigated cropland were up about 12
percent, while ranchland increased 4.9 percent, according to the
Fed. Other states had gains ranging from 1.5 percent in non-
irrigated Oklahoma cropland to almost 12 percent in irrigated
Nebraska properties. The only decline was a 0.9 percent drop in
ranchland in parts of Colorado, Wyoming and northern New Mexico.  The robust farm economy also improved farm-credit
conditions, lenders said. Farm interest rates reached an all-
time low of 6.7 percent for operating loans and 6.4 percent for
farm real-estate loans. The survey has been conducted since
1976, said Briggeman, who wrote the report with fellow Fed
economist  Maria Akers .  The Kansas City, Missouri-based bank’s quarterly survey
included responses from 240 banks involved in agricultural
lending. North Dakota was the biggest wheat producer last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 