-- Fed's Raskin Is `Gravely Concerned' About Mortgage Servicing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-12T21:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fed-s-raskin-gravely-concerned-about-mortgage-servicing-irregularities.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said she’s “gravely concerned” about the impact of
mortgage-servicing problems on consumers and the housing market
and that increased reforms are needed.  “Many may view these procedural flaws as trivial,
technical or inconsequential, but I consider them to be part of
a deeper, systemic problem and am gravely concerned,” Raskin
said in the text of remarks given in Boston, her first public
appearance since being sworn in as a Fed governor on Oct. 4.
“Serious and sustained reform is needed to address the larger
problems in mortgage servicing.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states began a coordinated
probe in October into whether banks and loan servicers used
false documents and signatures on hundreds of thousands of
foreclosures in a process known as “robo-signing.”  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender, temporarily
halted repossessions nationwide as it reviewed processes, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC unit froze
home seizures in states where courts oversee foreclosures.  “Given the potential ramifications for consumers, the
housing market, and the economy as a whole, I believe it’s fair
to say that every relevant arm of the federal government is
taking the underlying dynamics of the mortgage foreclosure
crisis very seriously,” said Raskin, 49, who had been
Maryland’s commissioner of financial regulation since 2007.  ‘In-Depth Review’  The Fed and other banking agencies “initiated an in-depth
review” of the biggest mortgage servicers, Raskin said.  Home seizures in the U.S. fell 9 percent in October from
the previous month, the biggest decline in a year, according to
RealtyTrac Inc. The number of properties taken back by banks
fell to 93,236 last month from a record 102,134 in September,
the Irvine, California-based data seller said yesterday in a
report.  A prolonged decline in repossessions threatens to hurt U.S.
home sales. Almost a third of all transactions in September
involved distressed properties, according to RealtyTrac.  “Too many accounts of shoddy operating procedures--lost
paperwork, slow response times, and sloppy recordkeeping--cast a
dark shadow on this part of the industry that links mortgage
borrowers and lenders,” Raskin said.  “I realize that I’m painting a rather gloomy picture,”
she said. “But be assured that I do believe that we can make
real progress on the ground through coordinated public and
private action.”  Raskin didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy or on
monetary policy.  The central bank on Nov. 3 embarked on a second round of
unconventional monetary stimulus, pledging to buy $600 billion
of Treasuries through June after cutting its benchmark rate to
near zero and earlier purchases of $1.7 trillion of securities
failed to bring down an unemployment rate that’s stuck near a
26-year high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  