-- Fiat Banks to Start Marketing $5.5 Billion Debt to Fund Spinoff
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-11-12T14:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fiat-s-banks-said-to-start-marketing-5-5-billion-of-debt-to-fund-spinoff.html
  Fiat SpA ’s lenders will syndicate 4
billion euros ($5.5 billion) of loans this month as Italy’s
biggest manufacturer prepares to spin off its industrial
units, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  Fiat is in talks for a 2.4 billion-euro bridge loan which
will be refinanced with a bond from the unit being separated,
said the people, who declined to be named because talks are
private. The loan will have a term of one year which can be
extended by another year.  The Turin-based automaker is also arranging a 1.6 billion-
euro revolving credit line, the people said. Loan underwriters
typically seek to reduce the amount they provide by selling, or
syndicating, the debt to a wider group of lenders.  A Fiat spokesman declined to comment on the deal.  Barclays Capital Plc,  BNP Paribas  SA, Credit Agricole CIB,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , Societe Generale SA, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc,  Citigroup Inc . and  UniCredit SpA  are providing the
debt, Fiat said on July 21. Money in a revolving credit can be
borrowed again once it’s been repaid; in a term loan it can’t.  Fiat, which owns 20 percent of Chrysler Group LLC, is
spinning off industrial units to focus on reviving carmaking
operations. The company raised 2010 forecasts on Oct. 21 after
quarterly profit beat analysts’ estimates on sales of Iveco
trucks and Case New Holland tractors.  Fiat Industrial SpA, the new company that will combine
businesses including Iveco and CNH Global NV, will be listed on
the Milan exchange Jan. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  