-- FIFA World Cup Voter Lefkaritis Says His Decision Won't Be Swayed by Media
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-12T17:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fifa-world-cup-voter-lefkaritis-says-his-decision-won-t-be-swayed-by-media.html
Marios Lefkaritis , one of the 24 men
who’ll decide where soccer’s World Cup is staged in 2018 and
2022, said his vote will be based on meetings with bidders and
technical analysis not media reports.  The future venues for sport’s most-watched event will be
decided by a Dec. 2 ballot of  world governing body  FIFA’s 
executive committee, which has come under scrutiny after two
members were suspended for telling undercover reporters from the
Sunday Times they’d exchange their World Cup votes for cash.
Members of England’s 2018 bid committee feel the story has
damaged the country’s chances, according to U.K. media reports.  “With all respect to the media I’m not influenced by
them,” Lefkaritis said in an interview today. “I think that
it’s not correct to base the decision on what the media say.”  The Cypriot declined to say whether he’d yet decided on
where his vote will go.  Nigerian  Amos Adamu  and Tahiti’s Reynald Temaraii were
suspended from the committee days after the Sunday Times report
was published on Oct. 17. The duo may be expelled on Nov. 17
when FIFA’s ethics committee rules on their conduct.  FIFA will hold a special meeting of its executive board two
days later to discuss the fallout of the ruling and also
investigate reports that Qatar’s 2022 bid committee may have
colluded with a joint Spain/Portugal offer for 2018.  Russia, England and a combined effort from the
Netherlands/Belgium are also bidding on 2018. The U.S.,
Australia, Japan and South Korea join Qatar in vying to host the
event four years later.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said last month his
organization made a mistake when it decided to run both races at
the same time. Lefkaritis agreed.  “That’s difficult,” he said. “I treat them separately;
otherwise you are making collusion with yourself. If you don’t
do that you aren’t going to be subjective.”  A report produced for the U.S. bid committee said staging
the World Cup would be worth around $5 billion. World leaders
such as U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  will be present for their country’s final
presentations to the committee, bringing more focus on the bids
and voters.  “I haven’t felt the pressure,” Lefkaritis said “I can
feel the pressure for the bidders but not for me. It’s
understandable and you can see they have a lot of pressure on
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 