-- Berlusconi Ministers to Quit Today in Move That May Speed Early Elections
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-15T08:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fini-won-t-topple-berlusconi-government-before-budget-passed-deputy-says.html
Four top officials from Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government, including a
Cabinet minister, will resign today in a move designed to down
his administration and possibly trigger early elections.  The four are members of the new Future and Liberty for
Italy Party formed by Speaker of the Chamber  Gianfranco Fini  who
first broke with the premier in July and then called for his
resignation earlier this month. Berlusconi acknowledged the
defections in an e-mailed statement on Nov. 13 and said he would
call confidence votes in both houses of parliament once the 2011
budget is passed to see if he still has enough support to
govern.  “Starting from Monday, the government cannot rely on the
support” of Future and Liberty,  Benedetto Della Vedova , a
founder of the party, said in an interview on Nov. 12. “This is
not our government anymore.”  Tensions between Berlusconi and Fini, who co-founded the
premier’s ruling  People of Liberty Party  in 2008, exploded at a
time when parliament needs to approve the government’s budget
plan. It includes spending cuts worth 13 billion euros ($17.8
billion) aimed at reducing a  deficit  that topped 5 percent of
 gross domestic product  last year.  Della Vedova also said that the government won’t fall
before passage of the spending plan. The budget faces it first
vote in the Chamber of Deputies this week and should receive
final approval by the middle of December.  ‘Move of Wisdom’  “The likelihood of new elections in the near future is now
pretty high,”  Natacha Valla , an economist at Goldman Sachs in
Paris wrote in a note to investors. “Yet, in a general move of
wisdom, the entire political class agreed to postpone any formal
step that would precipitate early elections until after the
finance law has been passed, showing full awareness of the fact
that an open political crisis before securing the 2011 budget
would be utmost unwelcome in the context of heightened market
anxiety regarding public finances in the euro zone.”  The yield premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity German bonds rose to a euro-era
record of 180.9 basis points on Nov. 11 as concern that Ireland
and Portugal may follow Greece in having to seek a European
Union-led bailout hurt bonds of other so-called peripheral
countries. The spread fell 5.7 basis points today to 159.  Berlusconi, 74, may have enough support in the Senate to
survive a confidence vote. In the  Chamber of Deputies , the lower
house, enough lawmakers defected with Fini to deny Berlusconi a
majority and topple the government. Even if the government fell,
early elections are not a certainty.  Consultations  President Giorgio Napolitano would first consult the
political parties to see if another government could be formed
with or without Berlusconi as its head, before calling for a
vote. While Berlusconi’s popularity has declined to near record
lows since his 2008 election, Polls indicate that he might win a
vote without Fini and secure a majority in at least one of the
two houses of parliament.  The confidence votes may coincide with a decision by
Italy’s
Constitutional Court set for Dec. 14 on the validity of a law
passed by the government granting Berlusconi and other top
officials immunity from prosecution while in office. Should the
court rule against the premier, his pending corruption trials
could resume. The biggest threat to Berlusconi comes from a
Milan court that has already convicted his co-defendant in the
case.  The Milan court is trying Berlusconi for allegedly paying
$600,000 to U.K. lawyer David Mills to lie under oath on his
behalf. The criminal charges against Mills were thrown out in
February because the statute of limitations had expired. Civil
charges against Mills were upheld along with a 250,000 euro
damage payment. Berlusconi denies any wrongdoing in the case and
has said that judges are trying to destroy him politically.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  