-- Fonterra Agrees With IFFCO, Global Dairy to Study India Farm Project
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-11-12T05:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fonterra-signs-agreement-with-indian-partners-to-study-dairy-farm-options.html
Fonterra Co-operative Group Ltd. ,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, Indian Farmers Fertiliser
Co-operative and Global Dairy Health have agreed to a
feasibility study into a pilot dairy farm in India.  “India is a vibrant and growing market and we are excited
by the potential opportunities there,”  Andrew Ferrier , chief
executive officer at Auckland-based Fonterra, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of global
trade in butter, milk powder and cheese, has two farm projects
in China to expand local milk production. Last month, it agreed
to develop a dairy farm in Hebei province that will hold 3,000
cows imported from New Zealand. An earlier project opened in
Tangshan in 2007.  The Indian pilot farm could have a herd of 3,000 to 5,000
cows in its first phase if it is approved, Fonterra said. The
company didn’t provide further details.  Last month, the Economic Times  reported  IFFCO was in talks
with Fonterra on a project that may cost 10 billion rupees ($224
million), citing IFFCO Managing Director U.S. Awasthi. The farm
will initially produce 1 million liters (264,172 gallons) of
milk a day, the English-language Indian paper said.  India will see “huge growth” in demand for dairy
products in the next 10 to 20 years and the country will need
farms with better quality controls, Ferrier said in a Nov. 9
interview.  “Everyone is projecting significant growth in Indian
consumption,” he said. “You’re going to see growth in the need
for a more formal market, so the types of things we’re talking
with IFFCO about, we think there will be more demand for
those.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  