-- Foreign-Exchange Reserves Rise to Two-Year High as Flows Into India Rise
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-11-12T14:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/foreign-exchange-reserves-rise-to-two-year-high-as-flows-into-india-rise.html
India’s foreign-exchange reserves
exceeded $300 billion for the first time in more than two years
as overseas investors stepped up purchases of the nation’s
stocks and bonds.  Total assets climbed $2.26 billion to $300.2 billion in the
week ended Nov. 5, the Reserve Bank of India said in an emailed
statement. The  previous  high was $305 billion in the seven days
ended Aug. 1, 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money managers abroad bought a record $28.5 billion of
Indian stocks more than they sold this year, while bond
purchases by funds this year reached about $10 billion, more
than the combined amount for the previous eight years. Inflows
have risen as the government, in September, raised the cap on
foreigners’ bond holdings by 50 percent to $30 billion.  “A lot of foreign-institutional investors’ money has come
into India in the last two months,” said  Anubhuti Sahay,  an
economist with Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai. “They have
focused on markets where fundamentals have been strong.”  India’s economy, the third-biggest in Asia, has expanded an
average 8.5 percent in the five years through March 31, and the
 International Monetary Fund  estimates growth at 9.7 percent this
year, almost four times the pace predicted for the U.S. Policy
makers don’t plan to impose capital controls to discourage
inflows sparked by monetary easing in developed economies, the
prime minister’s chief economic adviser Chakravarthy Rangarajan
told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  Bubble Concerns  The rupee has gained 6.5 percent from an eight-month low
reached on May 25 as money from overseas drove the benchmark
 Sensex  index to an all-time high last week. Currency reserves
rose $2.2 billion to $271.3 billion in the week, while gold
holdings remained unchanged at $21.7 billion.  Countries, including Brazil, South Korea and Indonesia have
imposed restrictions on investment inflows aimed at defusing the
danger of hot money, or capital seeking short-term gains.  The Group of 20 today said emerging markets facing a surge
of capital inflows can adopt regulatory steps to cope, offering
them cover to limit currency swings and stem asset bubbles as
the U.S. Federal Reserve pumps cash into the system by buying
$600 billion of bonds.  “I do have worries on countries like India,”  Joseph Stiglitz , a Nobel-prize winning economics professor at Columbia
University said yesterday at a conference in Hong Kong. “The
strong economies that don’t yet have capital control become the
focal point for all this money.”  India has the ability to absorb $70 billion of inflows
without “any problem,” Rangarajan said yesterday.  Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  warned in a
speech last month that near-zero interest rates in developed
nations are fueling “speculative” capital flows into emerging
markets, heightening the risk of an asset-price build-up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  