-- Fortune Brands Rises on Report of Possible Breakup
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2010-11-12T22:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fortune-brands-rises-on-report-jim-beam-maker-may-seek-ackman-led-breakup.html
Fortune Brands Inc. , the maker of
Jim Beam bourbon, rose the most in more than a year in New York
trading after the Wall Street Journal reported that the company
may work on a breakup plan with Pershing Square Capital
Management.  There is no guarantee a breakup will take place, the
newspaper reported, citing people familiar with the matter.
Fortune’s businesses include a home and security division, which
makes Moen faucets and windows, the spirits and wine group, and
the golf division, whose brands include Titleist and Footjoy.  Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Carbonari  took over Fortune
Brands in January 2008, having previously served as president
and chief operating officer. The shares had dropped 25 percent
during his tenure before today. Carbonari led the home and
security division from 2000 to 2006, doubling sales during the
period.  The stock  climbed  $4.22, or 7.8 percent, to $58.60 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The gain was
the largest since September 2009.  Fortune Brands doesn’t comment on speculation, said
 Clarkson Hine , a spokesman for the Deerfield, Illinois-based
company.  Bill Ackman , the activist investor who runs Pershing
Square, didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking
comment.  Ackman disclosed in October that it acquired an 11 percent
stake in Fortune Brands, making the New York-based hedge-fund
firm its largest investor. Fortune had planned to meet with
Ackman to discuss his proposals, people with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  Carbonari said last month that Fortune looked forward to
talking with Ackman about the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at 
1348 or  cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  