-- France's Economic Growth Slowed in Third Quarter, Curbed by Manufacturing
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-11-12T08:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/france-s-economic-growth-slowed-in-third-quarter-curbed-by-manufacturing.html
France’s expansion slowed in the
third quarter as a surge in imports and a decline in
manufacturing overshadowed increasing household spending.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.4 percent in the three months
through September, down from the 0.7 percent gain in the
previous quarter, Paris-based statistics office Insee said
today. The increase was less than the median 0.5 percent
forecast in a survey of 20 analysts by Bloomberg News.  France’s sixth straight quarter of growth underlines how
Europe’s recovery remains fragile in the wake of the worst
recession since World War II. A 4.1 percent jump in imports
meant that the trade balance created a 0.5 percent drag on
growth in the quarter, while the pace of growth in consumer
spending doubled to 0.6 percent.  “France keeps its atypical growth structure, driven by
private consumption,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at
BNP Paribas in Paris. “The foreign trade weakness is limiting
the pace of economic recovery. More of the same is expected in
the next few months.”  GDP rose 1.8 percent from its year-earlier level.  Factory output fell 0.1 percent from the second quarter,
when it advanced 1.5 percent. Investment spending increased 0.5
percent, down from the 0.9 percent increase in the three months
through June. Inventory building contributed 0.3 percent to
growth, down from 0.6 percent.  So far, French consumer spending has supported the economy,
limiting the drop in output during the recession relative to
other countries. Spending climbed more than economists forecast
in September as expectations of better job prospects and higher
wages boosted confidence.  “One of the consistent surprises for me has been the
resilience of consumer spending,” said  Joost Beaumont , an
economist at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. Growth may moderate in the
months ahead “as fiscal retrenchment as well as weak labor
market conditions leave their mark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  