-- FSB Says It Needs Year to Recommend Measures for Biggest Banks
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-11-12T09:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/fsb-says-it-needs-year-to-recommend-measures-for-biggest-banks.html
The  Financial Stability Board ,
tasked by the Group of 20 nations to find ways to rein in the
largest financial institutions, said it needs another year to
recommend measures and countries may choose different solutions.  Steps to prevent the collapse of systemically important
firms will be suggested by December 2011, the board said in a
report today. Those measures will build on standards set in
September by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
ensuring the resiliency of firms whose collapse could trigger a
global economic crisis.  “Depending on national circumstances, this greater
capacity could be drawn from a menu of viable alternatives,”
the board wrote in the report.  The G-20 set up the board last year to oversee the work of
groups setting international standards to strengthen global
regulation following the worst credit crisis since the Great
Depression. G-20 leaders are meeting in  Seoul  today to review
measures that may subject too-big-to-fail firms to tougher rules.  The board said it will complete studies by the middle of
next year on the additional “loss absorbency” large banks need,
and the firms that should initially be subject to the rules.  Resolving Problems  Individual countries should also establish systems for
resolving problems quickly, without destabilizing the global
financial system or subjecting taxpayers to risks, the board
said in today’s report. Resolution authorities must cooperate
with each other and share information, it said.  The Group of 20 nations has put pressure on the Basel
committee and the FSB for tighter rules following the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and government
bailouts of banks and insurers that had become too big to fail.  The capital and liquidity standards set by the Basel
committee this year will cut the likelihood and severity of any
potential crisis going forward, the board’s chairman,  Mario Draghi , wrote in a letter to the G-20 that was released today.
National implementation of the risk-based capital requirements
will begin Jan. 1, 2013, and completed by Jan. 1, 2019, he said.  “The process of implementation is well under way at
national and regional levels,” wrote Draghi, who is governor of
the Bank of Italy. “But much still lies ahead of us.”  The FSB is also prepared to focus on tougher rules for
firms that “don’t reside only within the banking sector,”
Draghi, 63, said in a Nov. 5 interview in Ancona, Italy. Over
the next two years, the board will focus on “the progressive
enlargement of what we call the regulatory perimeter to include
the most important segments” of the “shadow financial
sector,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 