-- G-20 Permits Capital-Inflow Rules to Help Emerging Nations Prevent Bubbles
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-12T10:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/g-20-approve-of-checks-on-capital-flows-offering-green-light-for-brazil.html
The Group of 20 said emerging
markets facing a surge of capital inflows can adopt regulatory
steps to cope, offering them cover to limit currency swings and
stem asset bubbles as the U.S. adds $600 billion of liquidity.  “In circumstances where countries are facing undue burden
of adjustment, policy responses in emerging-market economies
with adequate reserves and increasingly overvalued flexible
exchange rates may also include carefully designed macro-
prudential measures,” leaders of the G-20 nations said in a
statement today following a two-day meeting in Seoul.  The agreement comes after countries from Brazil and
Indonesia to South Korea imposed restrictions on investment
inflows aimed at defusing the danger of hot money, or capital
seeking short-term gains. The G-20 called on international
regulators to compile a report on best practices on financial-
security policies, including capital-flow tools.  “We have seen increasing ‘intellectual acceptance’ of
capital-flow measures as part of the policy toolkit for
emerging-market authorities,” said  Wellian Wiranto , a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Today’s G-20
statement both acknowledges the extraordinary circumstances that
the policy makers have to deal with and the limitations of the
more traditional means of coping with the inflows.”  Currency Gains  Steps to impose restrictions on capital have increased as
emerging-market currencies strengthened, with Brazil’s real
climbing 21 percent against the dollar in the past 18 months,
Chile’s peso up 18 percent, Thailand’s baht rising 16 percent
and South Korea’s won appreciating 10 percent.  “The key question here is whether a specific currency is
overvalued,” said  Oh Suk Tae , an economist at SC First Bank
Korea Ltd. in Seoul. Today’s statement “can be a green light
for Brazil, as most people think that the Brazilian real is
overvalued” due to its current-account deficits, he said. “It
is debatable whether this condition is applied to the Korean
won,” he added.  Brazil’s deficit in its current account, the broadest
measure of trade as it includes some investment flows, amounts
to an estimated 2.6 percent of its gross domestic product this
year, according to the International Monetary Fund. South Korea
has a surplus of 2.6 percent of GDP.  Brazil tripled a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income purchases
last month to 6 percent to slow the real’s rally. Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Seoul yesterday
that “if it continues, if it persists in this direction, we
will take other measures.”  Fed’s Move  The Fed fueled concern in emerging economies last week when
it announced plans to buy $600 billion of long-term government
bonds to reduce borrowing costs and spur growth in a second
round of so-called quantitative easing. The U.S. dollar has
weakened over the past three months against all 16 major market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Capital flows into emerging markets are running at $575
billion a year, 20 percent higher than before the world
financial crisis, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in September.  Pledges to refrain from competitive devaluations of
currencies, and efforts to move toward market-set exchange rates
should help stem excessive capital flows, according to the G-20
statement. So will efforts by advanced economies like the U.S.
to be vigilant against “disorderly movements” in exchange
rates, it said.  ‘Grand Bargain’  The G-20 also today agreed to develop early warning
indicators to head off sustained current-account imbalances that
risk roiling the global economy. The group said the first round
of assessments will start next year.  “There’s a grand bargain in here, whereby everyone signs
up to current-account targets in the long term, but in the short
term emerging markets are allowed to put up capital controls,”
 Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in London,
said in an e-mailed note. “Cut emerging-market positions.”  China on Nov. 9 said it will force banks to hold more
foreign exchange and strengthen auditing of overseas fund
raising to stem inflows that threaten to drive up stock and
property prices.  South Korea may revive a 14 percent tax on domestic
treasury and central bank bonds held by foreigners to curb
foreign-exchange volatility, a ruling party lawmaker said Nov.
10. Taiwan this week also said it will restore curbs on foreign
investment in its debt, only allowing offshore funds to have as
much as 30 percent of their portfolios invested in all types of
government bonds and money-market products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Seoul at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  