-- G-20 Leaders' Statement on Imbalances, Currencies From Seoul Meeting: Text
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 2010-11-12T07:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/g-20-leaders-statement-on-imbalances-currencies-from-seoul-meeting-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released today by leaders of the Group of
20 economies after talks in Seoul.  THE G20 SEOUL SUMMIT  LEADERS’ DECLARATION  NOVEMBER 11 - 12, 2010  1.      We, the Leaders of the G20, are united in our conviction
that by working together we can secure a more prosperous future
for the citizens of all countries.  2.      When we first gathered in November 2008 to address the
most severe world recession our generation has ever confronted,
we pledged to support and stabilize the global economy, and at
the same time, to lay the foundation for reform, to ensure the
world would never face such upheaval again.  3.      Over the past four Summits, we have worked with
unprecedented cooperation to break the dramatic fall in the
global economy to establish the basis for recovery and renewed
growth.  4.      The concrete steps we have taken will help ensure we are
better prepared to prevent and, if necessary, to withstand
future crises.  We pledge to continue our coordinated efforts
and act together to generate strong, sustainable and balanced
growth.  5.      We recognize the importance of addressing the concerns
of the most vulnerable.  To this end, we are determined to put
jobs at the heart of the recovery, to provide social protection,
decent work and also to ensure accelerated growth in low income
countries (LICs).  6.      Our relentless and cooperative efforts over the last two
years have delivered strong results.  However, we must stay
vigilant.  7.      Risks remain. Some of us are experiencing strong growth,
while others face high levels of unemployment and sluggish
recovery. Uneven growth and widening imbalances are fueling the
temptation to diverge from global solutions into uncoordinated
actions. However, uncoordinated policy actions will only lead to
worse outcomes for all.  8.      Since 2008, a common view of the challenges of the world
economy, the necessary responses and our determination to resist
protectionism has enabled us to both address the root causes of
the crisis and safeguard the recovery.  We are agreed today to
develop our common view to meet these new challenges and a path
to strong, sustainable and balanced growth beyond the crisis.  9.      Today, the Seoul Summit delivers:  ·         the Seoul Action Plan composed of comprehensive,
cooperative and country-specific policy actions to move closer
to our shared objective.  The Plan includes our commitment to:  -      undertake macroeconomic policies, including fiscal
consolidation where necessary, to ensure ongoing recovery and
sustainable growth and enhance the stability of financial
markets, in particular moving toward more market-determined
exchange rate systems, enhancing exchange rate flexibility to
reflect underlying economic fundamentals, and refraining from
competitive devaluation of currencies. Advanced economies,
including those with reserve currencies, will be vigilant
against excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange
rates.  These actions will help mitigate the risk of excessive
volatility in capital flows facing some emerging countries;  -      implement a range of structural reforms that boost and
sustain global demand, foster job creation, and increase the
potential for growth; and  -      enhance the Mutual Assessment Process (MAP) to promote
external sustainability. We will strengthen multilateral
cooperation to promote external sustainability and pursue the
full range of policies conducive to reducing excessive
imbalances and maintaining current account imbalances at
sustainable levels. Persistently large imbalances, assessed
against indicative guidelines to be agreed by our Finance
Ministers and Central Bank Governors, warrant an assessment of
their nature and the root causes of impediments to adjustment as
part of the MAP, recognizing the need to take into account
national or regional circumstances, including large commodity
producers. These indicative guidelines composed of a range of
indicators would serve as a mechanism to facilitate timely
identification of large imbalances that require preventive and
corrective actions to be taken. To support our efforts toward
meeting these commitments, we call on our Framework Working
Group, with technical support from the IMF and other
international organizations, to develop these indicative
guidelines, with progress to be discussed by our Finance
Ministers and Central Bank Governors in the first half of 2011;
and, in Gyeongju, our Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors called on the IMF to provide an assessment as part of
the MAP on the progress toward external sustainability and the
consistency of fiscal, monetary, financial sector, structural,
exchange rate and other policies.  In light of this, the first
such assessment, to be based on the above mentioned indicative
guidelines, will be initiated and undertaken in due course under
the French Presidency.  ·         a modernized IMF that better reflects the changes in
the world economy through greater representation of dynamic
emerging markets and developing countries. These comprehensive
quota and governance reforms, as outlined in the Seoul Summit
Document, will enhance the IMF’s legitimacy, credibility and
effectiveness, making it an even stronger institution for
promoting global financial stability and growth.  ·         instruments to strengthen global financial safety nets,
which help countries cope with financial volatility by providing
them with practical tools to overcome sudden reversals of
international capital flows.  ·         core elements of a new financial regulatory framework,
including bank capital and liquidity standards, as well as
measures to better regulate and effectively resolve systemically
important financial institutions, complemented by more effective
oversight and supervision. This new framework, complemented by
other achievements as outlined in the Seoul Summit Document,
will ensure a more resilient financial system by reining in the
past excesses of the financial sector and better serving the
needs of our economies.  ·         the Seoul Development Consensus for Shared Growth that
sets out our commitment to work in partnership with other
developing countries, and LICs in particular, to help them build
the capacity to achieve and maximize their growth potential,
thereby contributing to global rebalancing. The Seoul Consensus
complements our commitment to achieve the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs) and focuses on concrete measures as summarized in
our Multi-Year Action Plan on Development to make a tangible and
significant difference in people’s lives, including in
particular through the development of infrastructure in
developing countries.  ·         the Financial Inclusion Action Plan, the Global
Partnership for Financial Inclusion and a flexible SME Finance
Framework, all of which will significantly contribute to
improving access to financial services and expanding
opportunities for poor households and small and medium
enterprises.  ·         our strong commitment to direct our negotiators to
engage in across-the-board negotiations to promptly bring the
Doha Development Round to a successful, ambitious, comprehensive,
and balanced conclusion consistent with the mandate of the Doha
Development Round and built on the progress already
achieved.  We recognize that 2011 is a critical window of
opportunity, albeit narrow, and that engagement among our
representatives must intensify and expand.  We now need to
complete the end game.  Once such an outcome is reached, we
commit to seek ratification, where necessary, in our respective
systems.  We are also committed to resisting all forms of
protectionist measures.  10.  We will continue to monitor and assess ongoing
implementation of the commitments made today and in the past in
a transparent and objective way.  We hold ourselves
accountable.  What we promise, we will deliver.  11.  Building on our achievements to date, we have agreed to
work further on macro-prudential policy frameworks; better
reflect the perspective of emerging market economies in
financial regulatory reforms; strengthen regulation and
oversight of shadow banking; further work on regulation and
supervision of commodity derivatives markets; improve market
integrity and efficiency; enhance consumer protection; pursue
all outstanding governance reform issues at the IMF and World
Bank; and build a more stable and resilient international
monetary system, including by further strengthening global
financial safety nets.  We will also expand our MAP based on the
indicative guidelines to be agreed.  12.  To promote resilience, job creation and mitigate risks for
development, we will prioritize action under the Seoul Consensus
on addressing critical bottlenecks, including infrastructure
deficits, food market volatility, and exclusion from financial
services.  13.  To provide broader, forward-looking leadership in the post-
crisis economy, we will also continue our work to prevent and
tackle corruption through our Anti-Corruption Action Plan;
rationalize and phase-out over the medium term inefficient
fossil fuel subsidies; mitigate excessive fossil fuel price
volatility; safeguard the global marine environment; and combat
the challenges of global climate change.  14.  We reaffirm our resolute commitment to fight climate change,
as reflected in the Leaders’ Seoul Summit Document. We
appreciate President Felipe Calderón’s briefing on the status of
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change negotiations, as
well as Prime Minister Meles Zenawi’s briefing on the report of
the High-Level Advisory Group on Climate Change Financing
submitted to the UN Secretary-General. We will spare no effort
to reach a balanced and successful outcome in Cancun.  15.  We welcome the Fourth UN LDC Summit in Turkey and the
Fourth High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in Korea, both to
be held in 2011.  16.  Recognizing the importance of private sector-led growth and
job creation, we welcome the Seoul G20 Business Summit and look
forward to continuing the G20 Business Summit in upcoming
Summits.  17.  The actions agreed today will help to further strengthen
the global economy, accelerate job creation, ensure more stable
financial markets, narrow the development gap and promote
broadly shared growth beyond crisis.  18.  We look forward to our next meeting in 2011 in France, and
subsequent meeting in 2012 in Mexico.  19.   We thank Korea for its G20 Presidency and for hosting the
successful Seoul Summit.  20.  The Seoul Summit Document, which we have agreed, follows.  THE SEOUL SUMMIT DOCUMENT  Framework for Strong, Sustainable and Balanced Growth  1.        Our unprecedented and highly coordinated fiscal and
monetary stimulus worked to bring back the global economy from
the edge of a depression. This has highlighted that the world
would benefit from more effective international cooperation. In
Pittsburgh, we launched the Framework for Strong, Sustainable
and Balanced Growth and committed to work together to assess the
collective implications of our national policies on global
growth and development, identify potential risks to the global
economy, and take additional actions to achieve our shared
objectives.  2.        Since then, we have made important progress through
our country-led, consultative Mutual Assessment Process (MAP) of
the Framework:  Supportive economic policies have been put in place to
promote ongoing recovery and job creation;  Explicit commitments have been made to put public finances on
a sustainable track;  Strong measures have been adopted and are being implemented
to safeguard the stability of our financial system;  Important structural reforms have been launched and/or
planned to boost global demand and potential growth; and  Significant steps have been taken to strengthen the capacity
of international financial institutions (IFIs) in support of
development.  3.        Since we last met, the global recovery continues to
advance, but downside risks remain.  We are resolved to do more.
Our strengthened collaborative and collective policy actions can
further safeguard the recovery and lay a solid foundation for
our shared objectives of strong, sustainable and balanced growth.  The Seoul Action Plan  4.        Today we are launching the Seoul Action Plan.  We
shaped the Plan with unity of purpose to:  ensure an unwavering commitment to cooperation;  outline an action-oriented plan with each member’s concrete
policy commitments; and  deliver on all three objectives of strong, sustainable and
balanced growth.  5.        Specifically, we commit to actions in five policy
areas with details of specific commitments by G20 members set
out in the Supporting Document.  6.        Monetary and Exchange Rate Policies: We reaffirm the
importance of central banks’ commitment to price stability,
thereby contributing to the recovery and sustainable growth. We
will move toward more market-determined exchange rate systems
and enhance exchange rate flexibility to reflect underlying
economic fundamentals and refrain from competitive devaluation
of currencies. Advanced economies, including those with reserve
currencies, will be vigilant against excess volatility and
disorderly movements in exchange rates. Together these actions
will help mitigate the risk of excessive volatility in capital
flows facing some emerging market economies. Nonetheless, in
circumstances where countries are facing undue burden of
adjustment, policy responses in emerging market economies with
adequate reserves and increasingly overvalued flexible exchange
rates may also include carefully designed macro-prudential
measures. We will reinvigorate our efforts to promote a stable
and well functioning international monetary system and call on
the IMF to deepen its work in these areas.  7.        Trade and Development Policies: We reaffirm our
commitment to free trade and investment recognizing its central
importance for the global recovery. We will refrain from
introducing, and oppose protectionist trade actions in all forms
and recognize the importance of a prompt conclusion of the Doha
negotiations. We reaffirm our commitment to avoid financial
protectionism and are mindful of the risks of proliferation of
measures that would damage investment and harm prospects for the
global recovery.  With developing countries’ rising share in
world output and trade, the goals of global growth, rebalancing
and development are increasingly interlinked. We will focus
efforts to resolve the most significant bottlenecks to inclusive,
sustainable and resilient growth in developing countries, low-
income countries (LICs) in particular: infrastructure, human
resources development, trade, private investment and job
creation, food security, growth with resilience, financial
inclusion, domestic resource mobilization and knowledge sharing.
In addition, we will take concrete actions to increase our
financial and technical support, including fulfilling the
Official Development Assistance (ODA) commitments by advanced
countries.  8.        Fiscal Policies: Advanced economies will formulate and
implement clear, credible, ambitious and growth-friendly medium-
term fiscal consolidation plans in line with the Toronto
commitment, differentiated according to national circumstances.
We are mindful of the risk of synchronized adjustment on the
global recovery and of the risk that failure to implement
consolidation, where immediately necessary, would undermine
confidence and growth.  9.        Financial Reforms: We are committed to take action at
the national and international level to raise standards, and
ensure that our national authorities implement global standards
developed to date, consistently, in a way that ensures a level
playing field, a race to the top and avoids fragmentation of
markets, protectionism and regulatory arbitrage. In particular,
we will implement fully the new bank capital and liquidity
standards and address too-big-to-fail problems. We agreed to
further work on financial regulatory reforms.  10.    Structural Reforms: We will implement a range of
structural reforms to boost and sustain global demand, foster
job creation, contribute to global rebalancing, and increase our
growth potential, and where needed undertake:  Product market reforms to simplify regulation and reduce
regulatory barriers in order to promote competition and enhance
productivity in key sectors.  Labor market and human resource development reforms,
including better targeted benefits schemes to increase
participation; education and training to increase employment in
quality jobs, boost productivity and thereby enhance potential
growth.  Tax reform to enhance productivity by removing distortions
and improving the incentives to work, invest and innovate.  Green growth and innovation oriented policy measures to find
new sources of growth and promote sustainable development.  Reforms to reduce the reliance on external demand and focus
more on domestic sources of growth in surplus countries while
promoting higher national savings and enhancing export
competitiveness in deficit countries.  Reforms to strengthen social safety nets such as public
health care and pension plans, corporate governance and
financial market development to help reduce precautionary
savings in emerging surplus countries.  Investment in infrastructure to address bottlenecks and
enhance growth potential.  In pursuing these reforms, we will draw on the expertise of the
OECD, IMF, World Bank, ILO and other international organizations.  11.    MAP beyond the Seoul Summit: In addition, we will enhance
the MAP to promote external sustainability. We will strengthen
multilateral cooperation to promote external sustainability and
pursue the full range of policies conducive to reducing
excessive imbalances and maintaining current account imbalances
at sustainable levels. Persistently large imbalances, assessed
against indicative guidelines to be agreed by our Finance
Ministers and Central Bank Governors, warrant an assessment of
their nature and the root causes of impediments to adjustment as
part of the MAP, recognizing the need to take into account
national or regional circumstances, including large commodity
producers. These indicative guidelines composed of a range of
indicators would serve as a mechanism to facilitate timely
identification of large imbalances that require preventive and
corrective actions to be taken. To support our efforts toward
meeting these commitments, we call on our Framework Working
Group, with technical support from the IMF and other
international organizations, to develop these indicative
guidelines, with progress to be discussed by our Finance
Ministers and Central Bank Governors in the first half of 2011;
and, in Gyeongju, our Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors called on the IMF to provide an assessment as part of
the MAP on the progress toward external sustainability and the
consistency of fiscal, monetary, financial sector, structural,
exchange rate and other policies.  In light of this, the first
such assessment, to be based on the above mentioned indicative
guidelines, will be initiated and undertaken in due course under
the French Presidency.  12.    We have a shared responsibility. Members with sustained,
significant external deficits pledge to undertake policies to
support private savings and where appropriate undertake fiscal
consolidation while maintaining open markets and strengthening
export sectors.  Members with sustained, significant external
surpluses pledge to strengthen domestic sources of growth.  13.    Recognizing the benefits of the Framework, we agreed to
expand and refine the country-led, consultative MAP by including
monitoring of the implementation of our commitments and
assessment of our progress toward achieving our shared
objectives. This process will be adopted in 2011 under the
French Presidency.  International Financial Institution Reforms  14.    When the world was in the middle of the global financial
crisis, we met and agreed to provide the IFIs with the resources
they needed to support the global economy. With our agreements
to increase their resources substantially and endorse new
lending instruments, the IFIs mobilized critical financing,
including more than $750 billion by the IMF and $235 billion by
the Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs). Financial markets
stabilized and the global economy started to recover. Even in
the midst of the crisis, we knew that further reforms of the
IFIs were required.  15.    We committed to modernize the institutions fundamentally
so that they better reflect changes in the world economy and can
more effectively play their roles in promoting global financial
stability, fostering development and improving the lives of the
poorest.  In June 2010, we welcomed the reforms to increase the
voting power of developing and transition countries at the World
Bank. We also remained committed to strengthening the legitimacy,
credibility and effectiveness of the IMF through quota and
governance reforms.  Modernized IMF governance  16.    Today, we welcomed the ambitious achievements by the
Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors at the Gyeongju
meeting, and subsequent decision by the IMF, on a comprehensive
package of IMF quota and governance reforms. The reforms are an
important step toward a more legitimate, credible and effective
IMF, by ensuring that quotas and Executive Board composition are
more reflective of new global economic realities, and securing
the IMF’s status as a quota-based institution, with sufficient
resources to support members’ needs. Consistent with our
commitments at the Pittsburgh and Toronto Summits, and going
even further in a number of areas, the reforms include:  Shifts in quota shares to dynamic emerging market and
developing countries and to under-represented countries of over
6%, while protecting the voting share of the poorest, which we
commit to work to complete by the Annual Meetings in 2012.  A doubling of quotas, with a corresponding rollback of the
New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) preserving relative shares,
when the quota increase becomes effective.  Continuing the dynamic process aimed at enhancing the voice
and representation of emerging market and developing countries,
including the poorest, through a comprehensive review of the
quota formula by January 2013 to better reflect the economic
weights; and through completion of the next general review of
quotas by January 2014.  Greater representation for emerging market and developing
countries at the Executive Board through two fewer advanced
European chairs, and the possibility of a second alternate for
all multi-country constituencies.  Moving to an all-elected Board, along with a commitment by
the IMF’s membership to maintain the Board size at 24 chairs,
and following the completion of the 14th General Review, a
review of the Board’s composition every eight years.  17.    We reiterate the urgency of promptly concluding the 2008
IMF Quota and Voice Reforms.  We urge all G20 members
participating in the expanded NAB to accelerate their procedures
in completing the acceptance process. We ask the IMF to report
on the progress, in accordance with agreed timelines, toward
effective implementation of the 2010 quota and governance
reforms to our Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors at
their periodic G20 meetings.  18.    When combined with the already agreed voice reform of the
World Bank, these represent significant achievements in
modernizing our key IFIs. They will be even stronger players in
promoting global financial stability and growth. We asked our
Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to continue to
pursue all outstanding governance reform issues at the World
Bank and the IMF.  Surveillance  19.    We recognize the importance of continuing the work on
reforming the IMF’s mission and mandate, including strengthening
surveillance.  20.    IMF surveillance should be enhanced to focus on systemic
risks and vulnerabilities wherever they may lie. To this extent,
we welcome the decision made by the IMF to make financial
stability assessments under the Financial Sector Assessment
Program (FSAP) a regular and mandatory part of Article IV
consultation for members with systemically important financial
sectors. We call on the IMF to make further progress in
modernizing the IMF’s surveillance mandate and modalities. These
should involve, in particular: strengthening bilateral and
multilateral work on surveillance covering financial stability,
macroeconomic, structural and exchange rate policies, with
increased focus on systemic issues; enhancing synergies between
surveillance tools; helping members to strengthen their
surveillance capacity; and ensuring even-handedness, candor, and
independence of surveillance. We welcome the IMF’s work to
conduct spillover assessments of the wider impact of systemic
economies’ policies.  Multilateral Development Banks  21.    We reiterate our commitment to completing an ambitious
replenishment for the concessional lending facilities of the
MDBs, especially the International Development Association, to
help ensure that LICs have access to sufficient concessional
resources.  Strengthened global financial safety nets  22.    As the global economy became more interconnected and
integrated, the size and volatility of capital flows increased
significantly. The increased volatility was a source of
instability during the financial crisis.  It even adversely
affected countries with solid fundamentals and the effects were
greater on those with more open economies. These problems
persist. Current volatility of capital flows is reflecting the
differing speed of recovery between advanced and emerging market
economies. National, regional and multilateral responses are
required. Strengthened global financial safety nets can help
countries to cope with financial volatility, reducing the
economic disruption from sudden swings in capital flows and the
perceived need for excessive reserve accumulation.  23.    Therefore, we asked our Finance Ministers and Central
Bank Governors to prepare policy options to strengthen global
financial safety nets for our consideration at this Summit.  24.    We welcome the following achievements from our mandate:  The enhancement of the Flexible Credit Line (FCL) including
the extension of its duration and removal of the access cap.
Countries with strong fundamentals and policies will have access
to a refined FCL with enhanced predictability and effectiveness.  The creation of the Precautionary Credit Line (PCL) as a new
preventative tool. The PCL allows countries with sound
fundamentals and policies, but moderate vulnerabilities, to
benefit from the IMF’s precautionary liquidity provision.  The recent decision by the IMF to continue its work to
further improve the global capacity to cope with shocks of a
systemic nature, as well as the recent clarification of the
procedures for synchronized approval of the FCLs for multiple
countries, by which a number of countries affected by a common
shock could concurrently seek access to FCL.  The dialogue to enhance collaboration between Regional
Financing Arrangements (RFAs) and the IMF, acknowledging the
potential synergies from such collaboration.  25.    Building on the achievements made to date on
strengthening global financial safety nets, we need to do
further work to improve our capacity to cope with future
crises.  Therefore, we asked our Finance Ministers and Central
Bank Governors to explore, with input from the IMF:  A.      A structured approach to cope with shocks of a systemic
nature.  B.      Ways to improve collaboration between RFAs and the IMF
across all possible areas and enhance the capability of RFAs for
crisis prevention, while recognizing region-specific
circumstances and characteristics of each RFA.  26.    Our goal is to build a more stable and resilient
international monetary system. While the international monetary
system has proved resilient, tensions and vulnerabilities are
clearly apparent.  We agreed to explore ways to further improve
the international monetary system to ensure systemic stability
in the global economy. We asked the IMF to deepen its work on
all aspects of the international monetary system, including
capital flow volatility.  We look forward to reviewing further
analysis and proposals over the next year.  Financial Sector Reforms  27.    The global financial system came to a sudden halt in 2008
as a result of reckless and irresponsible risk taking by banks
and other financial institutions, combined with major failures
of regulation and supervision. While our initial priority was to
move quickly to stabilize financial markets and restore the
global flow of capital, we never lost sight of the need to
address the root causes of the crisis. We took our first step at
the Washington Summit, where we developed the Action Plan to
Implement Principles for Reform.  Since then, we built on the
progress made in London, Pittsburgh, and Toronto, and together,
took major strides toward fixing the financial system with the
support from the international organizations, particularly the
Financial Stability Board (FSB) and the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision (BCBS).  Transformed financial system to address the root causes of the
crisis  28.    Today, we have delivered core elements of the new
financial regulatory framework to transform the global financial
system.  29.    We endorsed the landmark agreement reached by the BCBS on
the new bank capital and liquidity framework, which increases
the resilience of the global banking system by raising the
quality, quantity and international consistency of bank capital
and liquidity, constrains the build-up of leverage and maturity
mismatches, and introduces capital buffers above the minimum
requirements that can be drawn upon in bad times. The framework
includes an internationally harmonized leverage ratio to serve
as a backstop to the risk-based capital measures. With this, we
have achieved far-reaching reform of the global banking system.
The new standards will markedly reduce banks’ incentive to take
excessive risks, lower the likelihood and severity of future
crises, and enable banks to withstand - without extraordinary
government support - stresses of a magnitude associated with the
recent financial crisis. This will result in a banking system
that can better support stable economic growth. We are committed
to adopt and implement fully these standards within the agreed
timeframe that is consistent with economic recovery and
financial stability. The new framework will be translated into
our national laws and regulations, and will be implemented
starting on January 1, 2013 and fully phased in by January 1,
2019.  30.    We reaffirmed our view that no firm should be too big or
too complicated to fail and that taxpayers should not bear the
costs of resolution.  We endorsed the policy framework, work
processes, and timelines proposed by the FSB to reduce the moral
hazard risks posed by systemically important financial
institutions (SIFIs) and address the too-big-to-fail problem.
This requires a multi-pronged framework combining: a resolution
framework and other measures to ensure that all financial
institutions can be resolved safely, quickly and without
destabilizing the financial system and exposing the taxpayers to
the risk of loss; a requirement that SIFIs and initially in
particular financial institutions that are globally systemic (G-
SIFIs) should have higher loss absorbency capacity to reflect
the greater risk that the failure of these firms poses to the
global financial system; more intensive supervisory oversight;
robust core financial market infrastructure to reduce contagion
risk from individual failures; and other supplementary
prudential and other requirements as determined by the national
authorities which may include, in some circumstances, liquidity
surcharges, tighter large exposure restrictions, levies and
structural measures.  In the context of loss absorbency, we
encourage further progress on the feasibility of contingent
capital and other instruments. We encouraged the FSB, BCBS and
other relevant bodies to complete their remaining work in
accordance with the endorsed work processes and timelines in
2011 and 2012.  31.    In addition, we agreed that G-SIFIs should be subject to
a sustained process of mandatory international recovery and
resolution planning. We agreed to conduct rigorous risk
assessment on these firms through international supervisory
colleges and negotiate institution-specific crisis cooperation
agreements within crisis management groups. Regular peer reviews
will be conducted by the FSB on the effectiveness and
consistency of national policy measures for these firms.  32.    We reaffirmed our Toronto commitment to national-level
implementation of the BCBS’s cross-border resolution
recommendations. To support implementation at the national level,
we welcomed the BCBS’s planned stock taking exercise of these
recommendations. We called on the FSB to build on this work and
develop attributes of effective resolution regimes by 2011.  33.    Delivering on our commitment in Toronto, we endorsed the
policy recommendations prepared by the FSB in consultation with
the IMF, on increasing supervisory intensity and effectiveness.
We reaffirmed that the new financial regulatory framework must
be complemented with more effective oversight and supervision.
We agreed that supervisors should have strong and unambiguous
mandates, sufficient independence to act, appropriate resources,
and a full suite of tools and powers to proactively identify and
address risks, including regular stress testing and early
intervention.  Implementation and international assessment, including peer
review  34.    But our reform efforts are an ongoing process. It is
essential that we fully implement the new standards and
principles, in a way that ensures a level playing field, a race
to the top and avoids fragmentation of markets, protectionism
and regulatory arbitrage. We recognized different national
starting points.  35.    We reaffirmed today our full commitment to action and
implementation.  36.    At the national level, we will incorporate the new
standards and principles into relevant legislation and policies.
At the global level, international assessment and peer review
processes should be substantially enhanced in order to ensure
consistency in implementation across countries and identify
areas for further improvement in standards and principles. In
this regard, we recognized the value of the FSAP jointly
undertaken by the IMF and the World Bank, and the FSB’s peer
review as means of fostering consistent cross-country
implementation of international standards.  37.    We also firmly recommitted to work in an internationally
consistent and non-discriminatory manner to strengthen
regulation and supervision on hedge funds, OTC derivatives and
credit rating agencies. We reaffirmed the importance of fully
implementing the FSB’s standards for sound compensation. We
endorsed the FSB’s recommendations for implementing OTC
derivatives market reforms, designed to fully implement our
previous commitments in an internationally consistent manner,
recognizing the importance of a level playing field. We asked
the FSB to monitor the progress regularly. We welcomed ongoing
work by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) on
central counterparty standards. We also endorsed the FSB’s
principles on reducing reliance on external credit ratings.
Standard setters, market participants, supervisors and central
banks should not rely mechanistically on external credit ratings.  38.    We re-emphasized the importance we place on achieving a
single set of improved high quality global accounting standards
and called on the International Accounting Standards Board and
the Financial Accounting Standards Board to complete their
convergence project by the end of 2011. We also encouraged the
International Accounting Standards Board to further improve the
involvement of stakeholders, including outreach to, and
membership of, emerging market economies, in the process of
setting the global standards, within the framework of
independent accounting standard setting process.  39.    In addition, we reiterated our commitment to preventing
non-cooperative jurisdictions from posing risks to the global
financial system and welcomed the ongoing efforts by the FSB,
Global Forum on Tax Transparency and Exchange of Information
(Global Forum), and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF),
based on comprehensive, consistent and transparent assessment.
We reached agreement on:  The FSB to determine by spring 2011 those jurisdictions that
are not cooperating fully with the evaluation process or that
show insufficient progress to address weak compliance with
internationally agreed information exchange and cooperation
standards, based on the recommended actions by the agreed
timetable.  The Global Forum to swiftly progress its Phase 1 and 2
reviews to achieve the objective agreed by Leaders in Toronto
and report progress by November 2011. Reviewed jurisdictions
identified as not having the elements in place to achieve an
effective exchange of information should promptly address the
weaknesses. We urge all jurisdictions to stand ready to conclude
Tax Information Exchange Agreements where requested by a
relevant partner.  The FATF to pursue its successful work in identifying non-
cooperative jurisdictions as well as regularly updating a public
list on jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies, with next
update being in February 2011.  40.    We reaffirmed the FSB’s role in coordinating at the
international level the work of national financial authorities
and international standard setting bodies in developing and
promoting the implementation of effective regulatory,
supervisory and other financial sector policies in the interest
of global financial stability.  We asked the FSB to bring
forward for review by Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors well before our next meeting in 2011 proposals to
strengthen its capacity, resources and governance to keep pace
with growing demands. We welcomed the FSB’s outreach.  We
endorsed the establishment of regional consultative groups. We
welcomed the FSB report on progress in the implementation of G20
recommendations for strengthening financial stability and look
forward to another progress report at our next meeting.  Future work: Issues that warrant more attention  41.    While we have made significant progress in a number of
areas, there still remain some issues that warrant more
attention:  Further work on macro-prudential policy frameworks: In order
to deal with systemic risks in the financial sector in a
comprehensive manner and on an ongoing basis, we called on the
FSB, IMF and BIS to do further work on macro-prudential policy
frameworks, including tools to mitigate the impact of excessive
capital flows, and update our Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors at their next meeting.  These frameworks should take
into account national and regional arrangements. We look forward
to a joint report which should elaborate on the progress
achieved in identification of best practices, which will be the
basis for establishing in the future international principles or
guidelines on the design and implementation of the frameworks.  Addressing regulatory reform issues pertaining specifically
to emerging market and developing economies: We agreed to work
on financial stability issues that are of particular interest to
emerging market and developing economies, and called on the FSB,
IMF and World Bank to develop and report before the next Summit.
These issues could include: the management of foreign exchange
risks by financial institutions, corporations and households;
emerging market and developing economies’ regulatory and
supervisory capacity where necessary, including with regard to
local branches of foreign financial institutions which are
systemic in their host country and development of deposit
insurance schemes; financial inclusion; information sharing
between home and host supervisory authorities on cross border
financial institutions; and trade finance.  Strengthening regulation and supervision of shadow banking:
With the completion of the new standards for banks, there is a
potential that regulatory gaps may emerge in the shadow banking
system. Therefore, we called on the FSB to work in collaboration
with other international standard setting bodies to develop
recommendations to strengthen the regulation and oversight of
the shadow banking system by mid-2011.  Further work on regulation and supervision of commodity
derivative markets: We called especially on IOSCO’s taskforce on
commodity futures markets to report to the FSB for consideration
of next steps in April 2011 on its important work.  Improving market integrity and efficiency: We called on IOSCO
to develop by June 2011 and report to the FSB recommendations to
promote markets’ integrity and efficiency to mitigate the risks
posed to the financial system by the latest technological
developments.  Enhancing consumer protection: We asked the FSB to work in
collaboration with the OECD and other international
organizations to explore, and report back by the next summit, on
options to advance consumer finance protection through informed
choice that includes disclosure, transparency and education;
protection from fraud, abuse and errors; and recourse and
advocacy.  Fighting Protectionism and Promoting Trade and Investment  42.    Recognizing the importance of free trade and investment
for global recovery, we are committed to keeping markets open
and liberalizing trade and investment as a means to promote
economic progress for all and narrow the development gap. The
importance of free trade and open markets is illustrated by the
joint report of the OECD, ILO, World Bank and WTO on the
benefits of trade liberalization for employment and growth.
These trade and investment liberalization measures will help
achieve the G20 Framework objectives for strong, sustainable and
balanced growth, and must be complemented by our unwavering
commitment to resist protectionism in all its forms. We
therefore reaffirm the extension of our standstill commitments
until the end of 2013 as agreed in Toronto, commit to rollback
any new protectionist measures that may have risen, including
export restrictions and WTO-inconsistent measures to stimulate
exports, and ask the WTO, OECD, and UNCTAD to continue
monitoring the situation and to report publicly on a semi-annual
basis.  43.    With respect to the WTO Doha Development Round, we
welcome the broader and more substantive engagement of the past
four months among our representatives in Geneva. Bearing in mind
that 2011 is a critical window of opportunity, albeit narrow,
this engagement must intensify and expand.  We now need to
complete the end game.  We direct our negotiators to engage in
across-the-board negotiations to promptly bring the Doha
Development Round to a successful, ambitious, comprehensive, and
balanced conclusion consistent with the mandate of the Doha
Development Round and built on the progress achieved.  Once such
an outcome is reached, we commit to seek ratification, where
necessary, in our respective systems.  44.    We strongly believe that trade can be an effective tool
for reducing poverty and enhancing economic growth in developing
countries, LICs in particular. To support LIC capacity to trade,
we welcome the adoption of the Multi-Year Action Plan on
Development. We note our commitment to at least maintain, beyond
2011, Aid for Trade levels that reflect the average of the last
three years (2006 to 2008); to make progress toward duty-free
quota-free market access for least developed country (LDC)
products in line with our Hong Kong commitments, without
prejudice to other negotiations, including as regards
preferential rules of origin; to call on relevant international
agencies to coordinate a collective multilateral response to
support trade facilitation; and to support measures to increase
the availability of trade finance in developing countries,
particularly LICs.  In this respect, we also agree to monitor
and assess trade finance programs in support of developing
countries, in particular their coverage and impact on LICs, and
to evaluate the impact of regulatory regimes on trade finance.  45.   We recognize the potential for faster growth in Africa,
which could be unlocked by African plans for deeper regional
economic integration. We therefore commit to support the
regional integration efforts of African leaders, including by
helping to realize their vision of a free trade area through the
promotion of trade facilitation and regional infrastructure.  We
call on the MDBs and WTO to collaborate with us in supporting
this endeavor.  Seoul Development Consensus for Shared Growth  46.    The crisis disproportionately affected the most
vulnerable in the poorest countries and slowed progress toward
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  As the
premier economic forum, we recognize the need to strengthen and
leverage our development efforts to address such challenges.  47.    At the same time, narrowing the development gap and
reducing poverty are integral to achieving our broader Framework
objectives of strong, sustainable and balanced growth by
generating new poles of growth and contributing to global
rebalancing.  We are therefore using our best efforts for a
rapid increase in the share of global growth and prosperity for
developing countries, LICs in particular.  48.    We commit to work in partnership with other developing
countries, LICs in particular, to help them build the capacity
to achieve and maintain their maximum economic growth
potential.  We have thus developed a consensus for the G20’s
contribution to global development efforts in line with our
Toronto mandate.  49.    We endorse today the Seoul Development Consensus for
Shared Growth (Annex I) and its Multi-Year Action Plan on
Development (Annex II).  50.    The Seoul Consensus and the Multi-Year Action Plan are
based on six core principles:  ·          First, an enduring and meaningful reduction in
poverty cannot be achieved without inclusive, sustainable and
resilient growth, while the provision of ODA, as well as the
mobilization of all other sources of financing, remain essential
to the development of most LICs.  ·          Second, we recognize that while there are common
factors, there is no single formula for development success. We
must therefore engage other developing countries as partners,
respecting national ownership of a country’s policies as the
most important determinant of its successful development,
thereby helping to ensure strong, responsible, accountable and
transparent development partnerships between the G20 and LICs.  ·          Third, our actions must prioritize global or regional
systemic issues that call for collective action and have the
potential for transformative impact.  ·          Fourth, we recognize the critical role of the private
sector to create jobs and wealth, and the need for a policy
environment that supports sustainable private sector-led
investment and growth.  ·          Fifth, we will maximize our value-added and
complement the development efforts of other key players by
focusing on areas where the G20 has a comparative advantage or
could add momentum.  ·          And finally, we will focus on tangible outcomes of
significant impact that remove blockages to improving growth
prospects in developing countries, especially LICs.  51.    The Seoul Consensus also identifies nine key pillars
where we believe actions are necessary to resolve the most
significant bottlenecks to inclusive, sustainable and resilient
growth in developing countries, LICs in particular:
infrastructure, human resource development, trade, private
investment and job creation, food security, growth with
resilience, financial inclusion, domestic resource mobilization
and knowledge sharing.  The Multi-Year Action Plan then outlines
the specific, detailed actions to which we commit in order to
address these bottlenecks, including to:  a)       Facilitate increased investment from public, semi-
public and private sources and improve the implementation and
maintenance of national and regional infrastructure projects in
sectors where there are bottlenecks. We agree to establish a
High-Level Panel (HLP) to recommend measures to mobilize
infrastructure financing and review MDBs’ policy frameworks.  We
will announce the Chair of the HLP by December 2010;  b)       Improve the development of employable skills matched to
employer and labor market needs in order to enhance the ability
to attract investment, create decent jobs and increase
productivity.  We will support the development of
internationally comparable skills indicators and the enhancement
of national strategies for skills development, building on the
G20 Training Strategy;  c)       Improve the access and availability to trade with
advanced economies and between developing and LICs. Our action
plans on trade are discussed in paragraphs 42 to 45 above;  d)      Identify, enhance and promote responsible private
investment in value chains and develop key indicators for
measuring and maximizing the economic and employment impact of
private sector investment;  e)        Enhance food security policy coherence and
coordination and increase agricultural productivity and food
availability, including by advancing innovative results-based
mechanisms, promoting responsible agriculture investment,
fostering smallholder agriculture, and inviting relevant
international organizations to develop, for our 2011 Summit in
France, proposals to better manage and mitigate risks of food
price volatility without distorting market behavior. We also
welcome the progress of the Global Agriculture and Food Security
Program, as well as that of other bilateral and multilateral
channels, including the UN Committee on World Food Security, and
invite further contributions;  f)       Improve income security and resilience to adverse
shocks by assisting developing countries enhance social
protection programs, including through further implementation of
the UN Global Pulse Initiative, and by facilitating
implementation of initiatives aimed at a quantified reduction of
the average cost of transferring remittances;  g)      Increase access to finance for the poor and small and
medium enterprises (SMEs).  Our action plans for financial
inclusion and associated implementation mechanisms are discussed
in paragraphs 55 to 57 below;  h)      Build sustainable revenue bases for inclusive growth and
social equity by improving developing country tax administration
systems and policies and highlighting the relationship between
non-cooperative jurisdictions and development; and  i)        Scale up and mainstream sharing of knowledge and
experience, especially between developing countries, in order to
improve their capacity and ensure that the broadest range of
experiences are used to help tailor national policies.  52.    We commit to and prioritize full, timely and effective
implementation of the Multi-Year Action Plan, understanding its
high potential to have a positive transformative impact on
people’s lives, both through our individual and collective
actions and in partnership with other global development
stakeholders. We will continue to work closely with relevant
international organizations to push these actions forward.  53.    We reaffirm our commitment to achievement of the MDGs and
will align our work in accordance with globally agreed
development principles for sustainable economic, social and
environmental development, to complement the outcomes of the UN
High-Level Plenary Meeting on the MDGs held in September 2010 in
New York, as well as with processes such as the Fourth UN LDC
Summit in Turkey and the Fourth High-Level Forum on Aid
Effectiveness in Korea, both to be held in 2011.  We also
reaffirm our respective ODA pledges and commitments to assist
the poorest countries and mobilize domestic resources made
following on from the Monterrey Consensus and other fora.  54.    We further mandate the Development Working Group to
monitor implementation of the Multi-Year Action Plan, so that we
may review progress and consider the need for any further steps
at the 2011 Summit in France. Development based on the Seoul
Consensus will therefore be an enduring part of future G20
Summits.  What we promise, we will deliver.  Financial Inclusion  55.    We reiterate our strong commitment to financial inclusion
and recognize the benefits of improved access to finance to lift
the lives of the poor and to support the contribution of SMEs to
economic development. We welcome the stock taking report on
successful and scalable models of SME financing in developing
economies. We have developed the Financial Inclusion Action Plan
based on our Principles for Innovative Financial Inclusion as
the work program for the coming year.  56.    Working with the Alliance for Financial Inclusion, the
Consultative Group to Assist the Poor and the International
Finance Corporation, we commit to launch the Global Partnership
for Financial Inclusion (GPFI) as an inclusive platform for all
G20 countries, interested non-G20 countries and relevant
stakeholders to carry forward our work on financial inclusion,
including implementation of the Financial Inclusion Action Plan.
The GPFI’s efforts over the next year will include helping
countries put into practice the Principles for Innovative
Financial Inclusion, strengthening data for measuring financial
inclusion, and developing methodologies for countries wishing to
set targets.  We agree that the GPFI should report to us on its
progress at our 2011 Summit in France.  57.    Recognizing the vital role of SMEs in employment and
income generation, we welcome the strong response to the G20 SME
Finance Challenge and the innovative models for scaling up
private SME finance that have emerged from the competition and
congratulate the winners. We have constructed a flexible SME
Finance Framework to mobilize grant, risk capital and private
financing by using existing funding mechanisms and the new SME
Finance Innovation Fund to finance the winning proposals and
other successful SME financing models. We welcome the commitment
of Canada, Korea, the United States and the Inter-American
Development Bank of $528 million to the Framework through grants
and co-financing.  Energy  Fossil Fuel Subsidies  58.    We reaffirm our commitment to rationalize and phase-out
over the medium term inefficient fossil fuel subsidies that
encourage wasteful consumption, with timing based on national
circumstances, while providing targeted support for the poorest.
We direct our Finance and Energy Ministers to report back on the
progress made in implementing country-specific strategies and in
achieving the goals to which we agreed in Pittsburgh and Toronto
at the 2011 Summit in France.  59.     We note the preliminary report of the IEA, World Bank
and OECD and ask these organizations, together with OPEC, to
further assess and review the progress made in implementing the
Pittsburgh and Toronto commitments and report back to the 2011
Summit in France.  60.    We recognize the value of the sharing of knowledge,
expertise and capacity with respect to programs and policies
that phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies.  Fossil Fuel Price Volatility  61.    We recognize the importance of a well-functioning and
transparent market in oil for world economic growth. We strongly
support the Joint Oil Data Initiative (JODI) and ask the IEF,
IEA and OPEC for a report suggesting specific steps in order to
improve the quality, timeliness and reliability of the JODI
Database. The report should include a proposed timeframe and
implementation strategy, which will explore the ways to improve
data availability on oil production, consumption, refining and
stock levels, as appropriate. An intermediate report should be
submitted to the February 2011 Finance Ministers’ meeting, with
the final report submitted to the April 2011 Finance Ministers’
meeting. We also request the IEF, IEA, OPEC and IOSCO to produce
a joint report, by the April 2011 Finance Ministers’ meeting, on
how the oil spot market prices are assessed by oil price
reporting agencies and how this affects the transparency and
functioning of oil markets.  62.    We support the establishment of the IEF charter to
strengthen the producer-consumer dialogue, and welcome the IEF
plan, developed in cooperation with the IEA and OPEC, to hold an
annual symposium with major relevant institutions on energy
market outlooks.  We call on the IEF, IEA and OPEC to produce a
joint report and common communiqué, highlighting their
respective outlooks and their short, medium and long-term
forecasts for oil market supply and demand. We welcome their
ongoing work on the linkages between oil physical and financial
markets.  63.    Welcoming the June and November 2010 IOSCO reports, we
ask IOSCO to further monitor developments in the oil OTC markets
and report to the FSB for consideration of next steps, for
improved regulation and enhanced transparency of the oil
financial market in April 2011 by Finance Ministers and other
relevant Ministers, informed by the work of the Energy Experts
Group. We ask the Energy Experts Group to extend its work on
volatility to other fossil fuels as a second step.  Global Marine Environment Protection  64.    We welcome the progress achieved by the Global Marine
Environment Protection (GMEP) initiative toward the goal of
sharing best practices to protect the marine environment, to
prevent accidents related to offshore exploration and
development, as well as marine transportation, and to deal with
their consequences. We recognize the work done by the GMEP
Experts Sub-Group and take note of the progress made on
reviewing international regulation of offshore oil and gas
exploration, production and transport with respect to marine
environmental protection as a first step to implement the
Toronto mandate.  65.    Future work on the GMEP initiative should benefit from
relevant findings, as they become available, from the National
Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill in the United
States and the Montara Commission of Inquiry in Australia. We
ask the GMEP Experts Sub-Group to provide a further report, with
the support of the IMO, OECD, IEA, OPEC, International
Regulators Forum, and International Association of Drilling
Contractors and, in consultation with relevant stakeholders, to
continue work on the effective sharing of best practices at the
2011 Summit in France.  Climate Change and Green Growth  66.    Addressing the threat of global climate change is an
urgent priority for all nations. We reiterate our commitment to
take strong and action-oriented measures and remain fully
dedicated to UN climate change negotiations.  We reaffirm the
objective, provisions, and the principles of the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), including common but
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.  We
thank Mexico for hosting the UNFCCC negotiations to be held in
Cancun beginning at the end of November 2010.  Those of us who
have associated with the Copenhagen Accord reaffirm our support
for it and its implementation.  We all are committed to
achieving a successful, balanced result that includes the core
issues of mitigation, transparency, finance, technology,
adaptation, and forest preservation.  In this regard, we welcome
the work of the High-Level Advisory Group on Climate Change
Financing established by the UN Secretary-General and ask our
Finance Ministers to consider its report.  We also support and
encourage the delivery of fast-start finance commitments.  67.    The ongoing loss of biodiversity is a global
environmental and economic challenge.  Both climate change and
loss of biodiversity are inextricably linked.  We acknowledge
the outcomes of the global study on the economics of ecosystems
and biodiversity.  We welcome the successful conclusion of COP10
in Nagoya.  68.    We are committed to support country-led green growth
policies that promote environmentally sustainable global growth
along with employment creation while ensuring energy access for
the poor. We recognize that sustainable green growth, as it is
inherently a part of sustainable development, is a strategy of
quality development, enabling countries to leapfrog old
technologies in many sectors, including through the use of
energy efficiency and clean technology. To that end, we will
take steps to create, as appropriate, the enabling environments
that are conducive to the development and deployment of energy
efficiency and clean energy technologies, including policies and
practices in our countries and beyond, including technical
transfer and capacity building. We support the ongoing
initiatives under the Clean Energy Ministerial and encourage
further discussion on cooperation in R&D and regulatory measures,
together with business leaders, and ask our Energy Experts Group
to monitor and report back to us on progress at the 2011 Summit
in France. We also commit to stimulate investment in clean
energy technology, energy and resource efficiency, green
transportation, and green cities by mobilizing finance,
establishing clear and consistent standards, developing long-
term energy policies, supporting education, enterprise and R&D,
and continuing to promote cross-border collaboration and
coordination of national legislative approaches.  Anti-Corruption  69.    Recognizing that corruption is a severe impediment to
economic growth and development, we endorse the G20 Anti-
Corruption Action Plan (Annex III). Building on previous
declarations, and cognizant of our role as leaders of major
trading nations, we recognize a special responsibility to
prevent and tackle corruption and commit to supporting a common
approach to building an effective global anti-corruption regime.  70.    In this regard, we will lead by example in key areas as
detailed in the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, including: to
accede or ratify and effectively implement the UN Convention
against Corruption and promote a transparent and inclusive
review process; adopt and enforce laws against the bribery of
foreign public officials; prevent access of corrupt officials to
the global financial system; consider a cooperative framework
for the denial of entry to corrupt officials, extradition, and
asset recovery; protect whistleblowers; safeguard anticorruption
bodies. We are also committed to undertake a dedicated effort to
encourage public-private partnerships to tackle corruption and
to engage the private sector in the fight against corruption,
with a view to promoting propriety, integrity and transparency
in the conduct of business affairs, as well as in the public
sector.  71.    The G20 will hold itself accountable for its commitments.
Beyond our participation in existing mechanisms of peer review
for international anti-corruption standards, we mandate the
Anti-Corruption Working Group to submit annual reports on the
implementation of our commitments to future Summits for the
duration of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan.  Business Summit  72.    Recognizing the importance of private sector-led growth
and job creation, we welcome the Seoul G20 Business Summit held
on November 10 and 11 that convened global business leaders
under the theme “The Role of Business for Sustainable and
Balanced Growth”. We look forward to continuing the G20 Business
Summit in upcoming Summits.  Consultation  73.    We recognize, given the broad impact of our decisions,
the necessity to consult with the wider international community.
We will increase our efforts to conduct G20 consultation
activities in a more systematic way, building on constructive
partnerships with international organizations, in particular the
UN, regional bodies, civil society, trade unions and academia.  74.    Bearing in mind the importance of the G20 being both
representative and effective as the premier forum for our
international economic cooperation, we reached a broad consensus
on a set of principles for non-member invitations to Summits,
including that we will invite no more than five non-member
invitees, of which at least two will be countries in Africa.
 