-- G-20 Backs Gradual Currency Moves, Trade Monitoring
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2010-11-12T07:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/g-20-back-gradual-currency-moves-warning-system-to-curb-trade-imbalances.html
Group of 20 leaders agreed to
develop early warning indicators to head off economic turmoil 
as emergency talks on Ireland’s debt reminded them the 
recovery from the global financial crisis remains fragile.   Finance ministers from the G-20 will work next year on a
set of so-called indicative guidelines designed to identify
large economic imbalances and actions needed to fix them,
according to a joint statement released as the Seoul summit came
to a close.  “Uneven growth and widening imbalances are fueling the
temptation to diverge from global solutions into uncoordinated
actions,” the leaders said in the statement. “Uncoordinated
policy actions will only lead to worse outcomes for all.”  The agreement may shift the focus away from the U.S.-China
dispute over the value of the yuan because it puts pressure on
all G-20 nations to work to limit their trade and savings
imbalances, Morgan Stanley nonexecutive Asia Chairman  Stephen Roach  said.  “It really gives the G-20 a far more workable framework to
address the broad subject of imbalances,” Roach said in an
interview. “This is a far more reliable alternative than to try
to resolve a multilateral problem through a bilateral currency”
dispute.  A U.S. government official said the meeting also produced a
consensus that exchange-rate changes are to happen gradually.
The American official, speaking to reporters on condition of
anonymity, said the U.S. was encouraged by progress on the
Chinese currency.  Ireland Gatecrashes  Global leaders, including U.S. President Barack Obama and
Chinese President Hu Jintao, met as global markets were giving a
reminder of the financial crisis that led to the first G-20
meeting in November, 2008.  EU members of the G-20 are meeting today as Irish  bond
yields  are soaring on concern the European Union will need to
step in with a bailout. The leaders are discussing the Irish
debt crisis and will probably issue a joint statement later
today, said  Steffen Seibert , a spokesman for Merkel.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index
fell 5.3 percent today, the most since August 2009, and
commodities tumbled amid speculation China is preparing to raise
interest rates to curb inflation.  The new guidelines will be worked out with the help of the
International Monetary Fund and will be developed next year when
France holds the presidency of the G-20, according to the
statement.  Capital Controls  The statement may also have provided some countries with
cover to enact capital controls to limit exchange rate swings.  “In circumstances where countries are facing undue burden
of adjustment, policy responses in emerging market economies
with adequate reserves and increasingly overvalued flexible
exchange rates may also include carefully designed macro-
prudential measures,” the statement read.  The agreements emerged after leaders struggled to find ways
to address trade imbalances as China rejected policy
prescriptions that fault its exchange-rate policy and directed
criticism at monetary easing in the U.S.  “The Chinese jealously hold their right to be flexible,
their right to adjust,” said Donald Brean, co-director of the
G20 Research Group at the University of Toronto. “They would
not want to commit to something that is so rigid with respect to
their trade imbalances. That is not to say they don’t understand
the underlying forces that are causing them.”  China has run up a $201 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S.
for the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S.
deficit with the next seven-largest trading partners combined,
according to Commerce Department data.  Obama, Hu  The pivotal roles China and the U.S. must play to get a
breakthrough at the G-20 was underscored by an 80-minute meeting
between Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  yesterday
dominated by a discussion about exchange rates.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said that
the yuan remains undervalued and that China needs to show a
continued commitment to allow its currency to rise further over
time. China has argued that a quick increase in the yuan’s value
would cause economic and social disruption.  The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate for yuan
trading at 6.6239 per dollar today, the strongest since a peg
ended in July 2005. The yuan has risen about 3 percent against
the U.S. currency since June 19, when China said it was allowing
a resumption of appreciation that was frozen in 2008.  Geithner said last month that a ratio for current-account
surpluses or deficits of 4 percent of gross domestic product was
“likely to emerge as the basic benchmark countries look to.”
Governments from China to Germany rejected any move to set a
target for current-account surpluses or deficits as a percentage
of GDP.  “We agreed that we can’t measure sustainable growth and
imbalances with one indicator, but that we need a number of
indicators,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters.
“These indicators will now have to be discussed, and that’s
what the finance ministers will in detail next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Seoul at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Forsythe  in Seoul at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  