-- Galleon Case `Tipper X' Agreed to Cooperate in Probe After Plea, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/galleon-defendants-thomas-hardin-franz-tudor-to-cooperate-in-insider-case.html
The defendant called “Tipper X” in
the Galleon Group insider-trading case and a co-defendant agreed
to cooperate with the government’s probe after pleading guilty,
U.S. prosecutors said.  Tom Hardin , the former Lanexa Global Management trader
referred to in court papers as “Tipper X,” pleaded guilty
Dec. 21 in federal court in New York to conspiracy and
securities fraud, according to a plea agreement and criminal
information unsealed yesterday.  Franz Tudor , a former Galleon trader, pleaded guilty on
Oct. 29, 2009, to conspiracy and securities fraud, according to
his plea agreement, which was also unsealed yesterday.  Both men face as long as 25 years in prison, prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said in
court papers. Prosecutors will submit letters to the judge who
sentences the men, asking for leniency based on the level of
cooperation both provided in the government’s probe, according
to the plea agreements.  Larry Krantz, a lawyer for Hardin, declined to comment.
Edgardo Ramos, a lawyer for Tudor, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday.  More than 20 people have been charged in two overlapping
insider trading cases involving Galleon Group founder  Raj Rajaratnam . Hardin and Tudor are the 13th and 14th people to
plead guilty, with most of those agreeing to cooperate with
prosecutors and testify against others.  SEC Lawsuit  Hardin, a former managing director at hedge fund investment
adviser Lanexa, also was sued yesterday by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The SEC said in an e-mailed statement
that insider trading involving two takeovers and an earnings
announcement produced profits at Lanexa of more than $950,000.  In separate complaints, the SEC said it sued Hardin, Lanexa
and Tudor, who had also been a trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC,
for insider trading involving acquisitions producing profits of
about $715,000.  “When greed leads hedge funds and other market
professionals to illegally trade on inside information, the SEC
will take aggressive action,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the
SEC’s enforcement division, said in the statement.  Rajaratnam was arrested in October 2009, accused of earning
millions of dollars from stock trades made with inside
information from corporate officials and hedge fund executives.  Google, Kronos  Hardin traded securities of Hilton Worldwide Inc.,  Google
Inc.  and  Kronos Worldwide Inc.  based on “material nonpublic
information” that he allegedly received from  Roomy Khan , the
SEC said in the statement. According to the criminal
information, Hardin got tips from Khan and also from  Gautham Shankar , a former trader at Schottenfeld Group, who pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with prosecutors.  Khan, a former  Intel Corp.  executive, last month agreed to
pay $1.9 million including interest to settle the SEC’s case
against her. She pleaded guilty in a related criminal insider
trading case and is cooperating with the government in a bid for
leniency.  The criminal cases are U.S. v. Thomas Hardin, U.S. v. Franz
Tudor, 09-cr-01057, and U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
civil case is SEC v. Galleon, 09-cv-08811, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 