-- Gary Shilling Sees `Significant' Stock Selloff Within 12 Months
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-12T21:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/gary-shilling-sees-equity-selloff-within-year-as-fed-fails-to-fix-economy.html
Gary Shilling , who predicted the
U.S. housing collapse, says the stock market is overvalued and
foresees a “significant” selloff within a year as the Federal
Reserve fails to stimulate economic growth.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has climbed 17 percent
since July 2 as investors anticipated the Fed’s plan to buy $600
billion in Treasuries to boost growth. The benchmark gauge for
U.S. equity  trades  for 15 times profit from the past year, up
from 13.7 in July, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Fed Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  previewed his strategy of quantitative easing in an
Aug. 27 speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  “I don’t think it’s enough to make a great deal of
difference,” Shilling, 73, president of the investment research
firm A. Gary Shilling & Co. in Springfield, New Jersey, said in
a telephone interview. “The earlier QE1 didn’t and I don’t
think this will, either. The economy is weak and it doesn’t take
very much of a shock to push it into negative territory. I don’t
think that’s enough to justify where stocks are now.”  Shilling, who predicts real gross domestic product growth
of 2 percent “and maybe less in the next couple of years,”
said the government is out of options for fixing the economy.  No Magic Bullet  “There’s not much that can be done,” said Shilling.
“There isn’t any magic bullet. There isn’t anything in my view
that’s going to return us to the solid days of the 80s and 90s
when consumers were  spending  freely. I don’t think that’s going
to come back. The need to deleverage is just too great.”  The S&P 500 lost 1.2 percent to 1,199.21 as of 4 p.m. amid
speculation China will lift interest rates. The index has fallen
2.2 percent since Nov. 5 for its first weekly decline in more
than a month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shilling’s past predictions had mixed results. The
economist forecast the recession that began in December 2007 and
warned investors a year earlier that residential real estate was
in a bubble that would burst. The S&P 500 lost 57 percent
between October 2007 and March 2009.  With the S&P 500 at a 12-year low that month, he said that
higher unemployment would curb consumer spending, leading to
“weaker stocks.” An investor following his advice would have
missed the start of an 80 percent rally.  Deflation Board Game  Shilling, a long-time market skeptic who once created a
board game to show the dangers of deflation, earned a doctorate
degree in economics at Stanford University, according to his
website. In his book “The Age of Deleveraging,” which was
published this month, he theorizes that the global economy will
struggle for years. Other books include “Deflation: How to
Survive and Thrive in the Coming Wave of Deflation” in 2002
and, “After the Crash: Recession or Depression: Business and
Investment Strategies for a Deflationary World” in 1988,
according to Amazon.com Inc.’s website.  The U.S. economy, which grew at a 2 percent annual pace in
the third quarter, may enter a recession in the next year or
two, Shilling said. The U.S. gross domestic product will grow
2.7 percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2011 after 2009’s
contraction, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The  S&P 500  posted its biggest September-October rally
since 1998 as economic data showed the threat of a recession is
abating. The gauge extended the rally into November after the
Labor Department reported a bigger-than-forecast decrease in
jobless claims and as orders placed with factories and
production rose to a five-month high.  Beating Estimates  Earnings have  topped  estimates at 76 percent of the 433
companies in the S&P 500 that have announced results since Oct.
7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income has grown
29 percent for the group as sales increased 9.2 percent.  While estimates for U.S. corporate profit fell last
quarter, they still indicate that S&P 500 companies will report
record earnings in 2011. The equity benchmark is valued at about
12 times projected income for 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the cheapest level since 1988, excluding
the six months after New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s filed for bankruptcy in September 2008, relative to
reported profit from the past 12 months.  “Stock valuations remain attractive,” said  James Dunigan ,
chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management in
Philadelphia, which oversees $105 billion. “The earnings
prospects continue to be positive. We’ll likely get back to an
economy which is expanding in the early part of 2011. The story
is pretty good.”  Stock Returns  Shilling, who predicts that stocks will return 5 percent to
6 percent annually after inflation adjustments over the next
decade, says that half of that will come from dividends and not
from appreciation. The S&P 500’s dividend yield, currently at
1.92 percent, may rise to at least 3 percent, Shilling said,
without specifying a time frame.  “You see a lot of companies being pressured to pay
dividends,” he said. “Look at Microsoft. They borrowed money
to pay dividends. It tells you that investors want dividends.”  In September,  Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest software
maker, sold $4.75 billion of bonds at the lowest coupons on
record. A day earlier, the company raised its quarterly dividend
by 23 percent to 16 cents and received approval from its board
to sell as much as $6 billion in additional debt.  Shilling reiterated his view in an Oct. 4 interview with
Bloomberg Radio that looming deflation means U.S. Treasuries are
still attractive. He says the yield on the  U.S. 30-year bond 
will drop to 3 percent within the next “couple of years” from
about 4.3 percent. Shilling also said he doesn’t see a collapse
of the U.S. dollar because of debt problems in Europe.  The euro slid to the lowest level in more than a month
versus the dollar yesterday as concern that some European
countries will have difficulty paying their debt and a drop in
stocks curbed investors’ appetite for risk.  “The dollar is probably going to strengthen,” Shilling
said. “We’re going to see increasing problems in Europe, led by
Ireland. As a result, we’re seeing a rally in the dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 