-- Giants-Cowboys Rematch Sees 17-Point Swing in Vegas Odds
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-12T13:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/giants-cowboys-rematch-sees-17-point-swing-in-las-vegas-odds-with-romo-out.html
The Dallas Cowboys’ collapse is
making history among Las Vegas oddsmakers.  Three weeks after being listed as a 3-point favorite
against the New York Giants, the Cowboys are 14-point underdogs
for the teams’ Nov. 14 game at New Meadowlands Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  Tony Sinisi , odds director for  Las Vegas Sports
Consultants , said he can’t remember a bigger point swing for an
in-season rematch in 20 years of setting betting lines on
National Football League games.  “In the NFL, it’s one thing to play poorly, but they’re
not showing up,” Sinisi said of the Cowboys in a telephone
interview. “There’s nothing there right now. The 14 (points)
here to me is well deserved.”  It marks just the third time this season that an NFL team
has been favored by two touchdowns.  When the National Football Conference East rivals met on
Oct. 25 in Texas, the Cowboys were favored by a field goal even
though they were 1-4 and the Giants were 4-2.  New York pulled out a 41-35 victory and broke the
collarbone of Dallas quarterback  Tony Romo . Without their Pro
Bowl leader, the Cowboys were outscored 80-24 in losing their
next two games. The five-game losing skid resulted in the firing
of coach  Wade Phillips  and left a team that entered the season
among the Super Bowl favorites at 1-7.  “They do have a pretty big injury with Romo, but it’s hard
to say it any other way -- the last couple weeks they’ve just
quit,” Sinisi said.  Motivation  RJ Bell, president of Las Vegas-based  Pregame.com , said
oddsmakers take a team’s motivation into consideration when re-
evaluating their weekly NFL power rankings.  In breaking down this week’s point spread, Bell said,
there’s probably a six-point swing because the game is being
played at the Giants’ home instead of at Cowboys Stadium. Bell
also assumes a six-point adjustment for Romo’s absence -- a
difference he says is the maximum any one NFL player is usually
worth.  That leaves a five-point adjustment attributed to the
reassessment of the Cowboys’ team overall, according to Bell,
whose handicapping information website is the largest compliant
with U.S. laws.  “The Cowboys’ downward power-ranking adjustment in a few
short weeks is one of the most severe I’ve seen in over 25 years
of betting the NFL,” he said by e-mail.  The last time the Cowboys lost to the Giants by more than
14 points was Nov. 2, 2008, when they were beaten 35-14 at the
old Giants Stadium.  ‘Start Over’  While New York has won three straight overall in the
series, quarterback  Eli Manning  said he expects to see
improvement from the Cowboys under interim coach  Jason Garrett ,
who was promoted from offensive coordinator.  “Whenever a new coach comes in, you feel like you have a
new season,” Manning told reporters yesterday. “Everything has
been erased, and you can start over. They’re going to come in
fired up and we know they’re talented all over the field.”  There have been 72 in-season NFL coaching changes since
1960 and interim coaches have a 20-51-1 record in their debuts.  “We have to put what’s happened so far this season behind
us and get going forward,” Garrett said yesterday on a media
conference call. “The Giants will present a great challenge for
us.”  The Giants have averaged 32.2 points during a five-game win
streak and their defense has allowed a league-low 250.6 yards
per game.  “No question that they’re going to come in fired up,”
Manning said. “Nothing would make them happier than to come
into the Giants’ stadium and beat us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  