-- Global Currency War May Miss Investment-Starved Eastern Europe
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-11-12T17:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/global-currency-war-may-miss-investment-starved-east-european-countries.html
Eastern Europe is struggling to
attract capital even as record-low interest rates in major
economies force emerging nations in Asia and Latin America to
fend off a flood of money from investors seeking higher yields.  While Group of 20 policy makers are debating ways to
prevent so-called hot money from creating asset bubbles in
countries from China to Brazil, east European nations need
capital to finance budget and trade deficits after receiving
more than $100 billion of bailouts during the global recession.  “The region still needs a lot of foreign capital,” said
 Neil Shearing , senior emerging markets economist at London-based
Capital Economics. “Because of these higher financing
requirements, for the most part the concern is not about
excessive inflows but more deficient inflows.”  Emerging Europe, including Turkey and Russia, will receive
net private capital inflows of $182.3 billion this year, a fifth
of the $825 billion forecast for all emerging markets, according
to the Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based
banking association. In 2007, before the global financial
crisis, the region got $392.8 billion, 42 percent of the total
for developing nations and more than Asia or Latin America.  Financing requirements are the highest in the Baltic
states, Balkans and Hungary, according to Capital Economics
data. Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine need inflows
to finance their budget deficits as they prepare to wean
themselves off international aid.  ‘Biggest Difficulty’  “The countries that need the money the most are the ones
with the biggest difficulty,” said  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-
markets economist at RBC Capital in London. “They’d like more
money from overseas, but I’m not sure they are going to get a
great deal more because it’s just too risky.”  Gross external financing needs, a combination of the
current account balance, short-term external debt and repayments
due on longer-dated external debt, is the highest in Estonia,
and Latvia, where it exceeds 50 percent of gross domestic
product, according to Capital Economics. Bulgaria, Lithuania and
Hungary follow with financing needs equal to 45 percent, 35
percent and 32 percent of GDP, respectively.  The Czech Republic, Turkey and Poland are below the 20
percent mark, while Russia is the lowest at 4 percent.  Turkey, where first-half growth approached that of China,
and Poland, the only European Union member to escape recession
last year, are most likely to attract capital flowing into
eastern Europe, according to Capital Economics.  Turkey, Poland  Turkey’s central bank left its benchmark one-week repo
lending rate at 7 percent for an 12th consecutive late
yesterday. It also slashed its overnight borrowing rate to 1.75
percent from 5.75 percent, saying it wants to encourage banks to
lend to one another at longer maturities rather.  The move was “primarily intended to fend off hot money
inflows,” said  Ilker Domac , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Istanbul, in an e-mailed note today. Capital inflows have pushed
the lira up 4.3 percent against the dollar this year.  Poland views the free-floating zloty as an “important
instrument” in curbing capital inflows, central bank Governor
 Marek Belka  said last month. The bank left its benchmark rate at
a record-low 3.5 percent in October to fend off speculators.  Russia is curbing demand for its currency and bonds without
the capital restrictions imposed by countries in Asia and Latin
America. Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is “quietly”
manipulating the dollar-ruble rate while publicly loosening six-
year-old controls of the exchange rate, according to VTB Capital
and Otkritie Financial Corp.  Currencies Trail  East European nations are more able to absorb inflows than
other emerging economies because their currencies have lagged
behind those in other developing economies.  Seven of the 10 worst-performing emerging market currencies
this year are in eastern Europe, led by the Hungarian forint’s
6.5 percent decline against the dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Thai baht has led gains in emerging
market currencies, advancing almost 12 percent this year.  Brazil, whose Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  coined the
phrase “currency war” Sept. 27, doubled a tax it charges
foreigners on bond investments in an effort to curb speculative
investments. Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said last
month that measures to mitigate capital flows could be
“useful.”  By contrast, Hungary needs a stronger currency to prevent
people who borrowed in foreign currencies from defaulting, said
 Timothy Ash , global head of emerging-market research and
strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Hungary has the
highest proportion of foreign-currency loans in the region.  “It’s unusual for an emerging market that it needs
currency appreciation,” Ash said. “Hungary is quite happy with
all this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net  