-- GM IPO Said Likely to Price at High End or Above
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/gm-s-ipo-said-likely-to-price-at-high-end-or-above-with-saic-seeking-stake.html
General Motors Co.  may sell next
week’s initial public offering above the forecast price range
and exercise an option to increase the size of the IPO amid
signs of brisk demand, two people familiar with the deal said.  The reception six GM executives have received from
investors on this week’s roadshow to promote the  IPO  has been
strong enough to sell the shares at the high end of the $26 to
$29 offering range or above $30, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  SAIC Motor
Corp. , GM’s partner in China, will probably be among the buyers,
three people familiar with the plans said.  GM  will probably exercise its so-called greenshoe or
overallotment option, granting underwriters 54.8 million more
shares, the people said. That would help the U.S. Treasury
Department recoup more of the public’s $49.5 billion investment
in the Detroit-based automaker. Strong demand for the IPO may
also help secure higher prices when the U.S. sells the rest of
its shares in later offerings.  Noreen Pratscher, a GM spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The offering of 365 million shares, or 24 percent of the
automaker’s stock, is already multiple times oversubscribed, one
of the people said. Banks arranging the sale will continue to
take orders until the roadshow ends next week, to avoid the
perception that any potential investors were crowded out, the
person said. GM is scheduled to price the IPO on Nov. 17.  ‘Real Upside’  The automaker is getting orders from large institutional
investors who are likely to be long-term shareholders at about
$32 a share, one of the people said. About 15 percent to 20
percent of the offering will be allocated to individuals, the
person said.  GM’s stockholders may sell about $2 billion in shares to
sovereign wealth funds in the Middle East and Asia in allotments
of about $500 million, the person said.  Joe Phillippi , a principal of consulting firm AutoTrends
Inc. in Short Hills, New Jersey, said the fact that the IPO was
being sold to institutional investors was a good sign for
taxpayers because it means GM is finding eager buyers without
having to aggressively market the stock to individuals.  “They only stuff the stock into retail when the deal is
going bad,” Phillippi said.  Large institutions are likely to hold the stock longer than
hedge funds or individuals, meaning that they won’t sell quickly
and put downward pressure on the shares, he said.  GM’s Earnings  The offering comes 16 months after  GM  emerged from a U.S.-
backed bankruptcy. The company reported third-quarter net income
of $2.16 billion this week, bringing the automaker’s  earnings 
this year to $4.77 billion. That tops the $4.46 billion profit
by Toyota City, Japan-based  Toyota Motor Corp. , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has climbed to a two-year
high this month amid signs that the U.S. economy won’t slip back
into a recession after the longest contraction since the Great
Depression.  “They left enough money on the table that money managers
think there is some real upside,” Phillippi said. “GM had a
good third quarter.”  Without exercising the greenshoe, the Treasury Department’s
stake would fall to 43 percent from 61 percent now, according to
a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If the overallotment option is used, the stake would drop to 41
percent, according to the filing.  UAW, Canada  The  United Auto Workers’  retiree health-care trust would
reduce its stake to 15.3 percent from 19.9 percent under the
base plan, and the Canadian government position would drop to
9.6 percent from 11.7 percent. With the greenshoe, the union
trust would fall to 14.6 percent and Canada to 9.3 percent.  SAIC is likely to buy a small number of shares, three
people said. The Chinese automaker’s aim is to show support for
its U.S. partner, one of the people said. The Treasury
Department wants to avoid the impression that a Chinese company
is acquiring  GM , two of the people said. SAIC will probably buy
a stake of 1 percent or less, people have said.  At a price of $29 a share, the overallotment option would
raise another $1.15 billion for the Treasury Department,
bringing the government’s total from the IPO to $8.8 billion.  The Treasury needs to sell  GM’s  stock for an average of
$43.67 a share -- 51 percent more than the high end of the
offering range -- to break even, according to a person familiar
with the planning.  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, declined to
comment.  Ford’s Market Value  At $29 a share, GM would have a market capitalization of
$43.5 billion, based on 1.5 billion shares that will be
outstanding after the offering, according to the company’s
filing. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co.  has a market
value of $56.6 billion.  Morgan Stanley , JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. are leading the offering, according to
regulatory filings. Barclays Plc,  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of
Canada are among the firms also listed on the prospectus.  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. , the third-largest U.S. retail
brokerage by clients, won’t be participating in GM’s IPO,
according to an e-mail from Christina Goethe, a spokeswoman from
the Omaha, Nebraska-based company.  “We have been informed that we will not receive an
allocation of shares,” she said. “We have several
relationships with various underwriting firms for various
products, and in this case the underwriting firm is not
allocating shares for this offering.”  Fidelity’s Clients  Clients of Fidelity Investments who either execute 36
trades a year, have $100,000 of assets with the firm, or use
Fidelity’s “premium services” for high net worth individuals
have access to the IPO, according to  Steve Austin , a spokesman
for the Boston-based firm.  Fidelity has a strategic relationship with  Deutsche Bank 
that allows them to offer the GM shares to their customers, he
said. Austin declined to say what Fidelity’s allocation will be
for the IPO or how much demand it’s seeing from its clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 