-- MGM Studios Exit Loan, Breakup Fee Win Approval
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-12T17:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/mgm-studios-wins-court-approval-for-500-million-exit-loan-breakup-fee.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.,
distributor of the James Bond and Rocky movies, won court
permission to take out a $500 million exit loan, paving the way
for confirmation of its bankruptcy plan in 20 days.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein in  Manhattan  today
also approved a $4 million breakup fee. The fee will be paid to
Spyglass Entertainment Group Inc. if it suffers any loss or
damage from a breach of its agreement with the studio. Spyglass
executives  Gary Barber  and  Roger Birnbaum  will run MGM after its
bankruptcy.  The fees on the $500 million exit loan will be kept
confidential. The judge also granted MGM’s requests to manage
its cash in bankruptcy and make non-material changes to its
reorganization plan.  “Approval of these motions are required to keep the case
on schedule for a Dec. 2 confirmation,” lawyer Jay Goffman told
Bernstein.  MGM, based in  Los Angeles , filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 3
with a prepackaged plan, after rejecting a takeover bid by  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp . and billionaire  Carl Icahn . The same
day, Icahn announced he would support the plan, under an
agreement that would let him designate one of nine directors on
the reorganized company’s board.  Fee Questioned  Bernstein questioned the breakup-fee agreement, which would
also give Spyglass as much as $500,000 in expenses. He asked
whether it could be triggered if a better offer is made for the
movie studio, or if it already had been triggered by the non-
material changes to MGM’s reorganization plan that were made
under an agreement with Icahn.  Goffman told Bernstein the fee hasn’t been triggered and
the company doesn’t expect it to be.  “Approval of these motions will help pave the way for MGM
to confirm its plan, which received overwhelming approval by its
secured lenders on Oct. 29,” MGM spokeswoman Susie Arons said
in an e-mailed statement.  MGM listed $2.7 billion in assets and $5.8 billion in debt,
including accrued interest on loans, in its Chapter 11 filing.
The plan, which already has approval from creditors, aims to
shave $5 billion in debt by converting a loan through JPMorgan
Chase & Co. into all of the new stock in the reorganized
company.  MGM, whose 4,000-title film and television library included
“The Wizard of Oz” and “Gone With the Wind,” has a co-
production deal with  Time Warner Inc .’s Warner Bros. on a
planned movie based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s novel “The Hobbit.”  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studies Inc. 10-
15774,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 