-- Goldman Sachs Said to Stop Providing Clearing to Some Accounts
-- B y   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-12T20:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/goldman-said-to-stop-providing-clearing-to-some-of-smallest-u-s-accounts.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the Wall
Street firm that makes more money trading equities than any
other bank, stopped providing clearing services for some of its
smallest U.S. clients, three people told of the decision said.  Goldman Sachs limited clearing for accounts that manage
less than $5 million, lifting the previous $1 million threshold,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
decision was private. While the firm continues to clear trades
for some accounts below the new limit, it’s winnowing out
clients that are riskier, have lower  growth  prospects and are
more retail rather than institutional in focus, one of the
people said.  “We are conducting a routine analysis of our business and
in some cases the profile of clients was not consistent with our
current standards and criteria,” said  Ed Canaday , a spokesman
for the New York-based bank.  Goldman Sachs’s equities division generated $5.43 billion
in revenue for the first nine months of the year, down 32
percent from $7.95 billion in the same period of 2009, according
to the bank’s third-quarter earnings report. The firm handles
U.S. clearing through its registered broker-dealer subsidiary,
Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing LP, known as GSEC.  The firm started the review of the business about four or
five months ago, according to one of the people familiar with
the matter. The company notified a number of clients this week
that the changes would mean they would have to find new clearing
agents, two other people said.  While the decision wasn’t a reaction to any of the new U.S.
rules for Wall Street, it was partly in response to increasing
regulatory scrutiny, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 