-- Gold May Advance Next Week as European Debt Woes Spur Demand, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/gold-may-advance-next-week-as-european-debt-woes-spur-demand-survey-shows.html
Gold may advance as European debt
concerns boost demand for bullion as a protection of wealth, a
survey found.  Thirteen of 18 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 72 percent, said the metal will rise next week.
Three predicted lower prices and two were neutral. Gold futures
for December delivery gained 0.2 percent this week to $1,400.10
an ounce as of 11:17 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York.
Bullion reached a record $1,424.30 on Nov. 9.  The euro weakened against the dollar and Irish government
bonds fell yesterday on mounting concern that the nation will be
forced to restructure its finances. Spanish bonds also declined
as the country’s growth stalled. Gold, which usually moves
inversely to the greenback, earlier this year surged to a then-
record partly on concern that Greece may go bankrupt.  “Concerns over sovereign debt issues in Europe, and
Ireland in particular, appear to be shielding gold with safe-
haven buying activity propping it up and seeing it temporarily
detach from its previously strong link to the dollar,”  Leon Westgate , a Standard Bank Plc analyst in London, said in a
report.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Nov. 5.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 193 of 336 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 13  Bearish : 3  Neutral : 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 