-- Tiger Woods's Grip on Remaining Golf Title Loosens at Australian Masters
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-12T07:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/tiger-woods-s-grip-on-remaining-golf-title-loosens-at-australian-masters.html
Tiger Woods ’s grip on the only golf
title he still holds weakened with a 1-over-par second round at
the  Australian Masters  that left him nine shots behind leader
Adam Bland.  Woods, the world’s No. 2-ranked golfer, made four bogeys
and three birdies in windy conditions at the Victoria Golf Club
to fall to 1-under-par after 36 holes at the par-71, 6,886-yard
(6,297 meter) course in Melbourne.  “It was pretty blustery out there, it was tough,” Woods
said. “I had a hard time on the greens again. I overrode every
putt because the greens were slower than yesterday.”  Woods, 34, hasn’t won since his two-shot victory at nearby
Kingston Heath 12 months ago and faces the prospect of starting
a new year without a title to his name for the first time in
his professional career.  Less than two weeks after winning the 2009 Australian
Masters, the 14-time major champion entered a turbulent 12
months that began with a single-car accident outside his
Florida home in the early hours of Nov. 27.  Since then, Woods has admitted to repeated marital
infidelity, leading to his divorce and the loss of sponsors
including Accenture Plc,  AT&T Inc.  and  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s
Gillette razors. His record five-year run atop the  Official
World Golf Ranking  ended last week.  Resuming at 2-under-par, Woods hit two birdies and two
bogeys on the front nine before back-to-back bogeys at the 12th
and 13th holes. He made a birdie on the par-5 17th after
missing an eagle putt and pushed a 15-foot birdie putt on the
final hole about three feet to the left of the cup.  Old Habits  Woods, who yesterday said his ball striking had been the
best in an opening round since deciding in August to remodel
his swing with coach Sean Foley, wasn’t so effusive today.  “When the wind blows hard, you tend to revert back to
some of the old motor patterns,” Woods said. “I was
struggling a little bit with that. It was a little bit more
difficult than it should have been, but I got through.”  While Woods struggled in gusts of as much as 60
kilometers-per-hour (37 mph), seven-time U.S. PGA Tour winner
 Sergio Garcia  produced the best round with a 6-under-par 65
that included a 45-foot putt from off the green at hole three.  The Spaniard, playing in his third tournament since taking
a two-month break to refresh, moved to 4-under-par after
opening with a 2-over-par 73.  “It sums up my golf game at the moment,” said Garcia,
who’s seeking his first title since October 2008. “Some rounds
are spectacular and some are not that great. It kind of depends
how I feel that day.”  Australia’s Bland tops the  leader board  by two shots at
10-under-par heading into the weekend, when forecasters predict
heavy rain.  Bland, who began the tournament as a 150-1 outsider with
Tabcorp Holdings Ltd., Australia’s biggest gambling company,
replaced Woods as the favorite to take the title. Woods and
Garcia are the joint-second favorites at 4-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  at the Victoria Golf Club at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  