-- IMF Tells G-20 Exchange Rate Flexibility `Essential' for Growth
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-11-12T11:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/imf-tells-g-20-exchange-rate-flexibility-essential-for-balanced-growth.html
Allowing exchange-rate flexibility
in major emerging countries is “essential” to achieve the
“strong and balanced” economic growth that Group of 20 leaders
are seeking, the International Monetary Fund said.  The IMF, in a report prepared for a G-20 summit in Seoul,
also recommended further fiscal consolidation in advanced
economies and measures to boost productive capacity for all
members. While saying that countries such as Brazil and South
Africa have allowed their currencies to “substantially”
appreciate, it stopped short of naming nations that are
resisting stronger exchange rates.  “A breakdown of policy cooperation, involving capital
inflows and firm resistance to currency appreciation, or
competitive depreciation, could hinder global rebalancing and be
damaging,” the IMF said in the report.  The IMF’s so-called Mutual Assessment Process provides
leaders with analysis of how their policies fit together. The
report touched on topics that kept up G-20 negotiators deep into
the night to wrest a compromise deal as China rejected policy
prescriptions that fault its exchange-rate policy and directed
criticism at monetary easing in the U.S.  Such a report “faces severe political constraints on its
level of candor and specificity,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington and a former
IMF official. With a “lack of a mechanism for effective follow-
through,” that makes the mechanism “a far less powerful tool
than the G-20 ostensibly wants it to be.”  Bigger Role  The G-20 over the past 19 months has tripled IMF resources,
given emerging countries more say in the institution and asked
for its help to review one another’s economies.  After finance chiefs asked the fund to monitor progress in
reducing trade imbalances and exchange rates last month, leaders
today said they will need its assistance to develop guidelines
to identify large economic imbalances and actions needed to fix
them.  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  told reporters
today he hopes to publish country-by-country recommendations in
the next version of the report, though it depends on whether the
G-20 accepts it.  “Everybody agreed since the beginning of the institution
that you need to have a surveillance process, but at the same
time countries are still not happy when we come and finger-point
some problems,” he said.  In the latest report, the fund didn’t include an estimate
that was in an early version published in June that flexible
exchange rates would lead to a 10 percent appreciation of real
effective exchange rates in emerging Asian economies and about 5
percent in the rest of the world.  More Specifics  Getting more specific advice is “the next step we need to
get to,” South Africa’s Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in
an interview in Seoul.  The IMF comments shouldn’t be “necessarily prescriptive
but more precise and more detailed about what is going to be
required to achieve the rebalancing we want to achieve.”  G-20 members, in their policies and economic forecasts that
were compiled by the IMF, expect current-account positions to
return to pre-crisis levels, according to the report.  The Washington-based IMF also said that the G-20’s growth
forecasts are “distinctly more optimistic than what past
recovery would suggest,” and said that “envisaged fiscal
consolidation could fall short of G-20 commitments if growth
falters.”  25 Million Jobs  If G-20 members implemented the IMF’s recommendations to
boost demand in emerging economies, put advanced economies’
finances on a “sustainable footing” without hurting growth and
made changes to their labor and product markets, they could
create an additional 25 million jobs, the fund estimated.  They would also boost global economic growth by 2
percentage points by about 2014, it said. In October, the IMF
predicted the world’s gross domestic product would rise 4.8
percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2011.  The IMF was asked by the G-20 in September 2009 to help
find ways to ensure the global recovery will be more balanced.
Policy makers are trying to avoid a repeat of the last
expansion, when U.S. consumers relied on borrowing from abroad
to finance purchases, contributing to an export boom from Asia.  As China and other Asian nations accumulated dollars from
trade surpluses, they bought U.S. Treasury debt and depressed
global yields. Lower borrowing costs helped stoke the U.S.
housing and credit booms that turned to bust in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Seoul at  srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 