-- Immelt Buying Volts Casts GE as Electric-Car Corporate Catalyst
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-11-12T17:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/immelt-buying-volts-casts-ge-as-catalyst-for-corporate-electric-car-fleets.html
General Electric Co. ’s move to buy
as many as 25,000 rechargeable cars, almost half of them from
 General Motors Co. , may herald more purchases of electric
vehicles for corporate fleets.  “You’ll see some early adopters follow suit, people maybe
like UPS or FedEx, and those are your logical first movers,”
said  John Segrich , who leads the green research group for Rye,
New York-based Gabelli & Co. and manages the  SRI Green Fund. 
“You are going to see large corporations move this way.”  GE unveiled its order yesterday as automakers prepare a new
generation of battery-powered autos, including GM’s Chevrolet
Volt and  Nissan Motor Co. ’s Leaf, to reach showrooms as early as
the end of this year. GM’s portion of the order is 12,000
vehicles, including the 2011 Volt.  Corporate purchases can help nurture a viable commercial
market for the cars, because initial demand among retail buyers
will be muted, said  Ray Lane , managing partner at venture
capital firm  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers .  “Mass adoption by consumers of electric vehicles will
happen slowly because of range anxiety and cost,” said Lane,
who said his Menlo Park, California-based firm has invested more
than $1.5 billion in green technology startups that include
carmakers  Fisker Automotive Inc.  and Norway’s  Think .  Fleet operators may react differently, because “the
business case for electric vehicles is pretty good,” said Lane,
who is also  Hewlett-Packard Co.  chairman.  Tax Credits  While purchase prices may be higher, corporations would
reap savings from tax credits and lower costs for electricity
than gasoline, Lane said. Another advantage: “It’s easier to
install charging equipment at a fleet garage,” he said.  GE would see an additional boost, because Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is positioning the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company to benefit from energy-efficient
technologies by producing batteries, car-charging stations and
smart-grid systems.  “Being a first mover on this, they get not only the moral
high ground, but also seize the initiative on charging-station
technology,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior portfolio manager
at Huntington Asset Advisors Inc. in Cincinnati, which held
about 5.48 million GE shares as of October.  Hybrids such as  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Prius made up about
2.4 percent of U.S. sales through October, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. Worldwide market share for hybrids and
battery-powered cars may be 7.3 percent a decade from now,
researcher J.D. Power & Associates said on Oct. 27.  UPS, FedEx  At  United Parcel Service Inc. , hybrids and other
alternative-fuel vehicles account for about 2 percent of a
global fleet of 102,000.  FedEx Corp.  said its total is about 2.5
percent of the 75,000 vehicles in its Express and Ground units,
excluding its freight operations. Between them, UPS and FedEx
deliver about 80 percent of all packages in the U.S.  UPS doesn’t have a timetable for adding more such vehicles,
said Michael French, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based company.
Neither does FedEx, according to Deborah Willig, a spokeswoman
for the Memphis, Tennessee-based company. FedEx CEO  Fred Smith 
is chairman of the Electrification Coalition, a Washington-based
group of transportation and energy executives.  Other companies are already embracing the new autos for
passenger use.  Google Inc. , which has  30 hybrid and plug-in models  in use
for employees at its headquarters in Mountain View, California,
will “transition and expand that fleet next year with new
electric vehicles that are coming into the marketplace,” said
Parag Chokshi, a spokesman, without elaborating.  Enterprise, Hertz  Closely held Enterprise Holdings Inc. and  Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. , the two biggest U.S. rental-car companies, have
ordered hundreds of electric vehicles, including Nissan Leafs.  GE, which agreed with Nissan in April to research car-
charging infrastructure, hasn’t specified what electric autos it
plans to order beyond the Volt. Buying the Chevrolet sedan is a
boost for a car reliant on different technology than either pure
battery power, such as the Leaf, or the gasoline-electric
combination in the Prius and other hybrids.  The $41,000 Volt is designed to go 25 to 50 miles on
electric drive before an onboard gasoline engine starts charging
the battery. Buyers will be eligible for a $7,500 rebate from
the U.S. government.  Business backing for new technology such as advanced autos
is going to be more important as government spending wanes,
Immelt said in a speech in London last month. Kleiner Perkins’s
Lane said Republican control of the U.S. House of
Representatives in the new Congress next year may curb future
incentives created under the 2007 energy bill.  “It seems there is some uncertainty as to what’s going to
happen,” said Oliver Hazimeh, partner and head of the global e-
Mobility practice at management consultant  PRTM . “We are in the
infancy of this market, and there’s not going to be smooth
sailing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  