-- Indonesia, Brazil Credit Note Sales Boom as Buyers Skirt Hot Money Curbs
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-11-12T14:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/indonesia-brazil-credit-note-sales-boom-as-buyers-skirt-hot-money-curbs.html
Sales of Indonesian and Brazilian
credit-linked notes are surging as banks help investors sidestep
the countries’ efforts to curb foreign investment in their debt
securities.  The notes allow investors without onshore accounts to bet
on local-currency government debt. Banks issued about 2.4
trillion rupiah ($269 million) of notes tied to Indonesian bonds
in October, a six-month high, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales of Brazilian-linked debt reached 847 million
real ($492 million) last month, half the total for the year.  The sales jump comes as Indonesia, Brazil and other
emerging markets introduce capital curbs to avert financial
instability from investors seeking higher-yielding alternatives
to near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro
area. Investors are increasing their focus on developing markets
as the engine of the global economic recovery and as world
leaders meet in Seoul for the Group of 20 nations summit.  “In any countries where exchange controls are introduced
their effect can be offset partially by doing credit-linked
notes and there will be increased demand” for the securities,
said  Edward Franklin , an emerging-markets credit trader at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London.  Investors pumped $39.5 billion into developing-nation bond
funds in the first nine months of 2010, putting inflows on
course for a record year, EPFR Global data show.  Emerging-market securities have soared this year with
Indonesian rupiah-denominated government debt gaining 24
percent, the second-best performer after Colombia, according to
JPMorgan. Brazilian sovereign securities gained 16 percent.  Cool Inflows  Credit-linked notes pay interest based on the income from
the debt of the country or company they reference. The notes are
usually sold to investors who might have difficulty accessing
the underlying bonds for taxation or cost reasons, and are an
alternative to investing directly in local-currency assets.  The real has appreciated more than 10 percent against the
dollar from its lows in May, while the rupiah has gained 5
percent against the dollar since the start of the year.  JPMorgan led sales of Brazil-linked notes, issuing 1.38
billion real of the debt this year, including a 475 million-real
offering on Oct. 13, Bloomberg data show.  The increased issuance came as Brazil tripled a tax on
bonds for foreign investors to 6 percent in October. The
currency of Latin America’s biggest economy has gained 2 percent
against the dollar.  “Clearly the move is a bid to limit currency appreciation
and using credit-linked notes is sometimes a more efficient way
of investing,” JPMorgan’s Franklin said. “But governments may
try and close these routes down.”  Rupiah Sales  JPMorgan also sold 400 billion rupiah of credit-linked
notes last week with coupons ranging from 10.25 percent to 12.8
percent. Deutsche Bank issued 124 billion rupiah of 9.5 percent
notes, while Standard Chartered Plc sold Indonesia notes
denominated in Malaysian ringgit.  Indonesia is preparing to extend a 28-day holding period on
government bills owned by foreigners to curb inflows, the
central bank said last month. Foreign ownership of Indonesian
sovereign notes has jumped 78 percent to 192 trillion rupiah
this year, government data show. About 18 trillion rupiah was
through credit-linked notes.  “There is a concern over hot money coming in,” said  Goetz Eggelhoefer , a Singapore-based partner at fund manager Rohatyn
Group, which manages $3 billion of assets. “You have
inflationary pressures and very high inflows but liquidity is
limited.”  Capital Controls  Emerging nations are stepping up efforts to slow inflows
and the World Bank said this week that Asia may need controls to
curb asset bubbles. Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4
percent in 2010, compared with 2.7 percent in advanced
countries, according to International Monetary Fund forecasts.  China said this week it would force banks to hold more
foreign exchange, while Taiwan said it will restore curbs on
investment in its debt and Thailand plans to remove a tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds.  Ukraine may also introduce capital controls, Deputy Prime
Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said in October. Banks sold 11 billion
hryvnia ($1.4 billion) of credit-linked notes on Ukraine
government debt this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  