-- Inflation Frozen at 11% Spurs Record Rally in Peso Bonds: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-12T20:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/inflation-frozen-at-11-spurs-record-rally-in-peso-bonds-argentina-credit.html
Argentine bonds linked to the
 consumer price index  are gaining for a sixth straight month on
speculation the government will keep the inflation  rate  fixed at
a four-year high.  The yield on peso bonds due in 2033 fell 21 basis points
this month after the government said today that annual inflation
held at 11.1 percent for a third month in October, meeting the
median expectation of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  While Buenos Aires-based research company Ecolatina
estimates consumer prices rose 26 percent in the period,
investors are buying peso debt because the official inflation
rate means the securities offer a yield that is higher than that
of Brazilian and Mexican notes.  “What people see is this is a relatively high-carry bond
with a decent real yield and then you add the inflation even
though it’s 11 percent,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who manages
about $6 billion of emerging-market debt, including Argentine
inflation-linked bonds, at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in
London. “That’s what the government is comfortable printing. No
one expects that to change.”  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is preventing the
official inflation rate from rising to limit criticism of her
policies before elections next year, Gutierrez said. In 2007
 Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor, put a
political appointee in charge of the agency that measures
consumer prices, spurring concern he was trying to hide the
extent of inflation. Fernandez says the data are accurate.  ‘Beautiful Yield’  Argentina’s inflation-linked bonds returned 49.6 percent
this year in local currency terms, compared with a 15.3 percent
advance for similar securities from Brazil and a 15.7 percent
gain for Mexican debt, according to Barclays Plc data.  “Real inflation is probably 26 percent or 27 percent,”
said  Alberto Bernal , head of fixed-income research at Bulltick
Capital Markets, a Miami-based brokerage that focuses on Latin
America, in Buenos Aires. “But you get a lot of carry. It’s
just you get a beautiful yield.”  Quickening economic growth and near-zero interest rates in
the U.S., Europe and Japan are also sparking investor demand for
Argentine inflation-linked bonds, Bernal said. The central bank
forecasts South America’s second-biggest economy will grow 9
percent, the most in five years.  Argentine inflation bonds offer a yield of about 19
percent, compared with Brazilian securities that pay 11 percent
and Mexican notes that pay 7 percent.  Inflation Outlook  “It’s difficult to find high-yielding alternatives and
this is one of them,” Bulltick’s Bernal said. “We’re talking
about a zero-percent world and you need to find something that
will bump your portfolio yield, and this a very good
alternative.”  The 11.1 percent inflation rate announced today by the
government is more than  double  what it was in July 2009.  Consumer prices will rise 27 percent this year and 30
percent in 2011, said  Rodrigo Alvarez , economy and finance
manager for Ecolatina. Increases in food and beverage prices
account for about 60 percent of inflation this year, he said.
Ecolatina began monitoring about 25,000 consumer prices in and
around Buenos Aires in 2007 after the personnel changes at the
government’s statistics agency.  Opposition lawmakers yesterday said the inflation and
economic growth forecasts that the government made in its
proposed 2011 budget were unrealistic and sent the bill back to
a lower house committee. The government estimates inflation of
8.9 percent and economic growth of 4.3 percent in 2011.  ‘Better Value’  A spokesman at the Economy Ministry didn’t return a phone
call or respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The government is unlikely to report an inflation rate that
is higher than 12.5 percent, according to Bank of America Corp.
Argentine peso bonds that are linked to the country’s deposit
rate “offer significantly better value” than inflation-linked
notes, Bank of America analysts  Marcos Buscaglia  and  Jane Brauer 
in New York said in a report last month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points to 523 at 3
p.m. New York time today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.16 cent to 13.56
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell two basis points
to 632 yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Peso Forecasts  The peso fell 0.2 percent today to 3.9694 per dollar today
from 3.9624 yesterday.  Slower declines in the peso are helping preserve dollar-
based returns on local bonds. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
pared forecasts for a drop in the peso to their most bullish
outlook in almost two years.  The currency will slide to 4.05 per dollar by yearend and
drop to 4.3 by December 2011, according to the median forecast
of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In August, the analysts
predicted a decline to 4.2 per dollar by yearend and 4.65 by the
end of 2011.  The peso has posted the biggest drop in volatility among
emerging currencies this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “All you need to be comfortable with is your exposure to
the Argentine peso,” said  Alejandro Urbina , a Chicago-based
emerging-market debt manager at Silva Capital Management, which
has about $800 million under advisory and management. “It’s
very difficult to find paper that has that sort of potential
gain. It has the added benefit that if they choose for whatever
reason to report more inflation, then it’s got that upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  