-- Ireland Default Predicted by Majority in Global Investor Poll
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2010-11-12T08:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/ireland-s-debt-default-predicted-by-majority-of-investors-in-global-poll.html
A majority of global investors
predict Ireland will default on its sovereign debt, showing that
weeks of efforts by the government of the onetime “Celtic
Tiger” haven’t allayed concerns about its creditworthiness.  As the Irish government puts the finishing touches on a
plan to find 15 billion euros ($20.5 billion) in savings, 51
percent of respondents in the latest Bloomberg Global Poll say
they regard a default as likely, compared with 42 percent who
say it is unlikely. The ranks of those anticipating an Irish
default have tripled since a poll in June.  “Ireland will default in the next 18 months,” says poll
respondent  Ned Lott , senior vice president of MF Global Inc. in
Chicago.  Ireland  ranks behind only Greece -- with 71 percent of
those polled -- and ahead of Portugal -- with 38 percent --
among nations seen as most likely to default, according to the
quarterly poll of 1,030 Bloomberg customers who are investors,
analysts or traders, conducted Nov. 8.  Irish 10-year bonds dropped for a 13th day yesterday,
driving the yield up 26 basis points to 8.89 percent and the
 risk premium  over benchmark German 10-year bunds to 646 basis
points from 619 on Nov. 10. The premium dropped to 644 as of
7:50 a.m. in Dublin.  Ministers’ Statement  European finance ministers said today plans for a new
system to handle future euro-region debt crises won’t apply to
outstanding debt, in an effort to calm investors spooked by
plans to make bondholders to share the burden of future crisis.  The plans, mooted by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on
Oct. 29, “haven’t been helpful,” Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said in an interview with the Dublin-based newspaper Irish
Independent today.  Ireland could avoid a technical default by drawing on a 750
billion euro stabilization fund set up by the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund . The Irish government says it will
repay its debts, has no need to borrow money until next year,
and has no plans to seek such assistance from the rescue fund.  Patrick Honohan , governor of the Irish central bank, said
the budget cuts will eventually calm investor angst.  “There is no reason why Ireland shouldn’t be able to go
back to bond markets next year,” Honohan told Bloomberg
Television in an interview in Dublin on Nov. 10.  Bonds Fall  European bonds fell amid indications that France supports a
German proposal to ensure that investors will share the pain
involved in shoring up sovereign debt.  EU leaders agreed last month to consider German Chancellor
 Merkel ’s proposal for a permanent rescue mechanism that would
involve restructuring with losses for private holders of
sovereign debt. The proposal is part of discussions to create a
permanent crisis facility to replace the rescue fund created in
May after Greece’s near-default.  “All stakeholders must participate in the gains and losses
of any particular situation,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said Nov. 10 in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  The first advanced economy to fall into recession in 2008,
Ireland also led Europe in tackling its budget deficit. A
shrinking economy coupled with the costs of bailing out the
nation’s banks -- equivalent to nearly one-third of the
country’s gross domestic product -- still have left Ireland with
the European Union’s largest budget gap. This year’s one-time
bank repair costs drove the Irish deficit to 32 percent of GDP,
from an expected figure around 12 percent.  Budget Cuts  The Irish government plans to save about 15 billion euros
over the next four years, including a 6 billion euro reduction
in 2011, to cut the deficit to 3 percent of  gross domestic
product  by 2014.  Ireland’s gross funding need for 2011 will be 23.5 billion
euros falling to 18.6 billion euros in 2014, the National
Treasury Management Agency said in a presentation on its website
dated yesterday. Ireland’s government said in September that’s
it’s fully funded until the middle of next year.  Even so, markets have soured on Ireland’s financial
outlook. The cost of insuring a notional $10 million in Irish
debt rose to a record $597,198 from $590,991 on Nov. 10.  ‘Crossed That Threshold’  “Default is all about perception and investor psychology
and I just think we have crossed that threshold,” says  Nicolas Lenoir , a poll participant and chief market strategist for ICAP
Futures LLC in New York.  Investors haven’t become more optimistic about the
prospects for Greece and Portugal, two other European nations
hamstrung by budget deficits. In the latest poll, 71 percent say
a  Greek  default is likely, compared with 67 percent who said so
in a Bloomberg poll in September. Those anticipating that
 Portugal  will default rose to 38 percent from 36 percent.  Investors remain optimistic about the low risk of a default
by Spain, the eurozone’s fourth-largest economy. Of those
polled, 71 percent called a Spanish default “unlikely,” up six
percentage points from the September poll.  “Spain’s economy appears to be stabilizing and its short-
term debt is serviceable. So unless some of the peripheral
economies collapse, a Spanish default is highly unlikely,” says
poll respondent  James Pillow , managing director for investments
at Wells Fargo Advisors LLC in Orlando, Florida.  Leonardo Muller , a derivatives structurer at Banco
Santander Central Hispano SA in Madrid, says Spanish banks were
healthier than their Irish and Greek counterparts and that
“markets can now differentiate” Spain’s economy “from those
other problematic peripherals.”  Spain View  By a 2-to-1 margin, U.S. investors agreed a  Spanish default 
was unlikely, though Americans were almost twice as likely as
European investors to anticipate a default by Spain or Italy.  Bonds from all of the so-called peripheral European states -
- Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain -- have fallen
since Oct. 29, when Merkel proposed the permanent financial
rescue system.  “Angela Merkel’s suggestion that lenders must be ready to
take a haircut means that a significant repricing of risk is
possible,” says  Abhisar Upadhyay , senior global macro analyst
for Close Asset Management Ltd. in London, who participated in
the poll.  The Bloomberg poll showed little variation in investor
sentiment toward Ireland. Majorities in the United States and
Europe expect Ireland to default, while a 48 percent plurality
of Asian investors agreed.  ECB Holdings  The largest holder of Irish government debt is likely the
European Central Bank with an estimated 15 billion to 18 billion
euros, according to  Laurent Fransolet , head of European fixed
income strategy for Barclays Capital in London. Eurozone banks
own about 10 billion euros and other non-Irish investors own a
bit less than 40 billion euros, he said. Irish banks own about
10 billion of their government’s debt.  Investors showed little concern over prospects for four
other countries included in the poll. Only 21 percent of
respondents said it was likely that Argentina would default;
Italy was chosen by 16 percent; the U.S. by 7 percent and the
U.K. by 5 percent.  Bennett Gross , director of wealth management for Pacific
Income Advisers in Santa Monica, California, says a debt
restructuring will ultimately prove beneficial for Europe’s
peripheral economies.  “It allows a nation to focus internally and make progress
on getting its income statement in better balance,” Gross says.
“While there is a big political price to pay, it may be better
to get the negatives behind them.”  The poll was conducted by  Selzer & Co ., of Des Moines,
Iowa, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Lynch  in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  