-- Misys to Purchase Capital Markets Software Vendor Sophis for $592 Million
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-11-12T08:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/misys-to-purchase-capital-markets-software-vendor-sophis-for-592-million.html
Misys Plc , a U.K. provider of
software for the financial and health-care industries, agreed to
buy Sophis SCA for 435 million euros ($591.9 million) in cash,
shares and paying debt to expand its range of capital market
software.  Misys will acquire Sophis shares from its principal
investor, Advent International, and other management
shareholders for approximately 273 million euros, with 267
million euros in cash and 6 million euros in shares, according
to a statement filed on PRNewswire. The offer has been
recommended by Misys’s directors.  Sophis had net debt of 162 million euros as of Sept. 30,
giving the acquisition an enterprise value of 435 million euros.
A further 5 million euros may be paid at the completion of the
transaction, subject to Sophis’s performance.  “Today we are creating the leading application software
and services provider in capital markets,” Misys Chief
Executive Officer Mike Lawrie said in the statement. “Sophis
has considerable financial strength” and significantly increase
earnings per share in the next financial year.  The acquisition has been financed by the sale of Misys’s
stake in  Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc.  and Misys will
return 670 million pounds from the sale proceeds to
shareholders.  The transaction, which is subject to shareholder approval,
is likely to be completed before the end of February 2011.  Sophis provides front-to-back office securities trading
systems, with a focus on portfolio and risk management. Its
products are used by investment banks, assets managers and hedge
funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 