-- Italian Economy Grew Less Than Forecast in Third Quarter as Recovery Slows
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-12T09:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/italian-economic-growth-eased-in-third-quarter-as-recovery-loses-momentum.html
Italy’s economy, the euro-region’s
third biggest, expanded less than economists expected in the
three months through September, a sign that the country’s
 export -led recovery from last year’s recession is losing
momentum.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent from the second
quarter when it climbed 0.5 percent, Rome-based statistics
institute Istat said in a preliminary report today. That was
half the 0.4 percent economists  forecast , according to the
median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The economy
 expanded  1.0 percent from a year earlier.  Industrial output  fell 2.1 percent in September, the most
in 18 months, after gaining 0.3 and 1.6 percent respectively in
July and August. It may fall further in coming months if sales
abroad won’t more than offset weak domestic demand. With the
euro up 12 percent against the dollar from a 4-year low in June,
exporters such as  Luxottica Group SpA  and  Fiat SpA   may struggle
to maintain their sales growth outside the 16-country region.  “Today’s data shows some weakness in the Italian economy
that struggles to keep up with its major EMU peers,” Annalisa
Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in London said
in an e-mail. “Indeed, both Germany and France registered a
stronger GDP growth in the third quarter.”  Declining Competitiveness  Germany’s economy, the euro-region’s biggest, expanded 0.7
percent in the quarter and French GDP grew 0.4 percent, separate
reports said today.  Italy has suffered more from the global recession than its
European Union partners as competiveness slumped, the governor
of the country’s central bank,  Mario Draghi  said in a Nov. 5
speech in Ancona. “This is manifested by an inability to grow
at sustained levels,” he said, adding that in the most recent
recession,  gross domestic product  contracted almost 7 percent.  The $2.3 trillion economy has lagged behind others due to
many of its companies being too small to compete globally,
competition lacking in service industries and a two-tier labor
market with permanent-job contracts or temporary contracts with
no security, Draghi also said.  Joblessness  rose in September for the first time in seven
months to a seasonally adjusted 8.3 percent. Real unemployment,
including workers paid by a state-backed fund for layoffs,
topped 11 percent in the second quarter, the Bank of Italy said
in a report last month. It compares with the 8.5 percent of the
official rate in the period.  Political Turmoil  “We don’t expect a collapse in the Italian economy going
into 2011, but we continue to see Italy as one of the weakest
countries in the euro area,” Piazza said.  Political uncertainty may cloud the growth outlook in
coming months as a rift within the government coalition prompet
an ally of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to request his
resignation. Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told
reporters in Brussels on Nov. 10 that the “uncertainty”
surrounding the government is “the biggest” threat to running
companies in the country.  Istat is scheduled to release final GDP figures for the
second quarter including a breakdown of data on Oct. 12.  -- Editors:  Andrew Davis ,  Leon Mangasarian   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  