-- Sumitomo Mitsui, Mizuho Raise Net Forecasts as Bad Loans Drop
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-12T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/mizuho-raises-2010-profit-forecast-to-6-1-billion-as-bad-loan-costs-drop.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
and Mizuho Financial Group Inc.’s improved profit outlook for
the current fiscal year may fail to dispel investors’ concerns
about prospects for the Japanese banks as lending slumps.  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest lender, increased
its net income forecast 59 percent to 540 billion yen ($6.6
billion) for the year ending March 31 as lower bad-loan costs
helped it more than triple half-year profit, the Tokyo-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Mizuho, the third biggest,
lifted its  outlook  16 percent to 500 billion yen, driven by six-
month profit that almost quadrupled.  The earnings rebound was driven by a decline in bad debts
that offset a drop in net interest income as loan demand slumped.
Sumitomo Mitsui Chief Executive Officer  Teisuke Kitayama  and
Mizuho President  Takashi Tsukamoto  both said Japan’s slowing
economic growth will weigh on their business in the second half.  “At this point investors seem to have no interest in banks
and think it will take time to come back to banks, maybe a long
time,” said  Edwin Merner , president of Tokyo-based Atlantis
Investment Research Corp., which manages $3 billion. With
lending stalled, Japanese banks are buying bonds and overseas
assets and “seem to have no strategy in most cases,” he said.  The country’s Topix Banks Index has fallen at twice the
rate of the benchmark stock gauge this year. With  lending 
declining for 11 straight months, the country’s biggest banks
are looking abroad for growth.  BlackRock Investment  Mizuho yesterday unveiled plans to buy 3.07 million shares
in  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest asset manager, for $500
million. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest
bank, is in talks with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to buy
project-finance assets, people with knowledge of the matter said
this month.  “Japanese megabanks are stepping up investment in mature
markets like the U.S. and U.K., where banks and companies still
recovering from the financial crisis are selling non-core
assets,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF
Global FXA Securities Ltd.  Mizuho’s profit almost quadrupled to 341.8 billion yen for
the six months ended Sept. 30 from 87.8 billion yen a year
earlier as costs of soured loans declined. Sumitomo Mitsui’s net
income for the same period rose to 417.5 billion yen from 123.5
billion yen.  The lenders benefited from the country’s falling corporate
bankruptcies, which have declined for 15 straight months,
according to data compiled by Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s bad-loan expenses including provisions
dropped 61 percent from a year earlier to 106 billion yen.
Mizuho’s declined by 170 billion yen from a year ago, it said.  Net Interest Income  Net interest income, comprised mainly of lending returns,
fell at the two banks last quarter. Mizuho posted a decline of
6.2 percent to 400 billion yen. Sumitomo Mitsui said net
interest income slipped 3.3 percent to 661 billion yen.  The  Topix Banks Index  has fallen 13 percent this year, more
than the 6.7 percent decline in the  benchmark  stock gauge.
Mizuho has lost 23 percent, and slid 2.3 percent to 127 yen at
the close in Tokyo yesterday, before the earnings announcement.
Sumitomo Mitsui fell 1.8 percent to 2,509 yen, taking its
declines for the year to 5.1 percent.  Slowing exports, a stronger yen and falling prices are
dissuading companies from investing at home, and businesses are
sitting on near-record amounts of cash.  Chiefs of the two Japanese megabanks expressed concerns
over Japan’s slowing economy and weak credit growth in the
months ahead.  ‘Still Lackluster’  “Lending demand is still lackluster,” Sumitomo Mitsui’s
Kitayama told reporters. “Uncertainty, lack of clarity and
instability will persist in Japan’s economy in the coming
months.”  Mizuho President Tsukamoto said the economy will likely
come to a lull in the second half of the fiscal year and the
bank raised its full-year earnings forecast due mainly to a
“good performance” in the first six months.  “There’s a growing pessimism in the market that this
growth may be short-lived,”  Yoshinobu Yamada , a Tokyo-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said before the results. “Signs of
a recovery have yet to be seen in bank lending demand in
Japan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 