-- Mizuho Financial to Buy BlackRock Stake for $500 Million
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-12T08:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/mizuho-financial-to-buy-blackrock-stake-for-500-million.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
third-biggest bank, agreed to buy a 2 percent stake in  BlackRock
Inc.  for $500 million and raised its forecast for full-year
profit as bad debts fall.  Tokyo-based Mizuho will purchase 3.07 million shares of
BlackRock for $163 each, it said in a statement today on its
website. Mizuho will buy 2.45 million shares of the world’s
largest asset manager directly from Bank of America Corp. and
the remaining shares in a public offering, Mizuho said.  Mizuho is taking advantage of efforts by bailed-out U.S.
and European lenders to sell assets that aren’t crucial to their
business. Larger Japanese rival  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc.  is in talks with Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to buy project-
finance assets, people with knowledge of the matter said earlier
this month.  “Japanese megabanks are stepping up investment in mature
markets like the U.S. and U.K., where banks and companies still
recovering from the financial crisis are selling non-core
assets,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF
Global FXA Securities Ltd., before the announcement.  Mizuho forecast net income of 500 billion yen for the 12
months to March 31, up from a previous estimate of 430 billion
yen. The raised target would mean a more than doubling in profit
from the previous year. Larger rival Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. also boosted its profit forecast today.  Biggest Shareholders  Mizuho and BlackRock also agreed to start talks on an
alliance to expand asset management operations in Japan and
other Asian countries, the bank said in today’s statement.  Chief Executive Offer  Takashi Tsukamoto  is pushing an
initiative unveiled in May dubbed Mizuho’s “Transformation
Program,” which aims to more than double profit to 500 billion
yen by March 2013 from 239 billion yen in the year ended March,
helped by expanding businesses overseas.  Mizuho fell 2.3 percent to 127 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange at the 3 p.m. close of trading. The stock has lost 27
percent in the past year, while the  Topix Banks Index  has
dropped 20 percent.  BlackRock’s biggest shareholders, Bank of America and  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. , sold $8.3 billion of the stock in
the Nov. 9 offering, part of an effort to reduce investments
outside their main business. Mizuho in 2008 invested $1.2
billion yen in Merrill Lynch & Co. before it was bought by Bank
of America.  BlackRock, based in New York, has dropped 26 percent this
year, giving it a $32.7 billion market capitalization.  September Boost  The firm, which went public in 1999, became the world’s
largest money manager last year with the $15.2 billion purchase
of Barclays Global Investors, the biggest seller of exchange-
traded funds. Assets rose 9.4 percent to $3.45 trillion in the
third quarter from the previous three months, helped by the best
September for U.S. stocks in 71 years and $15.6 billion in net
deposits.  Mitsubishi UFJ said in July it may spend more than 500
billion yen to acquire more U.S. banks, and examined about seven
lenders of similar size to California’s UnionBanCal Corp., which
the company acquired in 2008.  Under the talks with RBS and the U.K. government, which
owns 84 percent of RBS, Mitsubishi UFJ may acquire a portfolio
of project-financing assets valued at about 4 billion pounds
($6.4 billion), according to two people with direct knowledge of
the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ; 