-- J.C. Penney Profit Rises on Sales of Clothing, Exclusive Brands
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-11-12T22:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/j-c-penney-profit-rises-63-on-liz-claiborne-clothing-exclusive-brands.html
J.C. Penney Co. , the third-largest
U.S. department-store company, said third-quarter profit rose 63
percent, helped by sales of its Liz Claiborne clothing.  Net income  advanced to $44 million, or 19 cents a share, in
the quarter ended Oct. 30, from $27 million, or 11 cents, a year
earlier, the Plano, Texas-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts predicted 17 cents, the average  estimate  in
a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer  Myron Ullman  has added exclusive
brands to draw fashion-conscious shoppers. J.C. Penney’s middle-
income customers are “probably the most constrained” as the
U.S.  jobless rate  lingers near 26-year highs, Chief Marketing
Officer  Mike Boylson  said in a Nov. 8 interview.  Fourth-quarter sales at stores open at least a year will
rise 3 percent to 4 percent, the retailer said, adding that the
holiday shopping environment will “remain highly promotional.”
The company reiterated its prediction for full-year profit of
$1.40 to $1.50 a share, compared with $1.08 last year.  J.C. Penney, which operates more than 1,100 mostly mall-
based stores, has seen its  stock performance  trail that of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing and Consumer Discretionary index
in the past year. The company’s share price and real estate
holdings prompted hedge-fund manager  William Ackman  to take a
16.5 percent  stake  last month, becoming the retailer’s largest
shareholder.  Vornado, Pershing Square  The same day, Vornado Realty Trust disclosed a stake of
about 9.9 percent. Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management
LLP and Vornado “intend to consult with each other in
connection with their respective investments in the common
stock,” Ackman’s firm said in a filing.  J.C. Penney fell $1.09, or 3.4 percent, to $31.13 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 5.9 percent in the past year, while the S&P 500
Retailing and Consumer Discretionary index advanced 19 percent.  The retailer, known for clothing and home goods sold under
its own labels such as St. John’s Bay, said yesterday it’s
starting a growth-brands division whose first projects are two
marketing partnerships with Hearst Magazines to sell designer
menswear and gifts.  Third-quarter sales were little changed at $4.19 billion,
J.C. Penney reported Nov. 4.  Kohl’s Corp., the fourth-largest U.S. department store
chain, on Nov. 10 reported profit of $194 million, or 63 cents a
share, matching the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Kohl’s shares gained 15 cents to $52.42 in New York
yesterday.  Purchases at Kohl’s  Kohl’s is capturing a larger share of purchases even as
overall U.S. spending has declined from a peak in 2007, Chief
Executive Officer  Kevin Mansell  said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  “The overall spending environment is still substantially
lower than it was three years ago,” Mansell said.  Sears Holdings Corp. and Macy’s Inc. are the largest and
second-largest U.S. department-store chains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  