-- Japan Said to Weigh Wider Application of Insider Trading Laws
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-11-15T05:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/japan-regulator-is-said-to-weigh-wider-application-of-insider-trading-laws.html
Japan may take a tougher stance on
trading before and during share sales, responding to criticism
from investors who allege information leaks on financing plans
are eroding confidence in the stock market.  The  Financial Services Agency  is studying whether Japan
should apply laws on insider trading to those with second-hand
or third-hand knowledge of undisclosed company news, said two
people with knowledge of the matter who requested anonymity. The
regulator is also considering a U.S.-style rule that limits
short sales of shares in companies selling new stock, they said.  Shares in companies including  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. ,  Tokyo
Electric Power Co.  and  Inpex Corp.  plunged before stock-sale
announcements this year or during the period leading up to
pricing. The Tokyo Stock Exchange said last month it’s
investigating suspicious trading of shares that fell before
companies announced fundraising plans.  “The credibility of Japan’s stock market is being
questioned,” said  Takao Saga , a professor at Waseda University
and commissioner at Japan Securities Research Institute. “It’s
positive to see the government considering tougher rules for
insider trading and short selling.”  Regulators are considering whether insider trading laws
should be expanded to encompass investors with indirect
knowledge of a future offering, in addition to company
executives, employees and underwriters, the officials said.  “This whole insider-trading scandal is a hindrance for
investors participating in Japan,” said  Hiromichi Tsuyukubo , a
hedge-fund manager at Myojo Asset Management Japan Co. in Tokyo,
who oversees about $50 million. “Whatever it takes, I want the
regulators and the exchange to straighten things out.”  Regulation M  The regulator is also considering whether to implement a
U.S.-style rule barring investors from short-selling shares of
companies issuing new equity during the final days before
pricing, the people said.  In a short sale, an investor sells a borrowed stock with
the intention of repurchasing it later at a lower price and
returning it to the lender, pocketing the difference.  Under the U.S.  Regulation M , investors who buy shares in a
company’s secondary offering are barred from shorting the stock
during a restricted period, typically five days, before the
pricing.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  is
providing the Financial Services Agency with data on U.S.
insider trading cases and rule breaches under Regulation M, the
officials said.  The FSA and SESC officials declined to comment on the
specific issues they are studying.  ‘Excessive Regulation’  Japan has the necessary rules in place, and additional
restrictions on short-selling may drive away investors, Hirofumi
Uchio, general manager of a self-regulation division at  Japan
Securities Dealers Association , said in an interview today.  “Market participants observe rules and trade fairly in the
market as we have sufficient pre-hearing rules,” said Uchio.
“Excessive regulations on short selling may urge investors to
exit from Japan. The companies selling shares should rather
explain fully why they needed to raise capital.”  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s second-
largest bank, and 92 other Japanese companies have sold stock or
equity-linked securities in public offerings in 2010 worth a
combined 5.3 trillion yen ($64 billion), data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Tokyo Electric, Asia’s largest utility, raised about 450
billion yen in a stock sale last month. The shares fell 9.7
percent during the two weeks from the company’s announcement of
the offer to the Oct. 12 pricing, while the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average slid 1.8 percent in the same period.  Inpex, the operator of a proposed $20 billion natural-gas
project in northern Australia, raised about 520 billion yen
selling stock. The company’s shares slumped 10 percent in the
two weeks following the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  