-- Japanese Stocks Decline as Exporters Fall on Growth Concerns; Banks Drop
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-11-12T06:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/japanese-stocks-fall-led-by-banks-on-stricter-rule-concerns-disco-drops.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, led by
exporters on the outlook for slower global growth, and as banks
declined on concern they will not be exempt from stricter
capitalization rules as speculated earlier this week.  Komatsu Ltd., a maker of mining trucks that gets about 17
percent of its revenue from China, slid 2.3 percent on concern
China will take more steps to damp inflation. Canon Inc., a
camera maker that counts Europe as its largest market, slipped
1.9 percent after the euro weakened against the yen.  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. , the nation’s biggest bank, dropped 1.8
percent. Disco Corp., a chip-manufacturing equipment maker,
tumbled 14 percent after cutting its profit outlook.  “A lot of global economic concerns remain, even as fewer
people worry about the chance of a double-dip recession,”  said
 Hideo Arimura , who helps oversee $2.2 billion at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Sentiment can change overnight.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.4 percent to 9,724.81
at the close, reducing its weekly gain to 1 percent. The broader
 Topix  index retreated 1.1 percent to 846.98, with more than
three stocks declining for each one that rose.  The Topix has dropped 15 percent from its high this year on
April 15 through yesterday as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s
steps to curb property prices and concern about the pace of U.S.
economic growth weakened confidence in a global recovery. Stocks
in the index trade at 15 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 20.2 times on April 15.  Exporters Drop  Exporters to China fell on concern the nation will further
tighten its economic policy. Komatsu declined 2.3 percent to
2,193 yen.  Fanuc Ltd. , an industrial robot maker that 50 percent
of its revenue from Asia, dropped 3 percent to 12,020 yen, the
biggest drag on the Nikkei 225.  China’s accelerating inflation and ample liquidity will
increase pressure on the government to further tighten its
economic policy, and the nation’s stock markets may be volatile,
SYWG BNP Paribas Asset Management Co. wrote in an e-mail.  “Given the strength of China’s real economy, it wouldn’t
be a surprise if it introduces several interest rate increases
to control inflation,” said Nobuhiko Kuramochi, a strategist at
Shinko Securities Co. in Tokyo. “A decline in Chinese stocks
negatively influences sentiment toward Japanese stocks.”  China’s Shanghai Composite Index sank as much as 4.4
percent today.  Separately, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended clients
exit a bet that Hong Kong-listed companies in China will gain on
concern the central bank will raise borrowing costs to tame
inflation. China’s annual inflation rate accelerated to the
fastest pace in two years in October, according to a statistics
bureau report yesterday.  Europe Concerns  Exporters to Europe also declined, as the euro weakened
against the yen. Canon slipped 1.9 percent to 3,945 yen. Sony
Corp., an electronics maker that gets about a fifth of its
revenue from Europe, declined 1.5 percent to 2,718 yen.  Irish and Spanish government bonds tumbled for a 13th day,
and the euro dropped on escalating concern that countries
struggle to resolve sovereign debt issues.  The euro weakened to as low as 111.95 to the yen today from
113.41 at the 3 p.m. close of Tokyo trading yesterday,
threatening to reduce the value of European income for Japanese
exporters when converted back into yen.  “It’s hard to buy Japanese exporters right now,” said
 Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings
Inc.  A measure of  banks  was the third-biggest drag on the Topix
index among its 33 industry groups after electronics and car
makers. Mitsubishi UFJ slid 1.8 percent to 392 yen, the biggest
drag on the Topix index. Mizuho Financial Group Inc. dropped 2.3
percent to 127 yen, and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. ,
the nation’s second-largest bank, lost 1.8 percent to 2,509 yen.  Bank Index  The Topix Banks index jumped 4.6 percent on Nov. 10 after
the Financial Times reported that Group of 20 leaders may
consider different capital rules for lenders with mostly
domestic operations and those for global banks. A Wall Street
Journal story yesterday contradicted the report, citing a person
close to the matter.  An exemption of Japanese banks from stricter capitalization
rules would be good news in the short term because it eases
capital raising concerns, Mizuho’s Arimura said. “But that also
shows Japanese banks aren’t global enough. They will need to
expand overseas and raise capital at some point.”  Earnings Outlook  Companies that forecast lower earnings dropped, including
 Disco , which tumbled 14 percent to 4,510 yen. The company cut
its full-year net income estimate by 25 percent to 9.5 billion
yen, and reduced the planned year-end dividend to 32 yen from 40
yen.  GS Yuasa Corp. , a battery maker, slid 4.4 percent to 549 yen
after cutting its forecast for fiscal 2012 sales to 330 billion
yen from 350 billion yen because of the appreciation of the
Japanese currency.  Trend Micro Inc. , the world’s third-biggest maker of
security software, lost 2.7 percent to 2,428 yen after
forecasting full-year net income will fall 26 percent to 13
billion yen. The company also booked a 32 percent drop in net
income for the April-September period to 9.55 billion yen.  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-largest carmaker, dropped
2.3 percent to 773 yen after saying it is recalling about
605,000 vehicles from countries including the U.S. and Canada.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 