-- Japan's Stance on Free Trade to Face Test as APEC Summit Follows G-20
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-13T01:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/japan-s-stance-on-free-trade-to-face-test-as-apec-summit-follows-g-20.html
Japan’s reluctance to embrace U.S.-
backed free-trade talks may cloud a meeting of Asia-Pacific
leaders hosted by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  a day after Group of
20 leaders pledged to fight protectionism.  About half the  G-20  leaders who participated in two days of
meetings in Seoul will convene in Yokohama, Japan today as part
of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. G-20 countries
yesterday promised to “oppose protectionist trade actions” and
heed “the risks of proliferation of measures that would damage
investment and harm prospects for the global recovery.”  The  Trans-Pacific Partnership  championed by President
 Barack Obama  has tested Kan’s ability to overcome dissention
within his own party. While he has touted the benefits of free
trade, Kan’s Cabinet this week  agreed  only to begin preliminary
discussions on the nine-country TPP negotiations amid a backlash
from Japan’s farmers who benefit from tariff protection.  “The damage would be quite severe if Japan doesn’t join
the TPP,” former Economy Minister  Hiroko Ota  said in an
interview. “The APEC summit presents a good opportunity for
Prime Minister Kan to show that Japan has shifted gears toward
economic growth.”  Japan ‘Left Behind’  Kan today told business leaders in Yokohama that Japan “is
being left behind” as other Asian countries open up their
economies. He said his government will create “special economic
zones” to encourage overseas investment.  Kyodo News said about 3,000 farmers rallied against the
talks in Tokyo on Nov. 10, putting pressure on Kan, whose
popularity has fallen as he struggles to boost an economy
hindered by deflation and a surging yen. More than 100 lawmakers
in his  Democratic Party of Japan  have expressed concerns because
the accord would lift tariffs on rice and other produce.  APEC trade and foreign ministers this week in Yokohama
agreed to keep from imposing additional trade restrictions until
at least 2013. Japan has concluded agreements with 10 countries
and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Those deals
apply to 16 percent of its international trade, compared with
U.S. accords that cover 38 percent and South Korea’s 36 percent,
according to Japanese Cabinet Office data.  Half of Global Trade  APEC groups 21 economies including the U.S., Japan, China
and Taiwan, and covers more than 50 percent of the global
economy and almost 45 percent of its trade.  This weekend’s meetings may also touch upon Japan’s recent
territorial disagreements with Russia and China. Kan will meet
with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  in Yokohama, Kremlin
spokeswoman  Natalya Timakova  said yesterday. Medvedev on Nov. 1
became the first Russian leader to visit one of four islands
claimed by both countries.  Kan is also seeking talks with Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
to resolve tension over a diplomatic row sparked by the
collision of a fishing boat with two Japanese Coast Guard
vessels. The incident near disputed islands on Sept. 7 soured
relations between Asia’s two biggest economies.  Japanese government reports last month were contradictory
on the benefits of joining the TPP, which includes the U.S.,
Australia, New Zealand, Brunei, Singapore, Chile, Vietnam, Peru,
and Malaysia.  Conflicting Reports  The Cabinet Office said the accord would boost gross
domestic product by as much as 3.2 trillion yen ($39 billion),
while the agriculture ministry said the size of the economy
might fall by 7.9 trillion yen if tariffs are lifted.  “I understand industry’s call for more exports to gain
trade benefits, but we want the government to also consider the
agricultural situation,” Kozo Sugawara, a farmer in northern
Akita prefecture and an official with the Japan Agricultural
Cooperatives, said in a phone interview.  Kan in a Nov. 11 speech in Seoul said he will work to “lay
the domestic groundwork” for promoting the TPP.  “As APEC chairman, I will strive to clearly support a
multilateral trade system, to deter protectionism and make the
Asia-Pacific region freer and more open,” he said.  Both Obama and Hu are scheduled to give speeches today to
business executives in Yokohama. APEC leaders will then hold a
working lunch and meet in the afternoon to discuss economic
growth. The forum will release a statement tomorrow afternoon,
after which Kan will give a press conference.  Falling Popularity  While Kan’s popularity has fallen amid criticism over his
foreign policy, the public favors joining the TPP talks. The
prime minister’s approval rating slumped to 35 percent from 53
percent a month ago, the Yomiuri newspaper said on Nov. 8. More
than 60 percent supported the trade talks, the poll said.  “We shouldn’t expect spectacular success from the
bilateral meetings,” said  Kunihiko Miyake , a former foreign
affairs official and research director of the Tokyo-based Canon
Institute for Global Studies. “If Kan can participate in new
frameworks that will benefit Japan in the long-term, that will
be enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  