-- JBS CEO Says Will Hold Delayed U.S. Unit IPO in Second-Half of Next Year
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-12T20:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/jbs-ceo-says-will-hold-delayed-u-s-unit-ipo-in-second-half-of-next-year.html
JBS SA , the world’s largest meat
processing company, plans to proceed with an initial public
offering in the U.S. in the second half of 2011 after postponing
it twice in 2010, Chief Executive Officer Joesley Batista said.  “We still plan to do the IPO of  the unit  in 2011, but it
really depends on market conditions,” Batista told reporters
today in Sao Paulo, where the company is based.  JBS, which controls more than 10 percent of global beef
processing after about 30 acquisitions in the past 15 years,
postponed the IPO twice on market conditions. The company
targeted the share sale to expand its distribution network after
buying Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. and Brazil’s Bertin SA.  JBS also is considering a reverse merger to make Pilgrim
Pride the parent of its U.S. unit, Batista told reporters on
Aug. 16. The reverse merger would be done to limit the influence
of Brazil’s BNDES state development bank, which holds $2 billion
of JBS convertible bonds. The bonds can be converted into stock
if JBS fails to hold the IPO by 2011.  Pilgrim’s Pride, based in Pittsburg, Texas, is the second-
largest U.S. chicken processor based on 2009 production, behind
Tyson Foods Inc.  Cattle Prices  JBS  fell 4 centavos to 6.38 reais at 6:06 p.m. in Sao Paulo
trading. The stock has dropped 32 percent this year.  The company today also said third-quarter profit fell 28
percent to 133.5 million reais ($78 million) because of rising
cattle prices and a strengthening real.  The Brazilian real’s 7 percent gain against the U.S. dollar
in the quarter pared profit from exports and overseas operations
in local currency terms. Cattle prices rose 13 percent in the
quarter from a year ago, the University of Sao Paulo’s Cepea
research institute said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net 
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  