-- Karuturi Global Eyes East African Markets for Crops Grown on Ethiopia Land
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-11-12T09:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/karuturi-global-eyes-east-african-markets-for-crops-grown-on-ethiopia-land.html
Karuturi Global Ltd. , an Indian food
processor, plans to exploit East Africa’s market potential by
selling crops grown on land leased from Ethiopia’s government
within the region, Chief Executive Officer  Sai Ramakrishna Karuturi  said.  The company, based in Bangalore, will produce commodities
including palm oil, sugar and rice on 312,000 hectares of rented
land. The intention is to sell the crops within the 19-member
 Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa , Karuturi said in
an interview on Nov. 10 in Addis Ababa, the capital.  Neighboring and regional countries are increasingly
becoming the largest buyers of Ethiopian goods, according to
 Access Capital . Somalia and Sudan, for example, are both
individually larger export markets for Ethiopia than the U.S.,
Italy, or Great Britain, the Addis Ababa-based research company
said in a report last month.  Karuturi has an agreement to provide 40,000 tons of rice to
neighboring  Djibouti  and a proposed Comesa customs agreement may
lead to domestically produced rice gaining preferential access
to Kenya, he said. The company also sees “large potential” in
the  Ethiopian  palm oil, rice and sugar market. Average annual
sugar consumption in the country is 6 kilograms (13.2 pounds)
per capita, compared with 30 kilograms internationally.  “There are still a lot of Ethiopians who don’t know what
sugar tastes like,” Karuturi said. Rice consumption may expand
to 100,000 tons from 22,000 tons “if I can deliver rice at 10
birr ($0.61) a kilogram,” he said.  Palm Oil  Per capita edible oil consumption is also relatively low in
Ethiopia, according to Karuturi. The intention is to sell the
80,000 tons of palm oil produced on an Ethiopian market that he
expects to expand threefold to 300,000 tons per year.  Ethiopia plans to rent out 3 million hectares (5 million
acres) of land, an area the size of Belgium, over the next five
years to private investors to grow cash crops and generate
foreign exchange, the Agriculture Ministry said last month.  Karuturi plans to have a third of its 300,000-hectare plot
in Gambella, in western Ethiopia, developed by April 2013 and
the whole farm ready for planting by April 2015, the CEO said.
The company has invested $90 million dollars in the project so
far and has budgeted a further $260 million, he said.  Water is abundant in Gambella and the company will build
its own irrigation and energy infrastructure rather than rely on
an “over-burdened government,” Karuturi said.  Baro River  Two tug boats have been purchased to transport goods via
the Baro River to destinations including Lake Victoria on the
Ugandan border and Port  Sudan  on the Red Sea coast.  The Baro River is the “only navigable” waterway in
Ethiopia, Karuturi said. “It puts us right into the heart of
East Africa.”  Critics of Ethiopia’s land leasing program have said the
process has displaced residents. Solidarity Movement for a New
Ethiopia, a Washington-based advocacy group, said the government
has told many people in Gambella they will be removed from their
homes to make way for the Karuturi farm.  Karuturi said no one has been displaced as Gambella is the
“most thinly populated area in this part of the world.”  Ethiopia is Africa’s second-most populous nation, with
about 80 million inhabitants, according to the U.S.  State
Department ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 