-- Kenyan to Borrow $500 Million From IMF to Boost Foreign-Currency Reserves
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-12T14:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/kenyan-to-borrow-500-million-from-imf-to-boost-foreign-currency-reserves.html
Kenya is in talks with the
International Monetary Fund to borrow about $500 million over
the next three years to boost foreign-currency reserves, a
senior Finance Ministry official said.  Discussions on the loan are expected to be completed next
week, Henry Rotich, deputy director of economic affairs at the
ministry, said in a phone interview today from Nairobi, the
capital. The proposal needs approval by the IMF board, he said.  “The funding will boost the central bank’s reserves and
that should enable the country to spend more domestically
without putting pressure on the balance of payments,” Rotich
said. Kenya is investing in road and energy projects to lift
economic growth to 6 percent in 2011, from an estimated 5
percent this year.  Expansion in East Africa’s largest economy was slowed in
the past two years by a drought that hit farming and by post-
election violence in 2008 that hurt investment and tourism.  “We are out of the crisis, the economy is growing,”
Rotich said. “But we are investing highly in infrastructure,
and in that way having this IMF program is helping the
country.”  The money is part of a Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility with the IMF and will be released in several tranches
between 2011 and 2013, Rotich said.  IMF Visit  Negotiations for an “extended credit facility” to Kenya
are taking place, Domenico Fanizza, the IMF’s mission chief for
Africa, said today by phone from Nairobi. A press conference to
discuss Kenya’s economy following a visit by the IMF country
team is planned for next week, he said.  Gross foreign exchange reserves held by Kenya’s central
bank increased to $3.9 billion in August, equivalent to about
four months of import cover, from $3.6 billion the year earlier,
according data on the  bank’s website .  The country recorded a surplus of $665 million on its
balance of payments in the year through July, compared with a
deficit of $420 million the same period a year earlier,
according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 