-- Korean Won Drops as G-20's Lack of Progress May Lead to Curbs on Inflows
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-12T01:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/korean-won-drops-as-g-20-s-lack-of-progress-may-lead-to-curbs-on-inflows.html
South Korea’s won fell for the first
time in three days on concern policy makers will step up efforts
to counter appreciation should the Group of 20 nations fail to
settle a currency dispute at ongoing talks in Seoul.  G-20 leaders have so far not succeeded in narrowing
differences on either exchange rates or the commitment to avoid
imbalances in capital flows, spokesman Kim Yoon Kyung said
yesterday. South Korea may revive a 14 percent tax on treasury
and central bank bonds held by foreigners as early as January to
temper foreign-exchange volatility, ruling party lawmaker Kim
Song Sik said this week.  “If we don’t see a breakthrough at the G-20, then Korean
authorities may try to intervene more to control capital
flows and that will weaken the won,” said  Kim Si Jun , an
analyst at Samsung Securities Co in Seoul. “The government has
been wary of capital controls in other countries, and they
can’t just sit there without doing anything about it.”  The won dropped 0.4 percent to 1,111.90 per dollar as of
9:58 a.m. in Seoul, and is down by a similar amount for the week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
appreciated 9 percent since June, Asia’s best performance, and
reached a six-month high of 1,102.98 on Nov. 5.  The Bank of Korea said the dollar may fall further if the
currency dispute involving the U.S. and China isn’t resolved at
the G-20, according to a report posted on its website this week.  U.S., China  U.S. President Barack Obama and Chinese leader Hu Jintao
spent “the bulk” of talks yesterday discussing exchange rates
before attending a dinner with other leaders at the G-20 summit,
said White House press secretary Robert Gibbs. G-20 finance
chiefs agreed last month to “refrain from competitive
devaluation.”  The yuan climbed to the strongest level since 1993
yesterday amid criticism from the U.S. that it remains
undervalued and that China needs to show continued commitment to
allow the currency rise further over time. China has countered
by saying that a quick increase in the yuan’s value would cause
economic and social disruption.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds rose, pushing
their yield to a one-week low. The rate on the 3.75 percent note
due June 2013 fell one basis point to 3.50 percent, according to
Korea Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 