-- Nakheel Restarts Construction at Dubai Al Furjan, Jumeriah Park Projects
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-11-12T12:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/nakheel-restarts-construction-at-dubai-al-furjan-jumeriah-park-projects.html
Nakheel PJSC, the developer of palm-
shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, is restarting work on two
residential projects in the Persian Gulf emirate after agreeing
earlier this year to begin repaying debts to contractors.  Construction will resume on villas and homes at Al Furjan
and Jumeirah Park, Nakheel said in separate statements today. Al
Furjan contractor  Arabtec Holding Co.  is building 523 units,
Nakheel said.  Property prices dropped by more than half in Dubai and by
30 percent in larger neighbor Abu Dhabi as banks tightened
mortgage lending and speculators fled the market during the
global financial crisis. State-owned Nakheel, which spearheaded
Dubai’s building boom, is seeking to alter terms on more than
$10 billion of bank debt and contractor claims.  Arabtec’s Al Furjan villas will be finished in the first
quarter of 2012, Nakheel said. Pauling Middle East Co. resumed
work on 525 four-bedroom villas in Jumeirah Park, which will be
delivered in the second quarter of 2012, it said. Al Huda
Contracting Co. is set to resume work on 289 three-bedroom
villas at the same development for delivery in the fourth
quarter next year.  Nakheel said Sept. 30 it paid trade creditors 3.4 billion
dirhams ($930 million) and planned to restart work on stalled
projects across Dubai. It resumed construction on part of the Al
Furjan project that month.  Debt Revamp  Dubai World, Nakheel’s parent and one of the emirate’s
three main holding companies, in September gained approval from
creditors to change terms on $24.9 billion of debt. Nakheel aims
to get approval from 95 percent of its creditors for
restructuring terms before the end of this year.  Nakheel yesterday said its Jumeirah Golf Estates project
received the “necessary support” from the Dubai government to
recommence development. Work at its International City project
is also to resume, Nakheel said in September.  Dubai’s oversupply of homes and offices will take about 20
months to clear, indicating further price declines,  Mohamed Alabbar , chairman of Emaar Properties PJSC, said at the
Bloomberg Link Real Estate Briefing in New York on Nov. 5. Emaar
completed the world’s tallest tower, the Burj Khalifa, in Dubai
in January.  Nakheel Chief Executive Officer Chris O’Donnell said the
oversupply will take three to five years to clear, Arabian
Business reported Oct. 24. Economic growth in the emirate will
help eliminate the surplus, he said, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 