-- New Jersey Pulls Plug on Camden Trash Agency After Covering Debt Payments
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-12T21:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/new-jersey-pulls-plug-on-camden-trash-authority-debt-support-to-save-money.html
New Jersey won’t pick up a $26.1
million payment due Dec. 1 on the Camden County Pollution
Control Financing Authority’s incinerator bonds after covering
payments since 1999, a spokesman for Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff  said.  “We have been and remain willing to work with the
authority to come up with a way to restructure the debt,” said
 Andrew Pratt , the treasurer’s spokesman. “However, there is not
money in the budget to make a $26 million-plus payment for
them.”  Standard & Poor’s today lowered its rating on the
authority’s series 1991A-1991D revenue bonds to CC, the third-
lowest, from CCC. The firm warned of “the increased likelihood
that the authority will default on its last payment Dec. 1,”
according to a report explaining the downgrade.  New Jersey  has scheduled a special meeting of the Local
Finance Board in Trenton on Nov. 23 to review options for
managing the Dec. 1 balloon payment, which the authority says
cannot be covered without state aid. The board must approve all
borrowing by the state’s municipal and school agencies.  The authority operates a landfill in Pennsauken, where it
is based, and a trash-to-energy incinerator in Camden, a city
where more than one-third of the residents live in poverty,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Tough Competition  Since 1999, New Jersey has made almost $150 million in
debt-service payments for the authority, according to S&P. The
agency can’t charge trash haulers enough to meet its financing
costs, due to competition from neighboring Pennsylvania, said
David Luthman, deputy executive director of the authority.  The operation generated $36 million in operating revenue in
2008 against $28 million in annual costs, according to the most
recent annual financial report filed for bondholders. Since at
least 2007 it has received $6 million annually in state aid to
cover debt-service expenses, the reports show.  The authority doesn’t have enough cash on hand this year to
cover the full $26.1 million that comes due Dec. 1, Luthman said
in a telephone interview today from the Pennsauken headquarters.  “We have issued a continuing series of public notices that
evidence our concern that without significant state aid we are
going to have a problem,” he said. Regarding prospects for
restructuring the debt he said, “Your guess is as good as
mine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  