-- New Jersey Auditor Questions $27 Light Bulbs Billed Under Stimulus Program
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-12T21:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/new-jersey-auditor-questions-27-light-bulbs-billed-under-stimulus-program.html
Contractors billed  New Jersey  $27
for light bulbs, and ran up tens of thousands of dollars in
other “unreasonable costs” on a $119 million weatherization
program funded with U.S. stimulus money, the state auditor said.  Out of $613,600 in charges reviewed, $54,000, or 8.8
percent, was deemed unreasonable by Auditor Stephen Eells,
according to a Nov. 8 report to lawmakers. The audit examined
program oversight by the state  Community Affairs Department .  One contractor sought $27 for  light bulbs , while another
billed $1.50 for similar items, according to the report and
Assistant Auditor Thomas Meseroll. Another vendor charged $75
for carbon-monoxide detectors that it had provided to a
different program for $22, the report said. Eells also cited
$32,700 in auditing fees when “no services had been performed”
and $69,000 in construction costs that couldn’t be verified.  “Weatherization agencies have been reimbursed for
unreasonable costs because of inadequate review of financial
reports and lack of guidance from the state and federal
governments,” said the audit. It said the state agency’s review
of contractor expenditures was “cursory.”  The state didn’t pay for the $27 light bulbs and the $75
carbon-monoxide detectors after the audit, according to  Lori Grifa , the Community Affairs Department’s commissioner. Since
Eells began the review, the two most-senior state employees
overseeing the program have been replaced and a third has been
reassigned, Grifa said in a written response to the audit.  The $27 included “labor and materials” for compact
fluorescent light bulbs, Lisa Ryan, a spokeswoman for the
department, said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Accountants Hired  In May, the department hired an accounting firm to review
invoices from the 23 agencies that carry out the weatherization
work under program contracts, Grifa said. The added controls
will help the state make more than 13,000 residential units more
energy efficient within three years, she said.  Senate Majority Leader  Barbara Buono , a Middlesex County
Democrat who leads the chamber’s Legislative Oversight
Committee, said she will seek a hearing on the audit’s findings
and administrative changes in the program.  New Jersey  is in line for $119 million in grant funds for
weatherization from the U.S. Energy Department. The money comes
from last year’s $814 billion federal economic-stimulus program.
The state has allocated about $64 million of that to local
agencies, which have spent about $6 million, the audit said.  Through July 30, the state had refurbished 1,051 of the
13,381 units scheduled for work, the report said.  About $5 billion in stimulus funds were provided to the
weatherization program, according to the Energy Department’s
website. By the end of August, almost  221,300 homes  had been
refurbished using the money, the department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 