-- New World Resources Seeks More Coal Assets After $1.2 Billion Bogdanka Bid
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/new-world-resources-seeks-more-coal-assets-after-1-2-billion-bogdanka-bid.html
New World Resources NV , bidding $1.2
billion for Polish energy-coal producer  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka
SA , is studying further acquisitions in the region as it seeks
to create Europe’s biggest coal mining company.  “In both Poland and the Ukraine there’s an almost
inevitable trend towards further privatization,”  Mike Salamon ,
chairman of Amsterdam-based  NWR , said yesterday in an interview.
The company is interested in Polish state-owned coking-coal
miner  Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA , or JSW, which plans to sell
shares in an initial public offering next year, he said.  NWR bid for Bogdanka last month to add coal mines in Poland
to its operations in the Czech Republic and create a “regional
champion.” Bogdanka Chief Executive Officer  Miroslaw Taras 
rejected the offer and this week said he’d prefer a rival merger
with JSW, a company Salamon believes lacks the necessary funds.  “I don’t think they have the firepower, whereas this is a
cash bid,” Salamon said in London. “It would be very
interesting to work out the norms of a state-owned company
buying out a recently privatized company.”  NWR is seeking acceptances from Bogdanka shareholders for
its 100.75-zloty-a-share bid, which is scheduled to close on
Nov. 29.  Bogdanka  rose 1.5 percent to 107.7 zloty in Warsaw
trading yesterday.  The offer represents a 13 percent premium to the closing
price before the bid was announced, NWR said. NWR is more likely
to lower the threshold for acceptances from 75 percent approval
to gain control, rather than raise its bid, Salamon said.  M&A Revival  Mining companies are returning to mergers and acquisitions
as the global economic recovery boosts demand for commodities,
raising prices and swelling cash reserves. Commodities companies
have announced $420 billion of M&A deals so far this year.  NWR first sold shares to the public in 2008 as it sought to
become a “regional consolidator,” Salamon said. “We felt that
there was room for a serious mining business in the region.”  The subsequent financial crisis stalled those plans until
the second quarter of this year, when NWR decided to pursue
Bogdanka, he said.  Bogdanka is worth more than NWR bid, according to Polish
pension fund  Aviva Powszechne Towarzystwo Emerytalne SA , whose
15 percent stake makes it Bogdanka’s biggest single shareholder,
and Amplico Powszechne Towarzystwo Emerytalne SA, a rival fund
holding 5.1 percent. NWR is in “robust” talks with those
holders, Salamon said.  ‘Fair Offer’  “We put in a pretty full and fair offer, so our
expectation is that we will wait out until the end of the
period,” he said. NWR will focus on the “degree of
acceptance” rather than the price, he said.  NWR , the Czech Republic’s largest producer of coking coal,
declined 1.9 percent to 740 pence in London trading yesterday.
The stock has jumped 32 percent this year and has a market value
of 2 billion pounds ($3.22 billion).  A combined NWR and Bogdanka would produce about 25 million
metric tons of coal a year, according to a Nov. 10 NWR
presentation. NWR’s share of thermal, or energy-coal production
would rise to 33 percent of its total coal output from 20
percent, according to the presentation.  NWR produces coking, or steelmaking, coal and thermal coal
and owns four mines and two coking facilities in the Czech
Republic. It sells coal to customers including the Czech unit of
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker.  The company also plans a mine in Debiensko, southern
Poland. NWR expects the project to cost as much as 400 million
euros ($545 million) and produce about 3 million tons of coking
coal and steam coal a year.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  