-- Newark's Booker Must Wait 10 Days Before Cutting Police Ranks, Judge Rules
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-12T23:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/newark-mayor-booker-must-wait-10-days-to-fire-police-as-judge-orders-stay.html
Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker  must wait
at least 10 days before he can fire 167 police officers to
whittle down an $83 million budget gap, a judge ruled today
after a union challenged the cuts.  State Superior Court Judge Kenneth Levy issued the
temporary stay while the two sides negotiate the issue, said
Esmeralda Cameron, Booker’s spokeswoman. The police union claims
the city didn’t follow proper procedure in alerting affected
workers. The dismissals were set to start today.  “It avoids the potential tragedy of not having enough
police officers on the street,” David Fox, a union lawyer, said
by telephone after Levy’s ruling. “Given the importance of the
issue, if we have a shot to do it without layoffs, we need to.”  Booker counted on the cuts to save $10 million and reduce
the gap in the $605 million 2010 spending plan for  New Jersey ’s
biggest city. The mayor also plans to eliminate 350 civilian
jobs. Fox said police superior officers are negotiating to
prevent 100 planned demotions. He said firefighters won’t be
affected because of a settlement with the city.  “Today’s ruling will further delay impending layoffs and
presents severe financial consequences to the taxpayers,”
Cameron said in a statement sent by e-mail. “These layoffs are
an unfortunate and unavoidable consequence of a national
economic crisis, but necessary to maintain the city’s fiscal
integrity.”  Ready to Talk  Cameron said the city was ready to meet “immediately”
with unions to negotiate an alternative way to close the budget
gap.  Newark unions claimed that the reductions may jeopardize
public safety and lead to longer emergency-response times.
Derrick Hatcher, president of the city’s  Fraternal Order of
Police  Lodge 12, said the court challenge also focused on the
distribution of dismissal notices to all workers rather than
only to those about to be pushed out.  The fiscal year for the city of about 280,000 residents is
the same as the calendar year.  The case is the Fraternal Order of Police v. City of
Newark, C-000237-10, Superior Court of New Jersey (Essex
County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 