-- News Corp.'s Murdoch Predicts Ad Changes for Digital Newspapers
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-11-12T13:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/news-corp-s-murdoch-predicts-ad-changes-for-digital-newspapers.html
James Murdoch ,  News Corp. ’s chairman
for Europe and Asia, expects newspapers to act more like cable
channels as they increasingly move online and develop a
wholesale marketplace for advertising.  “Digital news will look like cable channels with
affiliated revenue,” Murdoch said at a media conference in
Monaco today. Titles will compete for ad revenue across this
market and media buyers will “make a big commitment” to
purchase advertising, rather than making bookings for just a
month at a time, he said.  News Corp. ’s U.K. titles the Times and Sunday Times erected
paywalls in July, which reduced the number of readers and
advertisers on the sites. Murdoch this month said these
newspapers have more than 105,000 paying online customers, and
today characterized paying readers as “more engaged.”  “People assume that 100 percent reach is necessary all the
time -- it’s not the case,” he said. A blend of ad dollars and
subscription revenue are Murdoch’s target and he also aims to
win readers to the titles’ paid-for iPad applications.  Newspapers are increasingly charging for online access to
make up for lost revenue from print ads. Newspapers with paid-
for access say niche audiences that advertisers can target are
more valuable than visitors who don’t subscribe and who find
articles from search engines such as Google.  “If you’re going to monetize something you shouldn’t give
it away for free,” Murdoch said. “If you’re investing in
something and figuring how to make money, it doesn’t work if you
give away.”  Opposing View  Eric Hippeau , chief executive officer of online news site
The Huffington Post, put an opposing view at the media
conference yesterday when he said that charging to view content
would result in lost advertising.  “IBM, HP, Coke are all big advertisers and if we charge
users we will limit the audience,” Hippeau said on a panel.
“With the exception of the Wall Street Journal, everyone that’s
tried to charge and erect a paywall has had a terrible
experience. News wants to be free; you can’t put that genie back
in the bottle.”  Chris Ahearn , the president of media at Thomson Reuters
Corp. called Hippeau’s assessment “misguided” and said The
Huffington Post was more a curator of news, not a creator that
spends millions on news development.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 