-- Nigeria Says Iran Accepts That It Is Source of Seized Shipment of Weapons
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-11-12T17:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/nigeria-says-iran-accepts-that-it-is-source-of-seized-shipment-of-weapons.html
Iran has accepted it is the source
of a shipment of rockets, grenades and mortars seized by
 Nigerian  security forces in the port city of Lagos, Nigerian
Foreign Minister Odein Ajumogobia said.  Ajumogobia, who met Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  in Abuja yesterday, said Iran will allow Nigerian
security officials to question an Iranian, Azimi Aghajani, who
is suspected of involvement in the shipment and has taken refuge
in the country’s embassy in the Nigerian capital. A second
Iranian also wanted for questioning has diplomatic immunity, the
minister said.  “Investigations are ongoing,” Ajumogobia told reporters
today. “If at the end we find out that there’s been a breach of
international laws, Nigeria, being a member of the UN, will do
what is necessary and seek appropriate sanction.”  No one was available to comment at the Iranian embassy in
Nigeria, according to the person who answered the phone.  Two people have been arrested in connection with the
shipment, including the person who was listed as the consignee
and the agent who cleared the containers, Ajumogobia said.  Nigeria intercepted 13 shipping containers with weapons
concealed in them, Marilyn Ogar, a spokeswoman for the State
Security Service, said on Oct. 26. Four days later, French
shipping company CMA CGM SA said an Iranian company used one of
its vessels to illegally transport the arms from Bandar-Abbas,
Iran, to Lagos after labeling them as “packages of glass wool
and pallets of stone.”  The weapons were possibly headed for the Gaza Strip,
 Haaretz newspaper  reported on Oct. 28, citing an unidentified
senior Israeli official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 