-- Nigerian Rebels Hold Seven Hostages, Including Two Americans After Attack
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-11-12T09:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/nigerian-rebels-hold-seven-hostages-including-two-americans-two-french.html
Nigeria’s main rebel group, the
Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, released the
names and employers of seven people seized in an attack on Nov.
7, saying they intend to keep them “for a while.”  Among those abducted in the attack on Afren Plc’s offshore
Okoro oil field are two Americans, two Frenchmen, two
Indonesians and a Canadian, the rebel movement said in an e-
mailed statement today. Three of the hostages are employees of
Transocean Inc., two are employed by Century Energy Services
Ltd., while one each works for companies identified as Sodexo
and PPI, according to the statement.  “The seven individuals are all in good health and will be
in our custody for a while,” Jomo Gbomo, spokesman for the
group known as MEND, said in the statement. Officials of the
companies couldn’t be reached immediately for comment.  Attacks by armed groups in the delta region cut Nigeria’s
oil output by more than 28 percent between 2006 and 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. The attacks declined after
thousands of fighters accepted a government amnesty last year
and disarmed. MEND refused, saying its demands weren’t met.  The group says it’s fighting for a fairer share of
Nigeria’s oil wealth for people from the southern delta, home to
the country’s oil and gas industry. Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon
Mobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. , Total SA and Eni SpA operate joint
ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that
pump most of the country’s oil.  ‘Humanitarian Grounds’  Three French nationals and one Thai seized in an attack on
Sept. 21 were released on “humanitarian grounds” because of
“their generally poor state of health,” MEND said in today’s
statement.  MEND claimed responsibility Oct. 1 for twin car bombs that
killed at least 12 people in the Nigerian capital, Abuja.
Several people were arrested for the blasts, including  Henry Okah , a former MEND leader, who is facing charges related to the
bombing in South Africa, and his brother Charles Okah, charged
in Abuja.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  