-- Loan Sales to Double as Bank of America Leads Competing Lenders
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-11-12T12:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/loan-sales-to-double-as-bank-of-america-leads-competing-lenders.html
Lenders led by  Bank of America Corp. 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are on pace to double U.S. leveraged-
loan sales, tapping demand to help companies finance buyouts and
dividends even as indebted European nations roil markets.  Armstrong World Industries Inc. , the Lancaster,
Pennsylvania-based vinyl-flooring maker, and  Petco Animal
Supplies Inc. , owned by Leonard Green & Partners LP and TPG
Capital, led borrowers raising $8.1 billion of high-yield loans
this week as 2010 issuance rose to $299 billion, 76 percent more
than all of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Speculative-grade companies are taking advantage of
increased competition among U.S. lenders to issue loans as a
Federal Reserve  survey  showed banks eased lending standards and
borrowing costs dropped to a five-month low, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data. Leveraged loans
extended gains as junk-bonds and equities declined over concern
that investors may lose money in a European bailout and Fed
easing won’t boost the U.S. economy or reduce unemployment.  “The loan market is strong relative to a lot of other
asset classes because investors are chasing yield,” said  Otis Casey , a credit analyst at information provider Markit Group
Ltd. in New York. “If you look at the return picture since
August, you pretty much have higher steady returns and less
volatility.”  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  gained 0.12
percent this week, bringing 2010 returns to 8.56 percent, as
Bank of America Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index lost
0.07 percent, paring gains to 15.33 percent and the S&P 500
Index fell 1 percent as returns for the year dropped to 10.72
percent.  Fed Easing  France Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  joined German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week in calling for bond investors
to contribute to potential bailouts if countries including
Ireland and Portugal are forced to restructure their debt.  The Fed’s plan to buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries won’t boost economic growth, half of the 1,030
investors, analysts and traders said this week in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Unemployment  that’s held above 9 percent since May
2009 won’t come down as a result of the central bank’s second
quantitative easing, or cash injection to markets, 75 percent of
the respondents said.  “Loans held their ground, retaining gains from the rally
on the back of the Fed’s QE2 program roll-out,” strategist led
by  Bradley Rogoff  at Barclays Capital, the investment banking
division of Barclays Plc., said in a Nov. 10 report. “The Fed’s
October senior loan officer opinion survey results suggest that
banks continue gradually to ease lending standards.”  ‘Increased Competition’  The central bank said this week that respondents in 57 U.S.
banks and 22 U.S. branches of foreign banks cited “a more
favorable or less uncertain economic outlook and increased
competition from other banks and nonbank lenders as important
reasons” for easing lending standards to companies for a second
consecutive quarter.  Leveraged-loan issuance rose the most this year since 2007,
when banks competing for the biggest buyouts raised $879
billion, Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  Bank of America on Nov. 10 started marketing $1.05 billion
of loans for Armstrong, which plans to use $800 million of the
borrowings to pay a dividend to shareholders.  The company offered to pay an interest rate 3.5 percentage
points to 3.75 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate on its $550 million term loan B and a margin of 3
percentage points over the lending benchmark for its $250
million term loan A and $250 million revolving credit line.  Libor Floor  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan A is
sold primarily to banks, while so-called B loans are mainly
bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, mutual funds and hedge funds.  Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to each other, will
have a 1.5 percent floor on the term loan B, which will be
issued at 99 cents on the dollar. The so-called original-issue
discount reduces proceeds for the borrower and boosts the yield
for investors.  Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Wells
Fargo & Co., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
initiated lender talks on Petco’s $1.1 billion loan, which will
help fund a $700 million dividend to the private-equity owners.  Petco offered to pay 4.75 percentage points to 5 percentage
points more than Libor, with a 1.5 percent floor on the lending
benchmark. The San Diego-based pet-products and services
retailer plans to issue the loan at 98.5 cents on the dollar.  Cash and Demand  Pricing on B+ and B rated loans dropped to 6.54 percentage
points as of Nov. 4 from this year’s peak of 7.56 percentage
points in July, and debt rated higher at BB and BB- paid a
spread of 5 percentage points, down from a July high of 5.77
percentage points, S&P LCD data show. The average all-in spreads
assume three-year maturity on loans and includes average upfront
fees, original-issue discounts and Libor floors.  “What’s been driving spreads lower in the loan market has
been cash and demand for the debt, investors bidding up
prices,” Markit’s Casey said. “Banks are being more selective
about what deals they bring to market and how they bring it.
They don’t have the same flavor they had in 2007, these are
high-quality deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 