-- Obama to Name North Carolina Regulator Fannie, Freddie Overseer
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-11-12T18:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/obama-will-name-north-carolina-regulator-smith-as-fannie-freddie-overseer.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
nominate North Carolina Banking Commissioner  Joseph A. Smith Jr .
to become chief regulator for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  as the
administration prepares to overhaul the mortgage firms.  Obama announced his intention to name Smith as director of
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  in an e-mail release today.
If confirmed by the Senate, the 61-year-old regulator will
replace FHFA Acting Director  Edward J. DeMarco  at the helm of an
agency that has overseen Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since they
were seized by the federal government in 2008.  The assignment would place Smith at the center of Obama
administration efforts to determine the future of the two firms,
which own or guarantee more than half of U.S. mortgages. The
Treasury Department, which has provided $151 billion in aid to
sustain Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under U.S. conservatorship,
said it will present a plan for overhauling the nation’s
mortgage-finance system in January.  “Smith brings to this position both tremendous expertise
and a deep commitment to strengthening our housing finance
system for the American people,” Obama said in the statement.
“I’m grateful that he has accepted this nomination, and I look
forward to working with him in the months and years to come.”  Smith, who has supervised mortgage firms, banks and
consumer lenders in North Carolina since 2002, pioneered a
foreclosure-prevention program that won support from both
consumer advocates and banks. In 1999, North Carolina became the
first state to enact predatory lending laws to restrict high-
cost and subprime loans.  ‘Forceful and Persuasive’  He’s been “forceful and persuasive but not dogmatic and
inflexible” said Paul H. Stock, executive vice president of the
 North Carolina Bankers Association  in Raleigh. “He’s been an
outstanding commissioner for banks. We hate to lose him.”  “North Carolina has been one of the leading states on
consumer protections, but they have been done in a consensus
manner” thanks in part to Smith’s leadership, said  Michael Calhoun , president of the  Center for Responsible Lending  in
Durham. “God knows we need that in D.C. these days.”  Before Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac faltered amid losses tied
to subprime mortgages, Smith urged lawmakers to encourage the
two government-chartered companies to “devote their primary
attention to affordable housing for all Americans, particularly
in the subprime market.”  “We must find a balance between encouraging market
innovation, product choice and credit availability with consumer
protection,” he told the Senate Banking Committee in 2007.  Lawmakers’ Pressure  Lawmakers had urged Obama to name a permanent director to
watch over taxpayer funds at  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . In a
July letter, Senator  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut Democrat
who leads the Senate Banking Committee, and Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the panel’s top Republican, told Obama a
nominee was “long overdue.”  “In light of estimates that the total bailout of these
entities could reach $1 trillion, it is imperative that the
president nominate an FHFA director who is fully accountable to
Congress,” Shelby said at the time.  Before being named North Carolina banking commissioner in
2002, Smith was a Washington-based lawyer with Thacher Proffitt
& Wood LLC, a New York-based firm that was shuttered last year.  From 1991 to 2000, he was general counsel and secretary for
Rocky Mount, North Carolina-based Centura Banks Inc., which was
acquired by Royal Bank of Canada in 2001. Before that he was a
partner with  Poyner & Spruill  in Raleigh.  He received a bachelor’s degree from Davidson College in
Charlotte, North Carolina, and a law degree from the University
of Virginia in Charlottesville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 