-- Obama Puts `Singles' Instead of Home Runs on Scoreboard in Asia
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-13T03:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/obama-s-g-20-korea-goals-fall-short-as-india-visit-yields-export-victory.html
President  Barack Obama  will leave
Asia without an agreement from other world leaders on concrete
steps to rebalance the global economy or a South Korean trade
deal central to his goal of boosting U.S. exports.  Obama, who began the four-nation tour days after his party
lost its majority in the House of Representatives in midterm
elections, landed in Japan last night on the last leg of the
trip after a two-day summit of the Group of 20 nations marked by
clashes over currency and trade.  Hours before the G-20 meetings began in Seoul, Obama and
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  announced that differences
over automobiles and beef still weren’t settled, holding up
agreement on a free-trade accord.  “There’s an instinct to focus on the disagreements,
because otherwise, these summits might not be very exciting,”
Obama said yesterday at a news conference at the end of the
summit. “Instead of hitting home runs, sometimes we’re going to
hit singles. But they’re really important singles.”  The 10-day trip also included stops in India and Indonesia,
where the president aimed to strengthen ties with two growing
Asia economic powers. He spoke to business executives today in
Yokohama, Japan, before meeting with Japanese Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  and is attending the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
forum.  After meeting with Kan, Obama told reporters the leaders
discussed “the need to expand trade and open markets” in the
region. Obama said he welcomed Japan’s interest in joining U.S.-
led  Trans-Pacific Partnership  trade talks that Kan has struggled
to sell to members of his ruling party.  ‘Long Flight Home’  After the midterm election losses, Obama “must have been
hoping he could come back from an international trip with at
least something to at least be able to begin to rebuild,” said
 Tim Condon , head of Asia research at  ING Groep NV  in Singapore.
“He wasn’t able to bring back the Korea FTA and he was roundly
rebuffed at the G-20, so it’s going to be a long flight home for
Mr. Obama.”  Obama disputed the notion that clashes over economic and
monetary policy at the G-20 and the lack of a free-trade accord
with South Korea represented setbacks for the U.S. He cited the
G-20 agreement to develop “indicative guidelines” to identify
economic imbalances and that currency valuations should be set
by market forces.  Falling Short  The agreement on dealing with current-account surpluses and
balances fell short of U.S. goals, largely because of resistance
from China and Germany, which run two of the world’s biggest
surpluses. Obama said such resistance is “natural” and
“arises out of the fact that the U.S. is showing leadership and
we are pushing to try to bring about changes.”  Obama said a revised trade deal with South Korea is still
“achievable.”  The original accord was signed under President  George W. Bush  in 2007. Opposition led by  Ford Motor Co.  and the United
Auto Workers union and beef producers because of South Korean
tax and regulatory regimes has held up approval by the U.S.
Congress.  With almost $68 billion in trade  between the nations , the
deal would be the U.S.’s largest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994. Obama and Lee said they will strive to
finish negotiations in the coming weeks.  “I want to make sure this deal is balanced,” Obama said.
“I want trade agreements that work for the other side, but my
main job is to look out for the American people, American
workers and American businesses.”  Election Results  Obama answered “No,” when asked whether the Nov. 2
election results weakened him in global negotiations.  “It wasn’t any easier to talk about currency when I had
just been elected and my poll numbers were at 65 percent than it
is now,” he said.  Julian Zelizer , a history and public affairs professor at
Princeton University in New Jersey, said U.S. politics
inevitably are part of the calculations by other nations.  “Obama will likely struggle on other issues overseas now
that foreign leaders are dealing with the Obama of 2010 rather
than the Obama of 2008,” he said in an e-mail.  The president will be able to point to the first portion of
his trip as a victory, said  Charles Kupchan , a senior fellow at
the  Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington.  ‘High Point’  “Obama’s stop in India was the high point,” Kupchan said
in an e-mail. “He closed trade deals that will result in
thousands of American jobs. He also advanced a growing strategic
partnership between the United States and India important to
shaping the emerging balance of power in Asia.”  With Obama in India was a delegation of U.S. business chief
executives, including  Jeffrey Immelt  of  General Electric Co. ,
 David Cote  of  Honeywell International Inc . and  Jim McNerney  of
 Boeing Co.   Obama has said he wants to double U.S. exports to more than
$2 trillion in five years, targeting emerging nations including
India. “It’s the right aspiration,” Immelt said in an
interview in Mumbai.  India is Asia’s third-biggest economy. The two governments
highlighted about $15 billion worth of contracts that will
support 53,670 American jobs. The Indian government plans to
spend $1 trillion building roads, ports and infrastructure
between 2012 and 2017 and U.S. companies vying to capture some
of that work.  “We think there’s a lot of continued opportunity and I’m
very encouraged to see the prospect of increasing trade,” Cote
said at a Nov. 6 news conference in Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Yokohama at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Yokohama at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  