-- Obama Says Federal Reserve's Easing Wasn't Aimed at Affecting Dollar Value
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-12T11:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/obama-says-federal-reserve-s-easing-wasn-t-designed-to-impact-the-dollar.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s second round of quantitative easing is
designed to boost growth, not affect the value of the dollar,
rebuffing charges that America is seeking a weaker exchange rate.  “This decision was not one to have an impact on the
currency, on the dollar,” Obama said a day after former Fed
Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the nation was “pursuing a policy
of currency weakening” in a Financial Times opinion piece. “It
was designed to grow the economy,” the president said.  Obama’s comments also contrast with criticism of the Fed’s
step by officials in China, Germany and Brazil, who have said it
will depress the value of the dollar. A weaker currency could
help Obama achieve his goal of doubling U.S. exports in five
years by boosting the competitiveness of overseas shipments.  The U.S. faces a “huge danger” from deflation, which
would be damaging to the world economy, Obama told reporters
today at the close of the Group of 20 summit in Seoul, where
leaders agreed to move more toward market-set currencies. He
said exchanges on the Fed’s actions weren’t “central to any of
the discussions” between world leaders at the two-day summit.  Fed policy makers on Nov. 3 said they will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries to boost growth in the
world’s biggest economy, a strategy known as quantitative easing.
The Fed left unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates low for
an “extended period.”  Deflation Concern  “There’s some legitimate concern that we’ve had very low
inflation, that a huge danger in the United States is
deflation,” said Obama. “We have to be mindful of those
dangers going forward because that wouldn’t be good for the
United States or for the rest of the world.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday that
Greenspan’s assessment on U.S. policy was incorrect. “That’s
not an accurate description of either the Fed’s policies or our
policies and again I don’t think it’s an accurate description of
what’s happening in markets today,” Geithner said in an
interview with CNBC television.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose for a sixth
day, the longest winning streak since June, to trade at 78.305.  G-20 Pledge  G-20 leaders agreed in Seoul to a framework aimed at
stemming imbalances in trade and capital flows that risk roiling
the global economy. Finance ministers will next year work on
developing a set of early warning indicators, they said in their
joint statement.  “We agreed that growth must be balanced,” Obama said in
his press conference. “Second, we agreed that exchange rates
must reflect economic realities.” he said.  Obama said the U.S. isn’t alone in worrying about China’s
approach to their currency, known as the renminbi or yuan, and
charged Chinese authorities with spending “enormous amounts of
money intervening in the market to keep in undervalued.”  “The renminbi is one that’s an irritant not just to the
United States but is an irritant to a lot of China’s trading
partners and those who are competing with China to sell goods
around the world,” he said. Obama’s meeting yesterday with
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  was dominated by exchange rates.
Today, he put his arm around his Chinese counterpart as leaders
posed for a group photo.  Countries reached an agreement that “exchange rates must
reflect economic realities,” Obama said, adding that the U.S.
will “closely watch” the appreciation of the yuan ahead of
Hu’s state visit to Washington in January.  On domestic issues, Obama said in his 40-minute press
conference that extending tax cuts for wealthy Americans enacted
by former President  George W. Bush  would be “fiscally
irresponsible.” He declined to preview his strategy for dealing
with congressional Republicans, with whom he will meet next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Seoul at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Seoul at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  