-- Obama Calls on China to Respect International Law as Power in Asia Grows
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-11-12T00:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/obama-calls-on-china-to-respect-international-law-as-power-in-asia-grows.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  called
on China to respect “international norms” as it gains power
and economic clout in Asia, according to the transcript of an
 interview  with Japan’s Yomiuri newspaper.  “The peaceful resolution of outstanding differences and
respect for international norms and law are central” to
ensuring security and prosperity in Asia, Obama said in the
interview published today. “We want to ensure that China’s rise
is a source of security and prosperity for all.”  Obama’s statement came in response to the newspaper’s
question of whether the U.S. opposes China’s attempts to
“override” Japan’s administrative control of disputed islets
in the South China Sea. A Sept. 7 collision between a Chinese
fishing boat and Japanese Coast Guard vessels near the rocky
outcrops, known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, soured
relations between the two countries.  Obama’s response didn’t refer to the islands specifically,
according to the newspaper’s transcript.  In the interview, Obama said the U.S. and other nations are
willing to continue the six-party negotiations on ending North
Korea’s nuclear program if that country “demonstrates its
seriousness of purpose.”  North Korea, which first exploded a nuclear weapon in
October 2006, conducted a second test in May 2009, prompting the
United Nations Security Council to toughen sanctions. The six-
party forum, comprising China, Japan, Russia, South Korea, the
U.S. and North Korea, last convened in December 2008.  “North Korea cannot get the prosperity, the security or
the international respect that it says it wants through
belligerent behavior or defiance toward the international
community,” Obama said.  Obama also reiterated that the U.S.-Japan alliance is the
“cornerstone of American strategic engagement in the Asia
Pacific.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven McPherson at 
 smcpherson@bloomberg.net . 