-- Obama Sharpens Yuan Criticism After G-20 Nations Let China Off the Hook
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-12T13:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/obama-sharpens-yuan-criticism-after-g-20-nations-let-china-off-the-hook.html
President  Barack Obama  attacked
China’s policy of undervaluing its currency minutes after he and
other Group of 20 leaders ended a summit that failed to agree on
a remedy for trade and investment distortions.  “It is undervalued,” Obama said of the yuan, speaking to
reporters in Seoul after the meeting concluded. “And China
spends enormous amounts of money intervening in the market to
keep it undervalued.”  The G-20 leaders agreed to develop early warning indicators
to head off economic turmoil as emergency talks on Ireland’s
debt reminded them the recovery from the global financial crisis
remains fragile. Obama and his South Korean counterpart, Lee
Myung Bak, failed to complete a free-trade agreement.  The two-day gathering was marked by clashes over whether
Chinese or U.S. policies were more to blame for economic
imbalances that endanger the global recovery. China took aim at
the Federal Reserve’s monetary easing, highlighting dangers it
said the move posed to financial stability and rejecting policy
prescriptions that fault its exchange-rate regime.  “I have to give this round to the Chinese,” said  Tim Condon , head of Asian research at ING Groep NV in Singapore. “In
an international negotiation like this China has seized on” the
easing “to its advantage and managed to deflect any kind of
criticism the U.S. might have been able give.”  Obama and Hu have arrived in Japan, where about half of the
G-20 leaders will gather again in Yokohama for a weekend meeting
of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.  Imbalance Guidelines  Finance ministers from the G-20 will work next year on a
set of “indicative guidelines” designed to identify large
economic imbalances and the actions needed to fix them,
according to a joint statement released as the Seoul summit came
to a close. The indicators will be selected with the help of the
International Monetary Fund and developed next year when France
holds the G-20 presidency, the statement said.  “Uneven growth and widening imbalances are fueling the
temptation to diverge from global solutions into uncoordinated
actions,” the statement said. “Uncoordinated policy actions
will only lead to worse outcomes for all.”  China has $2.65 trillion of foreign currency reserves, more
than double any other country. It ran up a $201 billion  trade
surplus  with the U.S. in the first nine months of this year,
more than the U.S. deficit with the next seven-largest trading
partners combined, according to Commerce Department data.  Cliff Tan , head of emerging-market currency research at
Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong, said the summit did nothing to
curb what he sees as an inevitable decline in the dollar against
emerging-market currencies.  Dollar Weakness  “The Fed will be buying Treasuries next week and I expect
the world will continue to try to diversify away from a currency
they don’t particularly want more of at present,” Tan said. “And
that still means a weaker dollar.”  The G-20 said emerging markets facing a surge of capital
inflows can adopt regulatory steps to cope, offering them cover
to limit currency swings and stem asset bubbles as the U.S. adds
$600 billion of liquidity from the Fed’s quantitative easing.  “In circumstances where countries are facing undue burden
of adjustment, policy responses in emerging-market economies
with adequate reserves and increasingly overvalued flexible
exchange rates may also include carefully designed macro-
prudential measures,” the G-20 leaders said in the statement.  G-20 discussions were clouded by concern Ireland may need
the European Union to step in with a bailout after its bond
yields surged to a record, a reminder of the financial crisis
that led to the first summit in November 2008.  ‘Difficult Negotiations’  “These were hard and sometimes difficult negotiations,”
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters in Seoul. “In the
end the spirit of cooperation prevailed.”  The statement didn’t mention numerical goals for curbing
current account imbalances, which U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  had broached until days before the summit.
He said last month that a ratio for current-account surpluses or
deficits of 4 percent of gross domestic product was “likely to
emerge as the basic benchmark.” China and Germany, which run two
of the world’s largest surpluses, rejected the idea of targets.  “We agreed that we can’t measure sustainable growth and
imbalances with one indicator, but that we need a number of
indicators,” Merkel said. “These indicators will now have to be
discussed, and that’s what the finance ministers will take up in
detail next year.”  Stephen Roach , nonexecutive Asia Chairman for Morgan
Stanley, said today’s agreement may shift the focus away from
the U.S.-China dispute over the yuan because it puts pressure on
all G-20 nations to address trade and savings gaps.  Workable Framework  “It really gives the G-20 a far more workable framework to
address the broad subject of imbalances,” Roach said in an
interview from Mumbai. “This is a far more reliable alternative
than to try to resolve a multilateral problem through a
bilateral currency” dispute.  The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate for yuan
trading at 6.6239 per dollar today, the strongest since a peg
ended in July 2005. The yuan has risen about 3 percent against
the U.S. currency since June 19, when China said it was allowing
a resumption of appreciation that was frozen in 2008.  Obama and Hu met for 80-minutes yesterday in talks
spokesmen for both presidents said were focused on the currency.  “The Chinese jealously hold their right to be flexible,
their right to adjust,” said  Donald Brean , co-director of the
G20 Research Group at the University of Toronto. “They would not
want to commit to something that is so rigid with respect to
their trade imbalances. That is not to say they don’t understand
the underlying forces that are causing them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Seoul at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Forsythe  in Seoul at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  