-- Hong Kong's Growth Accelerates as Government Warns of Asset-Bubble Threat
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-12T08:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/hong-kong-s-growth-accelerates-as-government-warns-of-asset-bubble-threat.html
Hong Kong reported a more-than-
estimated 6.8 percent economic expansion in the third quarter
from a year earlier as Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  warned asset
bubbles could threaten the city’s recovery.  The gain in gross domestic product compared with a 6.5
percent increase in the three months ended June 30 and the 6.1
percent median forecast of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey . The government released the figure on its website today.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s expansion of stimulus through
bond purchases may spark inflows of cash to Hong Kong, where a
currency pegged to the dollar robs officials of an independent
interest-rate policy. The city’s government may take extra steps
to cool the property market and guard against asset bubbles,
Tsang said in Tokyo today.  “The risk of an asset bubble in Hong Kong could get more
serious than elsewhere in Asia because of its currency peg,”
said  Cheng Cheng-mount , a Taipei-based economist at Citigroup
Inc. “Good growth in exports and better-than-expected consumer
spending” fueled the city’s expansion, he said.  The government raised this year’s growth forecast to 6.5
percent from a previous estimated range of between 5 percent and
6 percent. Full-year inflation may be 2.5 percent, it said.  In Hong Kong,  home prices  have surged about 50 percent from
the start of 2009, according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. The  Hang Seng Index  of stocks, which has
jumped more than 25 percent from a May low, fell 1.9 percent
today on concern that China may further tighten monetary policy.  Asian Economies  Hong Kong is in “the same boat” as other Asian economies
as inflows of money put upward pressure on property and consumer
prices, Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan 
said in comments on the HKMA website on Nov. 4.  ”Following the outbreak of the global financial crisis,
central banks around the world introduced large-scale
quantitative easing measures,” Chan said. “As capital
continued to flow in, interest rates in Hong Kong declined to
near zero, and currently new mortgage loans are generally priced
at less than 1 percent. This phenomenon is unprecedented.”  Residential property prices will likely post a further 30
percent gain by the end of 2011, Credit Suisse Group AG said in
a report this month. Developers such as  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd.  and Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd. may benefit.  Since August, the government has raised down-payment ratios,
stopped offering residency to foreigners who buy property in the
city, and increased land auctions to boost supply. Tsang said
today that Hong Kong may take legislative and administrative
steps to curb the bubble risk.  Debt Rating  The  economy  grew 0.7 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months, seasonally adjusted, today’s report
showed. That compared with the 1.4 percent increase in the
second quarter and the 0.6 percent median estimate in a survey
of 10 economists.  Moody’s Investors Service raised yesterday Hong Kong’s debt
rating to Aa1, the second-highest ranking, citing the
government’s financial strength and “lessening vulnerability to
external shocks.” Neighboring China’s growth will also aid the
city, Moody’s said.  Retail sales grew 17 percent in September from a year
earlier, with exports gaining 24 percent. Unemployment is at a
20-month low of 4.2 percent and increased tourist arrivals are
boosting sales for retailers such as  Sa Sa International
Holdings Ltd .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  