-- Hong Kong to Act Against Property Speculation, Tsang Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-11-12T05:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/hong-kong-to-act-against-property-speculation-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong will take legislative and
administrative steps against speculative activity in the housing
market, Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said.  Asian economies are attracting “huge amounts” of
liquidity, increasing inflationary pressure on their asset and
consumer prices, Tsang said today at the Foreign Correspondents’
Club of Japan in Tokyo. Tsang’s comments come a week after
 Norman Chan , the head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said
the city faces a heightened risk of an “asset bubble.”  Higher down-payment requirements, increased land supply and
the raising of stamp duties on some luxury properties have
failed to damp home prices that have more than doubled from a
trough in 2003 on a recovering economy, interest rates at a two-
decade low, and an influx of mainland Chinese buyers.  “I don’t think they are going to issue any drastic
measures,” said  David Ji , head of Greater China research at DTZ
Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “What they can do is maybe raise
mortgage rates and increase land supply. Speculation in Hong
Kong mostly is concentrated in the luxury sector and it’s a lack
of supply.”  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. and Standard Chartered Plc have lifted
their mortgage rates earlier this month. The HKMA, Hong Kong’s
de facto central bank, tracks U.S. interest rate decisions
because of the Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the U.S. dollar.  The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the performance
of seven developers in the city, rose 0.8 percent at the 12:35
p.m. break in Hong Kong. The gauge  is up  16 percent this year.  ‘Secret Measures’  Tsang, who is in Japan attending an Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum in Yokohama, didn’t give details of any
measures to curb speculation in Hong Kong’s housing market or
the timing.  “The measures must remain secret until they are released,
otherwise they become ineffective,” Tsang said. “I’m not
discouraging the healthy movement of the property market. As the
market grows here, definitely property prices will grow
gradually, along with the economy. But if it’s moving out of
kilter with the economy then something must be done,
particularly if that growth is generated by speculative
activities.”  The city’s residential property prices will likely gain 30
percent from now until the end of 2011 because a weaker dollar
will boost asset inflation,  Cusson Leung  and  Joyce Kwock , Hong
Kong-based analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note
to clients this week.  QE2  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s expansion of stimulus will add
to the risk of a housing bubble in Hong Kong and may force extra
measures to cool prices, HKMA’s Chan said Nov. 4.  The Fed, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , announced this
month a plan to buy an additional $600 billion in government
debt to support the economy after purchasing $1.7 trillion of
assets from December 2008 through March. The monetary policy
action is known as quantitative easing.  “There might be an influx of hot money after the QE, but
not much will flow to the residential market,” said Ji. “They
probably will just park it here, waiting to enter China.”  Hong Kong also announced last month it will stop offering
residency to foreigners who buy property in the city by
temporarily removing real estate from its Capital Investment
Entrant Scheme.  Prior to 2003, home values went through a slump that began
shortly after the Asian financial crisis hit in 1997, the height
of the previous bubble.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 