-- Oracle May Not Show Apotheker Testimony, Lawyer Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-13T01:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/oracle-may-not-show-apotheker-testimony-at-trial-lawyer-david-boies-says.html
Oracle Corp.  may not show jurors
testimony by former  SAP AG  Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker 
during a trial over illegal software downloads made by a now-
defunct SAP unit,  David Boies , Oracle’s trial lawyer, said.  A videotaped deposition of Apotheker, now CEO at  Hewlett-
Packard Co. , is currently all Oracle has to show jurors at the
trial in federal court in Oakland, California. Oracle says it
hasn’t located Apotheker to serve him a subpoena to testify in
person at the trial.  Boies said today in an interview at the courthouse that
Oracle may not show the videotape. HP has refused to accept the
subpoena for Apotheker.  “Maybe we’ll just let the jury know that they’ve hidden
him,” Boies said. “I think it may be better for the jury to
know that, here’s this guy who was at the center of all this”
and he hasn’t been found.  Oracle, the  second-largest  maker of software for business
applications behind SAP, sued its competitor in 2007. Oracle
claims the TomorrowNow unit of Walldorf, Germany-based SAP made
hundreds of thousands of downloads and several thousand copies
of Oracle’s software to avoid paying licensing fees and to steal
customers. Redwood City, California-based Oracle seeks
$2 billion in damages for infringement.  SAP , saying Oracle’s damage estimates are grossly
exaggerated, has said it owes about $40 million.  ‘PR sideshow’  “Oracle’s heightened interest in Mr. Apotheker as a live
witness came only after his appointment as HP’s CEO, a PR
sideshow that has little to do with the real issues of this case
-- the actual damages from the limited operations of
TomorrowNow,”  Bill Wohl , an SAP spokesman, said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The jury heard testimony today from Paul Meyer, an expert
for Oracle who said SAP documents show it planned to make at
least $900 million in revenue and convert at least 3,000 Oracle
customers after it acquired TomorrowNow in 2005.  The jury also was shown part of a videotaped deposition of
 Henning Kagermann , who served as co-CEO of SAP with Apotheker.  Kagermann said Bryan, Texas-based TomorrowNow made
“inappropriate” downloads of Oracle’s software. Kagermann was
asked when he became aware that TomorrowNow had put the
downloaded software on its computer systems and whether it was
before SAP acquired the company. Kagermann said he couldn’t
recall.  Rest Case  Oracle  will show more of the videotape on Nov. 15 and rest
its case. Kagermann is the last of Oracle’s witnesses, said
 Geoffrey Howard , a lawyer for Oracle.  Oracle can show the video of Apotheker, who became the sole
CEO after Kagermann retired from SAP in May 2009, during the
rebuttal phase of the trial, which may begin about 10 days from
now.  When Apotheker testified at his deposition more than two
years ago, it was before SAP and TomorrowNow admitted infringing
Oracle’s intellectual property by downloading and copying
PeopleSoft Inc., JD Edwards & Co. and Siebel Systems Inc.
software, Boies said in an e-mail.  “We think it is very important that Mr. Apotheker testify
now, as a live witness in court, to explain his and SAP’s
conduct,” Boies wrote.  Subpoena Search  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, said the company
will continue to try to serve Apotheker with a subpoena.  Wohl said he didn’t know who SAP would call as its first
witness.  HP has said Apotheker had “limited knowledge of and role
in the matter” of TomorrowNow’s downloads and Oracle had an
opportunity to question him during his sworn deposition in
October 2008.  Mylene Mangalindan , a spokeswoman for Palo Alto,
California-based HP, has said Oracle’s subpoena of Apotheker was
“no more than an effort to harass him and interfere with his
duties and responsibilities as HP’s CEO.”  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 