-- Morgan Stanley Said to Discuss Separating Prop-Trading Unit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-11-12T21:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/morgan-stanley-said-to-discuss-separating-prop-trading-unit.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, is in talks to spin its largest
proprietary-trading unit into a separate company, according to
two people briefed on the discussions.  The unit, known as Process Driven Trading, or PDT, has been
in talks with the  bank  for more than a year and an agreement
hasn’t been reached, said the people, who declined to be named
because the matter is private. The New York Times reported the
discussions yesterday.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said
earlier this week that the firm had exited all but one of its
major proprietary businesses, groups that make bets with the
firm’s own money. Gorman said Morgan Stanley would be dropping
that unit as well. The Volcker rule, passed as part of the Dodd-
Frank bill in July, bans banks from risking capital by wagering
for their own accounts.  “We should not be a firm that is betting our shareholders’
capital for our own benefit,” Gorman said at the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association conference in New
York on Nov. 8. “We should be working with our shareholders’
capital for our clients’ benefit.”  Mark Lake , a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, said he couldn’t
comment.  Peter Muller  PDT is led by  Peter Muller , a so-called quant manager who
uses mathematical models to trade securities. PDT was
responsible for a quarter of Morgan Stanley’s earnings in some
years during the late 1990s and early 2000s before losing as
much as $500 million in less than a month in the third quarter
of 2007, according to “The Quants: How a New Breed of Math
Whizzes Conquered Wall Street and Nearly Destroyed It,” by
Scott Patterson.  Morgan Stanley has discussed retaining a stake in the new
company, the people said.  PDT rebounded in 2008, returning 25 percent when the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  had its worst drop in seven decades,
according to the 2010 book. Muller has said some of the figures
in the book are inaccurate.  Morgan Stanley scaled back its proprietary-trading
operations after posting its first quarterly loss as a public
company in 2007. The firm reported $9.4 billion of writedowns
tied to mortgage holdings in the fourth quarter of that year,
driven from bets made by a prop-trading desk in its fixed-income
unit.  ‘Illiquid Ways’  Gorman said Morgan Stanley hadn’t been “outstanding in our
proprietary activities over time.” He said the firm had too
much capital tied up in “illiquid ways” in its proprietary
desks before the financial crisis.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. already shut down an equity
proprietary-trading group, Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies,
to comply with the Volcker rule. New York-based Goldman Sachs
has lost two quant managers from its asset-management unit this
year.  Robert Litterman  left the firm in January and  Robert C. Jones  is leaving at the end of this year.  Muller bested 104 players earlier this year to win the
annual Wall Street Poker Night, which raised $1.5 million for
 Math for America , a charitable organization dedicated to making
the math skills of public school students better by improving
instruction.  Muller, who is married with two children, is also a pianist
who has two  folk/rock albums  and plays monthly at  Café Vivaldi 
in New York’s Greenwich Village. He also constructs crossword
puzzles, having written at least 10 for the New York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 