-- Panamericano Faces Criminal Investigation by Brazil's Public Prosecutor
-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-11-12T20:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/panamericano-faces-criminal-probe-in-brazil-following-bank-s-state-bailout.html
Banco Panamericano SA , the Brazilian
bank bailed out this week with a 2.5 billion reais ($1.5
billion) loan, is under a criminal investigation after the
central bank found accounting inconsistencies.  The aim is “to investigate eventual crimes related to
facts recently reported on Banco Panamericano and to follow the
central bank supervision of the financial institution,” the
public prosecutor’s office in São Paulo said today in a
 statement  posted on its website.  Panamericano shares fell 4.6 percent to 4.76 reais in Sao
Paulo, extending their loss this week to more than 30 percent
this week. Panamericano’s 8.5 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
dropped, pushing the yield up to 9.4 percent from 9 percent
yesterday, The securities sank to 94.27 cents on the dollar from
110 cents at the end of last week, prices from Trace show.  Bank regulators noticed six weeks ago that there were
discrepancies between the volume of credit the Sao Paulo-based
bank declared it sold and the amount of loan portfolios banks
said they bought, Alvir Hoffmann, the central bank’s supervision
director, said at a press conference in Brasilia this week.  Panamericano, the nation’s 21st largest bank by assets and
controlled by Grupo  Silvio Santos , the holding company of the
Brazilian media mogul, focuses on personal loans, auto financing
and mortgages for low-income clients.  Silvio Santos  Grupo Silvio Santos, whose holdings include television
stations, a cosmetics maker and an electronics retailer, put up
assets as collateral for the loans from the nation’s deposit
insurance fund, financed by banks that operate in Brazil,
Panamericano said.  Antonio Carlos Bueno , a director at the fund,
said this week that the assets are worth 2.7 billion reais, and
that Silvio Santos, 79, participated in every meeting over the
past month to design the rescue.  State-controlled bank Caixa Economica Federal owns a 35
percent stake in the lender after agreeing to pay 739 million
reais in December 2009. The deal closed in July.  An official for Grupo Silvio Santos in Sao Paulo who asked
not to be named said today the investigation is ongoing.  ‘Positive’  The criminal probe “is positive because it gives a
guarantee that the problem will be resolved as it should be,”
said  Augusto Lange , who helps manage 1.25 billion reais at Neo
Gestao de Recursos in Sao Paulo. “If you don’t resolve the
problem, it’s very bad for the government and for minority
shareholders of Panamericano, independently of what you find in
there.”  Panamericano named  Celso Antunes  da Costa as chief
executive officer, replacing  Rafael Palladino  and seven new
executive directors, after uncovering “accounting
inconsistencies” that misrepresented the company’s assets,
according on a regulatory filing on Nov. 9. The cash injection
aims to “preserve current levels of capital,” Panamericano
said in the filing.  Brazil’s federal audit court, similar to the U.S.
Government Accountability Office, may start a probe into the
bailout of Panamericano, said Marinus Marsico, a federal
prosecutor at the court.  Marsico is monitoring a central bank probe into the matter
and may request an investigation of the roles of the central
Bank and Caixa ahead of this week’s bailout, which used capital
from the bank-financed deposit insurance fund, he said
today in a telephone interview from Brasilia.  Any action would have to wait for a conclusion of the
central bank’s probe, he said.  Leaders of Brazil’s two biggest opposition parties said
today they will seek to  Caixa’s  purchase of a stake in
Panamericano. Caixa’s President Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho and
central bank President Henrique Meirelles were invited to a
public hearing before the Senate’s Constitution, Justice and
Citizenship Committee to clarify the deal.  Antonio Carlos Magalhaes Junior, leader of the Democrats in
the Senate, said in an interview he will seek to hold the
hearing Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helder Marinho  in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  