-- Peru Inflation Concern May Limit Likely Bond Gains, Melzi of Barclays Says
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-11-12T19:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/peru-inflation-concern-may-limit-likely-bond-gains-melzi-of-barclays-says.html
The prospect of higher  inflation 
next year in Peru may limit gains in the nation’s sol bonds,
said  Roberto Melzi , Latin America strategist at Barclays Capital
Inc.  Higher prices for commodities including oil as the U.S.
increases money supply in a second round of quantitative easing
may spur Peru’s central bank to raise  interest rates  more
quickly than planned next year, Melzi said in a telephone
interview from New York.  Speculation rates may advance could prevent Peruvian bond
yields from returning to levels reached prior to the
government’s international bond issue, Melzi said. Peruvian sol
bond yields posted the steepest weekly rise since May 2009 after
the Andean country sold the equivalent of $1.5 billion of sol
bonds overseas in the largest local currency issue by a Latin
American government.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 rose 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage
point, this week to 5.75 percent, according to Corporacion
Financiera de Desarollo SA. That’s the steepest rise since the
week ending May 15, 2009. The bond’s yield rose three basis
points today in New York.  ‘Some Value’  “There is some value in that bond,” Melzi said. “The
risk is central banks in the region will have to tighten a bit
more rapidly -- not necessarily in the next couple months but
later -- if all this QE turns out to be inflationary.”  The central bank kept its reference rate unchanged at 3
percent for a second month yesterday as falling consumer prices
allow policy makers to gauge the impact of the Fed’s measures on
the Peruvian sol, which has gained 3.1 percent this year.  Rising global prices for wheat, maize, soybean and crude
oil imports could create inflationary pressures, said  Adrian Armas , the central bank’s research director.  Importers have margins that will allow them to absorb part
of the increase in commodity prices, Armas said during a
conference call with reporters from Lima.  ‘Remains Watchful’  “The central bank remains watchful,” Armas said. “These
commodity price movements can have a transitory element.”  The yield on the 2020 bond may fall as much as 25 basis
points from current levels on bets the central bank will keep
the rate at 3 percent this year and raise at a gradual pace next
year, Melzi said.  Barclays forecasts the bank will increase rates to 4
percent by the end of next year, raising by 25 basis points each
quarter.  Demand for Peruvian debt among foreign investors, which
hold around 40 percent of the 2020 bond, could contribute to a
potential rally in the bond, he said.  The Peruvian sol was little changed at 2.8025 per dollar
today, from 2.8020 yesterday.  The sol weakened 0.4 percent this week as the government’s
auction of the 2020 bonds, which yield 5.75 percent and are
redeemable in dollars, fuels demand for the U.S. currency.  Peru also sold $1 billion of 40-year dollar bonds, the
country’s longest, to repay $1.5 billion in debt and help
finance next year’s spending plans.  The dollar bond’s yield of 5.875 percent is the lowest for
any issue of 30 years or more in Latin America, according to the
Finance Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  