-- Philippine Stocks to Extend Asia's Worst Loss on Valuation, Macquarie Says
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-11-12T05:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/philippine-stocks-to-extend-asia-s-worst-loss-on-valuation-macquarie-says.html
The Philippine benchmark stock index,
Asia’s worst performer this month, will extend losses for the
rest of 2010 as investors speculate a recent rally was overdone,
Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  jumped 15 percent in
September, the biggest advance in more than eight years, as the
economy expanded and investors sought higher yields amid near-
zero benchmark interest rates in the U.S. The measure dropped
1.6 percent to 4,076.68 at the close in Manila, the most since
Aug. 24. Six straight days of losses have dragged the gauge down
4.5 percent this month, trailing a 3.1 percent advance by the
MSCI Asia excluding Japan Index.  “Share prices have gone up so much in a short time,” said
 Alex Pomento , a Manila-based strategist at Macquarie. “We will
see a correction from here until the end of the year.”  Foreign investors have sold $17.9 million more Philippine
shares than they bought this month through yesterday, following
record net purchases of $631.5 million in October, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1999.  Pomento said the Philippine index may drop a further 5
percent before resuming a rally next quarter that may drive it
as high as 4,500.  “Philippine fundamentals are still sound,” Pomento said.
 “The third-quarter earnings that came out so far have just
reaffirmed investors’ expectations. Investors are selling off on
the good news.”  Companies on the Philippine stock index posted third-
quarter earnings that topped analysts’  forecasts  by 24 percent,
compared with 3.8 percent for those on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record High  The Philippine gauge almost tripled from its low of
1,704.41 on Oct. 28, 2008, to its record high of 4,397.3 on Nov.
4 as the country’s economy recovered from the global financial
crisis and exports rebounded.  Outbound shipments rose at a record pace of 46.1 percent in
September as Asian demand boosted sales of electronics goods,
countering declining shipments to the U.S. Inflation in the
Southeast Asian country of 108 million people eased in October
to the slowest pace in 11 months, giving the central bank scope
to leave borrowing costs at a record low.  A continued weakness in the peso could slow stocks
purchases by overseas investors, according to  Rico Gomez , who
helps manage about $1 billion at Manila-based Rizal Commercial
Banking Corp.  Currency Depreciation  “Statements that indicate the peso will depreciate rather
than appreciate is also driving the correction,” Gomez said.
“Peso assets will become expensive to hold for overseas
investors if the currency depreciates.”  The peso has declined 1.9 percent this month, the biggest
loser in Asia excluding Japan. President  Benigno Aquino  said Nov.
5 the government is preparing measures to cool the rally in the
peso, while the central bank on Oct. 28 eased rules on foreign-
exchange outflows.  Credit Suisse AG maintained its “overweight” rating on
the nation’s equities, saying there was no “fundamental bad
news” behind recent declines. The brokerage recommended buying
developers and power generators, analysts  Dante Tinga  and  Haj Narvaez  wrote in a Nov. 11 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 