-- Philippines Wins First Rating Upgrade in 13 Years from Standard & Poor's
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2010-11-12T09:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/philippines-wins-first-rating-upgrade-in-13-years-from-standard-poor-s.html
The Philippines’ debt rating was
raised to the highest level in more than seven years by Standard
& Poor’s, spurring gains in the peso and government bonds.  The rating on the nation’s long-term foreign currency
denominated debt was raised one level to BB from BB-, S&P said
in a statement today. That’s the first upgrade since 1997 and
brings the measure to the second-highest non-investment grade,
the same as Indonesia and Vietnam.  “We have upgraded the Philippines based on its steadily
improving external liquidity profile and underlying strengths of
its external accounts,” S&P said. “The upgrade also reflects
the progress achieved in debt reduction and the underlying
fiscal consolidation.”  President  Benigno Aquino , who took office in June, is
winning investors’ confidence as he goes after tax evaders and
corrupt officials to narrow a  budget deficit  forecast to reach a
record this year. A higher debt rating may reduce the cost of
borrowing, allowing the Philippines to spend more on roads and
bridges to meet Aquino’s pledge to expand the economy by as much
as 8 percent annually from 2011.  The currency rose 0.3 percent to 43.73 pesos per dollar
after the upgrade, erasing its earlier loss, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. Six-year peso bond yields fell to a record
low today after trading little changed earlier.  ‘Right Track’  “This reflects the stable macroeconomic condition of the
Philippines and will help the country attract investments,”
said  Jonathan Ravelas , a Manila-based strategist at Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc. “It’s confirmation that the government is on the
right track with its fiscal policies.”  Moody’s Investors Service last year raised its rating on
Philippine debt by one level to Ba3, the first upgrade since
1997. Fitch Ratings in August affirmed the Philippines’ BB
credit rating, two levels below investment grade.  Philippine  international reserves  climbed to a record $56.8
billion in October, boosted by remittances and exports. The peso
touched a two-year high of 42.47 a dollar on Nov. 5 and the
 benchmark stock index  is up 33.5 percent this year.  Philippine dollar bonds have returned 19.6 percent in the
past year, the third-biggest gainer among 10 Asian dollar
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Revenue Needed  Still, the government must increase revenue to cut the
nation’s debt, said  Dilip Shahani , head of global research for
the Asia Pacific at HSBC in Hong Kong.  “In the last one to two years, they’ve benefitted from a
low-interest-rate environment and active debt management, but
that cannot sustain the improvement,” Shahani said. “In the
long run, they have to raise revenue.”  The Philippines sold $1 billion of 10-year global peso
bonds in September to help fund a budget deficit it predicts
will reach 325 billion pesos ($7.4 billion) this year. The
government plans to narrow the shortfall to 290 billion pesos
next year.  The government had a budget deficit of 259.8 billion pesos
in the January-to-September period, compared with its target of
273.7 billion pesos. The Philippines’ $160 billion  economy 
expanded 7.9 percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in
three years.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  