-- Piper Jaffray Is Cutting 40 London Jobs as It Exits European Equity Sales
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-11-12T11:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/piper-jaffray-is-cutting-40-london-jobs-as-it-exits-european-equity-sales.html
Piper Jaffray Cos. , the Minneapolis-
based brokerage founded in 1895, is cutting about 40 jobs in
London as it exits European equity sales and focuses on merger
advice and selling U.S. securities in the region.  “The business model was impacted by the lack of capital
raisings by our small and mid-cap clients,”  Bob Peterson , Piper
Jaffray’s global head of equities, said in an interview today.
The firm is reducing its headcount in London from 70 people.  The areas affected by the cuts will be equity research,
corporate broking, capital markets and sales and trading,
Peterson said. The firm will continue to offer merger advice to
health-care, industrial, technology and clean-technology
companies, he said.  The total value of European stock sales that each raised a
maximum of $200 million has fallen to $12.6 billion so far in
2010, from $16.7 billion in the same period last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Piper has managed three sales this
year, including an offering for Germany’s Agennix AG.  Piper, which employs 1,083 people globally, on Oct. 20 said
the restructuring would cost as much as $9.8 million, with up to
$7 million stemming from severance payments.  “Our European business on a standalone basis has not been
profitable and would require significant additional investment
to complete a build-out against a difficult market backdrop,”
Chairman and Chief Executive  Andrew Duff  said on a call with
analysts, according to a transcript.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net 
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  