-- Pound Declines Amid Concern Over Banking Contagion From Irish Debt Crisis
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-12T17:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/pound-declines-against-the-dollar-on-g-20-talks-u-k-consumer-confidence.html
The pound was little changed versus
the euro after falling for the first day in seven amid concern
that Ireland’s debt crisis may spill over into Britain’s
financial institutions.  A majority of global investors predict Ireland will default
on its sovereign debt, a Bloomberg poll published today shows.
Group of 20 leaders meeting in Seoul discussed Ireland’s debt
crisis, which has weakened the euro on concern the European
Union will need to step in with a bailout. Shares of  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc , the U.K.-controlled lender that owns
Ireland’s Ulster Bank, reached a four-month low yesterday.  “There’s the contagion fear if Ireland is going to
continue into a negative tailspin,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy in London at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “That could bring front and
center the two largest U.K. state-owned banks, who probably have
some significant exposure.”  The pound was little changed against the euro to 84.72
pence at 5:02 p.m. in London after declining 0.3 percent. It
rose versus the dollar to $1.6169.  “The U.K. is number one in terms of Irish exposure, so
there definitely is a risk there,” said  Derek Halpenny , head of
European currency strategy at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in
London. “The greatest concern must be that we haven’t really
hit bottom yet.”  The pound fell against 8 of its 16 most actively traded
peers. It has declined 2.7 percent against a basket of
currencies in 2010, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  U.K.  government bonds  fell, pushing the 10-year yield up 5
basis points to 3.19 percent. The two-year note yield rose 3
basis points to 1.04 percent. The Treasury today sold 3 billion
($4.8 billion) of 28, 91 and 182-day gilt bills, according to
the U.K. Debt Management Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 