-- Premafin Hasn't Approved Rights Offer Because Still Seeking Underwriters
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-12T15:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/premafin-says-still-in-talks-with-bank-for-capital-increase-underwriters.html
The board of  Premafin Finanziaria
SpA  Holding di Partecipazioni, which controls insurer  Fondiaria-
Sai SpA , hasn’t approved a planned rights offer because it’s
still in talks with potential underwriters.  “The announced capital increase cannot be approved before
all conditions are in place,” Milan-based Premafin said in a
statement today, after the Italian market regulator asked for
further information about the transaction.  Premafin, controlled by Italy’s Ligresti family, intends to
sell a 17 percent stake through the offering to France’s
Groupama SA to strengthen the finances of Premafin and
Fondiaria, Italy’s second-largest insurer. Under the agreement,
Premafin will sell 227.5 million euros ($312 million) of stock
to existing investors, and the Ligrestis will sell their rights
to Groupama to allow the Paris-based insurer to buy a stake.  Premafin is also in talks to refinance maturing debt, and
agreed with bank creditors to delay the reimbursement of 57.5
million euros of loans expiring by the end of 2011, it said in
the statement. The company reported today a 144 million-euro net
loss for the first nine months of the year, compared with a 9.8
million-euro loss a year earlier.  The  shares  rose 1.4 percent to 92.45 cents in Milan, giving
the company a market value of about 380 million euros.  Premafin is selling non-strategic assets of its units
Milano Assicurazioni SpA and Fondiaria to boost capital. Milano
is still in talks with private-equity fund Clessidra SGR to sell
its Liguria-SASA unit. Premafin also expects to sell real estate
in Milan by the end of the year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  