-- Prices `Chugging' for Once-Frozen Commercial Paper Market: Canada Credit
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/prices-chugging-for-once-frozen-commercial-paper-market-canada-credit.html
Investors once saddled with C$32
billion ($31.9 billion) of insolvent Canadian commercial paper
are recovering as much as 73 percent of their investment by
selling restructured notes in a burgeoning market.  U.S. hedge funds are offering companies holding the debt as
much as 73 cents on the dollar for the highest-quality notes,
according to  Colin Kilgour  of Kilgour Advisory Group, a Toronto-
based firm advising companies on the debt. That’s 20 percent
more than at the start of the year and about 60 percent better
than the first trades in 2009 after the debt swap.  “We’re seeing a lot of volume and some robust trading, and
in the last two weeks there’s been a lot of paper come to the
market,” Kilgour said. “Prices have kept chugging; they’re up
7 percent in the last month.”  Trading is surging in notes that came out of Canada’s
largest restructuring, when asset-backed commercial paper facing
default was swapped for debt that mostly matures by 2017. Prices
are rising as credit markets stabilize and notes get closer to
maturity.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
11, which measures the risk on investment-grade debt since
September 2008, has fallen 18 percent this year, and touched its
lowest level on Nov. 5.  More trading and higher prices mean investors such as  Magna
International Inc.  and Epcor Utilities Inc. can get some of
their money back without waiting for the notes to mature in
seven years.  Subprime  Canada’s market for non-bank administered ABCP collapsed in
August 2007 on concern that part of the commercial paper was
backed by risky U.S. subprime mortgages. More than 100 companies
and 1,765 individuals were saddled with paper that couldn’t
trade until a court-ordered plan to convert the short-term debt
into longer-term notes was completed 17 months later.  Top-rated notes pay half a percentage point below the
three-month Canada Bankers Acceptances  rate , while junior notes
pay no interest. The three-month Canadian Dealer Offered Rate,
known as  CDOR , almost tripled this year to 1.28 percent.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s companies instead of its
federal government tightened on Nov. 10 to 138 basis points, or
1.38 percentage points, from 139 basis points on Nov. 8, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. Bond markets in Canada were
closed yesterday for Remembrance Day.  The so-called spread in global corporate bonds widened 2
basis points to 166 basis points on Nov. 10.  Bank of Montreal  Relative yields on Canada’s provincial bonds over their
federal counterparts were unchanged at 52 basis points on Nov.
10 from the day before, according to the Bank of America Merrill
data. Provincial spreads have been as wide this year as 71 basis
points in May.  Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-biggest bank by assets,
on Nov. 10 sold C$400 million in floating rate notes maturing in
November 2011. Cogeco Cable Inc., the Montreal-based cable
television operator, sold C$200 million of 5.15 percent notes
maturing in November 2020, and  Altus Group Income Fund  sold C$50
million worth of 5.75 percent convertible debentures maturing
December 2017.  Manufacturing sales fell 0.7 percent in September,
Statistics Canada will probably say on Nov. 16, according to the
median of four estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The agency will also report next week on leading indicators,
international securities transactions and wholesale sales, all
on Nov. 18.  C$12.4 Billion  Canada’s market for restructured ABCP that is eligible for
trading is about C$12.4 billion, and spread across 53 note
classes, according to Kilgour.  Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec,  National Bank of
Canada  and three other institutional investors that helped
negotiate the restructuring hold another C$16.8 billion,
according to January 2009 court filings. Those five companies
have said they plan to hold their notes under the agreement.  The highest-rated notes are trading in the “low 70s,” up
from 50 cents on the dollar in May 2009, said  Peter Herzog , a
vice president at Fulcrum Capital, an Austin, Texas-based firm
that specializes in bankruptcies and restructurings. The lower-
rated notes have also risen.  “We on average trade a couple blocks of this a month,”
Herzog said. “We’re buying from original creditors who held
this paper; we’re constantly talking to sellers of this stuff.”  More Buyers  The Canadian market is benefiting from an increase in
buyers of the debt, said  Jamie Feehely , senior vice president of
Canadian structured finance at DBRS Ltd., a ratings company in
Toronto.  “The credit story with these notes is improving and people
are looking at this product as a way to increase their yield
going forward, given the low interest-rate environment,”
Feehely said.  NAV Canada, which operates the country’s air-traffic
control system, plans to hold its restructured notes to
maturity, spokesman  John Morris  said in an interview. NAV Canada
received restructured notes with a face value of C$353 million
in January 2009, which the company said was worth C$181 million
on Aug. 31, according to financial statements.  Kilgour’s firm advises companies to hang onto the debt,
given that prospects of recovering most of the investment
increase as the notes get closer to maturity. Kilgour
anticipates investors may recover as much as 95 cents on the
dollar by maturity, a decade beyond the due date for the
original ABCP investment, most of which was 30- to 90-day paper.  “I don’t think there’s any original investors out there
who are jumping for joy at the prospect of getting their money
back in 2017,” Kilgour said. “This is not a good news story
for the original investors: it’s a good news story for Wall
Street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  