-- Ramsay's Father-in-Law Hutcheson Takes Control of Petrus, Appointing Son
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-12T13:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/ramsay-s-father-in-law-hutcheson-takes-control-of-petrus-appointing-son.html
Gordon Ramsay ’s father-in-law has
removed Petrus restaurant from the chef’s company fold,
switching its address to his home in London’s Mayfair and
appointing his son Adam as a fellow director.  Chris Hutcheson  made the changes on Nov. 3, Companies House
filings show, two weeks after he was fired as chief executive of
Gordon Ramsay Holdings. Ramsay said in an  open letter  --
published in the Evening Standard on Nov. 9 -- that he ousted
Hutcheson after hiring a private detective to investigate him.  Ramsay’s restaurants are separate companies within Gordon
Ramsay Holdings. In the case of Petrus (Kinnerton Street) Ltd.,
the shares are under the control of the directors, who as of
Nov. 3 include Adam Hutcheson, his wife Tana’s brother. An April
9 filing listed Chris Hutcheson as sole shareholder.  “The company structure is complicated but Petrus is owned
equally by Gordon and Chris,” a spokeswoman for Ramsay said.  Hutcheson didn’t respond to a message on his mobile phone
seeking comment. Petrus reservations are handled by Gordon
Ramsay Holdings. The restaurant’s manager, Jean Philippe
Susilovic, had no comment on the dispute or on whether Hutcheson
had been to Petrus to say the staff now worked for him.  “I’m just running the restaurant and looking after my
customers and trying to make them feel happy,” he said.
“People come here to have a good time, not to read the press.”  Ramsay Dispute  Adam Hutcheson formerly worked for his father at Gordon
Ramsay Holdings. The dispute between Ramsay and Hutcheson has
escalated since it was first reported on Oct. 19.  In an interview published in the Mail on Sunday on Oct. 31,
Hutcheson was quoted as saying Ramsay suffered from mood swings
and was warped by the world of celebrity.  Ramsay hit back in the letter published in the Evening
Standard, accusing Hutcheson of driving away his best chefs.  “Removing my father-in-law from my business has been the
hardest and most important decision in my entire life,” Ramsay
said in the letter to Hutcheson’s wife, Greta.  Ramsay is scheduled to open the Savoy Grill later this
year and another restaurant, at New Change, in the City of
London, in the first quarter of 2011.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 