-- Rand Has Biggest Weekly Retreat in Five Months on Europeean Debt Crisis
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-12T15:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/rand-poised-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-six-months-on-europe-debt-crisis.html
The rand posted biggest weekly slide
in five months as concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening
curbed risk appetite and prospects of a South African interest-
rate cut diminished its yield allure.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy traded 0.7 percent
up at 6.9025 as of 5:02 p.m. in Johannesburg, compared with a
previous close of 6.9454. The move pared the rand’s slide this
past week to 1.8 percent, the steepest since the five days ended
June 4.  The premium investors demand to hold Irish and Portuguese
bonds over German bunds surged to records yesterday and the euro
slumped to a six-week low on concern the sovereign debt crisis
in the 16-member euro region is worsening. A 71 percent majority
of investors polled by Bloomberg predict Ireland will default on
its debt while 38 percent expect Portugal to fall into arrears.  “Europe is under huge pressure and that’s driving demand
for dollar-denominated assets like Treasuries, which are being
used as a safe parking spot for investors who want to avoid the
turmoil,”  Ian Cruickshanks , head of research at Nedbank
Treasury in Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview. “The
only local factor for the rand is the likelihood of another 50
basis-point rate cut next week.”  Investors are shunning European bonds on concern France
will support a German proposal to establish a rescue mechanism
by 2013 that would require investors to pay part of the cost
involved in bailing out indebted nations in the region. Ireland
has said the proposal is worsening its debt woes as investors
dump the nation’s bonds on concern it may need a Greece-style
rescue package from the European Union.  Bonds  Government bonds rose in South Africa, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 increasing 1 cent to
126.22 rand. The yield on the bond retreated by less than one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7 percent.  Forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, showed money-market
investors increased bets the  South African Reserve Bank  will
reduce its  6 percent  main interest rate when it announces its
next decision on Nov. 18. The cost of  three-month contracts for
cash due in one month  fell less than 1 basis point to 5.7
percent, near 5.69 percent reached on Nov. 4, the lowest since
the central bank first introduced the repurchase rate in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  