-- Real Weakens as Commodities Fall on China Interest Rate Bet, Europe Debt
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2010-11-12T12:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/real-weakens-as-commodities-fall-on-china-interest-rate-bet-europe-debt.html
Brazil’s real depreciated for a
sixth day against the dollar as commodities fell on speculation
China may increase interest rates and on concern Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening, curbing risk appetite.  The currency of Latin America’s biggest economy weakened as
much as 0.5 percent to 1.7235 and traded 0.3 percent down at
1.7208 by 7:37 a.m. in New York from a previous close of 1.7157.
The real has slumped 2.4 percent this week, snapping two weeks
of advances.  Copper fell from a record in London as speculation that
China, the world’s biggest consumer of the metal, is preparing
to raise interest rates fueled concern prices climbed too high
to reflect demand. Lead, tin, nickel and zinc also declined,
while China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped the most since
August 2009.  The premium investors demand to hold Irish and Portuguese
bonds over German bunds surged to records yesterday on concern
the sovereign debt crisis in the 16-member euro region is
worsening. A 71 percent majority of investors polled by
Bloomberg predict Ireland will default on its debt while 38
percent expect Portugal to fall into arrears.  “An increase in China’s interest rate poses a threat for
the real and currencies of other nations that produce
commodities,” said  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at CM
Capital Markets, the third-biggest brokerage by trading volume
at BM&FBovespa.  G-20  The Group of 20 said emerging markets can adopt measures to
stem asset bubbles, offering them cover to curb currency swings
caused by liquidity in the U.S.  While the G-20 nations pledged to refrain from
“competitive devaluation,” policy responses in emerging-market
economies with adequate reserves and increasingly overvalued
flexible exchange rates may “include carefully designed macro-
prudential measures,” the countries’ leaders said in a
statement today following a two-day meeting in Seoul.  The G-20 gives “moral sanctions” against manipulation and
governments that influence their currencies will face “general
condemnation,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told a news
conference in Seoul today. G-20 leaders pressed governments to
avoid foreign-exchange manipulation as the “currency war”
hasn’t yet ended and urged nations to be “more cautious” about
devaluing their currencies, he said.  “The currency war became more explicit and started to be
discussed” among governments, Mantega said.  Real Strength  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva tripled a tax on
foreigners’ fixed-income purchases last month to 6 percent to
slow a two-year currency rally and rein in a record current-
account gap of $47 billion. The real has strengthened 35 percent
versus the dollar since the start of 2009, the second-best
performer of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
behind South Africa’s rand.  Brazilian President-Elect  Dilma Rousseff  said the country
will take “all possible measures” to curb the real’s
appreciation, which is “not good for Brazil,” Folha de S.
Paulo reported her as saying.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s second round of quantitative
easing is designed to boost growth, not affect the value of the
dollar, President  Barack Obama  said in a Financial Times opinion
piece, rebuffing charges that America is seeking a weaker
exchange rate.  Fed policy makers on Nov. 3 said they will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries to boost growth in the
world’s biggest economy, a strategy known as quantitative
easing. The Fed left unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates
low for an “extended period.”  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
maturing in January 2012, the most traded today in Sao Paulo,
retreated 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 11.53
percent.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Ana Monteiro  in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 