-- Treasuries Decline as Ireland Debt Concern Eases, Crimping Refuge Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-12T22:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/treasuries-decline-before-report-that-may-show-consumer-confidence-rose.html
Treasuries dropped, with two-year
note yields  rising  the most in six months, on speculation
European leaders will bolster the euro area’s most-indebted
nations, reducing demand for safety.  Irish and Portuguese bonds rallied as 10-year Treasury
note yields  rose  the most in two months. A report showed the
outlook of consumers improved in November for the first time in
three months. The Federal Reserve bought $7.229 billion of
Treasuries as the central bank embarked on a second round of
unconventional monetary easing to reduce unemployment and avert
deflation.  “The European situation is less of a concern as there have
been reports of a possible rescue of Ireland, which has allowed
for higher yields,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA’s BNP Paribas
Securities unit, one of the 18 primary dealers required to bid
at Treasury auctions.  The  yield  on the two-year note increased eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 0.51 percent at 5:07 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
0.375 percent security maturing in October 2012 fell 5/32, or
$1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 24/32. The yield is up 14
basis points this week, the most since the week ended Feb. 27,
2009.  Benchmark 10-year note yields rose 14 basis points to 2.78
percent, and are up 26 basis points for the week, the most since
the week ended Dec. 25, 2009. Thirty-year bond yields rose four
basis points to 4.28 percent.  Yield Spread  The yield difference between Treasury 10-year notes and 30-
year bonds  hovered  near unprecedented levels even as it
contracted to 150.7 percentage points, after touching an all-
time high of 160.2 percentage points On Nov. 10. The spread has
averaged 52.8 percentage points since the start of 2000.  “The spread has widened out with the Fed buying more in
the 10-year sector than the 30-year bond, and inflation
expectations increasing,” Prakash said. “Whether it continues
to widen is a question on the market’s mind.”  European finance ministers sought to reassure investors who
have driven bond yields to records in Ireland and Portugal as
leaders at a G-20 summit in Seoul addressed the Irish debt
crisis amid speculation the EU will need to step in with a
bailout.  Officials from Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the U.K.
issued a statement in South Korea saying a crisis-resolution
mechanism they’re discussing that may force bondholders to share
the cost of a bailout wouldn’t apply to outstanding debt.  Ireland Finance  Ireland’s Finance Ministry today said it isn’t holding
talks on an application for emergency funding from the EU.
Reuters reported today, citing euro-zone sources it didn’t name,
that Ireland is in talks about tapping a European rescue fund
and it’s very likely to get aid.  “Ireland is fully funded into the middle of 2011,” the
Finance Ministry said in an e-mail today. “There is no
application for emergency funding from the European Union.”  As the Irish government puts the finishing touches on a
plan to find 15 billion euros ($20.5 billion) in savings, 51
percent of respondents in the latest Bloomberg Global Poll said
they regard a default as likely, compared with 42 percent who
say it’s unlikely. The ranks of those anticipating an Irish
default have tripled since a poll in June.  The Fed acquired 16 of the 24 securities maturing from
November 2014 through April 2016 that were listed for possible
purchase on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. The
acquisitions are part of the Fed’s plan to acquire $600 billion
of Treasuries through June and reinvest maturing mortgage
holdings.  ‘Euro Concerns’  “The euro concerns and continued unfamiliarity regarding
QE have added to the confusion,” said  Paul Horrmann , a broker
in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer
broker. “It’s still a real mess trying to define where the
market is going to go.”  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee embarked
on a second round of unconventional monetary stimulus on Nov. 3
after a benchmark interest rate near zero and an earlier program
to buy $1.7 trillion of securities failed to bring down an
unemployment rate that’s near a 26-year high.  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased in November,
according to a report from Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan.  The group’s preliminary sentiment index rose to 69.3 from a
final reading of 67.7 in October. The measure averaged 88.9 in
the five years to December 2007, when the last recession began.
Economists forecast the measure would increase to 69, according
to the median of 66 projections in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  