-- Republican Camp Opposes Tax Rise in U.S. Deficit-Cutting Plan (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2010-11-12T21:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/republican-camp-opposes-tax-rise-in-u-s-deficit-cutting-plan-transcript-.html
Representative David Camp of
Michigan, the Republican who will become chairman of the
tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee in January, said
in an interview on “Political Capital with Al Hunt” airing
this weekend on Bloomberg Television that Congress
shouldn’t increase taxes as part of a U.S. deficit-
reduction plan.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Representative Dave
Camp, who is joining us from his district, Midland,
Michigan, at the Great Lakes Loons Baseball Stadium.
Congressman, thank you so much for being with us. And as -  REPRESENTATIVE DAVE CAMP: Thanks, Al.  HUNT: - as well as the Ways and Means chairman-to-be,
you’re a member of the fiscal commission, which heard the
co-chairmen propose a sweeping initiative, cut spending,
increase revenues, reduce the deficit. The proposal
envisions $3 in spending cuts for every dollar in
additional revenue. Is that about the right balance?  CAMP: Well, I do think it was an impressive and
significant proposal. Now, this is just a preliminary
proposal. And, of course, none of us on the commission knew
this was coming. But I do have concerns about the level of
government and the - the amount of spending that is allowed
to occur. We cannot define the state of our government at
this elevated level of spending.  So we’ve got some more work to do. But I do think they
are to be commended for at least coming together with a
proposal to try to reduce our deficit. It’s so important
for job creation, but we’ve got some more work to do.  HUNT: Grover Norquist, who’s armed with pledges from
235 House members and 41 senators, really criticized it. He
said any net revenue increase at all would violate that
pledge and would be unacceptable. Do you agree?  CAMP: Well, I think there’s two points. One, it’s at
an elevated level of spending, never - only once in our
history have we been at over 21 percent of spending for our
economy. And this is higher than that.  And, two, we’ve got to make sure that if there is tax
relief, it all goes to tax relief and doesn’t go to deficit
reduction. I think that’s very important. So I think - I
think Grover has an important point that we need to look
at.  Listen, the last couple years, spending has gone up a
lot. And so - so we don’t want to dial in at that elevated
level of spending and say, “Well, we now have to find
revenues to meet this elevated level of spending.”  What
the message I’ve heard in my district is, we need to reduce
the level of spending. And I think if we do that, I think
we - we do need to address things like fundamental tax
reform, how we have the sustainability of entitlements.  So I think it was a significant proposal and one that
we need to - we need to discuss thoroughly.  HUNT: But let me just get this straight. Would you
rule out any - any - net revenue increase as part of this
package?  CAMP: I don’t like the idea of tax increases. And the
reason I don’t is we have not demonstrated that we’re
serious about reducing spending. There’s been a really
dramatic run-up in spending in the last couple years. We
need to demonstrate to the American people that we’re
serious about reducing spending.  And if we raise revenue, we’ll never get to the
reductions in spending that we need to see to have a more
sustainable government, a government that can be supported.
We can see the preview out there: Greece, Ireland. The
problems are there, and if we continue to let our debt
grow, we’ve got significant problems.  HUNT: So revenue’s off the table for now?  CAMP: I think revenue’s off the table, particularly
now in a recession and when we haven’t been serious about
cutting spending.  HUNT: Okay. That brings us to the so-called Bush tax
cut extension. The president says he’s willing to
compromise and go along with extending the Bush tax cuts
for the upper income for several years if you make the
middle-class tax cuts permanent. Is there any possibility
you would agree to any kind of a compromise or deal? Or are
you adamant that everything has to be extended permanently?  CAMP: Well, I think - I think for now - and I commend
the president for engaging in a conversation on this. We
need - we need to have his support for anything to be
enacted. And, of course, right now, I’m in the minority
party, and I hope we can do this in the lame-duck session.  I think, frankly, these votes should have occurred
before the election so the American people knew where we
stood on this, but I think it’s important to extend all -
all - all the current tax laws, not to have a tax increase
on anybody, and to make it as certain and permanent as
possible, because the minute you put in an expiration time,
people start calculating the uncertainty.  HUNT: And so room for any kind of deal there with -
with the White House?  CAMP: Well, I think we want to continue to push to try
to make this as certain as possible to try to really get
employers to begin hiring again.  HUNT: Okay.  CAMP: And as I said, the minute you start putting
uncertainty in there, I think it makes it very difficult
for them to -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Let me turn to trade, which is also before your
committee. A South Korean trade deal did not materialize,
the president’s trip there. He said they hadn’t made enough
concessions on autos, in particular. Do you think there
will be a South Korean trade deal in the next couple
months? And would it get through your committee?  CAMP: I’m hopeful there will be a South Korean trade
agreement. I think it’s very important that we have a
partner in Asia to work with like the Koreans. President
Lee said to President Obama that he would work on the auto
issue. We did not see that come to a conclusion. I think
it’s very disappointing. But I - I do think we need to
continue to talk and try to come up with an agreement.  Now, the reason this is just so important is, we want
fair-market access to Korea, just as they have here. You
know, we sell about 6,000 units and vehicles in Korea; they
sell 400,000-plus here. And so those are the assurances we
need. And President Lee has committed himself to that.  I’m - I’m hopeful that in the - in the coming weeks,
we can continue to work.  HUNT: Do you think it’s likely you’ll get a deal,
then, will get a deal?  CAMP: I do. It depends on the Koreans. And I think
what the Koreans are being asked to do is not hard for them
to do. We need their assurances that we’ll have market
access, and that’s what this is about. And I think that
would only - look, everywhere I go, people say to me, “I’m
for trade. I just want it to be fair.”  HUNT: The bill to retaliate against Chinese goods if
China doesn’t revalue its currency is likely to die in the
lame-duck. If China doesn’t act, will you support moving a
similar bill early next year?  CAMP: Well, I would expand a bill of that kind. That
was the only tool I had available to me, and I do think the
currency issue is a problem, but we have many others with
China, intellectual property, piracy, others, and - and I -
I would favor a multi-issue, as well as a multilateral
approach to China. Currency is one of the problems; it’s
not the only problem that we have with China. And we have a
very complex relationship there, as you well know.  But I - I - I do support what was done on currency. We
needed to send a signal to the Chinese. But we have - we
really need to go back in a more thoughtful way, not two
weeks before our elections, and come up with a multi-issue,
multilateral approach.  HUNT: And that would - that would suggest, correct,
that - that nothing will move quickly next year, if it
takes more time to be - to deliberate that?  CAMP: Yeah, I don’t think we’ll see anything move
quickly on that issue -  HUNT: Okay.  CAMP: - because we - we need to do that one right.  HUNT: Let me ask you about the so-called quantitative
easing undertaken by the Fed recently. Was that a good or
bad move?  CAMP: Well, it’s certainly gotten a lot of attention.
Look, I - I think the best thing we can do there is - is
try to find a way for our economy to begin - the private
side of our economy to begin to produce jobs and create
jobs. And I think the first and most important thing we can
do there is on the tax side.  It - it - it is a decision that I think, obviously,
has a lot of controversy with it. I’m - I’m somewhat
neutral on it. I - I think it obviously has real concerns
for the long-term future, simply to begin printing more
money at this stage, I think, is a - is a great concern.
I’d rather see the Congress move on other policies. I would
have rather have seen that first, frankly.  HUNT: All right. Well, chairman-to-be Dave Camp, thank
you so much for joining us from Midland, Michigan, today.
We look forward to seeing you back in Washington.  And when we come back, the president faces a setback
in Seoul. We’ll talk to our reporters about his Asia trip.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.69.30975.25>#
-0- Nov/12/2010 21:16 GMT
 