-- Roche Wins Ruling to Block Watson’s Copy of Boniva
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-11-12T21:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/roche-wins-ruling-to-block-watson-s-copy-of-boniva-update3-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  won a court ruling
that ensures  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) ’s Cobalt unit won’t
begin selling a generic version of osteoporosis drug Boniva in
the U.S. until a patent-infringement trial can be held.  Roche is likely to succeed in its contention that two of
its patents on the medicine are valid, U.S. District Judge
Stanley Chesler in  Newark ,  New Jersey , ruled Nov. 10. Cobalt
could receive U.S. regulatory approval to sell generic Boniva as
early as Nov. 16, and Roche sought to block sales.  The judge already ruled that the Cobalt version of Boniva
would infringe Roche’s patents, which expire in 2012 and 2014.
Roche “will likely withstand Cobalt’s challenges to the
validity and enforceability of the patents,” Chesler said.  A trial will most likely take place next year, said Terry Hurley, a spokesman for Roche.  “This is good news,” he said of Chesler’s decision.
“Roche is pleased that the court has recognized both the
irreparable harm that the company would suffer if Cobalt were
allowed to launch any of its ibandronate products prior to a
trial on the merits and the strength of Roche’s Boniva
patents.”  Charles Mayr, a spokesman with Corona, California-based
Watson, said the company doesn’t comment on litigation.  Lost Sales  Boniva, advertised in commercials featuring actress Sally Field, generated U.S. sales of 416 million Swiss francs ($425
million) in the first nine months of this year, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche said in an Oct. 30 regulatory filing.
The drug accounted for 2.2 percent of 2009 sales, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Roche told the court it would lose 50 percent to 90 percent
of its sales if a copy entered the market and would suffer
significant “price erosion,” Chesler said in his ruling. The
company is expecting competition from two other drugs in the
coming months, according to the judge. They are  Warner Chilcott
Plc ’s Atelvia and Amgen Inc.’s Prolia.  “Roche has demonstrated that it is likely to suffer
irreparable harm” without a block of the Cobalt generic, the
judge ruled.  The case is Hoffman-La Roche Inc. v. Cobalt Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 07-4539, U.S. District Court for the District of New
Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 