-- Airbus, Rolls-Royce Riled by A380 Engine Blowout
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-12T09:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/rolls-to-miss-profit-goal-on-costs-to-rectify-engine-failure.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc  said it will
miss its 2010 profit target and Airbus SAS said deliveries of
its A380 may suffer next year as the fallout from an engine
blowout on the flagship aircraft ripples through the industry.  Growth in  underlying profit  will be “slightly lower” than
the 4 percent to 5 percent that London-based Rolls-Royce had
forecast in July, according to a statement today. Airbus Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said providing existing customers
with new engines and spare parts will take priority, which may
delay the delivery schedule of the passenger jet next year.  The fallout from the engine explosion, which Rolls-Royce
said was caused by an oil fire, threatens to undermine gains
that Airbus had made on the A380 this year. Emirates, the
largest buyer of A380s with 90 on order, said Rolls-Royce must
make sure it prevents a similar incident as the carrier frets
about the public image of the world’s largest passenger jet.  “Progress on the A380 is very material to profitability
recovery at Airbus,” said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at Agency
Partners in London. “You really need to have the A380 settle
down and start working normally and gradually build up the
production rate.”  Grounded Fleet  Qantas Airways Ltd.  grounded its fleet of six A380s after
the blowout that occurred on a flight on Nov. 4 from Singapore
to Sydney. The aircraft returned to Singapore with a charred
engine and a wing damaged by shrapnel hurled from the turbine.
None of the 466 people on board the plane were injured.  Qantas expects to resume flying its fleet of six A380s
within “days not weeks,” said  Simon Rushton , a spokesman for
the Sydney-based carrier. Rolls-Royce CEO  John Rose  said his
company is working with Airbus, Trent 900 customers as well as
the regulators to “progressively to bring the whole fleet back
into service.”  The blowout was caused by the failure of a “specific
component in the turbine,” Rolls-Royce said today. That failure
caused an oil fire, which then led to the release of a turbine
disc. The company said it will work with customers to replace a
faulty module as well as continue inspections.  Rolls-Royce  rose as much as 16.5 pence, or 2.8 percent, to
600.5 pence in London, after falling as much as 3.2 percent in
earlier  trading . European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co., the
Airbus parent company, fell as much as 64 cents, or 3.4 percent,
to 18.36 euros in Paris. The company reported  earnings  today.  Lower Bill?  “The market cap came down by a billion pounds” since the
engine failure, said Edward Stacey, an analyst at Execution
Noble, who advises investors sell Rolls-Royce shares. “This
statement seems to imply the financial impact of the A380
problem is in the tens of millions of pounds.”  Airbus has streamlined production and doubled deliveries to
as many as 22 A380s this year. Airbus has 234 orders from 17
customers for the double-decker jet, and Japanese budget carrier
Skymark Airlines Inc. said today it plans to buy A380s, as the
first Japanese customer for the jet. EADS said today that the
A380 program continues to “significantly” weigh on profit.  China Southern Airlines Co. and Korean Air Lines Co. are
the only new customers slated to receive A380s next year, with
the remainder going to the five existing operators of the
aircraft. The A380 comes with two engine options, and Emirates
and China Southern have chosen the alternative Engine Alliance
engine by  General Electric Co.  and Pratt & Whitney.  On Schedule  Lufthansa plans to receive four more A380s next year, and
the Qantas incident has had no consequences for the timetable,
spokesman  Boris Ogursky  said by telephone today. The German
carrier switched one engine on an A380 after the Qantas incident
as a precautionary measure.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  also
switched some engines and temporarily grounded some A380s.  ‘Engines are not a commodity, they are very scarce,’’
Enders told journalists on a call. The company and its suppliers
will do “whatever is necessary” to assure the safety of the
aircraft, the CEO said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Singapore, the first carrier to fly the A380, has eight of
the aircraft remaining on firm order, with the last scheduled
for delivery before the end of the next financial year at the
end of March 2012, said  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman.  Air France, the only other European carrier besides
Lufthansa to operate the A380 to date, uses Engine Alliance
engines. There have been no reported issues with that type
following the Qantas incident.  Rolls-Royce could face a hit to its reputation should the
investigations bring to light any design flaw with the Trent
900, Fitch Ratings said on Nov. 8. Emirates President  Tim Clark 
said in a Nov. 10 interview that the incident is a “wake-up
call” for the engine maker, which must stamp out any
possibility of a repeat to avoid tarnishing the A380’s image.  “What they need to do is what they are doing: identify the
real cause, work with the regulatory bodies and the airlines to
prove that they are doing what’s required to get everything back
on pace and the reputation back to where it was,” said  Jason Adams , an analyst at Nomura International Plc, in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  