-- Romania to Finish Sales of State-Owned Utility Stakes in 2011, Ariton Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-11-12T11:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/romania-to-finish-sales-of-state-owned-utility-stakes-in-2011-ariton-says.html
Romania plans to finish selling
minority stakes in utilities  Transgaz SA  and Transelectrica SA
next year as it raises money to finance the budget, Economy
Minister  Ion Ariton  said.  The government wants to sell a 15 percent stake in its
natural-gas transmission company, Transgaz, on the Bucharest
Stock Exchange in the second half of next year after starting
procedures in the first quarter, Ariton said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions.  “In  Transelectrica ’s case, the sale procedures will be
initiated by the end of this year and will be finalized in the
middle of next year,” said Ariton.  Romania plans to sell minority holdings of its utilities
and largest oil company  OMV Petrom SA  to meet international
bailout conditions and cover infrastructure investments. The
country is relying on a 20 billion-euro ($27 billion) loan led
by the International Monetary Fund after the nation’s recession
and austerity measures reduced budget revenue.  Romania may raise more than 2 billion euros from the
energy-stake sales, former Economy Minister Adriean Videanu said
on Aug. 19.  “The money from the sales will represent revenue for the
state budget,” Ariton said.  The administration, which owns 20.6 percent of Petrom,
plans to sell 9.84 percent of the company within six months to
one year, said Tudor Serban, an adviser to the Economy Ministry,
on Oct. 16. It will also seek to sell its minority stakes in the
Romanian units of Enel SpA and  E.ON AG  to its majority owners,
Ariton said.  Legal Adviser  The ministry is currently selecting a legal adviser for the
sale of the Petrom stake before picking a brokerage to manage
the sale on the Bucharest Stock Exchange, according to Ariton.  The government also aims to sell a majority stake in
unprofitable  Oltchim SA , a PVC maker. The sale is based on a
proposal from the IMF.  Oltchim is awaiting approval from the European Commission
to increase its share capital and convert debt worth 538 million
lei ($171 million) into shares, which qualifies as state aid
strictly regulated under European Union rules, according to the
minister.  The company’s other creditors, including  Erste Group AG ’s
Banca Comerciala Romana SA, the largest bank, may also be able
to become shareholders in Oltchin, after converting debt into
stakes, Ariton said.  A U.S. and a European investment fund are interested in
becoming shareholders in Oltchim, Deputy Economy Minister Karoly
Borbely said on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  