-- Rousseff Triggers Biggest Dollar Bond Selloff in 13 Months: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-11-12T22:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/rousseff-triggers-biggest-dollar-bond-selloff-in-13-months-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian  dollar bonds  are
underperforming emerging-market debt by the biggest margin since
October 2009 on speculation President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will
fail to slow spending growth and curb inflation.  The 1.7 percent  loss  on Brazilian bonds in the past month is
the most since February and compares with an average decline of
0.5 percent for  developing-nation  debt, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. Losses have deepened since Rousseff,
62, won election on Oct. 31, with bonds posting a decline of 1.3
percent over the past two weeks.  Investor concern is mounting about Rousseff’s ability to
rein in the budget gap after she said last week that she’ll
increase payouts to the poor and may raise the minimum wage more
than the 5.5 percent proposed in the government’s 2011 budget
bill. Yields on benchmark interest-rate futures soared 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, this month as traders bet
spending growth under Rousseff will fuel inflation and prompt
the central bank to raise borrowing costs.  “The market is looking for Dilma to come out with a more
clear macroeconomic platform,” said  Daniel Tenengauzer , head of
emerging-markets foreign exchange and rates strategy at Bank of
America Corp. in New York. “There’s clearly some degree of
concern over the fiscal risk going forward.”  The decline in Brazilian bonds is bigger than the 0.1
percent loss in the past month in U.S. high-yield and
investment-grade corporate bonds tracked by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Spending Surge  Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s former
cabinet chief and handpicked successor, told reporters Nov. 3
that she’s considering raising the monthly minimum wage to more
than 700 reais ($406) by 2014 from 510 reais today.  Lula increased spending 27 percent in the first nine months
of this year, helping push inflation above the central bank’s
4.5 percent annual target.  Consumer prices  increased 5.2 percent
in the 12 months through October, the fastest pace since May,
after rising 4.7 percent through September. The 0.75 percent
 monthly  inflation rate exceeded the 0.67 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 41 economists.  The budget deficit widened to the equivalent of 3.4 percent
of gross domestic product in August, the biggest in five months,
before narrowing to 2.4 percent of GDP in September, when the
government reaped a revenue windfall from its sale of oil
reserves to state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA .  Rousseff said Nov. 3 that governors were moving to create
new sources of funding for health care. The president-elect said
she is willing to discuss the issue. The majority of Brazil’s
governors support the reintroduction of the tax, O Estado de
S.Paulo newspaper said on Nov. 5, citing their own survey.  ‘Deterioration’  While Rousseff has pledged to continue Lula’s policies,
“the status quo means fiscal deterioration and there’s
disappointment that there isn’t a change,” said  Vitali Meschoulam , a strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  E-mails and phone calls seeking comment from Rousseff’s
press department after business hours weren’t returned.  The October inflation report and jump in  U.S. Treasury
yields  to a six-month high are causing the underperformance in
Brazilian bonds, according to PineBridge Investments, which has
about $78 billion under management.  The “inflation figures came in above market expectations
and that has brought some uncertainty to the market,” said
 Andressa Tezine , the London-based vice president of emerging-
market fixed-income at PineBridge Investments. “It’s just down
in the short term because of the transition of government.”  Inflation Outlook  Brazilian  inflation  will quicken to 5.31 percent by year-
end, the highest rate since April 2009, according to a central
bank survey of economists released Nov. 8. A week earlier, the
median forecast was 5.29 percent.  Rousseff named  Antonio Palocci , who as finance minister
helped cut the inflation rate to 5.3 percent in 2006 from a high
of 17.2 percent in 2003, to lead her transition team.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points to 171
by 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose three basis points
to 104, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7222 per dollar.  ‘Too Easy’  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 fell
five basis points to 11.52 percent, signaling traders expect the
central bank will raise the benchmark rate to about 12.5 percent
by then, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers boosted the  benchmark rate  to 10.75 percent
from a record low of 8.75 percent in April to cool the fastest
expansion in Latin America’s biggest economy in two decades.  The central bank forecasts the economy will grow 7.3
percent this year after shrinking 0.2 percent in 2009.  “The fiscal policy is too easy for an economy that is
growing at this pace,” said  Claudia Calich , who helps manage
$1.5 billion in emerging-market debt at Invesco Advisers Inc. in
New York. “They should be reducing spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  