-- Rubber Slumps From 30-Year High as China May Take Steps to Curb Inflation
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-12T07:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/rubber-slumps-from-30-year-high-as-china-may-take-steps-to-curb-inflation.html
Rubber in Tokyo slumped from a 30-
year high while futures in Shanghai tumbled from a record amid
concern that China, the largest user, may take additional steps
to curb inflation. The cash price in Thailand remained at a
record on supply concerns.  April-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
declined as much as 5.7 percent to 357.5 yen per kilogram
($4,343 a metric ton) before settling at 360 yen. That is the
biggest decline in six months, paring this month’s advance to 10
percent. The May-delivery contract in Shanghai fell by the daily
limit to 35,790 yuan ($5,397) a ton.  Commodities declined on speculation that China’s government
may step up measures to contain growth in housing and consumer
prices after inflation accelerated to a two-year high last month.
Inflation quickened to 4.4 percent in October from 3.6 percent
in September, the statistics bureau said yesterday.  “China may raise interest rates to curb inflation, which
could slow economic growth and raw-material demand,”  Takaki Shigemoto , an analyst at JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said today by phone.
Rubber futures also tumbled as “historically high prices may be
weakening demand,” he added.  ‘Tight Fundamentals’  Rubber futures in Tokyo have gained 30 percent this year as
producers have had difficulty catching up with growing demand
because of rain and flooding that disrupted latex output in
Southeast Asian countries.  “Considering tight fundamentals, an upward trend in rubber
will remain intact in the medium term,” Shigemoto said.  The cash price in Thailand, the largest producer and
exporter, remained at a record 132 baht ($4.43) per kilogram as
heavy rainfall affected supply, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand.  Recent floods and storms in Thailand are expected to damage
540,814 rai (213,821 acres) of rubber plantation land,
government spokesman  Watchara Kannikar  said Nov. 9. That is
equivalent to 4.5 percent of the country’s tappable area of 12
million rai, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Natural-rubber output in Thailand may decline by 10 percent
to 870,000 tons in the fourth quarter, reducing total production
this year by 5 percent to 3 million tons, according to an
estimate by the Thai Rubber Association. Annual supply may fall
by 50,000 tons over the next seven years until new trees mature
and produce latex, association President Luckchai Kittipol said.  Prices may surge above 150 baht by the end of this year as
demand remains robust while supply is limited, according to
 Supachai Phosu , deputy minister of agriculture and cooperatives.  Natural-rubber imports by India, the fourth-biggest
producer, may climb at least 18 percent this year as excess rain
lowers output and tire demand increases in Asia’s second-
fastest-growing market for cars.  Purchases in the year to March 31 may exceed 200,000 tons,
from 170,048 tons a year earlier, Rajiv Budhraja, director
general of the Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association, a
producers’ group, said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  