-- Rusal Third-Quarter Net Income Falls 55% on Derivatives as Sales Advanced
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T08:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/rusal-third-quarter-net-income-falls-55-on-derivatives-as-sales-advanced.html
United Co. Rusal , the world’s
largest aluminum producer, reported a 55 percent decline in
third-quarter profit as the value of so-called embedded
derivatives fell.  Net income dropped to $29 million from $64 million a year
earlier, the Moscow-based producer said today in a statement.
That missed the $327 million median estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 28 percent to $2.71 billion.  An increase in aluminum prices on the London Metal Exchange
cut the value of embedded contracts by $388 million in the
quarter, Rusal said. The company expects prices to remain at
$2,300 a metric ton in the fourth quarter because of
“positive” underlying demand and as dollar weakness supports
investment in physical assets.  “The loss in derivative value dragged down its third-
quarter profit,” said  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst with
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “Rising aluminum prices may continue to lead
to a loss in fair value in its long-term power contracts, but it
will not affect its cash flow.”  Rusal signed contracts for 9 to 11 years for electricity
supply from units of its parent in November 2009. Derivatives
embedded in the contracts are pegged to aluminum prices in
London, it said.  Rusal  sank 6.1 percent to HK9.86 in Hong Kong, the biggest
one-day decline since the shares started trading on Jan. 27. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has gained 11 percent this year.  Aluminum Tightness  “Physical aluminum stocks tightness will remain for the
foreseeable future,” with premiums supported at current levels,
Rusal said in the statement.  Aluminum traded on the LME fell 1.3 percent to $2,424 a ton
at 8:34 a.m. London time. The metal, used in cars, beverage cans
and airplanes, has gained 8.7 percent this year.  “The bottom line in the third quarter was affected by a
paper loss of $380 million due to the revaluation of Rusal’s
contracts to consume electricity,”  Oleg Mukhamedshin , the
company’s head of capital markets, said today by telephone from
Moscow. Operating profit was $433 million, he said.  Rusal has reduced the minimum volume of shares permitted to
trade in a single lot to 1,000 from 6,000, expanding access for
retail investors, boosting liquidity and “ultimately the
price,” Mukhamedshin said.  Norilsk Stake  The market value of Rusal’s 25 percent stake in  OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s biggest mining company, rose 21 percent
to about $8.1 billion in the nine months through September,
according to the statement. Rusal restated first-half  earnings 
in October, adding $97 million to total $1.37 billion because
returns from Norilsk had been underestimated.  Rusal last month denied reports it was in talks to sell its
stake in Norilsk to fellow shareholder billionaire  Vladimir Potanin .  Potanin wrote to Rusal’s Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg  on Oct.
22 urging him to discuss selling its stake in Norilsk for $9
billion, according to an Oct. 28 report in Kommersant newspaper.  Aluminum will probably be the first industrial metal used
to back an exchange-traded product in a market where $100
billion has already been invested in precious-metal funds, a
Bloomberg survey of analysts showed last month. Rusal will be
able to sell aluminum to the ETF from January, it has said.  “Such funds may have the effect of stimulating demand for
aluminum and balancing supply,” Rusal said in today’s
statement.  Asia Sales  Rusal’s sales to China, “small” this year, will rise once
the company is qualified to sell on the Shanghai Metal Exchange,
which is expected by the end of this year, Rusal’s First Deputy
Chief Executive Officer  Vladislav Soloviev  said Sept. 22. Asia
may account for 30 percent of Rusal’s sales, with China taking
as much as half that amount, he said then.  China’s measures to restrict power supply to metal
producers have affected one-third of domestic aluminum
production capacity and output this year may fall short of
forecasts,  Xiao Chongxin , executive general manager of Sanmenxia
Tianyuan Aluminum Co., a Chinese smelter, said yesterday.  “China’s power rationing resulted in smelter closedown,”
UOB-Kay Hian’s Lau said. “This should present Rusal with
opportunities to increase their exports to China.”  The company expects to produce 4.1 million tons of aluminum
next year, little changed from 2010, Soloviev said. Production
of alloys will rise to 1.5 million tons from 1.3 million tons.  Billionaire owner  Oleg Deripaska  said he expects demand to
grow fastest in China, where Rusal became the first Russian
company to sell shares with a $2.24 billion offering on the Hong
Kong exchange in January. Aluminum prices may rise next year as
China scales back production, Rusal said in September.  -- Helen Yuan ,  Xiao Yu . With assistance from  Ilya Khrennikov  in
Moscow. Editors:  Amanda Jordan ,  Tony Barrett   To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 