-- Russia May Seek to Oust Lukashenko After Election, Belarus Opposition Says
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2010-11-12T12:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/russia-may-oust-lukashenko-after-elections-belarus-opposition-leader-says.html
Relations between Belarus President
 Alexander Lukashenko  and Russia have deteriorated so far that
the Kremlin is seeking to oust him, a Belarusian opposition
leader said.  At least one Russian-backed candidate is standing against
Lukashenko in presidential elections on Dec. 19, even though the
electoral system means he has no chance of winning,  Alexander Milinkevich  said in an interview in Berlin. Russia will step up
efforts to replace Lukashenko after the vote, probably resulting
in his removal within the next 18 months, he said.  “The elections are only the beginning of the period of
change,” said Milinkevich, who won’t run in this year’s
election after losing to Lukashenko in 2006. “The decisive
period will be after the election,” he said. “The status quo
cannot last.”  Russia’s leadership has lost patience with Lukashenko, who
has ruled Belarus since 1994 at the head of a regime dubbed by
the U.S. “the last dictatorship in Europe.” President  Dmitry Medvedev  said Oct. 3 that Lukashenko’s election campaign targets
Russia as an “external enemy.” Lukashenko threatened to halt
Russian oil and gas shipments to Europe this year and on Oct. 1
blasted “unscrupulous lies” about Belarus he said were flowing
from the Russia media.  Russia is likely to try to force Lukashenko out of office
before the 2012 Russian presidential elections, said  Joerg Forbrig , senior program officer for Central and Eastern Europe
at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Berlin.  ‘Unhappy Marriage’  “The Kremlin is more determined than ever to end its
unhappy marriage with the Belarusian ruler,” Forbrig said in an
interview. “Lukashenko drains Russian resources, via cheap oil
and gas deliveries, but does not deliver on any of Russia’s
political demands. He has become an embarrassment for the Moscow
leadership.”  Relations between Lukashenko, 56, and his Russian neighbors
are “irreversibly” damaged, said Milinkevich, who advocates a
pro-European stance for an independent Belarus that also
espouses “partnership relations” with Russia.  “Moscow most probably now feels it’s very important that
there’s another president instead of Lukashenko who would be
ready or open to put the country fully under Russian control,”
halting any move toward Europe, Milinkevich said.  Looking East  Belarus, an ex-Soviet republic of 10 million that borders
Russia and three European Union states, has traditionally looked
east to Russia rather than west to Europe. While the rhetoric
has heated up between Lukashenko and the Kremlin, Belarus and
Russia are members of a customs union with Kazakhstan and plan
to create a common economic space in 2012. Belarus turned to
Russia and the International Monetary Fund to help rescue its
economy in 2009.  Russia and Belarus have been partners since the mid-1990s
in a “ union state ” with a Parliamentary Assembly and Supreme
State Council that includes Medvedev and Lukashenko. Day-to-day
affairs are handled by a Permanent Council headed by  Pavel Borodin , a former Kremlin property chief.  Russia sees in the election an opportunity to exert its
influence, according to Milinkevich. “Lukashenko will once
again appoint himself,” and Moscow may respond by refusing to
recognize the election for the first time, Milinkevich said. It
will probably follow through on a threat to introduce market
prices for gas and oil that transits through Belarus, he said.  Belarus gets Russian oil at a 36 percent discount to
Russia’s export duties, a gap Lukashenko is able to exploit by
selling oil at higher rates to Western Europe. The subsidy is
worth $4.8 billion this year, Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in March.  ‘Difficult Situation’  “Lukashenko is in a difficult situation, a dilemma,”
Milinkevich said. “Either he fights with Russia” for cheap oil
and gas, “or he starts to introduce small steps of
liberalization hoping on economic support from the West. Russia
has a lot of instruments to try to remove Lukashenko.”  Milinkevich, who said he’s campaigning on behalf of several
pro-democracy candidates, pulled out of the running after
securing the requisite 100,000 signatures, citing his inability
to unite the opposition or secure the right to appoint an
electoral observer from his camp to be present at the ballot. He
ran as the opposition’s unity candidate in 2006.  Yet he said he’s more optimistic now than at the last
election in 2006 that change is coming.  “I don’t believe that a dictator can become a democrat,”
Milinkevich said. “But for us it’s a good situation, because if
you take reforms or democratization it’s positive for us. For
the regime there’s no easy or good solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Crawford  at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 