-- Russian Share Sales to Reach Four-Year High in 2011, VTB Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-11-12T14:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/russian-initial-share-sales-will-reach-four-year-high-next-year-vtb-says.html
Russian share sales may jump to $28
billion next year, the most since 2007, after the country’s
benchmark index regained the bulk of its record decline, said
VTB Capital, the nation’s biggest equity underwriter.  Initial public offerings mainly in the mining, chemicals
and retail industries will probably total $20 billion in 2011,
while the state privatization program may raise another $7
billion to $8 billion, said  Elena Khisamova , head of equity
markets at VTB Capital.  Any Russian listing of “significant” size will succeed,
said Khisamova, 32, who oversees IPOs at the investment arm of
Russia’s second-largest lender. “An IPO of $1 billion provides
reasonable liquidity but an IPO of $3 billion to $4 billion
elevates the deal to a completely new level,” Khisamova said in
an interview in Moscow. “The free float has to be sufficient to
attract investors.”  State-run VTB Capital overtook Renaissance Capital as the
country’s biggest underwriter with a 12.3 percent share of this
year’s stock sales, after helping organize the $1 billion
offering by Facebook Inc. investor  Mail.ru Group Ltd . on Nov. 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. RenCap has helped
manage 12 percent, the data show.  The Micex  Index  of 30 Russian stocks has tripled from an
almost four-year low of 513.62 on Oct. 24, 2008, helping fuel
this year’s fivefold increase in share sales. The Micex fell 0.2
percent to 1,552.79 at 5:47 p.m. in Moscow.  ‘Healthier Market’  Russian equity sales have climbed to $6.3 billion from $1.2
billion in 2009, Bloomberg data show. Russian companies sold $36
billion of shares in 2007, when they accounted for about one-
third of all IPOS on the London Stock Exchange, according to
Morgan Stanley.  “It’s a healthier market now,” said  Aukse Jurkute ,
London-based head of equity capital markets for Russia and other
former Soviet republics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“Investor interest in clearly greater” than six months ago,
Jurkute said by phone.  Alisher Usmanov , the billionaire shareholder of London’s
Arsenal soccer club, and his partners in Moscow-based OAO
Metalloinvest plan to raise as much as $4 billion selling 20
percent of the country’s largest iron-ore producer in the first
half of the year, according to two people familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified because talks are private.  SUEK, Alrosa  OAO Siberian Coal Energy Co., or SUEK, Russia’s largest
producer of coal for power stations, may raise as much as $3
billion, while diamond monopoly ZAO Alrosa may seek $2.5
billion, according to people familiar with the matter.  The government last month chose 10 banks to manage what it
expects will be at least $59 billion in asset sales over the
next five years, including stakes in railroad monopoly OAO
Russian Railways, oil producer  OAO Rosneft , airline OAO
Aeroflot, long-distance phone monopoly  OAO Rostelecom  and
shipper OAO Sovcomflot.  Investors are focused on “high-growth stories” such as
Mail.ru, which calls itself the largest Internet services
provider to the world’s more than 250 million Russian speakers,
Bank of America’s Jurkute said. Mail.ru surged as much as 41
percent on its first day of trading on Nov. 5 and closed
yesterday at $36.50, or 32 percent above its $27.70 IPO price.  BRICs  Still, investors remain concerned about corporate
governance and risk management at Russian companies, as well as
“the poor track record of Russian IPOs,” VTB’s Khisamova said.  Three companies that held IPOs in the first half, fishing
company OAO Russian Sea Group, drugs wholesaler OAO Protek and
coal producer OAO Kuzbass Fuel Co., have all lost market value
since their offerings. Three others, fertilizer maker OAO
UralChem, sugar producer OAO RusAgro and Deripska’s Strikeforce
Mining & Resources Plc, postponed their IPOs in the same period,
citing “market volatility.”  Russian stocks are the cheapest of the four co-called BRIC
nations, with a price-to-earnings ratio 9, versus about 14 for
Brazil and 20 each for China and India, according to Bloomberg
data. Just nine Russian companies have held IPOs this year,
compared with 386 for China, 61 for India and 12 for Brazil,
Bloomberg data dhow.  United Co. Rusal , the aluminum maker headed by billionaire
 Oleg Deripaska , fell as much as 38 percent after its $2.2
billion IPO in Hong Kong in January, the biggest by a Russian
company this year and the first in China. The stock has since
rebounded, closing yesterday at HK$10.50, still 2.8 percent less
than its IPO price.  In addition to Mail.ru’s offering this month,  O’Key Group
SA , Russia’s third-largest food retailer, raised $420 million on
Nov. 2, followed by builder OAO Mostotrest’s $388 million sale
the next day and Russia Railways unit  OAO TransContainer ’s $400
million offering on Nov. 9.  In this month’s offering “books were covered, big
companies managed to place significant amounts of money and the
sales attracted over $2 billion,” said  Michael Kart , a managing
partner at Moscow-based investment firm Marshall Spectrum Ltd.
“That’s a vote of confidence in risk appetite for Russia.”  -- With assistance from  Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow. Editors:
 Brad Cook ,  Stephen Kirkland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  