-- Russia Investigates Fraud Allegations in State Purchases of Mercedes Cars
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-11-12T18:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/russia-investigates-fraud-allegations-in-state-purchases-of-mercedes-cars.html
Russian investigators opened a
criminal probe into the purchase by state agencies of Mercedes-
Benz cars, the Investigative Committee of the Prosecutor
General’s Office said today on its  website .  A preliminary investigation found grounds to suspect fraud
was committed and there was “a breach of trust in awarding
contracts,” according to the  statement . The fraud allegation
focuses on government officials involved in the contracts who
may have had no authorization to arrange such transactions,
according to a committee official.  Daimler AG , the Stuttgart, Germany-based company that owns
the Mercedes brand, agreed in March to pay $185 million to
resolve U.S. criminal charges that it paid bribes to officials
in Russia and at least 21 other countries to win contracts.  “We will cooperate fully with the domestic authorities,”
 Ute Wueest von Vellberg , a spokeswoman for Daimler, said today
by telephone. “We have strengthened our internal controls and
have learned a lot from these incidents in the past.”  Two Daimler subsidiaries, DaimlerChrysler Automotive Russia
and Daimler Export and Trade Finance GmbH, on April 1 pleaded
guilty in U.S. District Court in Washington to violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as part of the original
settlement. According to the settlement agreement, Daimler
officials made hundreds of improper payments to sell hundreds of
millions of dollars worth of vehicles.  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010 Corruption
Perceptions Index released Oct. 26. The index ranked Russia
154th among 178 countries, alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  