-- Russian Economy Expands at Slowest Pace This Year as Drought Crimps Demand
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-11-12T15:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/russian-economy-grows-2-7-less-than-estimated-at-weakest-pace-this-year.html
Russia’s economic recovery stuttered 
in the third quarter, with output growing at the slowest pace
this year as record heat triggered crop losses, forced
manufacturers to halt output and crimped consumer demand.  Gross domestic product  grew 2.7 percent from a year earlier
after expanding 5.2 percent in the three months through June,
the Moscow-based Federal Statistics Service said in an e-mailed
statement today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of
nine economists was for 3 percent.  The economy of the world’s biggest energy supplier lost
momentum after the worst drought in at least half a century
crippled agriculture. The heat wave will cost the economy as
much as 0.8 percentage point of growth this year, the Economy
Ministry estimates.  “We expect consumption and investment to remain the main
drivers of growth, although the heat wave dented the recovery in
the third quarter,”  Anna Zadornova , a London-based economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a Nov. 11 report. Goldman
predicts a “subdued” 3.5 percent expansion in 2010, followed by
a 5 percent increase in 2011.  Ruble Weakens  The ruble weakened 0.6 percent to 30.75 per dollar at the
end of trading at p.m. in Moscow, its biggest decline since Oct.
27, and depreciated 0.9 percent to 42.275 against the euro, its
first decline against Europe’s common currency in six days.  GDP slid a seasonally adjusted 0.7 percent in the third
quarter from the previous period after posting gains for four
quarters in a row, according to the Economy Ministry.  Russia’s expansion is lagging behind other so-called BRIC
countries. China, the world’s second-largest  economy , grew 9.6
percent in the third quarter and Brazil’s annual  GDP  growth was
8.8 percent in the second quarter. India’s output rose an annual
8.8 percent the three months through June, the fastest pace in 2
1/2 years.  The slowdown has hurt companies including  OAO Novolipetsk
Steel , Russian billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s steelmaker, which
forecast a 19 percent drop in third-quarter earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization because of declines
of as much as 15 percent in prices of steel products in the
period, the company said on Oct. 19.  Evraz Group SA said on Oct. 15 that crude steel output
declined 8.7 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  Stocks Fall  Russia’s  Micex  Index traded 0.2 percent lower at 1,553.67
as of 6:03 p.m. in Moscow. The 30-stock gauge pared losses of as
much as 1.3 percent after a report showed U.S. consumer
confidence rose in November for the first time in three months.  State spending dropped by about 220 billion rubles ($7.2
billion) last quarter from the same period in 2009, according to
UniCredit. Russia is capping expenditures as it seeks to narrow
its second budget shortfall since 1999.  “A strong rise in imports, which was sparked by the
drought, was one of the fundamental factors that decelerated
economic growth,”  Vladimir Osakovsky , Moscow-based economist at
UniCredit SpA, said by phone today. “There was also a reversal
in the government’s fiscal support, which shrank in nominal
terms in the third quarter.”  Italy’s biggest lender forecasts a continued decline in
Russia’s growth to about 2 percent this quarter, putting the
annual GDP gain at about 3.4 percent in 2010, Osakovsky said.  Consumer Demand Weakens  Monthly  retail sales  fell in September for the first time
since February after disposable income fell 0.2 percent from the
previous month. The central bank cited “weakening” consumer
demand as it opted to maintain monetary stimulus on Oct. 29 and
keep its  refinancing rate  at a record-low 7.75 percent.  More than 1.4 million people may have temporarily fallen
into poverty as a result of the drought and food price shocks
that followed, increasing the country’s poverty rate by 1
percentage point from 13.6 percent earlier this year, the World
Bank said in a Nov. 2 report.  Industrial production  growth slowed to an annual 6.2
percent in September from 7 percent the month before. The
economy may expand as little as 3.6 percent in 2010, less than
the government’s official 4 percent forecast, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said on Sept. 24.  “Growth has picked up on a sequential basis and the
recovery, albeit proceeding at a pace lower than expected, is
generally under way,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief Russia economist at
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, said in a report.  BofA cut its forecast for Russia’s economic expansion this
year to 4 percent from a previously estimated 4.5 percent, while
raising its prediction for next year to 4.5 percent from 4
percent, according to a report e-mailed on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 