-- S&P 500 to Extend Profit-Beating Streak Using Cost Cuts, UBS's Golub Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-11-12T12:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/s-p-500-to-extend-profit-beating-streak-using-cost-cuts-ubs-s-golub-says.html
U.S. companies will extend their run
of beating analysts’ earnings estimates as executives cut costs,
UBS AG’s  Jonathan Golub  said.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies outside the financial
industry had an average profit margin of 11 percent last
quarter, the highest since 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on companies that have reported results. While
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said last month that cheap debt and cost
cutting will stop increasing earnings and Citigroup Inc.’s
 Tobias Levkovich  said last week the slowdown in margin expansion
will cause stocks to drop, Golub says companies will continue to
manage costs, boosting profits.  Chief executive officers have cut expenses since the
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 and the  worst year  for the S&P 500 in
seven decades. This earnings season would be the sixth straight
period where more than  70 percent  of companies beat estimates.  “Management’s doing such a fantastic job of being vigilant
about costs, and companies are really  surprising  because
analysts are underestimating how effectively they are being
managed,” Golub said in an interview with Bloomberg News. “My
read is that this thing is going to go much further because
company management is looking at the economic backdrop and
saying, ‘You know what? Let’s just keep things a little tighter
for a little bit longer.’”  Boosting Profit Margins  More than 56 percent of the nonfinancial companies in the
S&P 500 increased their profit margin last quarter from the
previous three months, according to data excluding financial
firms compiled by Bloomberg. The higher margins show executives
have been able to  boost earnings  through cost cutting, while
posting slower -- or even shrinking -- revenue growth amid less
consumer demand. While shareholders benefit from higher profits,
sales must expand to sustain earnings growth, according to New
York-based Citigroup.  Yahoo! Inc.’s  profit margin almost doubled last quarter
from the three months ended June 30 as operating expenses fell.
The Sunnyvale, California-based owner of the biggest U.S. Web e-
mail program may have its best annual earnings growth since
2005, after  beating  the average analyst earnings estimate for
the past three quarters, projections compiled by Bloomberg show.  As demand in emerging markets surges, Caterpillar Inc. of
Peoria, Illinois, is aiming for a profit margin of 25 percent
and is cutting the number of suppliers it uses to 6,000 from
9,000. The world’s largest maker of construction and mining
equipment beat third-quarter income estimates by 12 percent,
with earnings excluding some items this quarter forecast to rise
to $1.25 a share from 41 cents a share in the same period the
prior year, analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jobless Rate  The U.S. unemployment rate has stayed near the highest
since the early 1980s for more than a year, while the Federal
Reserve has bought more than $1.7 trillion of securities to
boost the world’s largest economy. Even though the recession
ended in 2009, estimates for 2011 economic growth have fallen
from a high of 3.1 percent in May to 2.4 percent last month,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey of 65
economists.  Levkovich says the next “major disappointment” for
equities may come from pressured margins in 2011. JPMorgan said
the rally’s sustainability will depend on expansion and the high
unemployment rate will curb the potential for sales growth.  Profit Drivers  “These drivers of corporate profitability from cost
cutting and declining funding costs should fade from 2011 and
structural headwinds are likely to surface,” a group led by  Jan Loeys , chief market strategist, wrote in an Oct. 29 note.
“Companies will have to rely more on revenues to generate
earnings surprises.”  The almost 72 percent of companies exceeding their  average 
analyst estimates in the July-to-September period makes this the
 longest streak  of more than 70 percent beating predictions in
Bloomberg data going back to 1993.  S&P 500  earnings since Oct. 7
were 6.9 percent higher than analysts forecast, the data show.  “This pattern that we’ve seen of really big beats -- it’s
going to continue toward the middle of 2011,” Golub said. “The
market really wants to see success on the revenue line more than
on the cost-cutting line, but the market is happy to get the
extra earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 