-- Safaricom of Kenya Delays MPESA After Cable Sabotage
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-11-12T07:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/safaricom-of-kenya-delays-mpesa-upgrades-after-fiber-optic-cable-sabotage.html
Safaricom Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest
mobile-phone company, said it delayed a planned upgrade to its
MPESA money-transfer service this weekend after underground
telecommunications cables were cut.  Damage to cables has resulted in subscribers being unable
to originate or terminate calls, affecting the quality of
service in some areas, Chief Executive Officer  Bob Collymore 
said in an e-mailed statement from Nairobi yesterday.  “The frequency at which they are occurring points to a
planned and systematic execution, which makes us believe they
are acts of sabotage,” he said.  Telkom Kenya Ltd., a unit of  France Telecom SA , said
millions of its customers were also affected after the company
experienced five fibre-optic cable cuts that affected services
across all its platforms, according to an e-mailed statement
from Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Jane Karuku .  “Due to the incidents, 32 Orange wireless sites, over
2,200 fixed lines and 14 GSM sites were affected,” Karuku said.
“Orange had by Thursday spent 180 million shillings ($2.2
million) repairing cables destroyed in the Wednesday night
incident, which saw a cumulative disruption period of over 267
hours.”  Kenya’s government will introduce a law by the end of the
year under which offenders will face a maximum life sentence and
fines of as much as 10 million shillings, Bitange Ndemo,
permanent secretary at the Ministry of Information and
Communications, told reporters in Nairobi yesterday.  Safaricom shares  erased an earlier increase of 1.1 percent
to 4.8 shillings, trading unchanged from yesterday’s close of
4.75 shillings by 10:51 a.m. in Nairobi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  