-- Safaricom of Kenya Delays MPESA Upgrades After Fiber-Optic Cable Sabotage
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-11-12T12:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/safaricom-plans-to-capitalize-on-3g-lead-with-new-data-services.html
Safaricom Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest
mobile-phone company, plans to capitalize on its lead in 3G
infrastructure by selling laptops and offering services to new
and existing customers.  The company is the only operator of a third-generation
telecommunications network in  Kenya . In the first half of its
fiscal year, Safaricom became the biggest importer of laptops
into the country as it seeks to boost Internet access in the
East African country, Chief Executive Officer  Bob Collymore  said
in an interview yesterday in Nairobi.  “We have mobile data, the other guys don’t have mobile
data,” Collymore said. “So what we have to do is take advantage
of that lead. We think we have about an 18-month lead before
they catch up to the point where we are.”  Mobile operators including Safaricom,  Bharti Airtel Ltd. ’s
Kenyan unit and Telkom Kenya Ltd. are becoming more reliant on
data for revenue after the industry regulator in August halved
the rates that operators charge each other to connect calls
across networks to 2.21 shillings. That triggered a round of
cuts in call costs by companies to less than 2 shillings per
minute and in some cases free calls during off-peak hours.  The so-called interconnection costs may be reduced further,
Collymore said.  “In July we will see a further cut in interconnection
tariffs to 1.44 shillings,” Collymore said. Average revenue per
user in the company’s voice business fell 13 percent to 321.7
million shillings ($4 million) in the first half, the company
said yesterday.  Lower Voice Revenue  Operators are betting that increased data traffic will make
up for the lower voice revenue and are offering customers
laptops, net books or smart phones to attract new clients.  By 2015, there will be 265 million mobile broadband
subscriptions in Africa, up from about 12 million at the end of
September, according to  Informa Telecoms & Media , a London-based
research group.  Safaricom imported 40,000 laptops in the six months through
September, Collymore said. The company, which yesterday reported
a 15 percent increase in first-half profit, also bought 400,000
data-enabled handsets, or smartphones, and sold 45,000 data
modems, he said.  Customers using Safaricom’s data services surged 92 percent
to 3.61 million people in the six months through September from
a year earlier, it said yesterday. About 839 base stations, or
37 percent of the total, are enabled to transmit 3G signals,
which enable faster Internet browsing and downloading. Safaricom
intends to increase that ratio to 50 percent within two years,
Collymore said.  Capital Expenditure  In the fiscal year through March 2011, Safaricom plans to
spend 23 billion shillings on capital expenditure, Chief
Financial Officer  Chris Tiffin  said during the interview.  “Probably expect about the same level next year,” he said.
“About 20 percent of that will be on the 3G network.”  Safaricom will also seek more licenses to provide
additional services to its more than 16.7 million customers,
Collymore said.  “We will continue looking in the market for more
opportunities,” he said. Testing of a 4G network, which will
give subscribers faster access to higher-quality Internet
content on their mobile phones, began in August. “It will take
some time, maybe 18 months before really usable devices become
available.”  “We will also push in things like finding some educational
applications, finding some health applications and there is no
shortage of those things sitting within our family of companies
be it Vodafone up north or Vodacom down south,” Collymore said.  Safaricom is 40 percent-owned by  Vodafone Plc , the world’s
biggest mobile-phone operator. Vodacom Group, the largest
provider of mobile phone services to South Africans, is 65
percent held by Vodafone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 