-- Sarkozy Takes Over G-20 Aiming to `Update' Monetary System
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-12T12:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/sarkozy-takes-over-g-20-leadership-with-pledge-to-update-monetary-system.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
claimed his first victory as leader of the Group of 20 nations
less than an hour after taking the reins from his South Korean
counterpart,  Lee Myung Bak .  The group’s final statement after a summit in Seoul today,
which cited the dangers of competitive devaluations and volatile
capital flows, underscored Sarkozy’s main goal as president of
the group of “updating” the global monetary order, he said in a
closing press conference.  “It’s already a success that the G-20 agrees that the
international monetary system is a problem,” Sarkozy said.
“That wasn’t always the case.”  While Sarkozy avoided castigating any country for unstable
foreign-exchange markets, in the past he blamed the dollar’s
dominant role as a reserve currency for helping fuel the
financial crisis. French officials have been vague about what
they’d suggest to replace it, partly because there aren’t any
ready alternatives.  “Everyone agrees the international monetary system is not
ideal, but the world is not ideal,”  Charles Wyplosz , director
of the International Centre for Monetary and Banking Studies in
Geneva, said in an interview. “Sarkozy can criticize it all he
wants, but it’s too complicated to find something better.
There’s a deep cleavage between currency markets that are global
and governance, which is based on nations. You have one market
and 190 countries.”  Gold Standard  Sarkozy’s questioning of the dollar’s dominant role is part
of a French tradition dating back to the 1960s, when President
Charles de Gaulle converted much of France’s dollar reserves
into gold, accelerating events that led the U.S. in 1971 to
abandon the gold standard and usher in an era of floating rates.  Aides to Sarkozy say they’ve counted 42 currency crises
since 1990. Yet they haven’t made specific proposals, beyond
studying a greater role for instruments such as the
International Monetary Fund ‘s Special Drawing Rights as a
reserve currency.  “We have to update the international monetary system for
the 21st century,” said Sarkozy, who has named currencies,
volatile commodity markets and better representation for
developing countries as his priorities.  The Seoul G-20 was marred by U.S. criticism of China’s
currency peg and mounting reserves, and counter-attacks from
China, Korea, Brazil and Germany against the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s policy of buying government debt.  Greater Flexibility  In their final communiqué, the G-20 pledged to move
“toward more market-determined exchange-rate systems, enhancing
exchange-rate flexibility to reflect underlying economic
fundamentals and refraining from competitive devaluation of
currencies.”  Sarkozy said he’ll meet U.S. President  Barack Obama , South
African President  Jacob Zuma  and Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  before the end of the year, as well as IMF Director
General  Dominique Strauss-Kahn . Sarkozy promised to lay out his
plans for the G-20 presidency in a January press conference, and
will hold the first of a series of seminars early next year in
China in an exchange of ideas with “no taboos.”  “It’s not generally Sarkozy’s character to be modest, but
in this case he has no illusions,” said Nicolas Jabko, research
director at Paris-based university  Sciences Po . “Just getting
the U.S. and China to agree to sit and talk about currencies at
the table is being treated as a victory by Sarkozy. The goal is
to turn the G-20 into a forum to discuss currencies and ensure
that Europe, and France, not be isolated.”  Euro Strength  Sarkozy’s desire for a new order is also driven by concern
over gains in the euro that make European exports more expensive
to dollar-based buyers. The yuan is pegged to the dollar, which
has been driven lower by the Federal Reserve printing press, a
policy that European officials have criticized as contrary to
the dollar’s role as a reserve currency.  The euro has climbed as high as $1.4207 from $1.3062 on
Sept. 21, when the Fed first put forth the idea of a second
round of quantitative easing. It traded at $1.3725 at 1:46 p.m.
in Paris.  “For the French, it’s a nightmare scenario,” Jabko said.  Sarkozy raised the issue of reducing the dollar’s role as a
reserve currency at a G-20 meeting in Washington in 2008. “The
euro doesn’t exist? The yuan doesn’t exist?” he asked. “At
Bretton Woods, the U.S. was victorious, the only superpower,
while Europe was in ruins. We are now in a new world.”  ‘Basic Contradiction’  At Davos last January, Sarkozy said: “We can’t have on one
hand a multipolar world and on the other hand a single reserve
currency.” He’d made similar comments in August 2009 to
ambassadors gathered in Paris for their annual meeting.  Sarkozy has become less specific as the G-20 presidency
approached, backing off from criticizing the dollar, and also
dropping earlier disapproval about China’s yuan peg.  “There’s a basic contradiction in the French position in
that they are more concerned than other Europeans by the issue
of dollar dominance, but they are much less accepting of euro
strength, which would be a natural consequence of a greater
reserve role for the euro,” said  Karthik Sankaran , a money
manager and principal in New York at Covepoint Capital Advisors,
an emerging-markets trading firm. “No one wants their own
currency to replace the dollar, because you lose flexibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Seoul at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  