-- Schwarzenegger Calls Emergency Session as $25 Billion Budget Deficit Looms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/schwarzenegger-calls-emergency-session-as-25-billion-budget-deficit-looms.html
California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , citing a $25.4 billion budget gap over the next
19 months, declared a fiscal emergency and called lawmakers to a
special session next month to begin dealing with the problem.  Schwarzenegger, a Republican whose term ends in January,
late yesterday ordered the session to start Dec. 6, the day
newly elected legislators are sworn in. He wants to take steps
to erase an officially estimated $6.1 billion gap that has
already emerged in the budget enacted last month.  In addition to the gap forecast for the fiscal year through
June, the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office yesterday
 projected  a $19 billion gap in the following 12 months. By Jan.
10, Governor-elect  Jerry Brown , a Democrat who will be sworn in
Jan. 3, must propose a plan to erase the next year’s deficit.  “The LAO’s estimate is a sobering reminder that
California’s economy is still struggling,” Schwarzenegger, 63,
said in a  statement . “I have spoken to all four legislative
leaders and they know what we are up against. They know it won’t
be easy, but they also know they cannot wait to take action.”  The authority to declare a fiscal emergency comes from
ballot measures Schwarzenegger championed in 2004, when he won
approval to borrow $15 billion to fill that year’s budget gap.  Under the action, lawmakers must take up legislation to
deal with the emergency within 45 days. If they fail to meet
that deadline, they are barred from doing any other legislative
work or adjourning until they address the emergency.  ‘Enormous Challenges’  “This special session underscores the enormous challenges
facing the state,” Evan Westrup, a spokesman for Brown, 72,
said yesterday in a statement. “While the governor-elect did
not create this fiscal crisis, he and his transition team will
continue the work they started after election day, collaborating
with administration and department of finance officials, the
legislative analyst’s office, legislators, and others to address
 California ’s budget problems.”  The special session will follow state borrowing of more
than $14 billion over two weeks starting Nov. 15. Standard &
Poor’s rates California general-obligation debt A-, its fourth-
lowest investment grade and its lowest for any state. Moody’s
Investors Service gives it an A1, one step higher. Fitch Ratings
also ranks it A-.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year
general-obligation debt from California instead of top-rated
tax-exempt bonds was unchanged yesterday at  121 basis points ,
according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value data. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  100-Day Record  Schwarzenegger and lawmakers last month ended an impasse
over how to eliminate a $19 billion deficit to complete the
state’s budget a record 100 days into the fiscal year. Amid
stalemates in 2009 over comparable gaps, the state had to issue
IOUs to pay bills until a spending agreement was reached.  “As we know from experience, putting off the hard
decisions to bring spending in line with our revenues only makes
solving the problem more difficult,” Schwarzenegger said.
“Legislators will have to face the ugly truth that we can only
spend the revenues we have.”  Voters on Nov. 2 approved a  ballot measure  lowering the
legislative margin needed to pass a budget from two-thirds to a
simple majority. A supermajority still must approve tax and fee
increases. While Democrats control the Senate and Assembly, they
lack enough votes to reach the two-thirds threshold.  “There’s no doubt that facing a $25 billion deficit, all
lawmakers need to focus on the budget with urgency,”  Connie Conway , the leader-elect of Assembly Republicans, said yesterday
in a statement. “We should all be working together toward a
common goal of bringing the budget into balance. The sooner we
start reducing spending, the quicker we realize savings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  