-- Medvedev, Kan to Hold Japan-Russia Talks at APEC After Dispute Hurt Ties
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-12T04:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/sengoku-says-kan-medvedev-may-hold-japan-russia-talks-at-apec-summit.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
and Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  will hold talks this
weekend at an Asia-Pacific leaders summit as the two sides aim
to repair ties damaged by a territorial dispute.  The two leaders will meet when Kan hosts the two-day Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Yokohama, Japan, Kremlin
spokeswoman Natalya Timakova said today in Seoul. Medvedev and
Kan are both in South Korea attending the  Group of 20  summit.  “A meeting between President Dmitry Medvedev and the
Japanese Prime Minister is being planned on the sidelines of the
APEC summit,” Timakova told reporters. “We are coordinating
the time.”  Medvedev on Nov. 1 became the first Russian leader to visit
one of four islands called the Southern Kurils in Russia and the
Northern Territories in Japan claimed by both countries. Kan
this week said he hoped to meet with Medvedev, saying he would
“emphasize” that the islands belong to Japan.  The Soviet Union seized the islands six miles (10
kilometers) from Japan’s Hokkaido Island at the end of World War
II, and the sovereignty dispute has prevented Russia and Japan
from signing a formal peace treaty. About 10,300 people live on
the disputed islands, with 7,100 of them on Kunashir, the site
of Medvedev’s trip, according to the Kremlin.  “Various issues of our bilateral relations are on the
agenda,” Timakova said. “The Japanese side traditionally
raises the question about the Kuril Islands during such
meetings. Russia’s position on this issue traditionally hasn’t
changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Seoul via Moscow office at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net . 