-- IMF Shadow Looms as Irish Sacrifice to Avoid Bailout
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-12T15:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/shadow-of-imf-spooks-irish-taking-pay-cuts-to-avoid-greece-style-bailout.html
John Montgomery reckons he has lost
about 350 euros ($479) a month, or 25 percent of his disposable
income, because of lower pay and higher taxes since Ireland’s
economy began to collapse in 2008.  The father of a 10-month-old baby said he’s willing to take
the hit, and more, as long as it helps Ireland avoid a rescue by
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund . The nation
is saddled with a 20 billion-euro budget deficit and costs of as
much as 50 billion euros to bail out five of its biggest banks.  “I’d be a patriot like everybody else,” said Montgomery,
who works in a Britvic Plc factory in Dublin making 7-Up and
Pepsi soda under license. “There is something out there that is
spooking people, and they just need to tell us what the problem
is. The country is ready to do whatever needs to be done.”  Unlike neighboring Britain in the 1970s, Ireland has never
turned to the IMF for aid and the government is determined to
avoid being propped up like Greece. Deputy Prime Minister  Mary Coughlan  said Nov. 4 in parliament that the country’s economic
sovereignty was at stake, almost 90 years since winning
independence from the U.K. Time may be running out.  Default Poll  Analysts at New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich and NCB Stockbrokers Ltd. of Dublin
said this week the likelihood of Ireland seeking aid is
increasing. A majority of global investors, 51 percent, say they
think an Irish default is likely, compared with 42 percent who
say it is unlikely, the latest Bloomberg Global Poll shows. The
quarterly poll of 1,030 Bloomberg customers who are investors,
analysts or traders, was conducted Nov. 8.  Irish government bonds gained for the first day in three
weeks today after European finance ministers said plans for a
new system to handle euro-region debt crises won’t apply to
outstanding debt. The premium investors charge to hold 10-year
Irish bonds over German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, narrowed to
569 basis points from a record 651 basis points yesterday.  “I sense sovereignty is going to be a big issue: Why did
people fight for this when now we are getting ready to give it
away,” said Diarmaid Ferriter, a historian and author of “The
 Transformation of Ireland: 1900-2000 .” “The feeling out there
is batten down the hatches and take the pain. The problem is
that it may be redundant at this point.’  No Aid Request  Officials from the EU were in Dublin this week to review
the nation’s deteriorating finances as the government, led by
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  since May 2008, prepares to push its
latest package of spending cuts through parliament in December.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said Nov. 8 that the country hadn’t asked for a bailout and he
expected it to beat the crisis. The IMF also hasn’t received any
request for financial help from Ireland and it is following the
situation “very closely,”  Carlo Cottarelli , director of the
fund’s fiscal department, said on Nov. 5.  “We are a sovereign country and we would hope that our
political leaders and masters would have been able to get us out
of this mess,” said James Geoghegan, 28, a nurse at University
College Hospital in Galway who reckons his monthly paycheck has
been reduced by “a couple of hundred” euros.  Beginning in 2008, Ireland cut public-sector pay by about
14 percent, lowered welfare payments for the unemployed and
parents, and raised taxes. The approach initially won praise
from investors before signs emerged that the country’s
financial-services industry may bankrupt the nation.  Budget Cuts  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in September that the
final cost of rescuing the banking system may be close to 33
percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  Ireland now is preparing to cut its budget by 6 billion
euros in 2011 and then by another 9 billion euros over the next
three years, to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of GDP from 12
percent this year. The figure is 32 percent when bank rescue
costs are included. Ireland has made 14.5 billion euros of cost
savings since 2008, Cowen said Oct. 27.  Declan O’Hara, a 49-year-old taxi driver in the Irish
capital, wants to stick with a domestic solution.  “It may be better the devil you know than the one you
don’t,” O’Hara said. “Going to the IMF would be unknown
territory. Times are already very tough. They might say hand
over all your possessions. At least now, we call the shots.”  Ghost Estates  O’Hara was driving down Dublin’s south quays, the site of
dozens of derelict and empty buildings, a legacy of the real-
estate bonanza, which abruptly ended in 2008. About 36,000 Irish
mortgage holders are in arrears and the country has about 2,800
so-called ghost estates, according to government statistics.  The Irish have endured a bust-to-boom-to-bust economy. The
country was the one of the poorest in Europe when it joined the
EU in 1973 along with  Britain , which went to the IMF three years
later. Even with European subsidies, unemployment in the mid-
1980s averaged 16 percent, driving 228,000 people abroad.  In the 1990s, companies such as Pfizer Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. helped Ireland export its way into becoming the “Celtic
Tiger” and drawing people back to the country as the jobless
rate sank to 3.9 percent by 2001. In the decade through 2006,
Ireland’s  economy  grew at an average annual rate of about 7
percent, the fastest among countries that adopted the euro.  “You are smart and stubborn people,” EU Commissioner Rehn
said this week. “Time and again, you have proved you can
overcome adversity.”  Credit Crisis  Things went wrong as global credit markets froze in late
2007 and banks struggled to fund their business. Prices for
residential property have sunk 36 percent since 2006, based on
an index compiled by Irish Life & Permanent Plc and the Economic
& Social Research Institute in Dublin. GDP fell 17 percent. The
 unemployment rate  doubled to 13.6 percent, with companies such
as U.S. computer maker Dell Inc. shedding jobs.  The Irish government nationalized  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  in
January 2009 as loan losses spiraled. The government also has
taken a 36 percent stake in  Bank of Ireland Plc  and is preparing
to take a majority stake in  Allied Irish Banks Plc.   Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have cut their credit
ratings for Ireland since August amid the mounting cost to bail
out the nation’s lenders. Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 5
that the country’s Aa2 rating may be reduced.  Ireland “recognizes one of the things about being an
independent country is if you borrow, you pay your way,”  John Bruton , prime minister between 1995 and 1997 and the former EU
envoy in Washington, said in an interview in his farmhouse north
of Dublin. “I don’t think Irish people want that not to be the
case in the decade we are 100 years as an independent state.”  Unpaid Work  Montgomery said he volunteered for an unpaid week of work
at Britvic and has given up overtime to keep his job. His wife
stays home to look after their child. He said he has stopped
paying the premium on his life assurance policy and his family
has curtailed vacations and eating out.  “The little luxuries have been curtailed,” he said.  Others say it’s no time to be proud and asking for help
from the EU and IMF might precipitate a recovery.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis erupted in late 2009 after
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou’s  newly elected
government said the budget deficit was twice as big as reported
by the prior administration. The EU and IMF approved a 110
billion-euro  emergency aid package  on May 2 for Greece in
exchange for Papandreou’s agreement to cut public-sector wages
and pensions, and raise taxes on fuel, alcohol and cigarettes.  They also set up a 750 billion-euro rescue fund to help
countries get out of a Greek-style crisis.  No Sign of End  “It sounds terrible but it might speed things up,” said
David Malone, 40, who runs his own corporate communications
company in Dublin. “It can’t get any worse. We’re on this road
for two years now and there’s still no sign we’re at the end.”  While Ireland says it has the funds to avert an immediate
bailout, its cash may run out by the middle of next year unless
the country can sell bonds. In September, Ireland canceled bond
auctions scheduled for October and November.  The cost of insuring Irish debt rose the most of the so-
called euro peripherals -- Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy --
during the past month as the government struggles to convince
investors it won’t be the next Greece.  The  difference in yield , or spread, between 10-year Irish
bonds and German bunds of similar maturity surged after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said on Oct. 29 that bondholders should
foot part of the bill in a new mechanism for rescues being
drafted by EU leaders, rankling the Irish.  “It’s not helpful to suggest Europe is going to
restructure other countries’ debts,” Lenihan said on Nov. 3.
“Ireland has made it very clear we’ll honor our debt and
obligations. There is no question of restructuring our debt.”  Credit Default  The Irish spread climbed above 600 basis points this week
from 205 basis points on May 3, the day after the terms of the
Greek package were announced. Two years ago, it was 84 points.  The cost of protecting Irish debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was 597 basis points
yesterday, lower than the 876 points for Greece, though higher
than Portugal at 475 points and more than twice Spain’s cost at
277 points, according to prices from data provider CMA.  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at Goldman Sachs,
said Nov. 8 on Bloomberg Television that there is a “big
possibility” that Ireland will need to seek aid from the EU and
IMF “unless the markets suddenly calm down.”  That would be “humiliating,” according to Eoin McDevitt,
43, a government worker in Dublin who says he earns 110 euros a
week less after two pay cuts.  “Bond yields have risen on issues that aren’t relevant to
what we’ve done,” McDevitt said. “We’d involuntarily be giving
up control of our own economy to the EU, albeit a friendly body.
The IMF makes no secret of not being friendly.”  For Montgomery, it’s time for the Irish to pull together
and make sure they keep control of their finances, even if that
means enduring higher taxes like the Greeks.  “If there was a general consensus and we all tried to get
ourselves out of this mess, we are more than capable,” he said.
“We have plenty of ingenuity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net 
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  