-- Shell Wins Approval for `Game Changer' Floating LNG Project Off Australia
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-12T05:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/shell-s-prelude-liquified-natural-gas-project-approved-with-restrictions.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
largest oil company, won approval from the Australian government
to proceed with the development of the world’s first liquefied
natural gas project using a floating plant.  Prelude, located about 200 kilometers (120 miles) off the
coast of Western Australia, was approved with “strict
conditions,” Environment Minister  Tony Burke  said in a
statement today. The Hague-based Shell must comply with 13
requirements to protect the marine ecosystem and minimize the
risk of oil spills.  Shell plans to use what will be the world’s biggest ship to
tap fields in the Browse basin off Australia’s northwest coast,
where more than a third of the nation’s known offshore gas is
located. Prelude is among A$200 billion ($198 billion) of
proposed LNG developments in the country seeking to take
advantage of increasing Asian demand for cleaner-burning fuels.  “It is going to be a game changer,” said  Tony Regan , a
consultant at Singapore-based Tri-Zen International, who
previously worked for Shell’s LNG business. If Shell goes ahead
with Prelude it’s  “going to be a great seal of approval on the
concept of floating LNG technology.”  A development decision on Prelude is expected in 2011,
Shell spokeswoman  Claire Wilkinson  said by phone from Perth
today. Chilling gas to liquid form on floating facilities has
yet to be deployed commercially. Inpex Corp. of Japan and
Australia’s Santos Ltd. are among companies investigating the
technology.  Development Design  Shell is in the engineering and design phase for the
Prelude project, Australia country chair  Ann Pickard  said in a
separate statement. Environmental approval is an important step,
she said.  “Floating LNG technology reduces the project’s cost and
environmental footprint,” Pickard said. “It removes the need
for offshore compression platforms, long pipelines to shore,
near-shore works such as dredging and jetty construction, and
onshore development.”  Shell has ordered 10 of the $5 billion floating production
vessels, which are almost 50 percent larger than a U.S. aircraft
carrier. The company expects to begin production in 2016 at
Prelude.  The ships will weigh about 600,000 metric tons and be
around 480 meters long, 75 meters wide, and are designed to
withstand a “one-in-10,000-year” tropical cyclone, Shell
Executive Director for international exploration and production,
 Malcolm Brinded , said last year.  Oil Spill Plan  “Shell must develop an oil spill contingency plan, to the
government’s satisfaction, specifying how it will minimize the
risks of” leaks, Environment Minister Burke said. “Should such
an accident occur, the company will pay for any environmental
rehabilitation needed.”  The Australian government deferred a decision on Shell’s
Prelude gas venture four times. Floating LNG technology is aimed
at developing gas deposits too small or too far from the coast
to be profitably exploited through onshore plants.  Prelude is expected to produce about 3.6 million metric
tons of LNG annually and 1.3 million metric tons of condensate,
a type of light oil, Shell spokeswoman Wilkinson said. The
company needs approvals for production licenses before a
development decision can be made, she said.  LNG is natural gas chilled to minus 161 degrees Celsius
(minus 258 Fahrenheit) reducing it to liquid form one-six-
hundredth of its original volume, so it can be transported by
ship to destinations unconnected by pipeline. On arrival, it’s
turned back into gas for distribution to power plants and
households.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 