-- Singapore Exchange Bid Multiples Value ASX Below Bigger Bourse Takeovers
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-12T05:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/singapore-exchange-bid-multiples-value-asx-below-bigger-bourse-takeovers.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s takeover
of the main Australian stock market, which received instant
disapproval from lawmakers, may gain investor support as ASX Ltd.
gets a 42 percent premium and owners of the bidder pay no more
than the average of comparable deals.  Singapore Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker 
faced a revolt from his own shareholders on Oct. 25 when he
unveiled the $8.4 billion agreement to acquire ASX at twice the
average premium for financial services acquisitions in the past
year. The takeover won’t compromise market regulation,  Malcolm Starr , ASX’s head of regulatory policy said today in response to
a report in the Age newspaper that said the country’s Financial
Services Council is concerned the deal may reduce the fairness
of listing rules.  Now, Tokyo Stock Exchange, with a 4.9 percent stake in the
Singapore bourse, is dropping its criticism, citing growth
prospects for the combined company. The bid values the Sydney-
based Australian company at 19.5 times earnings before interest
and taxes, compared with the 22.8 times earnings before interest
and taxes NYSE Group Inc. paid for Euronext NV in 2007 and the
21.4 times EBIT that CME Group Inc. valued Nymex Holdings Inc.
at a year later, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “On the face of it, it looks like a pretty juicy multiple
that SGX is paying,” said  Chris Hall , who helps manage $3.7
billion at Argo Investments Ltd. in Adelaide, Australia, in a
telephone interview. “But if you look at some of the other
global deals on exchanges, on a raw valuations basis they’re at
the same sort of level.”  Nasdaq’s OMX Takeover  Singapore Exchange  offered A$48 per ASX share in cash and
stock, compared with the Australian company’s price of A$34.96
at the last close of trade before the agreement was announced.
The premium is almost twice the average level of 21 percent for
financial companies in the past year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Rising competition from electronic venues and investor
demands to cut trading costs have driven acquisitions among
global exchanges since January 2007, including Nasdaq Stock
Market Inc.’s takeover of OMX AB, which Bocker helped arrange as
the Stockholm-based operator’s CEO. That deal was proposed at
10.2 times EBIT, less than half the 22.8 times median offered in
comparable exchange deals globally, according to Bloomberg data.
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange proposed paying 39.2 times EBIT
to buy the Chicago Board of Trade in 2006.  Valuation Concern  “A lot of the exchange deals were done four to five years
ago at very high multiples with the idea that they will be able
to boost their margins and grow their volumes,” said  Larry Tabb ,
founder and chief executive officer of Westborough,
Massachusetts-based research firm Tabb Group LLC. “These firms
haven’t been able to rationalize their technology fast enough
and competition has intensified. Trading volumes have also
faltered since the global financial crisis.”  Bocker’s proposal was questioned a day after it was
announced by the Tokyo exchange’s president,  Atsushi Saito , who
said the issuance of new shares would reduce the value of his
company’s stake.  “It’s not a good story,” Saito told reporters on Oct. 26.
“Our shareholdings will be diluted, with our stake falling to
around 3.1 percent. It’s possible we’ll have a loss of hundreds
of millions of yen.”  This week, TSE spokesman  Naoya Takahashi  said by telephone
that Atsushi never opposed the plan, and that the combined
company’s growth may limit losses from the merger.  The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission is
reviewing the bid, it said Nov. 10. The bid also faces scrutiny
from the Foreign Investment Review Board, the Reserve Bank of
Australia and the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said on Oct 27.  Earnings Multiples  “There is absolutely no tweaking necessary to leave the
Australian government completely in control of regulating how
someone in Australia that it licenses conducts its business,”
the ASX’s Starr said in a telephone interview today.  SGX’s shares fell 6.2 percent, the most in two years, the
day the merger was announced. They have since added 1.1 percent.
ASX shares jumped 19 percent the day of the announcement but
have since retreated 11 percent as opposition from Australian
lawmakers, who must approve the deal, mounted.  The offer propelled ASX’s  valuation  from a one-year low of
14.8 times annual earnings to as high as 21.9 times just after
the announcement. The stock trades for 19.4 times yearly profits
now, compared with an average of 18 for companies in Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singapore Exchange Shares  Singapore Exchange has seen its earnings multiple fall from
35.9 on Oct. 15, the highest since 2007, to 32.1 as of yesterday.
Companies in the Straits Times Index command an average price-
earnings multiple of 13.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is a good deal from an outright perspective in the
sense that ASX is trading cheaply by historical standards,”
 George Boubouras , head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s
Australian wealth-management unit, said in an interview by
telephone. “If SGX can from a cash perspective make it work
hard, they can deliver earnings growth to their shareholders
going forward. That’s the point of it.”  Australian lawmakers including two Greens party members,
opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  and two independents
said they oppose Singapore Exchange’s bid, saying it’s unlikely
to be in the best interests of Australians.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government doesn’t
hold a majority in the lower house as the result of an election
on Aug. 21 that delivered the closest result in 70 years. It
needs the votes of the Greens and two independent lawmakers to
pass legislation.  ASX’s Chief Executive  Robert Elstone  said at a media
briefing announcing the takeover that the merger was in the
interests of both countries, and that the companies are
confident that they’ll win regulators’ approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 