-- South Africa's Gordhan Says G-20 Is Making Progress on Economic Imbalances
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   Z e b   E c k e r t
-- 2010-11-12T09:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/south-africa-s-gordhan-says-g-20-is-making-progress-on-economic-imbalances.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said Group of 20 leaders must remain committed to
rebalancing the global economy to prevent a potential currency
war and rising protectionism.  “We wouldn’t like competitive devaluation, we wouldn’t
like beggar-thy-neighbor policies, we wouldn’t like
protectionism of any kind,” Gordhan said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Seoul today. “It would appear that
there is a reasonably profound commitment to ensure that we
don’t step into that mode.”  Finance ministers from the G-20 and the International
Monetary Fund will work next year on a set of so-called
indicative guidelines designed to identify large economic
imbalances and actions needed to fix them, according to a joint
statement released as the Seoul summit came to a close.  South Africa, the smallest G-20 economy, has joined
countries such as China, Germany and Brazil in criticizing the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to pump $600 billion into its
economy. The move could further strengthen South Africa’s rand
and hurt exports from Africa’s biggest economy, which would in
turn damage its manufacturing industry, Gordhan said on Nov. 9.  Interest rates as low as 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25
percent in the U.S. have encouraged investors to borrow cheaply
in those countries and invest in markets offering higher
returns. The strategy, known as the carry trade, has caused
surges in emerging-market currencies including the rand and
Brazil’s real. The rand has gained 35 percent against the dollar
since the beginning of last year.  ‘Coordinated Approach’  “We appreciate that the U.S. has its own imperatives that
it actually has to respond to,” Gordhan said. “At the same
time, the purpose of the G-20 is that we have a constructive and
coordinated approach, and at the end of the summit I think the
leaders will be able to demonstrate that.”  Complaints about the U.S. policy, known as quantitative
easing, “are an effort in fruitlessness,”  John Cairns , head of
foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday. The G-20 “might give a
vague nod to tougher policies from emerging markets facing
excessive volatility in capital flows, but this is pretty
meaningless to the rand since no one cares about South Africa’s
policy much anyway.”  Leaders at the summit have struggled to resolve squabbles
between the U.S. and China over the value of the yuan and U.S.
monetary easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 