-- Soybeans, Corn Tumble by Chicago Exchange Limit on Chinese Rate Concerns
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-12T21:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/soybeans-corn-fall-as-commodities-drop-on-china-interest-rate-speculation.html
Soybeans and corn fell the most
allowed by the Chicago Board of Trade on speculation that China
will raise interest rates soon, cubing demand for commodities.  Equities in China tumbled the most since August 2009 after
a report yesterday showed that consumer prices in October rose
4.4 percent from a year earlier, the fastest pace since 2008.
China is the world’s biggest consumer of soybeans and second-
largest user of corn. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
19 raw materials fell 3.6 percent, the most since April 2009.  “The risk of rising Chinese rates increases the chances
for demand to slow,” said  Dale Durchholz , the senior market
analyst at AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois. “The message
is, China is taking a more aggressive stance to cool inflation
and push speculative money out of commodities.”  Soybean futures for January delivery fell by the limit of
70 cents, or 5.2 percent, to close at $12.69 a bushel at 1:15
p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price reached
$13.485, the highest level for a most-active contract since Aug.
28, 2008. The oilseed has gained 41 percent since the end of
June as China’s demand surged and hot, dry weather reduced U.S.
yields.  Corn futures for March delivery dropped 30 cents, or 5.2
percent, to close at $5.48 a bushel, the biggest drop since Oct.
1. The price has gained 46 percent since the end of June,
reaching a 26-month high of $6.175 on Nov. 9, after adverse
weather reduced the size of the U.S. crop.  The U.S. is the world’s largest grower and exporter of both
commodities.  China’s Stockpiles  Soybeans also fell on speculation that China will reduce
imports because the government may sell supplies to damp
inflation, said  Greg Grow , the director of Agribusiness for
Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago.  The country may begin selling from inventories next week to
limit gains in food prices, said Cao Huimin, an analyst at China
Cereals & Oils Business Net, a researcher in Beijing. The sales
may total as much as 2.6 million tons, she said after
discussions with cash traders.  “Chinese release of soybean stocks next week cast a
negative shadow over the market,” Grow of Archer Financial
said. “Most of today’s weakness in commodities was an exodus of
funds and speculators.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, government figures show, followed by soybeans at $31.8
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  