-- Specialty Drugmaker Sinobiopharma Takes on Big Pharma in China
-- B y   M e g a n   S h a n k
-- 2010-11-12T17:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/specialty-drugmaker-sinobiopharma-takes-on-big-pharma-in-china.html
In 2009, the Chinese government pledged
$125 billion toward a three-year health-care reform effort to
strengthen primary care services, broaden insurance coverage,
and advance affordable drugs. With its aging population and
increase in lifestyle-related diseases, China’s demand for
pharmaceutical drugs will increase sales 25 percent next year,
to more than $50 billion, locking in its status as the third-
largest pharmaceutical market in the world, according to IMS
Health, an international marketing research company. IMS
forecasts that China will become the No. 2 pharmaceutical market
by 2015.  Chinese-born Lequn Lee Huang saw potential long before the
numbers dazzled. Huang, who holds a PhD in analytical chemistry
from Iowa State University, dreamed of transforming innovative
research into affordable medicine for the Chinese people.
Encouraged by former Chinese President Jiang Zemin’s call for
Chinese scientists abroad to contribute their talents toward
modernizing the nation, Huang quit his job as principal research
investigator at the Bayer Research center in New Haven, Conn.,
and returned to China in 2004. That year he founded
Sinobiopharma, a specialty biopharmaceutical manufacturer in
Nanjing that has since launched four drugs in China, including
muscle relaxants and cardiovascular medicines, and has five more
in the works.  Huang settled in Nanjing full time in 2005 and used management
methods he learned at Bayer to expand Sinobiopharma, which he
says had $5 million in revenue in 2009 and estimates will have
$10 million in 2010 and $14 million in 2011. In 2008, the
company listed on the Nasdaq OTCBB, a regulated quotation
service separate from the Nasdaq market, and aims to list on the
New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq Capital Market within the next
two years.  Huang, 55, spoke recently with Bloomberg.com contributor Megan
Shank about his plans to sell beyond China, how Sinobiopharma
competes with Big Pharma, and the importance of “guanxi.”  Megan Shank: Describe the pharmaceutical market in China.  Lequn Lee Huang: Right now, it’s mostly generic drug companies.
Few pharmaceutical companies are doing novel research, and few
innovative drugs are launched in China. Most importantly, there
are no international Chinese pharmaceutical companies and no
specialty pharmaceutical companies.  Q: Why aim for the worldwide market instead of just China?  A: The pharmaceutical research industry is different from other
industries in that you have to spend a lot of money in the
beginning. And in order to get a high return for investors and
shareholders, you need a worldwide market. You can also put
these returns toward more innovative research. Big Pharma
companies, like Bayer and Merck, come to China not only for the
Chinese market, but also to set up research centers here. These
companies make bigger investments in China because they want a
worldwide market. Generic pharmaceutical companies don’t do
research and thus don’t have that expense, but, as a specialty
pharmaceutical company, we do. We expect to start doing business
outside of China in 2012.  Q: Define “specialty pharmaceutical company” and give some
examples of successful businesses.  A: Big Pharma focuses on research into innovative, novel drugs -
- patents. Generic drug companies copy. Specialty pharmaceutical
companies create generic drugs, but they also innovate to
improve existing formulas. No such company yet exists in China.
I recently visited India, where the specialty pharmaceutical
industry is 10 years ahead of China -- there are more than half
a dozen companies that develop and make their products in India
and then launch 50 percent of those products in the U.S. Lupin
is one example. In China, we manufacture a lot of things for
export, but not much medicine.  Q: Why not?  A: The hardware -- the machinery used to make drugs -- isn’t up
to international standards. If you used the FDA’s standards to
evaluate drugs made in China, half the companies in China would
close. Next year, the State Food and Drug Administration will
release regulations for good manufacturing processes that demand
hardware upgrades.  Q: When that happens, the market will probably consolidate,
correct?  A: Right. Expect a lot of mergers. Good Chinese manufacturers
will acquire others. In China, there are too many pharmaceutical
companies -- more than 6,000. But the Chinese government also
believes a stable society is its No. 1 priority. They don’t want
people to lose jobs, so if anything happens they’ll back up.
They’ve already put off enacting this standard for a few years,
and there will be a transition time once it goes into effect.
Still, I think the Chinese government is committed to reaching
those standards.  Q: What disparities are there right now between China and the
West in terms of the accessibility and affordability of
pharmaceutical drugs?  A: In Chinese hospitals you can find almost every medicine
launched in the world, though sometimes it takes a little longer
to arrive. So accessibility is decent. But affordability is an
issue. Big Pharma drugs are often beyond the price range of the
average Chinese consumer. In 2010, we became the first Chinese
company to launch a first-to-marketplace hypertension drug,
which Chinese health insurance covers. We enjoy market
exclusivity and premium pricing.  Q: How does Sinobiopharma compete with Big Pharma companies?  A: For example, our drug Kutai, a skeletal muscle relaxant, is
an improved version of Nimbex, first launched by GSK
[GlaxoSmithKline] in 1997. Nimbex must be kept at [about] zero
degrees Celsius. That worked well enough in Beijing, but when
they tried to transport it to rural provinces, they couldn’t
keep it at that temperature. China’s summers are extremely hot.
These drugs became inaccessible because of the limit of GSK’s
technology. We created a patented technology to improve the
stability of the drug so that it can stay at room temperature.
We can safely transport it to every corner of China. This
increases its usability for doctors, and, of course, our price
is lower. Even though we’re competing with GSK, we have over 70
percent of the market.  Q: Is a U.S. degree and American experience important for a
returnee to succeed in China?  A: Great technology and education don’t guarantee you’ll be a
success in China. Here, it’s largely about connections, or
guanxi. All those years I was away, I kept in mind that guanxi
was very importance to success in China -- whether one is doing
business or science. I traveled back to China often and tended
to my connections. Every year, more Chinese returnees come back
to China, but not all of them succeed, because during their 10
or 20 years in the States they forgot Chinese culture and they
lost their guanxi. I host many scientists who are working in the
U.S. who ask me how they, too, can return. I tell them to
cultivate their connections, to remember they are Chinese, and
to adapt to the local culture when they return.  Q: Chief executives complain about talent scarcity in China.
What is your experience?  A: Well-educated Chinese scientists are available. The problem
is a lack of good leadership and management, as well as good
business models for the Chinese market. Also, when I recruit, I
emphasize teamwork. I’ll take a team player over a superior
scientist.  Q: If Chinese scientists are so talented, why has China
traditionally been weak at innovation? Is that a fair
assessment?  A: Absolutely. I think it has to do with the government system
and our history, though it’s getting better -- look at the
achievements China has made in the past three decades. The
Chinese government is encouraging innovation in a way it has
never done before, and as a result more innovative products are
emerging. I have great hopes for China. I’m not a political
person, but I think the party leaders are talented -- they’re
engineers, not like 30 years ago, when they weren’t educated --
and they’re interested in improving the country. Ten years ago I
wouldn’t have come back to China, because I wouldn’t have felt
safe to do innovative research and start a business. I would
have been afraid the government might change its policy
overnight. But now, even if they wanted to change the economic
system, they couldn’t do it. The Chinese Communist Party cares
less about socialism than they do about economic development, as
do the Chinese people.  To contact the reporter on this story: Megan Shank at
 mm.shank@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  