-- Sprint Credit Swaps Rise as Clearwire’s Cash Dwindles
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-12T22:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/sprint-nextel-credit-default-swaps-climbing-as-clearwire-s-cash-dwindles.html
Credit-default swaps on Sprint
Nextel Corp. are climbing as investors speculate the mobile
phone carrier could be dragged into default by its majority
ownership in cash-strapped  Clearwire Corp.   Sprint , the third-largest U.S. mobile phone carrier, has a
54 percent stake in  Clearwire , the Kirkland, Washington-based
wireless broadband operator that said Nov. 4 it didn’t have
enough funding to keep operating. A Clearwire default may
trigger a contract provision pulling Sprint into default as
well.  “Sprint will not wash their hands of Clearwire,”  Ping Zhao , a telecommunications analyst at New York-based debt-
research firm CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“Sprint will have to provide funding. The question is what
concession it can extract from Clearwire, because Sprint needs
Clearwire more than Clearwire needs Sprint to make sure they
don’t default.”  Swaps on Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint’s debt have
jumped 70.5 basis points to 376.6 since Clearwire’s disclosure,
the biggest five business-day increase since May, according to
data provider CMA. Contracts protecting a net $2.03 billion of
Sprint’s debt were outstanding as of Nov. 5, according to the
 Depository Trust Clearing Corp ., which runs a central repository
for the credit swaps market.  A Clearwire default may affect about $9.9 billion of Sprint
Capital Corp.’s debt, according to a report from Standard &
Poor’s. The company’s only lifeline is Sprint, which can fund or
buy the business or amend the 1998 provision linking the
companies in the event of default, according to  Craig Moffett ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Sprint’s Options  “Sprint may also decide that this is an operating problem
and not a financing problem, and that they may be better off to
try to extricate themselves from the cross-default provision,”
said Moffett, who rates Sprint  shares  “underperform.”  “Sprint may not have any good options, but it does have
other options,” he said.  The credit-default contracts on Sprint climbed 7.6 basis
points today, CMA data show. Sprint’s stock climbed 3 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $4.03 in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading  and Clearwire fell 28 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $6.41 in
 Nasdaq Stock Market  trading.  Clearwire  reshaped itself into a WiMax company in 2008 with
a $3.2 billion investment from Sprint. Intel Corp., Google Inc.,
Comcast Corp., Time Warner Cable Inc. and Brighthouse Networks
also invested.  Getting Nervous  Moffett said  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s decision to pull
all of its $120 million investment out of  Philip Falcone ’s hedge
fund, which is about 90 percent invested in wireless-
telecommunications, exemplifies growing investor skepticism
about the profitability of network providers.  “People are getting nervous about the presumption that all
spectrum is good spectrum and that there’s room for all these,”
Moffett said.  Sprint said in a Nov. 5  regulatory filing  there could be a
“material adverse effect” from Clearwire’s financial situation
if Clearwire defaults and is considered a Sprint subsidiary.
Sprint could take action to ensure Clearwire isn’t considered a
unit of the company, it said without giving specifics.  Cristi Allen, a Sprint spokeswoman, declined to comment
beyond the filing.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  