-- Starbucks to Double Rate of Store Openings as Economy Recovers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T10:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/starbucks-to-open-500-stores-over-12-months-as-economy-recovers-ceo-says.html
Starbucks Corp. , the world’s
biggest coffee chain, plans to more than double the rate at
which it opens stores to an average of more than one a day
as the global economy recovers.  “Our ability to navigate through the financial crisis and
come out much stronger gives us reason to start growing the
company again,” Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said in
an interview in China’s Yunnan province today. He plans to open
500 stores in the fiscal year that began in October, with 400
outside the U.S., he said.  China, which offers the best opportunities for investment
over the next year according to a Bloomberg survey, will be
 Starbucks ’ biggest growth market in two years, Schultz said.
Jinlong Wang, the restaurant operator’s China chief, said
outlets in the world’s most populous nation will exceed 1,000
in the “near future.”  Coffee chain operators are expanding in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, as increasingly affluent
consumers buy more beverages in coffee shops.  Starbucks  seeks
to boost coffee consumption in China, which is at an annual 22
grams per person, compared with an estimated 3.3 kilograms in
Japan, according to data from roaster Key Coffee Inc.  Still, Schultz said “one needs to continue to be mindful
of the fragile nature of the global economy.”  Opportunity ‘Underestimated’  While 39 percent of 1,030 investors in the latest
Bloomberg Global Poll said they were “seeing opportunity and
taking more risks,” 35 percent said they were “still
hunkering down.”  China topped the list of markets that offered investors
the best opportunities over the next year, followed by Brazil,
India and the U.S., according to the survey.  “I think the opportunity that we have in China -- we’ve
underestimated it in terms of the number of stores and the
reach that  Starbucks  is going to have,” Schultz said.  The restaurant chain’s planned store-opening rate will be
the highest since the 2008 fiscal year, when it opened 1,669
stores, according to its  website . The Seattle-based company
closed 45 stores in fiscal year 2009 and opened 223 in fiscal
year 2010, which ended Oct. 3.  Schultz didn’t specify how many stores he planned to open
in China over the next 12 months.  He faces increased competition. Gourmet Master Co.,
operator of Taiwan’s largest coffee-shop chain, plans to
increase its China outlets more than sixfold to 1,000 by 2015.
 China Resources Enterprise Ltd. , which in June said it will
acquire control over Hong Kong’s second-biggest coffee chain,
last month said it plans to open as many as 1,000 Pacific
Coffee shops in the country.  Market Share  Sales at China’s coffee shops more than tripled to 35
million yuan in 2009 from 11 million yuan in 2004, according to
data from  Euromonitor International .  Starbucks  dominated the
market with a 69.8 percent share last year, compared with No. 2
player Jiangsu Yueda Group Co. Ltd. which operates Costa Coffee
restaurants with 5 percent share, according to the researcher.  The number of specialist coffee shops in the country rose
to 613 last year from 220 in 2004.  Starbucks  outlets comprised
59 percent of the total, while Jiangsu Yueda controlled 6
percent by the end of 2009, according to Euromonitor.  Middle-income and affluent consumers in China will
probably almost triple in 10 years, Boston Consulting Group
Inc. said Nov. 8. China’s economic prospects remain “sound,”
the World Bank said this month. The Washington-based lender
increased its estimate for the nation’s growth this year to 10
percent from a June forecast of 9.5 percent.  Schultz was in Yunnan to announce Starbucks’ plans to set
up a farm and processing facilities in Pu’er county, where the
namesake tea is grown. He said in April he plans to have
“thousands” of stores in China.  Starbucks has about 800 stores in the Greater China
region. About half are in mainland China, which doesn’t include
Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. The restaurant chain’s first
mainland China store opened in Beijing in 1999.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Michael Wei  in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  