-- German Stocks Gain; BMW, Volkswagen Shares Climb as United Internet Drops
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-12T17:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/stocks-fall-1-in-germany-at-opening-basf-daimler-siemens-shares-drop.html
German stocks  rose, trimming the
benchmark DAX Index’s weekly decline, as easing concern about
Europe’s debt crisis outweighed speculation China may increase
interest rates.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Volkswagen AG jumped more
than 1.5 percent. Q-Cells SE rallied 10 percent as the company
narrowed its loss after increasing sales and moving more
production to Malaysia to curb costs. United Internet AG
retreated as analysts downgraded the shares.  The  DAX  rose 0.2 percent to 6,734.61 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt, having swung between gains and losses at least 20
times. The gauge has retreated 0.3 percent this week amid
concern that efforts by indebted European governments to reduce
their deficits may derail the economic recovery. The broader
HDAX Index added 0.1 percent today.  “There is no chance to let Ireland go out of the European
Monetary Union,” said  Robert Halver , head of research at Baader
Bank AG in Frankfurt. “There is no stability at the moment,
yes, but the country will get support from the European Union.
There is no other alternative.”  Equities across Europe pared declines as stocks and bonds
in the so-called peripheral euro-region countries advanced.
Irish government bonds gained for the first day in almost three
weeks as Group of 20 leaders held emergency talks on the
nation’s fiscal crisis.  U.S. Confidence  In the U.S., consumer confidence increased to a five-month
high in November. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary  sentiment index  rose to 69.3 from 67.7 in October.
The measure averaged 88.9 in the five years to December 2007,
when the last recession began.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  slumped 5.2 percent today,
the most in 14 months, as inflation figures released yesterday
added to concern that the nation may soon increase interest
rates. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday that October’s
economic data indicated Chinese growth was “firm” and more
“policy tightening” is needed.  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, gained 3.1 percent
to 114 euros, while BMW rose 1.6 percent to 55.29 euros.
European carmakers had the best performance among 19  industry
groups  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index today.  Q-Cells jumped 10 percent to 2.95 euros, the biggest
increase in three months. The solar company said nine-month net
loss shrunk to 31 million euros ($42 million) from a 932
million-euro loss a year earlier. Revenue climbed 79 percent to
967 million euros.  ‘Cost Control’  “Tight cost control and management of investments and the
liquidity position will stay in the focus going forward,” Chief
Executive Officer  Nedim Cen  said.  United Internet fell 7.4 percent to 10.91 euros as
Citigroup Inc. downgraded its rating on the Internet provider to
“hold” from “buy.” Bankhaus Metzler Seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA
cut its recommendation on the stock to “sell” from “buy.”  A report today showed German  economic growth  slowed in the
third quarter, after record expansion in the second, as the
cooling global recovery crimped export demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 