-- Sugar May Decline Next Week as EU Plans to Increase Exports, Survey Shows
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-11-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/sugar-may-decline-next-week-as-eu-plans-to-increase-exports-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures may decline as the
European Union plans to increase exports and lift import duties,
according to a survey.  Six of 12 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will decline
next week. Five predicted that prices will rise and one
estimated little change. Raw sugar has declined 6.6 percent this
week to 29.66 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. this week.
Yesterday, it plummeted 9.6 percent after touching 33.39 cents,
the highest price for a most-active contract since January 1981.  The slide accelerated after the EU said it would allow an
additional 350,000 metric tons of exports in the 12 months
ending in September. The duty of 98 euros ($134) a ton on most-
favored-nation imports of raw sugar will be lifted from Dec. 1
through August, according to a statement.  “The news from European Union will put pressure on the
market,”  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president at Newedge
USA said by phone from New York. “Also, the market looks
overbought.”  Seven of 12 survey respondents said white sugar traded on
London’s Liffe exchange will fall, four forecast a rise, and one
predicted little change. The price has fallen 1.3 percent this
week to $768.60 a ton.  White sugar’s premium over raw sweetener probably will
narrow, according to five of 12 people surveyed. Four said it
will widen, while three said it will remain unchanged.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  