-- Sukuk Trails Emerging Debt as Falling Issuance Saps Trade: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-11-12T07:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/sukuk-trails-emerging-debt-as-falling-issuance-saps-trade-islamic-finance.html
Yields on Islamic bonds rose this
week by the most in almost a month, extending two quarters of
underperformance relative to emerging-market securities, on
concern slumping sales will reduce trading.  Yields  climbed 10 basis points to 4.59 percent this week,
the biggest increase since the five-days ended Oct. 22,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds
in developing nations outperformed Shariah-compliant notes for
the last six months as global sales of sukuk dropped 29 percent
to $13.7 billion.  “It will be very difficult for sukuk to catch up,”  Mohd Noor Hj A Rahman , head of the Islamic fund management unit at
OSK-UOB Unit Trust Management Bhd. overseeing about 250 million
ringgit ($81 million) of Shariah-compliant assets in Kuala
Lumpur, said in an interview yesterday. “It’s an issue of
liquidity and investors want to be able to trade the
securities.”  Sales of Islamic bonds, which pay asset returns to comply
with Shariah’s ban on interest, dropped this year as defaults,
debt restructuring and falling property prices in the Middle
East hurt investor confidence. Issuance from Malaysia, the
world’s biggest sukuk market, fell 31 percent as companies cut
infrastructure spending following last year’s recession.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 12.6 percent this year,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Debt
in emerging markets gained 16 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  ‘Get Out’  Sajjad Anwar , who helps manage the equivalent of $160
million of Islamic and non-Islamic funds at NBP Fullerton Asset
Management Ltd., said sukuk is so rarely traded that he had to
sell at a loss after holding the debt during 2008 and 2009. NBP
Fullerton is a unit of National Bank of Pakistan.  “Eventually, I had to sell at a discount to get out of the
market,” Anwar said in an interview in Karachi yesterday. He
declined to give specific details.  Offerings of Islamic bonds from the Gulf Cooperation
Council, which comprises Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, dropped 38 percent in 2010
to $4 billion from the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai World agreed with creditors in September to delay
payments on $24.9 billion of debt. Nakheel PJSC, a unit of Dubai
World, said on July 14 that a group of its creditors unanimously
supported a plan to alter the terms on $10.5 billion of debt.  Supply Limits  The supply of sukuk is limited to Southeast Asia and the
Middle East and investors are wary of the GCC after all the
restructurings, said Mohd Noor at OSK-UOB in Kuala Lumpur.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 climbed 18 basis points for the week to 2.52 percent,
according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
Yields on five-year Treasuries rose at a slower pace, widening
the Malaysian sukuk’s spread to U.S. government debt to 149
points from 138 points a week ago.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s narrowed 19 basis points this week
to 367, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of ringgit-denominated sukuk declined to 21.3 billion
ringgit so far in 2010 compared with 30.7 billion ringgit in the
year-earlier period, the data show.  Costs to Issuers  The cost for issuers to sell sukuk tends to be more than
non-Islamic debt because of the fees paid to Shariah advisory
boards, putting them at a disadvantage over counterparts in
other developing countries,  Mohd Farid Kamarudin  at AmInvestment
Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, said in an interview yesterday.  Global funds are flocking to emerging markets where many
countries don’t sell sukuk, which are restricted predominately
to the Middle East and Asia, said Farid, who helps manage 1.3
billion ringgit of Shariah-compliant assets.  Inflows into developing-market bonds exceeded $46 billion
this year, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR
Global said Oct. 30, set for the best year since 1995.  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate narrowed six basis points this
week to 332 basis points, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index.  Companies and governments plan to sell a total $2.9 billion
of sukuk before the end of the year. Saudi Aramco and Total SA
plan to raise $1 billion, while Bahrain-based Albaraka Banking
Group is looking to issue $200 million of the bonds. Sudan plans
to offer $600 million and Pakistan will auction 40 billion
rupees ($468 million) on Dec. 13.  KNM Group Bhd., a Malaysian oil and gas services provider,
last month said it won approval from the Securities Commission
to sell as much as 1.5 billion ringgit of Islamic debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 