-- Suu Kyi, Myanmar Democracy Fight Symbol, May Be Freed
-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-12T04:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/suu-kyi-myanmar-democracy-fight-symbol-may-be-freed-after-junta-victory.html
Aung San Suu Kyi , the symbol of a
48-year struggle for democracy in Myanmar, may be freed from
house arrest tomorrow, a week after a party backed by the
military junta claimed a landslide election victory.  Suu Kyi, who has been detained for 15 of the past 21 years,
is scheduled to be released on Nov. 13, according to the terms
of her most recent house arrest. The junta hasn’t said publicly
whether it will free the 65-year-old Nobel Peace Prize laureate.  “We are very confident she will be released,”  Win Tin , a
senior member of Suu Kyi’s  National League for Democracy , said
by phone from Yangon. “She is a convicted person. If she was
detained the detention could be extended, but a convicted person
has to be released once their sentence ends.”  Suu Kyi’s release and the conditions surrounding it may
trigger a review of U.S. and European sanctions against the
regime for human rights abuses, including the jailing of 2,100
political prisoners. If freed, Win Tin said Suu Kyi plans to
tour the country and may reconsider her views on sanctions on
Myanmar, after last week’s vote paved the way for the formation
of the nation’s first multi-party parliament since 1962.  “She essentially controls U.S. policy, indirectly,” said
David Steinberg, director of Asian studies at Georgetown
University. “We think what she thinks.”  Election Fraud  Suu Kyi won’t accept conditions attached to her release,
and plans to help investigate charges of fraud during the Nov. 7
election, which was criticized for excluding the democracy
activist and other political prisoners, Win Tin said. The poll
was Myanmar’s first since Suu Kyi’s party won a landslide
victory two decades ago in a result nullified by the junta.  The Union Solidarity and Development Party, formed by Prime
Minister  Thein Sein , won the most seats in the election,
according to reports in state-run Myanmar newspapers.  Myanmar’s ruling generals are “certain” to release Suu
Kyi in the next few days, Agence France-Presse reported today,
citing an unidentified government official.  “The world community wants Myanmar to release Suu Kyi,”
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today. “If they do,
it will help reduce the pressure and tension on Myanmar.”  Suu Kyi, whose party boycotted the election, will visit
supporters around the country if released, Win Tin said.  “She’s the daughter of our national hero,” he said. “She
won’t quit politics, no matter what the military junta offers.”  Father Assassinated  Suu Kyi is the daughter of  General Aung San , who led the
fight for independence from Britain in the 1940s. She was 2
years old when her father was assassinated, and spent much of
her life outside Myanmar, formerly known as Burma. She married
Michael Aris, a scholar of Tibet, and had two children while
living in the U.K.  Her life changed in 1988 when she returned to Myanmar to
nurse her ailing mother and led the struggle for democracy.  Myanmar came under military rule in 1962 when General Ne
Win overthrew the government of U Nu, the man who succeeded Suu
Kyi’s father and presided over 10 years of democracy after the
country achieved independence in 1948. Political parties were
outlawed in 1964 and the military created a socialist state
approved in a 1973 referendum.  Suu Kyi  and U  Tin Oo  formed the National League for
Democracy and began campaigning at rallies, defying martial-law
restrictions. In July 1989, they were placed under house arrest
for “endangering the state.”  Election Result Rejected  In 1990, the junta agreed to hold multiparty elections, at
the same time starting a crackdown on opposition leaders. Suu
Kyi was banned from standing in the elections after the junta
designated her as a foreigner, citing her marriage to Aris.  Suu Kyi’s party emerged with almost 60 percent of the votes,
and made an immediate demand that the junta begin negotiations
on a new assembly. The military insisted the elections were to
choose a government that would operate under its direction and
refused to recognize the result.  The U.S. led the international response, imposing economic
sanctions on the teak- and rubber-exporting nation of 53 million
people. The sanctions, still enforced, have been undermined by
Chinese, Indian and Thai investments in ports, railways and oil
and gas pipelines that give them access to the country’s natural
resources and trade routes in the Indian Ocean.  The sanctions hurt Myanmar’s image “more than what it
deserves, to the point of deterring big multinational companies
to invest in Myanmar,” said Luc de Waegh, Bangkok-based
managing partner of West Indochina Ltd., which advises companies
looking to invest in Myanmar. “Even though it’s legal for
European companies to invest in Myanmar under certain conditions,
they will not do it because the image is so bad.”  ‘Significant Step’  The Association of Southeast Asian Nations  called  the vote
“a significant step” in Myanmar’s path to democracy, according
to a statement from Vietnam, which holds the rotating
chairmanship. China welcomed the smooth election, Xinhua
reported, citing Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei.  “It’s important not to be deluded into overly praising the
regime for less than half measures,” Ron Hoffmann, Canada’s
ambassador to Myanmar, said on Nov. 7. “We need the regime to
take reform and human rights more seriously, and that means more
than releasing one individual.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 