-- Suu Kyi Backers Await Release of Myanmar Opposition Leader, Possibly Today
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-13T05:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/suu-kyi-backers-await-release-of-myanmar-opposition-leader-possibly-today.html
A senior member of  Aung San Suu Kyi ’s party said the Myanmar opposition leader may be freed from
house arrest by tomorrow.  Suu Kyi, who has been detained for 15 of the past 21 years,
is scheduled for release today, according to the terms of her
most recent house arrest. Myanmar’s junta hasn’t said publicly
whether it will free the 65-year-old Nobel Peace Prize laureate
a week after the party it backed claimed a landslide election
victory.  “We hope tomorrow she will be released,” Win Tin, a
senior member of Suu Kyi’s  National League for Democracy , said
by telephone from the capital of Yangon early today. If she
isn’t freed, “the public might be angry about it,” he said.
“We are still hoping they will honor the law.”  Dozens of supporters, including many wearing T-shirts
bearing Suu Kyi’s image, gathered outside her party’s
headquarters and her home today in anticipation of her release,
AFP reported. About 50 journalists and local people were
stationed outside her home, the report said.  In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  urged the government in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma,
to release Suu Kyi, while saying that action would be just a
first step toward better relations with the U.S.  “We would hope that she will be released today, but we’ll
wait and see what the government does in Burma,” Crowley told
reporters.  ‘Needs to Change’  “Our policy is that all political prisoners in Burma need
to be released” and that the government “needs to change its
relationship with its people,” Crowley said. “So it’s unclear
whether any one step will change our policy.”  Myanmar is under U.S. and European sanctions for human
rights abuses, including the jailing of 2,100 political
prisoners.  Win Tin said earlier that if Suu Kyi is freed, she plans to
tour the country and may reconsider her views on sanctions on
Myanmar after last week’s vote paved the way for the formation
of the nation’s first multiparty parliament since 1962.  “She essentially controls U.S. policy, indirectly,” said
 David Steinberg , director of Asian studies at Georgetown
University. “We think what she thinks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 