-- Sweden Faces Capital Influx as Hunt for Yields Intensifies
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-12T14:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/sweden-faces-capital-influx-as-hunt-for-yields-intensifies.html
Sweden is facing a capital influx as
low international borrowing costs encourage investors to turn to
higher-yielding currencies in search of better returns, Riksbank
Deputy Governor  Lars Nyberg  said.  The Stockholm-based central bank last month raised its main
interest rate for a third time since July, bringing it to 1
percent. Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves  yesterday reiterated
the bank’s plans to continue raising rates, albeit at a slower
pace than policy makers signaled in September. The Riksbank’s
tightening trajectory is in contrast to expansionary monetary
policy in the U.S., the euro area and Japan.  “Sweden is growing very quickly at the moment and we
should expect capital inflows,” Nyberg said in an interview in
Stockholm yesterday. “Very low rates coming from the present
situation -- not only in the U.S. -- of course encourage people
to search for yield everywhere in the world; so this is
something we have to watch out for -- everywhere.”  Sweden’s krona has appreciated about 10 percent against the
euro this year. Since the end of June, it is the second-best
performer of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
topped only by the Australian dollar. The largest Nordic economy
is poised to deliver the biggest rebound in the European Union
this year after the bloc’s smallest budget deficit allowed Prime
Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  to eschew fiscal cuts that are
hampering recoveries elsewhere.  Krona Jumps  The krona jumped 0.7 percent against the dollar to trade at
6.7834 at 3:15 p.m. in Stockholm today, making it the best
performer of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Against the euro, the krona was also the day’s top performer of
the 16 most-traded currencies, gaining 0.04 percent.  The Riksbank has signaled it won’t use policy to soften
krona gains even as capital continues to flow into Sweden. The
bank’s interest rate path has “complicated factors affecting it,
not just the exchange rate, because we believe that as the labor
market strengthens and strengthens we will see inflation
pressures coming back,” Deputy Governor  Barbro Wickman-Parak 
said in an interview today.  “There is room for the krona to appreciate further,” said
 Henrik Unell , an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm, in a
note. The gains will track a widening in the difference in
interest rates between Sweden and the euro area, he said.  The Federal Reserve’s stimulus boost has made the purchase
of higher-yielding currencies through so-called carry trades
more attractive, International Monetary Fund Chief Economist
 Olivier Blanchard  said on Nov. 4.  Fed’s Choice  The Fed’s decision to purchase $600 billion in Treasury
assets “makes the risk associated with carry trades much
smaller,” Blanchard said. “The implication for this implies
more capital flows outside the U.S. and presumably some dollar
depreciation.”  According to Nyberg, this doesn’t pose any specific
challenge for Swedish monetary policy, even though the krona’s
appreciation has contributed to keeping  headline inflation  below
the bank’s 2 percent target since December 2008. A strong krona
also risks hampering Swedish exports, 60 percent of which go to
the EU. Sales abroad make up half of the country’s economy.  Fed policy makers “need to do this; I have no reason to
question this,” Nyberg said. “The rest of the world would be
even worse off if there were a double dip in the U.S.”  ‘Own Devices’  Sweden’s monetary policy won’t be deployed to steer the
krona, Ingves said yesterday, distancing himself from global
tensions surrounding exchange rate policy as Group of 20 leader
meet in South Korea to address trade imbalances.  In Sweden, “the exchange rate is simply left to its own
devices,” Ingves said at a hearing on monetary policy at the
Parliament’s Committee on Finance in Stockholm.  “If a currency war begins, it is only a short step to a
trade war,” Ingves said. “Such a development would be very
unfortunate and have a considerable negative impact on small
economies with extensive foreign trade, such as Sweden.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  