-- Swiss Shipper Finds Resistance Futile in U.S. Bribery Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/swiss-shipper-panalpina-finds-resistance-is-futile-in-u-s-bribery-probe.html
Panalpina World Transport Holding
Ltd. , like  Siemens AG  and others before it, faced potentially
crippling penalties when U.S. prosecutors began investigating
the bribes it paid to government officials around the world.  The Swiss freight forwarder could battle the probe and risk
an indictment, or clean up its practices and help prosecutors
unearth its wrongdoing. Like Siemens, Panalpina chose
cooperation. On Nov. 4, the Justice Department rewarded
Panalpina, letting it avoid prosecution by paying $81.5 million,
admitting “a culture of corruption,” and strengthening
compliance programs.  Surrender by companies such as Panalpina and Siemens is now
the norm under the 33-year-old Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. No
company has risked an FCPA court fight in two decades out of
fear that a conviction could lead to a loss of public contracts
and higher penalties, lawyers said. After resolving two or three
cases a year, the U.S. settled 47 corporate cases since 2005
without trial, reaping $3.3 billion for the U.S. treasury.  “Publicly traded companies cooperate in FCPA matters
because they can’t afford the potential consequences of fighting
with the government,” said  Kirk Ogrosky , a partner at  Arnold &
Porter LLP  who supervised Justice Department fraud cases.
“After 33 years, there is shockingly little court precedent to
rely on.”  Settlements this year involved  BAE Systems Plc , Europe’s
largest defense company, which agreed to pay $400 million;
 Daimler AG , maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, which will pay $185
million; and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s largest oil
company, which agreed Nov. 4 to pay $48.1 million.  Siemens Fines  In December 2008,  Siemens , Europe’s largest engineering
company, agreed to pay $800 million to the U.S. and $814 million
to German authorities. The company said it spent another $1
billion on lawyers and accountants and on strengthening internal
controls.  In three other settlements, joint venture partners who
built liquefied natural gas facilities in Nigeria admitted using
agents to funnel $182 million in bribes to government officials
for $6 billion in contracts. The partners agreed to pay a total
of $1.28 billion, with Houston-based Kellogg Brown & Root LLC
settling last year, and Paris-based Technip SA and Amsterdam-
based Snamprogetti Netherlands BV reaching accords this year.  “Prosecutors know from the outset that they hold the upper
hand because companies have to find terms to which they can
agree,” said  George Terwilliger III , a lawyer at White & Case
LLP.  ‘Uncapped Liability’  Cooperating and settling to avoid the possibility of an
indictment allows companies to erase uncertainty and remove the
“uncapped liability” of a trial, said  Joseph Warin , an FCPA
lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.  Lawyers cite Arthur Andersen LLP, once the world’s fifth-
largest accounting firm, which was convicted at trial in 2002 of
obstructing an SEC probe into Enron Corp. Andersen collapsed
before the U.S. Supreme Court overturned its conviction in 2005.  The FCPA bars corrupt payments to foreign officials for
obtaining or keeping business. The law requires companies with
securities listed in the U.S. to keep accurate books and records
of transactions and maintain internal accounting controls.  Critics Provoked  The intensity of U.S. enforcement has provoked critics.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s  Institute for Legal Reform 
said the Justice Department and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, which has civil authority in FCPA cases, “almost
exclusively” define gray areas of the law without judicial
oversight.  Congress should clarify ambiguities in the law that “have
had a chilling effect” on U.S. businesses, some of which have
“ceased foreign operations rather than face the uncertainties
of FCPA enforcement,” the institute said in a paper last month.  Michael Koehler, an assistant professor of business law at
Butler University in Indiana, assails settlements reached
without judges having input on questions such as whether
employees of state-owned companies are foreign officials. Many
instances of “clear-cut bribery,” as in Siemens, are resolved
through lesser books-and-records or internal controls charges,
he said.  “The most egregious cases are not being resolved under the
FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions,” said Koehler, who writes the
 FCPA Professor blog . “These untested and dubious legal theories
have increased the compliance burden on companies.”  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed in 2002, added to the burden
with tougher standards for internal controls. Companies also
faced more exposure to FCPA charges as businesses expanded
internationally.  38 Countries  The U.S. and 37 other countries are fighting transnational
bribery through the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  FCPA enforcement is a rising priority at the Justice
Department, where about 30 to 40 lawyers might work at any time
on FCPA cases, including 15 who are full-time. The SEC has
assigned more than 30 lawyers to FCPA cases, and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation has an entire squad of agents on foreign
anti-bribery cases.  More than 50 people were charged with FCPA-related crimes
in the past two years. A married couple who worked as Hollywood
film executives were convicted at trial last year of violating
the FCPA, and another man was convicted in a separate case of
conspiring to violate the anti-bribery law.  Jefferson Convicted  Former U.S. Congressman  William Jefferson  was convicted of
soliciting bribes, racketeering and conspiring to violate the
FCPA. In January, the U.S. charged 22 people after an FBI
undercover operation that focused on the military and law-
enforcement products industry.  A typical corporate probe involves a couple of prosecutors
and FBI agents working with lawyers and accountants hired by a
company, said  Steven Tyrrell , a former Justice Department fraud
section chief who is now at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP.  “Law firms and companies set out to see how big their
problem is so they can then figure out the appropriate way to
proceed with the government,” Tyrrell said.  Companies often voluntarily disclose internal probes to the
Justice Department and turn over documents, e-mails and employee
interviews to prosecutors. They would rather do their own
investigations than have a grand jury bring in subpoenaed
witnesses, said Peter Clark, who prosecuted the first FCPA cases
during his 25 years at the Justice Department.  ‘A Full View’  “The government isn’t going to tell you what occurs in a
grand jury,” said Clark, now at  Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft
LLP . “In an internal investigation, the company’s lawyers are
interviewing employees and agents, and the company is able to
have a full view of what’s being learned.”  After German authorities raided Siemens in 2006, the
company helped prosecutors unravel years of bribery around the
world while overhauling its corporate culture. Two years later,
Siemens admitted funneling $806 million in bribes to foreign
officials from 2001 to 2007 through direct payments, slush
funds, shell companies and cash-stuffed suitcases.  Two subsidiaries pleaded guilty in the U.S. to anti-bribery
charges, with  Siemens  and a third unit admitting internal
controls violations. In paying $1.6 billion to U.S. and German
authorities, Siemens avoided an FCPA bribery conviction that
would have barred it from public contracts in the European
Union.  Siemens, with 475,000 workers in 190 countries, oversaw an
internal probe with interviews of 1,750 workers and reviews of
82 million electronic documents and 38 million financial
transactions.  Compliance Program  Under its plea agreement, Siemens hired a monitor for four
years to oversee its compliance program. Monitors are often
imposed in so-called deferred prosecution agreements, where
prosecutors file criminal charges they agree to withdraw after a
period if the company meets required improvements in governance
and compliance.  The Justice Department reached deferred prosecution
agreements, or DPAs, in at least 23 cases since 2005 and non-
prosecution agreements with financial penalties, or NPAs, in 13
cases. The department doesn’t say how many cases it declines to
prosecute.  An internal investigation can help move prosecutors “from
believing a conviction is necessary to believing that a DPA or
an NPA or even a declination may be appropriate,” said Denis
McInerney, chief of the department’s fraud section.  “And we absolutely do decline on cases,” he said.  Nine-Step Guide  The Justice Department uses a nine-step guide on business
prosecutions in deciding how to resolve cases. The criteria
include the seriousness of the crimes, a company’s history of
wrongdoing, its willingness to cooperate, the extent of
compliance programs, and the harm that charges would bring to
employees and others. Prosecutors use federal sentencing
guidelines to set fines.  In the Panalpina case, the company  admitted  bribing
government officials in Angola, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Kazakhstan,
Nigeria, Russia and Turkmenistan. The bribes from 2002 to 2007
let its clients, most in the oil and oil-services business,
avoid the customs process, pass off phony documents or smuggle
contraband including medicines and explosives, Panalpina said in
a statement of facts.  After an “initial reluctance to cooperate” in 2007, the
internal probe included “a comprehensive review of operations
in nine countries” and a “detailed review of 102 additional
issues in another 36 countries,” according to a memo filed in
federal court in Houston by prosecutors and Panalpina.  The  OECD’s Working Group on Bribery  said in a report last
month that while the U.S. still leads the world in battling
corruption, the Justice Department should make clearer the
thinking behind deferred-prosecution or non-prosecution
agreements.  ‘Enhance Accountability’  “Publishing more detailed reasons for entering in DPAs and
NPAs would give more insight into the DOJ’s choice of settlement
agreements and thus enhance accountability and transparency of
the process,” OECD said the report.  Lawyers who defend companies in FCPA cases also say the
department doesn’t offer clear benefits for companies that
voluntarily disclose wrongdoing.  “It has been hard to discern in the last few years what
benefit companies have received from the settled cases,” said
Lucinda Low of Steptoe & Johnson LLP.  Some general counsels and boards of directors have
questioned whether it makes sense to disclose wrongdoing that
the Justice Department might not otherwise uncover, said  Robert Tarun  of Baker & McKenzie LLP.  Asking Questions  “A number of really quality companies will ask off-the-
record if it’s really worth it for our company to completely do
an investigation, fully cooperate, and still get a fine within
the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines range when the U.S. might never
be able to prove any of the allegations,” Tarun said.  “The DOJ and SEC could spend 10 years on some of these
cases where companies have cooperated to track down evidence in
foreign jurisdictions,” Tarun said. “The resources that have
been expended through deputized lawyers is extraordinary.”  McInerney, the DOJ fraud section chief, said that over the
past decade, the department “has given a lot of guidance on the
criteria it uses for evaluating a company.”  He said any company is free to defend itself in court.  “The courts are available to companies if they dispute the
department’s interpretation of the law,” McInerney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 