-- Cameron to Visit Zurich Next Month to Support England's 2018 World Cup Bid
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/u-k-pm-cameron-will-visit-zurich-to-support-england-s-2018-world-cup-bid.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will travel to Zurich next month to urge FIFA, soccer’s
governing body, to award England the right to stage the 2018
World Cup.  “The prime minister wants to offer the strongest possible
support for what he thinks is an excellent bid,” Cameron’s
office said in a statement.  Cameron has thrown his weight behind  England’s attempt to
host the tournament , using meetings on the sidelines of the
Group of 20 summit in Seoul to push fellow leaders to give their
support. He will do the same at a NATO summit in Lisbon next
week. Yesterday he met FIFA Vice-President  Chung Mong-joon , a
South Korean.  FIFA  will decide in Zurich on Dec. 2 on where the World
Cups in 2018 and 2022 are staged. England, Russia and joint
offers from Spain and Portugal and the Netherlands and Belgium
are vying for 2018. England won the competition in 1966, the
only time it staged the event.  The U.S., Australia, Qatar, South Korea and Japan are
competing to stage sport’s most watched event in 2022. Former
President  Bill Clinton , the honorary chairman of the U.S. bid
committee, will also be going to Zurich to make a pitch to FIFA.  Cameron held a separate meeting yesterday with Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  and promised him “a good clean
fight,” according to British officials who were present.  FIFA is investigating two of its 24-member decision-making
panel after the Sunday Times newspaper alleged Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu  and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii told undercover reporters
they’d exchange their votes for cash. The findings will be
announced on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 