-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Falls to 19-Month Low, Nationwide Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/u-k-consumer-confidence-drops-to-19-month-low-before-budget-squeeze-plan.html
U.K. consumer confidence fell to a
19-month low in October as Britons braced themselves for the
deepest budget cuts since World War II, Nationwide Building
Society said.  The  index of sentiment  slipped 1 point from September to
52, the lowest since March 2009, the customer-owned lender said
in an e-mailed statement today. The measure of consumers’ future
expectations fell 4 points to 70, also a 19-month low. TNS-RI
questioned 1,000 people for Nationwide from Sept. 20 to Oct. 17.  “Consumers displayed greater pessimism towards their
future level of household income,”  Martin Gahbauer , chief
economist at Swindon, England-based Nationwide, said in the
statement. “The underlying anxiety around the strength and
direction of the recovery appears to remain.”  The survey predates Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s Oct. 20 announcement detailing the government budget
squeeze that will eliminate almost half a million public-sector
jobs. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that
the economic recovery will weather the cuts, though its strength
remains “highly uncertain.”  Some measures of confidence increased last month. An index
of people’s current perception of the economy rose 3 points to
25, while a gauge of whether now is a good time to spend rose 6
points to 92, the report showed. GfK NOP Ltd.’s consumer-
confidence index also rose in October before Osborne’s
announcement, according to an Oct. 29 report.  The improvements in perception and spending sentiment
“should not be overstated,” Gahbauer said. The drop in the
expectations gauge “may be due to consumers understanding that
changes announced in the spending review will be implemented
over several years rather than take effect straight away.”  The Bank of England said this week that consumer spending
“may have weakened slightly” in the third quarter and it noted
that household sentiment has also declined this year.  A separate report today by research company Acadametrics
Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said that U.K. house prices
rose 0.3 percent to the highest level in more than two years in
October as transactions increased and the property market showed
signs of peaking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  