-- King May Write Fourth U.K. Inflation Letter of 2010 Next Week
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/u-k-inflation-probably-exceeded-bank-of-england-3-limit-for-eighth-month.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
may write to finance minister  George Osborne  next week in his
fourth letter of 2010 to explain why  inflation  remains above the
government’s 3 percent limit.  Consumer prices rose in October by 3.1 percent from a year
earlier, the same pace as in September, according to the median
 forecast  of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey completed
yesterday. The Office for National Statistics will release the
data on Nov. 16. The governor must write a letter every three
months when the rate overshoots the government ceiling.  King predicted this week that inflation will stay above the
central bank’s 2 percent target through next year and that there
is an equal chance of it exceeding or undershooting the goal by
the end of 2012. Government budget cuts to eliminate almost half
a million jobs may still weaken the economy and sap consumer
price pressures.  King’s letter “will stress the degree of spare capacity
that there is in the economy,” said  Marchel Alexandrovich , an
economist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London. Still, “we’re
finding inflation stickier and higher than anyone thought 12
months ago. We do expect inflation to come down over the course
of 2011, but it’ll take a while.”  Alexandrovich’s forecast matches the median in the
Bloomberg News survey. Other predictions ranged from 3 percent
by economists including  Philip Shaw  at Investec Securities Ltd.
to 3.3 percent by Societe Generale SA’s  Brian Hilliard  and
National Australia Bank Ltd.’s  David Tinsley .  Inflation has exceeded 3 percent this year in every month
apart from February. The central bank predicts that increases in
commodity costs and higher sales tax will keep the inflation
rate above the 2 percent goal next year, masking underlying
subdued price pressures from the aftermath of the recession.  “They expect inflation to be temporary and they expect it
to come down given the amount of slack in the economy,”
Alexandrovich said. “There’s a good chance they’ll need to do
more quantitative easing during 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  