-- U.K. Acadametrics House-Price Estimate Rises to Two-Year High
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/u-k-acadametrics-house-price-estimate-rises-to-two-year-high.html
U.K. house prices increased to the
highest in more than two years in October as the property market
showed signs of peaking, research company Acadametrics Ltd. and
LSL Property Services Plc said in an estimate released today.  The average price of a home in England and Wales climbed
for a sixth month, gaining 0.3 percent to 224,709 pounds
($363,000), the highest since June 2008, the groups said in an
e-mailed report today. Values rose 6.1 percent from a year
earlier.  While U.K.  economic growth  has posted its strongest two
consecutive quarters for a decade, consumer confidence fell to a
19-month low in October as the prospect of budget cuts loomed,
Nationwide Building Society said today. The housing market has
been “subdued” since August with “signs of a weakening in
demand” in recent months, the Bank of England said on Nov. 10.  “Some, but not all, of the regions in England and Wales
will be showing falling prices on an annual basis by the end of
the year,” Acadametrics Chairman  Peter Williams  said in the
report. “Along with relatively flat prices, we continue to have
a much reduced volume of transactions. This is indicative of a
slow market, reflecting the range of negative factors which both
buyers and sellers are facing.”  Data are painting a mixed picture about the health of the
country’s property market. While  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ’s
Halifax unit said on Nov. 4 that  home values  climbed 1.8 percent
last month, erasing almost half a record drop posted in
September, Nationwide said that they fell to an eight-month low.  Property Transactions  Acadametrics said the gain in house prices last month came
as the number of transactions rose 2 percent from September.
That’s still a drop of 7.3 percent from a year earlier.  “Given that the market is bouncing along the bottom, we
should not be surprised to note a degree of variation in the
reporting from different indices,” Williams said.  Acadametrics combines initial housing transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures to
produce an estimate for the most recent month for its index.
That number is then revised in following months.  A separate report by the  National Association of Estate
Agents  today showed the number of people looking for a home
“significantly decreased” in October. The total of house
hunters registered per real-estate agent branch decreased on
average to 218 in October from 247 the previous month, the group
said in an e-mailed statement. That was the lowest since
December 2008.  Nationwide said its  index of consumer sentiment  fell 1
point in October to 52 from the previous month, the lowest
reading since March 2009. “Consumers displayed greater
pessimism towards their future level of household income,”
 Martin Gahbauer , chief economist at Swindon, England-based
Nationwide, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  