-- U.S. Postal Service Says Loss Widened to $8.5 Billion in 2010
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-11-12T14:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/u-s-postal-service-loss-more-than-doubles-to-8-5-billion-as-volume-drops.html
The U.S. Postal Service said its
loss widened to a record $8.5 billion in the year ended Sept.
30, exceeding its forecast, as the volume of mail declined.  Revenue fell 1.5 percent to $67.1 billion for the year and
mail volume dropped 3.5 percent, according to a presentation to
the service’s board today at a meeting in Washington. The loss
in the previous fiscal year was $3.8 billion, the service said.  The Postal Service, which forecast a $7 billion loss, said
almost two thirds of the deficit, or $5.5 billion, covered
health-benefit costs for future retirees. An additional $2.5
billion covered adjustments to workers’ compensation liabilities
for interest rate changes. The loss for 2011 will be $6.4
billion, Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Corbett  said today.  “We expect to go through the year with sufficient cash to
continue operations,” Corbett said. “However at the end of the
year, we don’t expect to have sufficient cash to pay all of our
obligations, primarily the $5.5 billion retiree health payment
due at the end of the year.”  The Postal Service has asked Congress for permission to
close post offices and eliminate Saturday delivery to stem
losses as more people use the Internet to replace letters, print
publications and pay bills.  The Postal Service, which cut work hours by 11 percent, to
225 million hours, at its mail-processing centers, has a $3
billion annual borrowing limit and a $15 billion debt limit. The
agency said in a 2009 regulatory filing that those limits would
“become insufficient without additional structural changes.”  Borrowing Limits  The agency borrows from the U.S. Treasury and is forbidden
by law from borrowing from commercial banks or companies.
“There is no more money for us to borrow,” said James C.
Miller III, chairman of the board’s audit and finance committee.  Over the past two years, the Postal Service has cut more
than $9 billion in costs, primarily by eliminating about 105,000
full-time equivalent positions,  Corbett  told the board.  “We were able to make all of our payments this year
including our pre-funding of retiree health,” Corbett said.
“We reduced costs more than we thought we could this year.”  The agency reduced employee work hours 6 percent from 2009
to 2010 and plans to cut 4.1 percent next year, according to
Corbett’s presentation.  First-class mail volume fell 6.9 percent in the fourth
quarter, the smallest drop for the period since the 2007 fiscal
year. Standard mail volume, including advertising mail, rose 8.9
percent, the biggest quarterly gain since at least 2006. First
class mail is more profitable than standard mail, Corbett said.  For 2011, Corbett said mail volume may rise 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 