-- College Savings Guarantees May Leave Parents Short on Tuition
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-11-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/u-s-college-savings-guarantees-might-leave-parents-short-at-tuition-time.html
When Robert Allen, 50, opened
college savings accounts for his children, he wanted an
investment with a guarantee.  “The hope was with the earnings and what we put in it, we
would have just about enough by the time the kids were ready to
go,” said Allen, a Waltham, Massachusetts, lawyer, with three
sons: a  college  junior, high school senior and eighth grader.  Allen started saving for college eight years ago, when most
assets in 529 savings plans were flowing into investment options
that mirror mutual funds, according to  Morningstar Inc. , a
Chicago-based research firm. He chose a plan that provided a
principal guarantee, an alternative that was then offered mainly
by insurers. Sponsors of 529 college savings plans are now
adding federally insured options including index-linked products
to attract savers wary of losing money in the stock market.  Unlike mutual funds, these structured products are opaque
and it’s difficult for investors to determine how much they’re
paying in built-in charges and whether they’re sacrificing too
much in returns.  “They try to give you what sounds like the best of both
worlds -- you can’t lose your principal and you participate in
the market upside,” said  Glenn Frank , a director of investment
tax strategy with Lexington Wealth Management, of structured CDs
in some 529 plans.  “Typically they stack the deck against the
investor. They limit the upside and you have to keep the money
in there for some long period of time or pay a penalty.”  State Plans  Frank, based in Lexington, Massachusetts, said he has
compared options in 529 plans when advising his clients,
including Allen, the Waltham lawyer, who want to protect their
original investment.  The 529 plans are set up by states and generally offer tax-
free gains on earnings if used to pay for eligible college
expenses. Assets totaled about $119 billion as of September, up
from $200 million in 1998, according to Morningstar. The number
of states offering federally insured investments has more than
doubled to 14 since May 2009, said  Andrea Feirstein , managing
director of  AKF Consulting Group , a New York-based firm advising
state administrators of 529s.  Investors who rely solely on guaranteed investments --
whether structured products or federally insured certificates
and savings accounts -- may find their account balances trail
the increase in  college costs  or earn nothing at all.  ‘Never Get Ahead’  “The investment will likely not keep pace with the cost of
tuition, which continues to rise at roughly twice the rate of
inflation,” said Stephen Jobe, director of 529 programs for New
York-based  BlackRock Inc. , with about $4 billion in plan assets.
“At that rate, a family will never get ahead.”  Tuition and fees at public four-year colleges and
universities increased at an average rate of 5.6 percent a year
beyond the rate of general inflation in the past decade,
according to the  College Board , a New York-based nonprofit. The
average tuition and fees at private, four-year nonprofit
colleges this year is $27,293, up 4.5 percent from last year,
while the average cost at public, four-year universities for in-
state students is $7,605, an increase of 7.9 percent.  Allen said he opened three accounts through  Michigan’s plan 
after comparing fees and investment choices because his home
state of Massachusetts doesn’t offer a  tax  deduction or credit,
as do 35 other states, according to Morningstar. He said he
invested about $150,000 in each and picked an option that
provided a return of principal plus an interest rate set
annually, which can’t be lower than 1 percent and currently
yields 2.5 percent.  Not Created Equal  Michigan’s plan is managed by TIAA-CREF and the guaranteed
option is backed by the New York-based company’s life insurance
unit, said  Doug Chittenden , head of the firm’s 529 business.
TIAA-CREF has $7 billion in 529 plan assets in multiple states.  Not all products with guarantees are created equal,
Chittenden said. Savers should look at rates of return, tax
benefits in their states, and liquidity as some certificates of
deposit may have penalties for early withdrawal, he said.  “There are many people who could be saving for college who
are scared off by mutual funds,” said Indiana State Treasurer
 Richard Mourdock . More than three-quarters of assets in 529s are
in securities that mirror mutual funds, according to
Morningstar. The average 529 investment option lost almost 24
percent in 2008 when the  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  declined
about 38 percent.  CDs Added  Indiana  last month approved the addition to its plan of
three certificates of deposit provided by the College Savings
Bank in Princeton, New Jersey, and insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., said Jodi Golden, executive director of
the state’s 529 program. It’s the first time a state has added
the bank’s products since Arizona in 1998 and Montana in 1997.  One of the CDs has a traditional, fixed interest rate and
the other two are structured products that use derivatives to
link returns to an index’s performance. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities, or linked to specific events such as
changes in interest rates.  The bank’s “ CollegeSure CD ” is tied to college inflation
as measured by an index of the College Board. Investors receive
the rate of college inflation minus 3 percent or 4 percent
currently with at least a zero-percent guaranteed return, said
 Gil Johnson , president and chief executive officer of College
Savings Bank.  ‘Priority One’  Another, called the “ InvestorSure CD ,” is linked to the
performance of the S&P 500 Index and has attracted about $15
million since its creation in 2008, Johnson said. The CD earns a
variable rate of return determined by 85 percent of the S&P’s
average gains per quarter. If the calculation over the five-year
maturity produces a negative return, the CD pays zero percent
interest.  While bank yields may be muted when evaluated against a
strong equity market, the CD will protect principal when held to
maturity regardless of market conditions, said Johnson. “I
believe principal protection is priority one when saving for a
child’s future,” he said.  The structured products are hard for an investor to
evaluate and compare, said Frank of Lexington Wealth Management.
“You’d have to do some math and play out some different
scenarios in different markets,” to figure out what you could
make, he said. “It’s just overly complicated.”  Greater Upside  The CDs linked to indexes require investors to do more
reading to understand the risks and potential returns, though
they also may offer greater upside on earnings than a
traditional CD, said Feirstein of AKF Consulting Group.  Indiana plans to make the College Savings Bank CDs
available to savers by the first quarter next year and consumers
may be able to purchase them in local banks across the state as
well as through a website and financial advisers, Golden said.  A more conservative solution than structured products for
college savers worried about losing principal is a federally
insured savings account, which sponsors of  529 plans  are also
adding to plans despite low interest rates. Savings accounts
were returning an average 0.17 percent nationally, according to
 Bankrate.com .  Fidelity Investments, the third-largest provider of 529s
with plans sponsored by five states, introduced an FDIC-insured
savings account in September currently earning 0.17 percent,
which includes a 5 basis point  fee . One basis point is
equivalent to 0.01 percentage point. Upromise Investments, a
unit of  SLM Corp. , the Reston, Virginia-based lender with $31
billion in 529 assets, started offering a similar option in
Nevada last month and in Indiana in July returning 1.3 percent
minus a fee of 0.29 percent, said  Jeff Howkins , Upromise’s
president.  North Carolina Offerings  The FDIC generally insures accounts up to $250,000 for each
depositor.  North Carolina offers a savings account option insured by
the National Credit Union Administration with a current interest
rate of 2.25 percent that has attracted about $11.5 million
since its start in April, said Joan McCool, senior vice
president of IRA and investment services for the  State
Employees’ Credit Union  in Raleigh, North Carolina. The state’s
plan charges an administrative fee of no more than 0.25 percent
annually, she said.  Investors who leave their money in low-yield options such
as federally insured accounts while waiting for the market to
stabilize should be aware that they may only change their 529
investments once in a calendar year, said Feirstein of AKF
Consulting Group.  Estate Planning  Wealthy investors using 529 plans to fund their
grandchildren’s educations and move money out of their estates
for tax purposes, shouldn’t choose investments with low growth
potential, said David Keator, partner at  Keator Group LLC , an
advisory firm in Lenox, Massachusetts.  Internal Revenue Service rules let savers give 5 years
worth of gifts to a beneficiary at once through a 529. That
means an individual may contribute up to $65,000 or $130,000 a
couple to an account without incurring tax because the annual
limit is currently $13,000 per individual, per beneficiary.  “You get 25 or 30 years of growth and the tax savings,”
said Keator. “Who the heck knows what college is going to cost
then?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 