-- Hungarian Growth Accelerates on Exports, Consumption
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-12T09:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/hungarian-3rd-quarter-economic-growth-accelerates-on-exports-consumption.html
Hungary’s  economic growth 
accelerated in the third quarter as rising domestic consumption
and increasing export demand in western Europe helped the
country recover from its worst recession in 18 years.  Gross domestic product grew an annual 1.6 percent after
expanding 1 percent in the second quarter, according to
preliminary data from the Budapest-based  statistics office 
released today. The median estimate of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was 1.2 percent. GDP increased 0.8 percent from
the previous quarter after a revised quarterly growth of 0.4
percent in April-June.  “Retail sales edged into positive territory,”  Gergely Suppan , an economist at Takarekbank Zrt. in Budapest, said in a
phone interview. “That’s tremendous improvement. I expect that
on a quarterly basis there will be further” economic “growth in
the fourth quarter.”  Hungary’s government is pinning its economic policy on a
target of boosting growth above 5 percent by 2014 through cuts
in the personal and corporate income taxes. Retail sales ended a
41-month decline in July. The Cabinet’s reliance on special
industry taxes to maintain  budget balance  may torpedo that
target by slowing investments, analysts at BNP Paribas SA and
Budapest Investment Management said on Nov. 10.  Stocks, Bonds, Currency  The benchmark  BUX  stock index rose 0.7 percent by 10:27
a.m. in Budapest, led by a 1 percent gain in refiner Mol Nyrt.
and a 1.3 percent in drugmaker Gedeon Richter Nyrt. The yield on
the government’s benchmark five-year bond fell to 6.991 percent
from 7.092 percent and the forint gained 0.4 percent to 276.16
per euro.  The first European Union member to get an  International
Monetary Fund  bailout in 2008, Hungary cut spending to meet the
terms of its loan, exacerbating the worst recession since 1991.
The country is counting on resurgent demand in the euro region,
which buys 60 percent of products made or assembled in Hungary
including Audi AG cars and Nokia Oyj phones, to boost growth.  “On the production side, industry was most probably the
main engine,”  Zsolt Kondrat , an economist at the local unit of
Bayerische Landesbank, wrote in a note to clients. “Industry and
foreign trade are set to slow down with fading European growth,
while domestic demand will have a bigger contribution.”  Economic growth in Germany, Hungary’s biggest export
market, slowed in the third quarter after record expansion in
the second. French GDP also rose more slowly than in the
preceding three months.  End Austerity  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  was elected in April on a
pledge to end five years of austerity and boost growth after the
economy contracted a revised 6.7 percent last year, the most
since 1991. The Cabinet is reducing the personal and corporate
income taxes and using extra levies on the energy, financial,
retail and telecommunication industries.  Industrial production  rose 10.9 percent in September from a
year earlier, slowing from a 15.1 percent pace in August,
according to final figures from the statistics office released
in a separate statement today. Output grew 0.5 percent in the
month following a 2.3 percent increase in August.  The Hungarian government expects growth to accelerate to
5.2 percent in 2014 from a projected 0.8 percent this year,
according to Economy Ministry forecasts.  Hungary’s economy may grow by about 1 percent this year and
2.5 percent in 2011,  Christoph Rosenberg , head of the
International Monetary Fund delegation to Hungary, said on Oct.
25. In the medium-term, the economy will post a “very gradual”
expansion to about 3 percent, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  