-- Muni-Bond Adviser CDR Financial May Face More Federal Bid-Rigging Charges
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-11-12T21:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/muni-bond-adviser-cdr-financial-may-face-more-federal-bid-rigging-charges.html
The U.S. Justice Department’s
antitrust division plans to file more charges next month against
a Los Angeles-based financial adviser accused of rigging bids on
municipal-bond investment contracts, a government lawyer said.  The federal government expects to charge CDR Financial
Products with depriving states and local governments of its so-
called honest services and with defrauding the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service,  Rebecca Meiklejohn , a Justice Department
antitrust lawyer, said today during a hearing in a Manhattan
federal court. The government may bring the fresh indictment as
soon as Dec. 10, she said.  Last year, prosecutors charged CDR, its founder and two
other executives with conspiring to rig bidding on contracts
with local governments to invest the proceeds of bond issues.
The indictment claimed that CDR and its employees, who handled
the bidding, chose winners in exchange for kickbacks. Taxpayers
lost because the money was invested at below-market rates, the
government says. The company and the three executives deny the
charges.  The U.S. Supreme Court this year narrowed the honest
services fraud statute to cover only bribery and kickbacks.  Defense lawyers said that the Justice Department informed
them before the first indictments that it didn’t plan to file
honest-services charges.  “The delay in bringing this to the court’s attention is
inexplicable to me,” said Michael McGovern, an attorney with
New York-based Ropes & Gray LLP, who represents former CDR Chief
Financial Officer  Z. Stewart Wolmark .  The government has identified 232 deals in which it says
CDR rigged bids and defrauded state and local governments.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, Dunhill Insurance
Services Inc., 09-CR-01058, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  