-- UPS, JPMorgan Join Debt-Sales Rush Amid Yields Near Record Lows
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-11-12T23:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/ups-jpmorgan-join-debt-sales-rush-amid-yields-near-record-lows.html
United Parcel Service Inc. , the
world’s largest package-delivery business, and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  paced $36.1 billion of corporate bond issuance this week as
sales accelerated amid borrowing costs near record lows.  UPS offered $2 billion of bonds to pay for pension-fund
contributions, helping push dollar-denominated corporate sales
past $1 trillion for the second consecutive year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S.
bank by assets behind Bank of America Corp., sold $1.75 billion
of five-year senior holding company notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Company bond offerings climbed 27 percent from the five
days through Nov. 5, when volume was $28.4 billion, as companies
took advantage of record low yields and strong demand from
institutional money managers, said  Sean Slein  at Dwight Asset
Management in Baltimore.  “There’s been a bit of a change in the risk people are
willing to take,” said Slein, who helps oversee about $800
million of high-yield debt. “There’s still some skittishness
concerning equities and worry about the economy remaining on
this upward track. Money managers are looking at high-yield as
getting equity-like returns with half the volatility.”  HCA Inc. , the hospital chain acquired four years ago in a
$33 billion leveraged buyout, sold $1.53 billion of notes to
lead $11.6 billion of high-yield, high-risk corporate bond
issuance. Sales of the debt climbed 40 percent from the week
ended Nov. 5, when offerings reached $8.23 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  ‘Issuer’s Market’  “It’s an issuer’s market right now, and underwriters are
taking full advantage of that and pricing offerings fairly
aggressively,” said Slein. “If money keeps coming into this
asset class, it’s going to have to be put somewhere.”  The average yield on junk debt rose 9 basis points to 7.66
percent from Nov. 5. It touched 7.55 percent on Nov. 9, the
lowest since March 2005, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index. The extra yield
investors demand to own junk bonds instead of Treasuries fell 4
basis points to 575 basis points, index data show.  Sales this week compare with the 2010 average of $22.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance may
remain elevated after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
last week announced a plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries in
an effort to slash unemployment and avert deflation, putting
pressure on U.S. interest rates to fall and encouraging
investors to buy bonds with higher-yields.  ‘Supportive’ Conditions  “Away from an exogenous shock to the market, there is
little I see on the horizon that could change the supportive
technical and fundamental backdrop,” said  Peter Aherne , head of
capital markets and syndicate at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  LG&E and KU Energy LLC and its Louisville Gas & Electric
Co. and Kentucky Utilities Co. units sold a combined $2.91
billion of debt on Nov. 8 to lead investment-grade issuance this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With rates this low, why not borrow today when you can?”
 Timothy Cox , an executive director of debt capital markets at
Mizuho Securities USA in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Companies can improve their balance sheets and
continue to pay out higher-coupon debt due down the road, so why
not act now, because who knows what the future brings?”  Investment-Grade Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
debt instead of Treasuries was unchanged from Nov. 5 at 176,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate
Master index. Yields were 3.75 percent, up from 3.57 percent
last week. Yields touched 3.53 reached on Nov. 4, the lowest
since the daily index was made available about 24 years ago.  “The depth and breadth of issuance and the quality of
demand we saw, all suggests that the market tone remains very
supportive from a technical and fundamental point of view,”
Aherne said.  ClubCorp Club Operations Inc. is among companies planning
to sell dollar-denominated debt in November. The golf-course
company may sell $415 million of eight-year notes as soon as
next week, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds may be used to repay borrowings under the company’s
senior secured credit facilities, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  