-- Turkey Prices Hit Record Before Thanksgiving on Feed Costs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/turkey-jumps-to-record-before-thanksgiving-urner-barry-says.html
Americans will be paying more for
their Thanksgiving turkeys this month after rising feed costs
led to reduced output in the U.S.  U.S. wholesale, frozen turkeys jumped to $1.09 a pound on
average yesterday, the highest price ever and up 28 percent from
a year earlier, according to  Russell Whitman , the vice president
of the poultry division at commodity researcher Urner Barry in
Toms River, New Jersey.  At the end of September,  stockpiles  of turkey meat slid 23
percent from a year earlier, government data show.  Production 
will decline 1.3 percent this year to 5.514 billion pounds (2.5
million metric tons), the U.S. Department of Agriculture  said  on
Nov. 9. Before today, the price of corn, which makes up about 70
percent of turkey feed, was up 47 percent in the past year.  “The fundamental reason why you’re seeing record-high
turkey prices is the fact we’re seeing record-high costs of
raising turkeys,” said  Tom Elam , president of FarmEcon LLC, an
agriculture and food-industry consultant in Carmel, Indiana.
“When both stocks are down and production is down, then you get
a double hit on the amount available to be consumed.”  Retailers in the U.S. sold whole frozen turkeys for an
average of $1.57 a pound in September, up 7.7 percent from a
year earlier and the highest level since at least 1980, the
Labor Department said on Oct. 15.  Higher Retail Price  While those government statistics don’t capture the holiday
discounting by grocers this month, retail prices probably will
be up 20 percent from Thanksgiving last year, said FarmEcon’s
Elam.  The birds are traditionally the main course for meals on
Thanksgiving, an annual holiday that Americans will celebrate on
Nov. 25 this year. Stores usually cut prices to spur sales on
accompanying items for the holiday dinner including cranberry
sauce, green beans or stuffing mix, Elam said. Retail prices,
even with specials, will be higher this year, he said.  Last year,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s largest
retailer, cut prices on turkeys, selling whole 12-pound (5.4
kilogram) turkeys for 40 cents a pound. That level of pricing
probably won’t be around this year, Elam said.  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart won’t disclose its
turkey pricing until Nov. 17, Melissa Hill, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Some retailers probably are going to lose money because
customers still expect discounts, Whitman said.  “Retailers stand the very real possibility of losing more
money than last year due to high wholesale prices,” Whitman
said. “The consumer has really come to expect low-price turkeys
even during the most popular time of year for it.”  ‘Top Dollar’  Most grocers secure their supply in February and March, and
they had an incentive to do that this year because stockpiles
were expected to be tight by November, Elam said. For those who
didn’t buy early or need more now, they will be forced to pay
“top dollar” to preserve customer loyalty by making sure there
is enough turkey at Thanksgiving, Whitman said.  “They’ll be enough to go around,” said  Kelly Zering ,
associate professor and extension specialist in the department
of agricultural and resource economics at North Carolina State
University in Raleigh. “It might be that if you wait until the
last minute, you might have fewer to choose from than you had
last year.”  Per capita consumption will be 16.2 pounds this year, the
lowest level since  1988 , according to the USDA. That is down
from 16.9 pounds in 2009. The main reason for the decline is
lower turkey output, said  David Harvey , a USDA agricultural
economist in Washington. Record grain prices in 2008 led some
producers to reduce their flocks, he said.  Tighter Corn Supply  The U.S. corn crop will be 1 percent smaller than forecast
a month ago, the Department of Agriculture said on Nov. 9, after
flooding in June and hot, dry weather in August lowered Midwest
yields. Feed is about 25 percent of the retail cost of turkeys,
Elam said.  Turkey producers have seen their profits dwindle after the
jump in feed costs, and some may lose money during a seasonal
drop in demand in January, Elam said. Some may trim or abandon
plans to expand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 