-- Muslim Cleric Banned by Britain Vows to Appeal Lebanon Life-in-Prison Term
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-11-12T14:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/muslim-cleric-banned-by-britain-vows-to-appeal-lebanon-life-in-prison-term.html
Muslim cleric  Omar Bakri Mohammed , a
former London resident who was barred from the U.K. in a drive
against extremism, said he has been sentenced to life in prison
in Lebanon in a terrorism case that he knew nothing about.  Bakri is among 54 people sentenced by a military court to
life in prison with hard labor after being accused of acts of
terrorism, Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency said today.  The 51-year-old said he will appeal after being found
guilty in absentia yesterday of providing weapons training to an
al-Qaeda-inspired group.  “I have never dealt with this group nor ever carried any
weapons in my entire life,” Bakri, a Lebanese citizen, said
today in a phone interview from the northern Lebanese city of
Tripoli, where he lives. “I will defend myself through my
students in Europe and the media. I am wrongfully accused.”  Bakri was in Lebanon in August 2005 when he was banned from
returning to the U.K., where he lived for about 20 years, “on
the grounds that his presence is not conducive to the public
good,” the Home Office in London said at the time.  He traveled to Lebanon after U.K. authorities moved to to
deport or prevent the return of extremists after the July 7,
2005, bombings that killed 52 commuters on London Underground
trains and a bus.  Bakri, often referred to as Omar Bakri, founded al-
Muhajiroun, a group that was banned in the U.K., and also was a
member of the Islamic group Hizb ut-Tahrir in Britain.  In 2007, the  Lebanese Army  fought Islamic militants for
almost four months after they killed 27 soldiers. The fighting,
in the northern Nahr al-Bared Palestinian refugee camp, was some
of the heaviest since the 15-year Lebanese civil war that ended
in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  