-- Wendy's/Arby's Declines After Lowering Sales, Profit Forecasts for Year
-- B y   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-11-12T14:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/wendy-s-arby-s-falls-after-restaurant-owner-lowers-sales-profit-forecasts.html
Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc. , the
world’s third-largest restaurant company, fell the most in six
months in New York trading after lowering sales and profit
forecasts for the year.  Sales at North American Wendy’s outlets open more than 15
months will drop about 1 percent, the Atlanta-based company said
today in a statement. In August, the chain predicted sales would
be little changed. The shares slumped as much as 6.4 percent.  Wendy’s/Arby’s faces increasing competition from larger
rivals such as  McDonald’s Corp. , which has posted more than 80
straight months of sales increases. The Arby’s sandwich chain,
whose same-store sales have dropped for 14 of the past 15
quarters, also has lost business to competitors’ promotions,
such as Subway’s $5 footlong sandwich.  The  shares  fell 29 cents to $4.75 at 9:38 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier they slid as low as
$4.72, the largest decline since May.  Before today, Wendy’s/Arby’s stock had dropped 15 percent
since a group led by billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz  combined
the two chains in a $2.56 billion all-stock deal in September
2008. That  compares  with a 51 percent rise in the Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Restaurants index.  Total sales last  quarter  slumped 4.7 percent, dragged down
by the Arby’s sandwich chain. Same-store sales at North American
Wendy’s sites fell 1.7 percent in the quarter, with a 5.9
percent drop at Arby’s. The company also said today that profit
for the full year will come in at the lower end of its previous
 projection . Wendy’s/Arby’s earlier anticipated a drop of 3
percent to 5 percent.  Arby’s sells thinly sliced roast-beef and “market fresh”
sandwiches. In May,  Hala Moddelmog , the former president of the
Church’s Chicken fast-food chain, was named the new president of
Arby’s. The company has introduced a dollar menu and is now
testing 30 items under $3 as well as a $5 Steakhouse Toasted Sub
Combo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 