-- Wheat Prices Slump as Rains Boost U.S. Crops, China Demand May Decline
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-12T21:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/wheat-prices-slump-as-rains-boost-u-s-crops-china-demand-may-decline.html
Wheat futures fell the most in
almost three months as rain in the U.S. Great Plains improved
the prospects of winter crops.  As much as 2 inches (5 centimeters) of rain fell last night
in parts of Texas, Oklahoma and central Kansas, the largest
winter-wheat state, according to QT Weather. Parts of those
states have received 25 percent of  normal  rainfall in the past
30 days, National Weather Service data show. Wheat prices also
declined on speculation that China’s moves to rein in its
economy will reduce commodity demand.  “The market is going to see a pretty good rain over
probably two-thirds of the winter-wheat area,” said  Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag in Quinter, Kansas. “It’s
probably going to be a negative factor.”  Wheat futures for March delivery dropped 34.5 cents, or 4.6
percent, to settle at $7.095 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. That marked the biggest decline for a
most-active contract since Aug. 16. For the week, wheat dropped
2.6 percent, after two straight weekly gains.  The grain also fell as traders were “getting caught up in
general commodity selling” amid speculation that China’s
consumption will decline, Glenn said. The Thomson Reuters/CRB
Index of 19 raw materials slumped the most in 18 months.  China’s central bank may raise interest rates within weeks
after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 25 months in
October, according to a Bloomberg News survey. China is the
world’s largest consumer of wheat and soybeans and is second in
corn consumption, after the U.S.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  