-- When a $200,000 Asking Price Just Isn't Enough: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-11-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/when-a-200-000-asking-price-just-isn-t-enough-scott-soshnick.html
The worst part of this  Cam Newton 
pay-for-play affair isn’t that a college football player might
have broken the rules -- we’re used to that. It’s that these
athletically blessed saps still have no idea how valuable they
are to their, ahem, institutions of higher learning.  It’s obvious that Newton, the Auburn quarterback and
Heisman hopeful, needs a primer on the business of big-time
college sports. With knowledge comes power. And profit.  A  report  says Newton had an asking price of $200,000. If a
school wanted him in uniform, it had to pay. But that dollar
amount simply can’t be right. It’s nowhere near enough. Not for
a kid who can deliver 15 rushing  touchdowns , 19 passing
touchdowns and, most importantly, a No. 2 ranking that
translates into a possible berth in the national championship
game.  Sure it’s a violation of National Collegiate Athletic
Association rules for a college athlete to take money, but
that’s how big-time athletics works these days. It’s a cesspool
of alumni boosters, agents, administrators, coaches, hangers-on
and, yes, players who choose to break the rules.  See, for example,  Reggie Bush , who won the 2005 Heisman
Trophy while at Southern Cal only to give it back after it was
discovered that he accepted cash and gifts.  Newton, a former backup to Heisman Trophy-winning
quarterback  Tim Tebow  at the University of Florida, might win
the Heisman, too. Whether the junior will get to keep it is
another question.  Shopped Around  According to an ESPN.com report, which cited former
Mississippi State quarterback John Bond, Newton was being
shopped around by a middleman to a number of schools, including
MSU.  Mississippi State, the report said, was being asked to pay
$180,000, a discount rate because Newton liked the team’s coach.
Generous, huh?  MSU, to its credit, declined to entertain the offer, the
report said. Newton wound up at Auburn, which is undefeated and
second to the University of Oregon in the all-important Bowl
Championship Series standings.  Officials at Auburn say only that Newton is eligible to
play. Newton’s father told ESPN the family never took money and
that no one was authorized to act on the 6-foot-6, 250-pound
kid’s behalf. Meantime,  FoxSports.com  reported that Newton faced
expulsion while at Florida for academic cheating. Auburn coach
 Gene Chizik  called that report “pure garbage.”  Hard to Know  Who knows what to believe anymore? Sports gambling
operators don’t, which is why Auburn’s game tomorrow against
Georgia earlier this week temporarily was removed from many
betting boards. Here’s the impossible-to-refute money side of
the tale.  The two top teams in the BCS standings will meet in the
national championship game, scheduled for Jan. 10 in Glendale,
Arizona. The teams’ conferences share an $18 million payout. Oh,
as for those quaint bowl games, the stuff of bonfires and
parades, it’s worth noting that the game’s directors each are
paid hundreds of thousands of dollars.  There’s more. There’s ticket revenue, merchandise, alumni
donations, boosters and sponsorship to things like video games,
where the Auburn quarterback will wear jersey No. 2, the same as
Newton, who won’t see a dime of that money. All in, we’re
talking tens of millions of dollars.  And then there’s the halo effect created by winning. Prices
go up. On everything.  Your Name Here  Check out the Auburn  Web site . Ever dream of having your
name on an Auburn football locker, the school asks. You can. For
a $10,000 donation your name will be engraved on a stainless
steel plaque at the top of the locker. Can’t you just see all
those fans, basking in the euphoria of a national title,
reaching for their  credit cards ?  Suddenly $200,000 doesn’t seem like much for a quarterback
with the goods to pilot an undefeated team.  This pay-for-play stuff is rampant in big-time college
sports. It’s risk versus reward. The NCAA seems powerless to
stop it.  Read the Sports Illustrated story from last month, the one
titled “ Confessions of an Agent ,” in which Josh Lucks comes
clean about the sordid side of amateur sports. Money, yes. But
meals, trips, concert tickets, even women. Whatever it took to
cultivate a friendship, which, as every agent hopes, will
blossom into a business relationship replete with signing
bonuses and percentages of contract and marketing deals.  Kansas’s  Dana Stubblefield , Southern Cal’s  Keyshawn Johnson 
and UCLA’s J.J. Stokes said no to Lucks’s money. Good for them.  But how many say yes? It’s impossible to know.  What we do know, as the late NCAA President  Myles Brand 
always lamented, is that there’s an arms race among big-time
programs to build bigger stadiums, which require more wins,
which require the best coaches, who require the best players,
who require, well, you know.  That’s the game outside the game, the one of whispers,
envelopes and mysterious grade changes.  Just hate to see a kid cheat himself. Even the cheater.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  