-- Sugar Prices Fall the Most in 22 Years in N.Y.
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-11-12T20:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/white-sugar-drops-most-in-a-year-on-exports-from-europe-surplus-in-india.html
Refined-sugar prices plunged by a
record in London, and raw-sugar futures in New York tumbled the
most in 22 years as speculation that China will boost borrowing
costs roiled commodity markets.  China may increase interest rates soon in a bid to cool
inflation, according to Bloomberg News survey. Raw materials
tumbled on concern that demand for crops will ease in the Asian
nation, the biggest consumer of many commodities. Prices also
fell after ICE Futures U.S. raised margins on contracts by 65
percent. Europe announced plans to increase sugar exports.  “The commodity market overall has turned bearish, and a
lot of traders have become risk averse,” said  Ricardo Scaff , a
trader at Rabobank International in New York. “‘The European
Union news is negative, and it has become expensive for some
funds to hold positions with the jump in the margin
requirements.”  Refined-sugar futures for March delivery fell $91.50, or 12
percent, to close at $677.10 a metric ton, marking the biggest
drop ever. The price fell 2.8 percent yesterday after the EU
said it also plans to lift import duties.  Raw-sugar futures plunged 3.45 cents or 12 percent, to
settle at 26.21 cents on ICE. The single-day drop and this
week’s slide of 17 percent were the most since July 1988.  The margin requirement, or amount of money traders must
keep on deposit, rose to $4,970 per speculative contract from
$3,010, ICE said.  ‘High Margins’  “Today’s fall is symptomatic of people liquidating their
positions, rather than pay higher margins,” said  Jeff Bauml , a
senior vice president at R.J. O’Brien & Associates, a broker in
New York. “The market’s climb in the past few sessions was in
smoke and mirrors.”  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials
fell 3.6 percent, the most since April 2009. Sugar and nickel
led the plunge. On Nov. 9, the commodity gauge rose to a 25-
month high as gold surged to a record, while cotton and copper
headed for all-time highs.  Sugar has doubled since touching this year’s low in May,
partly on concern that crops were damaged by adverse weather in
Brazil, the biggest producer, Russia, Thailand and Pakistan.  The EU will monitor prices to determine whether to raise
its export quota again after announcing plans to increase
shipments by 350,000 tons to 1 million tons, Roger Waite, a
commission spokesman in Brussels, said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  