-- Frontline, World's Biggest Supertanker Operator, Sees `Huge' China Imports
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-11-12T16:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/world-s-biggest-supertanker-operator-sees-huge-china-crude-oil-imports.html
Frontline Ltd. , the world’s biggest
supertanker operator, said it’s seeing “huge” demand for
crude-oil imports from China, potentially reversing a slump that
contributed to mostly unprofitable charter rates since June.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, cut net oil imports
to the lowest level in 18 months last month, according to
customs data released Nov. 10. Chinese oil companies made 44
percent more tanker bookings in October, for deliveries this
month, data from Clarkson Research Services Ltd. show.  There is “huge import demand from China,”  Jens Martin Jensen , Singapore-based chief executive officer of Frontline’s
management unit, said today. Imports may be increasing because
of winter demand and efforts to expand stockpiles, he said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Spot rates for supertankers, each bigger than the Chrysler
Building, slumped 53 percent this year as the supply of new
vessels increased faster than demand for oil. Owners responded
by cutting ship speeds and  anchoring  vessels to constrict supply
and Jensen in July said the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company was
turning down business rather than operate at unprofitable rates.  Futures markets are already anticipating a rebound. Forward
freight agreements for December, traded by brokers and used to
speculate or hedge, jumped 14 percent to the equivalent of
$27,089 a day yesterday, according to data from  Imarex ASA .
While that’s 42 percent more than the current spot rate of
$19,081, it’s still 12 percent below the $30,900 Frontline says
it needs to break even.  Chinese Refineries  Charter rates  as measured in industry-standard Worldscale
points climbed 2 percent to 62.88 points today, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange today, their first gain in four
sessions.  Chinese oil refineries processed a record 8.8 million
barrels a day last month, according to China Mainland Marketing
Research Co., which compiles data for the National Bureau of
Statistics. The nation will account for more than a third of
global oil demand growth next year, according to the Paris-based
International Energy Agency.  “Refineries are expected to ramp up capacity further for
the two remaining months” of the year,  Martin Sommerseth Jaer 
and  Erik Nikolai Stavseth , Oslo-based analysts at Arctic
Securities ASA, said in a report today. “This should increase
crude flows to China.”  Fleet Expansion  The global oil-tanker fleet will expand by 86.5 million
deadweight tons in the next two years, equal to about 27 percent
of existing capacity, Morgan Stanley said in a report Oct. 14.
The extra ships would exceed the previous record of 79.8 million
deadweight tons set in 1974 and 1975, according to Clarkson Plc,
the world’s largest shipbroker. Shipowners ordered the vessels
before rates plunged from $177,036 in July 2008.  Shipping lines responded to the slump in rental rates by
cutting average supertanker  speeds  by about 9 percent since
March, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show. An average
of 124 supertankers were anchored last month, compared with 98
in December, the data show.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude oil
transportation costs that also encompasses vessels smaller than
very large crude carriers, jumped 28 points, or 3.6 percent, to
803 points, according to the Baltic Exchange. That was the
gauge’s largest one-day advance since Oct. 7  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 