-- Yankees' Cashman Says Meeting With Cliff Lee Is a `Step in the Process'
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/yankees-cashman-says-meeting-with-cliff-lee-is-a-step-in-the-process-.html
The New York Yankees took the first
step in their attempt to recruit free-agent pitcher  Cliff Lee  by
flying General Manager  Brian Cashman  to Arkansas to meet him.  Cashman traveled to Little Rock, Arkansas, three days ago
and on Wednesday had lunch with the 32-year-old Lee, his wife
Kristin and agent Darek Braunecker.  “It was just a meet and greet,” Cashman said in an
interview with the  Yankees Entertainment & Sports Network  last
night. “They’re going to have more with other teams, too. It’s
just a natural step in the process.”  Lee’s contract with Texas expired after the Rangers’ World
Series loss to the San Francisco Giants, making him the top
Major League Baseball pitcher available this offseason. Lee has
a 102-61 career record, won the 2008 American League Cy Young
Award and is 7-2 in the postseason with a 2.13 earned run
average.  In the AL Championship Series against the Yankees last
month, he threw eight shutout innings with 13 strikeouts in an
8-0 Game 3 win in New York.  “Unfortunately I had a chance to see Cliff Lee do damage
against us for quite some time, but not get to know him
personally,” Cashman said. “So this was more a chance for me
to get to know him and exchange information.”  Cashman didn’t say whether he talked with Lee or his agent
about a contract.  CC Sabathia , Lee’s former teammate in
Cleveland, signed a seven-year, $161 million contract with the
Yankees as a free agent before the 2009 season. It was the
richest deal in major league baseball history for a pitcher.  ‘Big Sandbox’  “If it’s within the right number that we’re willing to do
and we can live with, we’ll do it,” Cashman told the YES
Network. “We can certainly play in the big sandbox more than
anybody because we’re the Yankees, but we certainly aren’t
successful every time we enter the process.”  Cashman said his trip to Arkansas was an example of the
Yankees trying to “hit the ground running” in their effort to
improve a team that won 95 games before losing to the Rangers in
the ALCS. New York two seasons ago won its record 27th World
Series title.  Cashman said he also met with shortstop  Derek Jeter  and
relief pitcher  Mariano Rivera  this week. Both All-Stars have
spent their entire careers with the Yankees and became free
agents after the season. Cashman said he can’t envision either
playing for a team other than the Yankees.  “You just have to go through the business side of the
discussions and hope you find something that everyone thinks is
appropriate and fair,” Cashman said. “We’ll find a way to get
something done at some point, we hope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  