-- Euro Rises From Six-Week Low Against Dollar on Ireland Bailout Speculation
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-12T22:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/yen-strengthens-as-stock-declines-increase-safety-demand-amid-euro-crisis.html
The euro rose from a six-week low
against the dollar on speculation European leaders will support
Ireland and the currency region’s other most-indebted nations.  The yen gained against most of its major peers as stocks
and commodities dropped on speculation China will raise interest
rates, boosting demand for haven currencies. The euro had its
biggest weekly loss since August after European finance
ministers said a crisis plan they’re discussing won’t force
current bondholders to share bailout costs.  “There were talks about some aid to Ireland -- that gave
it a boost,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales
at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “Ireland looks and
has looked extremely dire.”  The euro was up 0.2 percent to $1.3691 at 5 p.m. in New
York, after gaining as much as 0.8 percent. The currency earlier
touched $1.3574, the lowest level since Sept. 30. It dropped 2.4
percent for the week, the most since Aug. 13.  The 16-nation currency pared gains as tumbles in equities
and raw materials accelerated, while still outperforming 15 of
its 16 most-traded counterparts. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
retreated 1.2 percent and the Reuters-Jefferies  CRB Index  of raw
materials dropped 3.6 percent.  “You have risk assets coming off sharply today,” said
 Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in
New York. “That’s pushing down euro-dollar from the high from
this morning.”  The yen was little changed at 82.53 per dollar. It
depreciated 1.5 percent for the week. Japan’s currency slipped
0.3 percent to 113.01 per euro, from 112.73, while gaining 0.9
percent for the week.  Reassuring Investors  European finance ministers sought to reassure investors who
drove bond yields to record highs in Ireland and Portugal this
week as leaders at a Group of 20 summit in Seoul addressed the
Irish debt crisis while investors speculated that the European
Union will need to step in with a bailout.  Officials from Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the U.K.
issued a statement in South Korea saying a crisis-resolution
mechanism they’re discussing that may force bondholders to share
the cost of a bailout wouldn’t apply to outstanding debt.  It’s likely Ireland will seek support from a 750-billion-
euro ($1 trillion) EU rescue fund, Reuters reported, citing
euro-area sources it didn’t name. The Finance Ministry in Dublin
denied talks were under way. Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for
the EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn ,
called the report “pure speculation.”  Dollar Demand  The cost of converting dollar payments into euros, as
measured by the one-year euro basis swap, showed greater demand
for the dollar. The swap was 30.5 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It was 23 basis points a week ago.  “From about mid-September onwards, the euro-dollar basis
had narrowed, likely reflecting quantitative-easing
considerations,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist
at Barclays Plc in New York, referring to speculation on Federal
Reserve plans to pump more money into the U.S. financial system.
“With the euro-dollar basis widening again that means that
investors expect a greater price for dollar funding once
again.”  Europe’s common currency has lost 0.4 percent in the past
week in a measure of 10 developed-nation counterparts, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  Chinese Inflation  Equities and commodities slid amid concern China may raise
interest rates for the second time in two months to curb
inflation. Data showed Chinese  consumer prices  jumped 4.4
percent in October, the fastest pace in two years.  The Canadian dollar dropped to the lowest level in more
than a week as speculation on China’s will rates pushed down
crude oil, the nation’s biggest export. The currency touched
C$1.0146 per U.S. dollar, the weakest level since Nov. 3, before
trading at C$1.0108, down 0.8 percent.  G-20 leaders said emerging-market nations facing a surge of
capital inflows can adopt regulatory steps to cope, offering
them cover to limit currency swings and stem asset bubbles. The
policy could potentially drive down the countries’ currencies,
according to UBS AG.  “We believe there’s a grand bargain in here, whereby
everyone signs up to current-account targets in the long term,
but in the short term emerging markets are allowed to put up
capital controls,”  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist
in London, said in an e-mailed note.  South Korea’s won dropped as much as 1.9 percent, its
biggest intraday loss since June 30, on speculation policy
makers in the region will impose currency controls. The won
closed at 1,128 per dollar, down 1.8 percent.  G-20 leaders also said they will develop early-warning
indicators to head off sustained current-account imbalances that
risk roiling the global economy. Finance ministers will work
next year on a set of “indicative guidelines,” according to a
joint statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Catarina Saraiva  in New
York at   asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  