-- Yuan Pares Weekly Gain as Rising European Debt Woes Fuel Demand for Dollar
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T08:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-12/yuan-pares-weekly-gain-as-rising-european-debt-woes-fuel-demand-for-dollar.html
China’s yuan fell, paring the week’s
advance, after investors sought the relative safety of the
dollar as Europe’s debt woes intensified.  The greenback rose versus 15 of the world’s 16 most-active
currencies on concern Ireland will need to seek aid from the
European Union to bail out its banks. The yuan dropped for the
first time in four days as officials from the Group of 20
nations, who are pressing China for faster currency appreciation,
start to wrap up talks in Seoul.  The yuan declined 0.3 percent to 6.6430 per dollar as of
4:51 p.m. in Shanghai, even after the People’s Bank of China set
the reference rate at 6.6239, the strongest level since a peg
ended in July 2005, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  “Yuan appreciation lost some momentum today amid
heightened risk aversion, although the fixing by the PBOC was at
the strongest level,” said  Claudio Piron , head of emerging Asia
foreign exchange and fixed-income strategy at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit in Singapore.  Gross domestic product growth in Germany, Europe’s biggest
economy,  cooled  to 0.7 percent in the third quarter from 2.3
percent in the second, the government reported today. Data due
later may show GDP in the euro region slowed to 0.5 percent from
1 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  ‘Appreciate Faster’  China’s currency climbed to 6.6173 per dollar yesterday,
the highest level since 1993, after government data showed
inflation accelerated last month, fueling speculation the
central bank will allow faster gains.  Consumer prices  rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier, the
most since September 2008, the statistics bureau reported. The
trade surplus climbed to $27.2 billion, the highest in three
months, customs data showed on Nov. 10  “Data is really telling us that the yuan can appreciate
faster,” said  Robert Minikin , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. “It has been
an opportune time for China to beef up yuan appreciation with
the G-20 happening, but the question is what will happen next
week.”  The yuan advanced for a second week, rising 0.2 percent, as
G-20 officials converged in Seoul to address global imbalances
in trade, with an official statement due later in the day as the
two-day talks conclude.  President Barack Obama said China’s currency was
“undervalued” and that the world’s fastest-growing major
economy spends an “enormous” amount of money to keep the value
of the yuan down. “My expectation is that China is going to
make progress on this issue,” he said at a press conference
today.  ‘Still in Place’  China’s foreign-exchange reserves  climbed  to a record $2.65
trillion in September, the world’s largest, as the central bank
bought dollars to temper gains in the yuan.  “The basic trend of yuan strengthening is still in
place,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action
Economics. “This isn’t a shift in momentum, just another wiggle
on the road to appreciation.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.5 percent
today to 6.4675 in Hong Kong, showing investors are betting on a
2.7 percent gain from the spot rate in a year.  -- Sonja Cheung . Editors:  Simon Harvey ,  Andrew Janes   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sonja Cheung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6934 or
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  