-- Kerkorian Approached Delta 4 Weeks Before Stake Deal
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2008-01-14T21:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-14/kerkorian-approached-delta-4-weeks-before-stake-deal-update2-.html

          
          
             Kirk Kerkorian 's Tracinda Corp.
first contacted Delta Petroleum Corp. about buying a stake in
the U.S. oil and gas producer on Dec. 2 and agreed later in the
month to increase its offer by $2 a share.  
 Details of how the transaction came about were disclosed in
a public filing today by Denver-based Delta. The company on Dec.
31 announced its sale of a 35 percent stake to Tracinda for $684
million, or $19 a share. The price was 23 percent higher than
Delta's last closing price before the deal was made public.  
 Options linked to Delta stock jumped on Dec. 11, nine days
after Tracinda first contacted Delta by telephone, as traders
bet the shares would rise. The number of Delta call options,
which give the owner the right to purchase stock at a pre-arranged price, rose to almost 19 times their daily average.  
 Broc Richardson, Delta's investor relations director, said
at the time that the surge may have stemmed from anticipation of
a Dec. 13 analyst conference call on which Delta planned to
report results from some of its wells.  
 Delta shares have jumped 34 percent since the stake sale to
Tracinda was announced, the sixth-biggest gain among members of
the  Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)  Today, Delta fell 5 cents to $20.84 on
the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 Delta Chief Executive Officer Roger Parker flew to Las
Vegas Dec. 3 to meet with Kerkorian, a 90-year-old billionaire.
Parker disclosed the meeting to Delta's board of directors on
Dec. 17, the company said in today's filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Meeting With Kerkorian  
 On Dec. 19, Tracinda offered $17 a share for about a one-third interest in Delta, according to the filing. After the
Delta board rejected that price as too low, Tracinda boosted the
offer to $19 on Dec. 22, saying it was its ``final proposal.''
Delta formally accepted the offer on Dec. 29.  
 Tracinda will get the right to nominate as much as a third
of Delta's board. Delta, which had lost almost half its market
value since the end of November 2006, will use the money to
accelerate drilling in  Utah 's Paradox Basin and the Piceance
Basin in  Colorado , part of a region forecast by the U.S. Energy
Department to become the largest domestic natural-gas source.  
 Kerkorian's other holdings include a stake in Las Vegas
casino operator  MGM Mirage (MGM) , which he founded in 1986. His
investments in Chrysler yielded a $2.7 billion profit when
Daimler-Benz AG acquired the automaker in 1998. His bid last
year to force General Motors Corp. into an alliance with Renault
SA and Nissan Motor Co. failed.  
 Delta's biggest  holders  include Paul Touradji's Touradji
Capital Management LP and GLG Partners LP, the London-based
hedge fund manager, according to today's filing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Cox  at   acox3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        