-- Buy Commodities, Pay Off Debt as Inflation Looms: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-05-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-05-26/buy-commodities-pay-off-debt-as-inflation-looms-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             The fallout that has irradiated
highly leveraged Western economies has started a King Kong
versus Godzilla battle.  
 To avoid getting trampled, you will need to finesse your
credit options and hedge against inflation.  
 The monster characterization comes courtesy of  Niall Ferguson . Viewed through a lens of history, the Harvard
professor and author of “The Ascent of Money” (Penguin,
$29.95), sees deflation in the short term followed by inflation.  
 King Kong, in Ferguson’s parlance, represents the kind of
deflation going on now. Economies from Japan to the U.K., in his
estimation, will continue to shrink this year. The lone
exceptions are China, India and Brazil. Godzilla is the wave of
liquidity “pouring like a jet hose from central banks.”  
 Viewing the contracting countries as being mired in
“slight depressions” for the time being, Ferguson says it’s
only a matter of time before large government-bond investors
start demanding higher yields -- rates that “could put the
brakes on economic recovery.”  
 I would go two steps further and say that so much
government debt raining down on Western economies will not only
trigger inflation, it signals the end of an epoch of excessive
affluence. The age of McMansions with big-screen televisions in
every room and two sport-utility vehicles in the driveway is
over. Bad news for  Starbucks Corp.  and Neiman Marcus Group Inc.
Good news for McDonald’s Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  
 Nature of Beast  
 Ferguson says the Group of Seven countries will have to
sell more than $4 trillion of debt to stimulate their economies
and rescue financial-services companies.  
 “It’s hard to believe we won’t get back to inflation
eventually,” he says. “But it won’t happen as quickly as
pessimists fear.”  
 I agree with Ferguson that housing prices will fall
further, particularly in the U.S. It will get worse as Congress
and  Barack Obama ’s administration have been unable to curb
the  foreclosure rate .  
 A measure to allow homeowners to write down mortgage
principal in bankruptcy was shot down in the Senate last month.
Voluntary carrot-and-stick incentives through the Treasury
Department will come up short.  
 “The peak of foreclosures has yet to come,” Ferguson
adds. “They will go from 40 percent of all home sales to
literally 100 percent by the end of the year.”  
 Like many commentators, Ferguson says U.S. households are
experiencing a massive deleveraging, one that may bring spending
back down to levels last seen in the year 2000.  
 How to Invest  
 “The ‘green shoots’ that  Ben Bernanke  sees in the economy
may yet wither in months ahead,” Ferguson says, referring to
the Federal Reserve chairman.  
 What to make of this dismal forecast? How do you offset the
current deflation while preparing your portfolio for inflation?  
 Ferguson says he is leaning toward Asian stocks and U.S.
corporate debt as well as commodities that will benefit from
Asian growth. That means oil, copper and iron ore.  
 To expand on his strategy, I would recommend a broad-based
combination of commodities and Treasury inflation protected
securities, which will appreciate in inflationary environments,
particularly those related to commodity-price increases.  
 My favorite package for these instruments is the  PIMCO
Commodity RealReturn Strategy Fund . Although it had an awful
2008 -- it fell 44 percent because of the commodities sell-off
and deflation -- it’s the inflation fighter in my portfolio. I’m
holding it for the long term.  
 Emerging-Market ETFs  
 To find growth abroad, tap into emerging markets through
exchange-traded funds such as the  Vanguard Emerging Markets ETF 
or the  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fund.  
 While forecasting is fraught with risk, you have to be
counterintuitive and look beyond the rotten returns of stocks
and commodities last year and the sour situation today. And
don’t try to time any cycles.  
 As far as deleveraging goes, the advice could never be more
fundamental.  
 Pay down your most expensive credit-card debt and refinance
your mortgage at today’s low rates.  
 With a new U.S.  credit-card law  coming soon, keep in mind
there will still be no limits on finance rates.  
 Companies eager to prune delinquent payers and even some
creditworthy customers will probably raise fees in the interim
as the law won’t take effect until next year. Once the
legislation is in force, they will give you 45-day warnings on
fee changes and are subject to certain restrictions.  
 Don’t wait to deleverage. While this may be the age of
diminishing expectations during a recession, those with little
or no debt and comfortable savings will enjoy greater affluence.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Cul-de-Sac Syndrome,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A handout file photograph shows Niall Ferguson, a professor at Harvard University, as he stands for a photo at the New York Stock Exchange.  Photographer: Dewald Aukema/Chimerica Media via Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
