-- Wachovia says capital OK, eyes asset sales: Sandler
-- 
-- Fri Aug 29, 2008 11:31am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/29/businesspro-wachovia-ceo-dc-idUSN2942484020080829

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wachovia Corp WB.N should not need 
to raise dilutive capital and sales of non-core assets will 
likely total hundreds of millions of dollars, not billions, 
Chief Executive Robert Steel told an analyst. 

  In a report dated Friday, Sandler O'Neill & Partners LP 
analyst Kevin Fitzsimmons said Steel made his comments in a 
meeting a day earlier at Wachovia's headquarters in Charlotte, 
North Carolina.  Steel, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and Goldman 
Sachs Group Inc ( GS.N ) vice chairman, became chief executive in 
July, replacing the ousted Ken Thompson.  Wachovia had a record $9.11 billion loss in the second 
quarter and earlier this year raised $8.05 billion of capital. 
Steel is cutting 6,950 jobs and trying to sell $20 billion of 
loans and securities this year, as losses mount from a troubled 
$122 billion portfolio of adjustable-rate mortgages.  According to the Sandler report, Steel said "a dilutive 
capital capital raise is not in the plan and should not be 
necessary given what he knows now and added that he is even 
more confident about the levers available within the company."  Steel said he considers retail and commercial banking, 
corporate and investment banking, and brokerage operations to 
be core businesses.  He also added that Wachovia has a "long-term ambition" for 
asset management, which Fitzsimmons said seems to indicate that 
the bank might keep its Evergreen Investments unit.  "The company didn't seem to rule out such an option with 
the insurance business, though," the analyst wrote.  Wachovia also indicated it is still comfortable with 
expectations for losses of 12 percent in the $122 billion 
"Pick-a-Pay" mortgage portfolio, largely inherited when it 
bought Golden West Financial Corp for $24.2 billion in 2006.  The bank is treating the portfolio as distressed, but Steel 
downplayed the possibility of creating a "good bank/bad bank" 
structure to segregate it from core businesses, Fitzsimmons 
wrote.  Fitzsimmons rates Wachovia "hold," with a $17 price target, 
saying medium-term prospects for the stock are tied largely to 
a still-declining U.S. housing market.  In morning trading, Wachovia shares were down 40 cents, or 
2.5 percent, at $15.59 on the New York Stock Exchange. They 
began the year at $38.03.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel)