-- AIG Said to Select Tucker to Succeed AIA's Wilson
-- James Sterngold
-- 2010-07-19T01:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/aig-said-to-name-former-prudential-chief-tucker-to-replace-wilson-at-aia.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. 
plans to appoint former Prudential Plc Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Tucker  to replace  Mark Wilson  as head of the bailed-out
insurer’s main Asia unit, two people with direct knowledge of
the matter said.  
 AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche  has told AIG’s board that Tucker
will succeed Wilson at Hong Kong-based life-insurance unit AIA
Group Ltd., one of the people said, declining to be identified
because the appointment hasn’t been announced. The shakeup comes
as AIG tries to get the unit ready for an initial public
offering.  
 Benmosche, 66, who’s been CEO since August, is asserting
control over AIA after  Harvey Golub  left as AIG’s chairman last
week. The chief executive needs to divest the Asia business to
help repay New York-based AIG’s $182.3 billion rescue by U.S.
taxpayers. Earlier this year, he and Wilson disagreed over a
proposed sale of AIA to Prudential, with Wilson preferring an
IPO, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 “When there’s trouble in the company, you start replacing
people and getting your guys in key positions to get your
strategy, your vision,” said  Ben Collett , head of equities at
broker Louis Capital Markets (Hong Kong) Ltd.  
 Replacing AIA’s  leadership  may also complicate plans for an
IPO by fueling “uncertainty” among potential investors, said
Collett, who doesn’t hold AIG stock. “There’s a lot of knots
they have to untangle before they can raise money” by selling
shares, he said.  
 Experience in Asia  
 AIG is committed to “ monetizing ” AIA “as quickly as
possible,” Benmosche wrote in a June 1 letter to employees as
the Prudential deal collapsed. “We remain confident in the
strength, value and potential of AIA.”  
 Tucker, 52, ran  Prudential ’s Asian business for a decade
and was the London-based insurer’s CEO from 2005 until last
year. He didn’t respond to a phone message seeking comment.  
 AIG spokeswoman  Christina Pretto  declined to comment. The
decision to appoint Tucker was previously reported by Sky News
and the Financial Times. Under the plan, which may be announced
today, Wilson would remain at the unit until year end, the FT
said, citing unidentified people close to the situation.  
 Wilson, 43, who started at AIG in 2006, is a New Zealand
native and former CEO of Hong Kong operations at  AXA Asia
Pacific Holdings Ltd.  He didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment.  
 Doubts About Integration  
 AIA has more than 23 million customers and offices in at
least 15 countries including China, India and Australia.  
 AIG had planned an IPO of AIA earlier this year until
Benmosche struck a deal in March to sell the unit for $35.5
billion to Prudential. Wilson, who has led AIA since May 2009,
told friends he’d step down if the Prudential transaction was
completed because of doubts the integration would be successful,
the FT reported May 25, citing an unidentified person.  
 The deal  collapsed  after Prudential investors balked at the
price and AIG directors including Golub rejected a reduced bid
that Benmosche had endorsed, a person familiar with the matter
said at the time. Benmosche threatened to quit at a June 25
board meeting unless Golub left the company, the person said.
The CEO also demanded more control over AIA and urged the board
to dismiss Wilson, the person said.  
 ‘Unsustainable’ Relationship  
 Golub, 71, who was AIG’s fifth chairman since 2005, wrote
in his resignation letter that Benmosche believed their
relationship was “ineffective and unsustainable.” He was
replaced by  Steve Miller , 68, former CEO of auto-parts maker
Delphi Corp. After the appointment, the Treasury and the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York expressed confidence in the new
chairman.  
 Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment on Tucker’s hiring.  Andrew Williams  of the Treasury
didn’t return messages seeking comment.  
 AIG is proceeding with a public offering of AIA, while
remaining open to bids for all or part of the company, according
to a person with knowledge of the plans who declined to be
identified.  
 The sale of AIA will be AIG’s biggest step toward repaying
U.S. taxpayers. The government has taken an almost 80 percent
stake in AIG since the insurer was pushed to the brink of
failure in September 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Tucker head of American International Group Inc.’s main Asia division. Source: HBOS via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
