-- Airbus Studies Porsche Assembly Techniques in Bid to Avoid Delays on A350
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/airbus-studies-porsche-assembly-techniques-in-bid-to-avoid-delays-on-a350.html

          
          
             Airbus SAS ’s head of operations,
 Gerald Weber , is taking lessons from his former employers in the
car industry to cut production time on the A350 model and avoid
the years of delay the planemaker suffered on the A380 program.  
 Weber, who has worked at  Daimler AG , said he helped cut
back on customization of the wide-body jet, changed the way
internal systems and the fuselage are combined and got
designers, engineers and customers to cooperate from the
aircraft’s inception to identify potential fixes.  
 “Everyone is working more closely together on the A350,”
Weber said in an interview at his Hamburg office overlooking the
northern German city’s port entry. “On the A380, each team
would design one part and then throw it over the fence.”  
 Airbus is seeking to avoid the spiralling expenses of the
A380 superjumbo, where production delays pushed development
costs beyond $20 billion. The challenge of the A350 is to create
Airbus’s first-ever fuselage from composites, a decision the
company made after Boeing Co. opted for the material on its 787
Dreamliner. Boeing had to postpone the plane’s entry into
service five times.  
 The composite material’s complexity is compounded by
increasingly sophisticated electrical systems to accommodate in-
flight communications and custom design requests by airlines,
making it harder for jet makers to keep their design targets.  
 First Delivery  
 Airbus wants to deliver the first of its A350s to Qatar
Airways Ltd. in 2013, and the Toulouse, France-based company has
530 orders from 33 customers for the jet.  Boeing’s  787 performed
its first flight to Europe yesterday for the Farnborough Air
Show, which starts today.  
 One change Airbus made on the A350 design was to pre-
assemble the wiring and tubes for hydraulics, electronics, water
and waste, air conditioning and oxygen outside into a so-called
crown module and slot it into the fuselage rather than
separately carrying every piece into the body. The process aims
to shave as much as 20 percent off assembly time, Weber said.  
 Airbus is studying the jet’s designs on a so-called mock-up
of a fuselage section that includes some seats, electrical
systems and sleeping compartments for the pilots, to complement
the digital master plan. The A350 will be assembled in Toulouse,
with the tail section coming from Spain, the wings coming from
the U.K. and Germany providing large parts of the fuselage.  
 Weber, who splits his work time between Hamburg, Toulouse
and regional production centers in Germany, France and Spain,
said he’s taken workers to study production at factories of
 Porsche AG  and  Volkswagen AG . Airbus has put more than 2,000
workers at its Hamburg facility through a so-called lean academy
to let them study improved production processes.  
 ‘Brutal’  
 Among the lessons Airbus can learn from  carmakers  are lean
manufacturing and standardization, Weber said. An A350 typically
has more than 45,000 different brackets to fasten cables, a
number Weber said he’d like to cut back to 5,000 eventually.  
 “It’s a brutal act to drive engineers, they always want to
be creative,” said Weber, who started his career as a toolmaker
in southern Germany making components for the car industry.  
 Airbus Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  has said the
company will have to work hard to meet its deadlines on the
A350, a challenge Weber attributed mainly to the lessons the
company has to learn from working with composites. Airbus
consumed some of its time plan after overhauling the plane’s
design plan to include more of the lighter material, he said.  
 “The decision was good to move to carbon fiber, you have
to start and learn,” said Weber. “The tolerances of the parts
are another risk ahead of us.”  
 Reduced Customization  
 To accelerate market introduction, Airbus has cut its
flight test program on the A350 down to 12 months, from as long
as 18 months on the A380, Weber said. While future risks remain
on the composites structure, Weber said he’s confident the
company can meet its 2013 delivery schedule on the A350.  
 Delays in the aerospace industry are common. Airbus fell
years behind on its A380 superjumbo after designers using
different software systems led to miscalculations on cable
lengths. Airlines’ requests for special features such as closed-
off cabins, showers and special lighting further complicated
production and prevented standardization.  
 The A350, by contrast, will only feature a catalog of
limited options from which customers can choose. The twin-jet
plane aims to seat as many as 350 people, compared with as many
as 300 on the 787. Weber said getting industrial production off
the ground is the greater challenge than a jet’s first flight.  
 “The problem is always the ramp-up,” Weber said.
“Customization and ramp-up, that’s the devil.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Aircraft-order news: TNI ARO ORDER &lt;GO&gt;
Boeing orders by year: FRAVBOGO &lt;Index&gt; HCP &lt;GO&gt;
Airbus orders by year: FRAVABGO &lt;Index&gt; HCP &lt;GO&gt;
Financial analysis: BA US &lt;Equity&gt; FA &lt;GO&gt;
Brands and subsidiaries: BA US &lt;Equity&gt; RELS &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in London via at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An employee cleans a model of an Airbus SA A350 airplane prior to the opening of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
