-- Airbus May Double This Year's Orders at Farnborough Show as Demand Revives
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-18T15:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/airbus-may-double-this-year-s-orders-at-farnborough-show-as-demand-revives.html

          
          
             Airbus SAS , the world’s largest
aircraft maker, can double its 131 first-half orders during this
week’s Farnborough Air Show as global travel rebounds, Chief
Operating Officer  John Leahy  said.  
 “You’ll be surprised by some of the announcements we’ll
make,” Leahy said at a press conference in London yesterday.
“The world economy is turning around. We’re tracking this every
month. Traffic is back both in the front of the aircraft and in
the back.”  
 Leahy predicted more orders for the A380 this year, after
Emirates Airline agreed to buy 32 more last month to bring its
backlog to 90. The world’s biggest passenger jet is attractive
to Emirates because the carrier can connect 95 percent of the
global population through its Dubai hub, Leahy said.  
 Airbus and Boeing Co. are both signaling optimism about a
revival in orders after airlines and leasing companies grounded
older planes and deferred purchases during the recession. The
biannual Farnborough event near London is the industry’s biggest
showcase, with exhibitors from 38 countries signed up to attend.  
 Market Rebound  
 “The market’s coming back,” said  Louis Gallois , chief
executive officer of European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.,
the parent of Toulouse, France-based Airbus. “We have a backlog
that looks good, we have lots of visibility and sense more and
more that companies are interested.”  
 The A380, which typically seats more than 500 passengers,
is flown by four other carriers besides Emirates, according to
Airbus’s website. They are Singapore Airlines Ltd.,  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG , Qantas Airways Ltd. and Air France KLM Group.  
 Airbus delivered its 10th A380 for the year last week, and
plans to hand over more than 20 in 2010. Leahy said the jet is
sold out until 2015, and that the program will likely  break even 
a year before then.  
 Boeing, which was overtaken by Airbus as the leader in
commercial sales in 2003, said it increased its internal order
forecast and expects to sign accords with some new clients at
Farnborough.  
 “It’s significantly more than we forecast at the beginning
of the year,”  Jim Albaugh , the head of Boeing’s commercial
unit, said in London today. The company has raised its internal
order forecast twice this year.  
 Boeing Order  
 Boeing is set to win an order from Emirates, according to
two people familiar with the agreement. The carrier and the
planemaker will announce an order for about 20  widebody 777s 
tomorrow, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the deal hasn’t been announced. The jets would be valued
at almost $5 billion at list prices.  
 “I would have told you maybe four, five months ago that
maybe we wouldn’t have announced many orders, if any, at the air
show,” Albaugh said earlier today at Farnborough. “Now we’re
going to announce quite a number.”  
 He wouldn’t give details beyond saying that Boeing and
Airbus would have “more orders announced than anyone would have
expected.”  
 Leasing companies that held off on orders during the
recession are likely to be buyers.  Steven Udvar-Hazy , who left
International Lease Finance Corp. this year to form Air Lease
Corp., has said he has $3.3 billion in financing and has begun
acquiring aircraft.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in London at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Airbus Chief Operating Officer John Leahy predicts more orders for the A380 super-jumbo this year. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
