-- Alex Rodriguez Hits 598th Homer, Pettitte Is Injured as Yankees Beat Rays
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/alex-rodriguez-hits-598th-home-run-as-new-york-yankees-defeat-rays-9-5.html

          
          
             The New York Yankees extended their
division lead with a 9-5 win over the Tampa Bay Rays that
included  Alex Rodriguez ’s 598th career home run and an injury to
starting pitcher  Andy Pettitte .  
 Rodriguez,  Robinson Cano  and  Jorge Posada  each drove in two
runs yesterday at Yankee Stadium to help New York take two of
three games in the series between teams with the top records in
Major League Baseball.  
 While the Yankees boosted their record to a major league-
best 58-33, the win came at a cost as Pettitte is likely headed
for the disabled list with a groin injury. Pettitte was taken
out in the third inning, one day after fellow starting pitcher
 A.J. Burnett  injured his hands in a clubhouse outburst and also
left a game early.  
 “We’ll have to see how the next couple days go, but I
stride out pretty far when I throw and there’s a lot of torque
on that,” Pettitte, who’s 11-2 with a 2.88 earned run average,
said in a televised interview. “I was hurting pretty bad. I
hope that I feel great tomorrow, but I’m being realistic when I
say they’re being pretty cautious here.”  
 Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said Pettitte would probably be
put on the 15-day disabled list. Pettitte missed 15 days with
the same injury in 2001 and  ESPN.com said  the team expects him
to be out four to five weeks this time, without citing the
source of its information.  Sergio Mitre  will come off the DL to
start in place of Pettitte on July 24.  
 “It’s unfortunate,” Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  told
reporters. “You don’t like to see injuries to your starter, but
those things happen. We’ll see how long he’s going to be out,
and someone else is going to have to pick it up.”  
 Burnett’s Injury  
 Pettitte’s injury came after Burnett cut both of his hands
while shoving open a pair of doors in the Yankee clubhouse in
frustration. He apologized to his teammates before yesterday’s
game for the outburst and said he felt fine after a throwing
session, according to the Yankees’  website .  
 The Yankees lead the Rays by three games in the AL East
after scoring seven earned runs in five innings off Rays pitcher
 David Price , who last week was the starting pitcher for the AL
in the All-Star Game.  
 Rodriguez homered in the seventh inning and needs two more
to become the seventh player in major league history to reach
 600 , joining  Barry Bonds ,  Hank Aaron ,  Babe Ruth ,  Willie Mays ,
 Ken Griffey Jr . and  Sammy Sosa .  
 The Yankees have won 10 of their past 12 games, including a
5-4 victory against Tampa Bay in their first game after the All-
Star break. The series against the Rays featured tributes to
late owner  George Steinbrenner  and longtime public address
announcer  Bob Sheppard . Steinbrenner died July 13 at the age of
80 and Sheppard passed away two days earlier at 99.  
 “This has been a tough week for all of us. We lost our
leader,” Girardi said after yesterday’s win. “There were a lot
of emotions Friday night. Saturday you had the Old Timers’ Game
and more emotion. Our guys toughed it out.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        