-- N.Z. Dollar Declines on Rate Outlook; Australia's Trades Near One-Week Low
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-19T16:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/aussie-dollar-falls-to-one-week-low-on-election-rates-pause-may-continue.html

          
          
             The New Zealand dollar fell for a
second day against the greenback as traders cut bets on the
amount of interest-rate increases the central bank will make as
the growth outlook worsens.  
 New Zealand’s currency weakened for a third day versus the
yen after the Labor Department said the jobless rate is likely
to “remain elevated” over coming quarters. The Australian
dollar touched a one-week low against the U.S. currency after
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called an election for Aug. 21,
reinforcing speculation the central bank will refrain from
raising borrowing costs next month.  
 “The market is starting to question whether we’re going to
get more interest-rate rises out of New Zealand,” said  Jim Vrondas , a manager in Sydney at OzForex Ltd., an online foreign-
exchange dealer. “The slowing in the global economic
environment and risk appetite, although it has weighed the
Aussie down, it’s weighing on the kiwi more.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.6 percent to 70.66 U.S. cents
at 12:36 p.m. in New York from 71.07 U.S. cents last week, after
dropping to 70.30, the weakest since July 8. It lost 0.3 percent
to 61.29 yen. Australia’s currency traded at 87.02 cents after
sliding to 86.34, the lowest since July 8. The currency rose 0.4
percent to 75.53 yen.  
 The so-called kiwi declined against 14 of the 16 most-
active currencies after the Labour Department said the jobless
rate may rise from 6 percent if the participation rate
increases. Employment prospects are improving, the department
said in its June Jobs Online report posted on its website.  
 Traders Cut Bets  
 Swaps traders lowered their expectations for rate increases
by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand to 1.16 percentage points
over the next 12 months, from 1.22 percentage points last week,
according to a Credit Suisse AG  index .  
 The New Zealand dollar slumped 2.6 percent against the U.S.
currency on July 16 after a government report showed consumer
 prices  rose at a slower pace than economists forecast, easing
pressure on the central bank to raise rates.  
 The Australian currency was little changed against the U.S.
dollar before its central bank tomorrow releases minutes of a
July 6 meeting when it said monetary policy was “appropriate.”
The statistics bureau will report  consumer price  data on July
28.  
 “The RBA won’t raise rates on Aug. 3 during the election
campaign,” said  Alex Sinton , a senior dealer at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “If the RBA minutes tomorrow say they’re
reasonably comfortable with where rates are, then I suspect even
with an elevated CPI number, they won’t move early August.
That’s likely to provide more weakness for the Aussie.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        