-- Australia's Aug. 21 Federal Election: Parties, Policies and People Primer
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-19T05:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/australia-s-aug-21-federal-election-parties-policies-people-primer.html

          
          
             Australia’s 14 million voters will
go to the polls on Aug. 21 where they’ll decide whether  Julia Gillard  will keep her job as the nation’s first female leader or
lose to a conservative coalition vowing to scrap a planned levy
on iron ore and coal companies.  
 Gillard has widened her lead over  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-
National coalition, according to a Newspoll survey published in
the Australian newspaper today. Labor is ahead by 10 percentage
points with 55 percent of voters preferring the incumbent party,
up from a 53 percent to 47 percent split three weeks ago, the
poll of 1,140 voters on July 16 to 18 showed. The survey has a
margin of error of 3 percentage points.  
 Both parties have put economic credibility at the center of
their pitch to voters.  
 LEADERS:  
 The ruling Labor Party’s Gillard, 48, was born in the Welsh
village of Barry and emigrated to Australia as a four-year-old.
A lawmaker since 1998, Gillard holds the Melbourne electoral
division of Lalor. Gillard was deputy to  Kevin Rudd  until she
ousted him as prime minister on June 24 after polls showed the
Labor Party heading for defeat. An atheist, Gillard has never
married and has no children.  
 London-born  Abbott , 52, grew up in Sydney and is the third
opposition leader since the coalition lost the 2007 election.
The Rhodes scholar and amateur boxer trained as a Catholic
priest from 1984 to 1986. He won the Warringah division in
Sydney in 1994 and served as a minister for employment and
health. Abbott has three daughters and is a volunteer lifeguard.  
 ELECTORAL SYSTEM:  
 Lawmakers in Australia’s 150-member lower  House  of
Representatives, from which the government is formed, serve
three-year terms. In the parliament dissolved today by Governor-
General  Quentin Bryce , the Labor Party held 83 electoral
divisions. The Liberal Party held 54, the National Party 9, and
there were four independent members.  
 Members of the lower house are elected by a system under
which voters rank candidates in order of preference, while the
76-member Senate is elected by proportional representation.
About half of the Senate positions are decided at each national
ballot, with upper house lawmakers serving six-year terms.  
 Votes are cast from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on polling day and the
results of the election are usually known by about 9 p.m.  
 MINING TAX:  
 Gillard watered down Rudd’s plan for an additional tax on
mining companies, proposing a 30 percent levy on iron ore and
coal projects instead of a 40 percent tax on all natural
resources profits. The Labor Party would also expand the
existing 40 percent petroleum resource rent tax to include all
onshore and offshore petroleum and gas projects.  
 The Liberal-National  coalition  says the election is a
referendum on the mining tax and rejects it as a “dagger at the
heart of prosperity.” Abbott would rescind any laws, backing
the current system of royalties paid to state governments.  
 The Greens Party, which may hold the balance of power in
the Senate, supports the levy if some of the proceeds are paid
into a sovereign fund to pay for long-term projects such as a
high-speed rail link on the nation’s east coast.  
 CLIMATE CHANGE:  
 Gillard wants to “put a price on carbon” via a market
mechanism that is yet to be outlined to voters and in 2012 will
review plans for a carbon-trading system. Labor pledges to
generate 20 percent of the nation’s energy from renewable
sources by 2020, mostly through new wind farms, and commercial
solar and geothermal projects.  
 The coalition proposes an A$1 billion ($870 million)
emissions reduction fund for incentives to reduce emissions by 5
percent by 2020. It opposes any form of carbon tax and will
establish within four years a 15,000-member “green army” to
repair and restore the environment.  
 The Greens, led by Senator  Bob Brown , want an interim
carbon tax if the Labor Party delays carbon-trading plans.  
 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT:  
 The Labor Party has vowed to return the budget to surplus
by 2013 -- as projected in the May 2 budget and the economic
 update  released on July 14 -- and says mining tax revenue isn’t
needed to achieve that goal. Gillard told the National Press
Club in Canberra on July 15 that she’ll maintain the
independence of the central bank and retain its 2 percent to 3
percent inflation target.  
 The coalition pledges to return the budget to surplus
within three years and start paying off debt to limit further
increases in official  interest rates .  
 POPULATION POLICY:  
 Gillard says she seeks sustainable population growth and
will target immigration to meet a skills shortages, breaking
with Rudd’s belief in a “big Australia.” One quarter of a
projected population of 36 million will be aged 65 or over by
2050, up from  22 million  now, according to Treasury estimates,
putting pressure on roads, rail, ports and hospitals.  
 The coalition will set immigration numbers based on
economic and environment sustainability, linking population
growth with better provision of roads, rail and ports.  
 The Greens support Gillard’s call for a sustainable
population policy, with the condition that it is shaped by
environmental and infrastructure constraints.  
 AFGHANISTAN:  
 Both Labor and the coalition support Australia’s troop
commitment in  Afghanistan  to help the fight against Taliban
militants. The Greens want to bring the troops home.  
 PAID-PARENTAL LEAVE:  
 Abbott proposes paid-parental leave of six months funded by
a 1.7 percent levy on businesses with annual taxable income of
more than A$5 million.  Laws  passed by Labor give parents up to
18 weeks leave at the minimum wage from Jan. 1.  
 ASYLUM SEEKERS:  
 Labor wants to establish a regional asylum processing
center and has announced an extra A$24.8 million for border
patrol, including eight new patrol boats.  
 Abbott’s coalition would process asylum seekers offshore,
not on the mainland, and would not process claims from people
who have lost their identification.  
 NATIONAL BROADBAND NETWORK:  
 The coalition would cancel Labor’s planned A$43 billion
national high-speed Internet fiber network being built by state-
owned NBN Co. using  Telstra Corp. ’s infrastructure.  
 HEALTH:  
 The Labor Party would maintain Rudd’s plan for the central
government to take control of funding the nation’s health-care
system away from the country’s state and territory governments.
Treasurer  Wayne Swan , Gillard’s deputy, has warned that health
costs will overwhelm state budgets within the next 25 years.  
 The coalition proposes A$1.5 billion over four years for
new mental health services, such as 800 new beds for acute and
sub-acute cases, 20 new early psychosis prevention centers and
60 additional youth mental health centers. Abbott also plans to
sell state-owned health insurer Medibank Private Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Amanda McCluskey, head of sustainability and responsible investment at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Australia's Aug. 21 election, and its implications for the government's policy on climate change and investors.
     A plan to tackle climate change will be released during the election campaign and the commitment to reconsider carbon-trading plans at the end of 2012 still stands, Gillard told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
