-- Australia Election Battle Begins With Company Profits at Stake
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-19T07:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/australian-election-battle-begins-with-company-profits-climate-at-stake.html

          
          
             Australians will vote in a national
election on Aug. 21 that will decide whether mining companies
share more of their wealth, who pays to clean up the environment
and if the first female prime minister can keep her job.  
 The latest poll shows Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor
party with an election-winning lead over  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-
National coalition. Gillard, who ousted former Prime Minister
 Kevin Rudd  last month, set the date for the election on July 17,
vowing to maintain the economic growth that helped skirt the
global recession while improving education and health care.  
 The election will determine whether resources companies led
by BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group pay higher taxes, a
policy championed by Rudd and since diluted by Gillard, 48, to
win support. Abbott, bidding to make Labor the first one-term
government in 80 years, pledged not to adopt the tax, describing
it as a punishment for the nation’s most profitable industry.  
 “There are fairly big differences in terms of health, the
mining tax, which the coalition would ax, and in industrial
relations and regulation generally,”  Shane Oliver , head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors, which manages
about $95 billion, said by telephone from Sydney.  
 Gillard has widened her lead over Abbott’s coalition,
according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper today. Labor is ahead by 10 percentage points with 55
percent of voters preferring the incumbent party, up from a 53
percent to 47 percent split three weeks ago, the poll of 1,140
voters on July 16 to 18 showed. The survey has a margin of error
of 3 percentage points.  
 Opportunity to Vote  
 “I know I haven’t been elected,” Gillard told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “I want to make sure that
Australians get the opportunity to exercise their vote, their
birthright, to pick their prime minister, their government.”  
 Polls had pointed to defeat before Gillard took over from
Rudd on June 24 after a standoff with mining companies over his
planned resource “super profits” tax in an economy where
mineral wealth makes up 10 percent of gross domestic product.
The slide in Rudd’s support began when he shelved carbon-trading
plans in April -- a mainstay of his election victory in 2007.  
 “Until we know what an emissions-trading scheme in
Australia is going to look like, and when it’s set to start, it
creates a lot of uncertainty for us as investors,”  Amanda McCluskey , head of sustainability and responsible investment at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $135 billion, told Bloomberg Television today from Sydney.  
 Carbon-Trading Preparations  
 While AGL Energy Ltd., Australia’s largest energy retailer,
and Origin Energy Ltd. are well-positioned for carbon-trading,
the lack of a carbon price means most businesses can’t prepare,
McCluskey said.  
 Besides climate change, the election will be fought over
the management of Australia’s A$1.2 trillion ($1 trillion)
economy. Gillard said last week the economy is the foundation of
her re-election campaign. She also reaffirmed the central bank’s
annual inflation target of 2 percent to 3 percent.  
 The Australian dollar is the third-best performer among the
world’s 16-most traded currencies during the past decade,
gaining about 50 percent against the dollar.  
 Aided by China’s hunger for commodities such as iron ore
and coal, Australia’s economy expanded for a fifth straight
quarter in the three months ended March 31. The Reserve Bank of
Australia has increased the benchmark rate six times to 4.5
percent since early October from a half-century low of 3 percent.  
 Economic Management Debate  
 “The real risk in this coming election is that we will
give a bad government a second chance it doesn’t deserve and
that Australia certainly can’t afford,” Abbott told business
leaders in Melbourne today. “The only way for Australia to move
forward economically is for Labor to move out.”  
 Australia’s unemployment rate of 5.1 percent is almost half
the U.S. and Europe, driven by the need for workers in Western
Australia where more than a third of the nation’s  exports 
originate.  
 “This election will be about the economy, climate change,
border protection and the minerals tax,” said  Joshua Williamson ,
senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “That’s where the
key policy differences are and that’s what will be on voters’
minds as they head to the ballot box.”  
 Both leaders put economic credibility at the center of
their pitch to voters and pledge to return the budget to surplus
in three years and maintain an independent central bank.  
 Questions of Growth  
 The coalition says A$42 billion in stimulus handed out by
the government in 2009 pushed the central bank to a world-
beating round of interest  rate rises . The government says it
staved off recession and helped Australia emerge from the global
recession with stronger growth, lower debt and lower deficits
than any of the world’s major advanced economies.  
 “Our region is growing strongly,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
told an Adelaide radio today. “That’s good for Australia, but
also what’s good for Australia is that we’ve come out of this
global recession in better shape than any other economy.”  
 Gillard has pledged to “put a price on carbon,” without
issuing a detailed strategy to combat climate change. Abbott, 52,
has promised to kill the proposed mining levy and opposes any
form of carbon tax. A climate policy, including a commitment to
revisit carbon-trading plans at the end of 2012, will be issued
during the campaign, Gillard told ABC radio today.  
 “This election is going to be about leadership -- which
leader do you trust, Julia Gillard or Tony Abbott?” said  Nick Economou , a political scientist at Monash University in
Melbourne. “There will be no new policies.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The latest poll shows Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s Labor party with an election-winning lead. Photographer: Joseph Lafferty/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Amanda McCluskey, head of sustainability and responsible investment at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Australia's Aug. 21 election, and its implications for the government's policy on climate change and investors.
     A plan to tackle climate change will be released during the election campaign and the commitment to reconsider carbon-trading plans at the end of 2012 still stands, Gillard told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
