-- Asian Stocks Slump Most in Two Weeks on Growth Concerns; Aquarius Tumbles
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-19T10:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/australian-stock-futures-fall-on-u-s-sales-consumer-confidence-reports.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down a
benchmark MSCI Inc. index by the most in more than two weeks, on
concern global economic growth is faltering.  
 James Hardie Industries SE , the biggest seller of home
siding in the U.S., slumped 1.9 percent in Sydney on concern
demand for its products will fall.  Li & Fung Ltd. , a supplier to
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., dropped 2.6 percent in Hong Kong.  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  lost 1.1 percent in Sydney following declines in
metal prices last week.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd.  tumbled 25
percent on concern new directives from South Africa’s mines
inspector will hurt earnings.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  dropped 1
percent to 390.89 as of 6:16 p.m. in Hong Kong. Japanese markets
are shut today for a holiday. Investor sentiment worsened
following a tumble in U.S. stocks on July 16 after revenue at
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and General Electric Co.
missed analyst estimates and a gauge of U.S. consumer confidence
sank to the lowest in a year. Chinese premier  Wen Jiabao  said on
a trip to Shaanxi province that the global recovery was slow.  
 “The recovery may require fiscal stimulus to get to a
point of being self-sustaining,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage about $1.1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“The results by market heavyweights such as Citigroup, Bank of
America and General Electric point to a U.S. economy in a
recovery mode that is, at best, patchy.”  
 The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  dropped 1.5 percent in Australia,
where Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  over the weekend set a date
for a national election. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slumped 0.8
percent, while South Korea’s Kospi declined 0.4 percent.  
 Consumer Sentiment  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  in China advanced 2.1 percent,
led by property developers after Citic Securities Co. said local
governments will build more low-income housing.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.4 percent.
The gauge plunged 2.9 percent on July 16, the biggest decline
since June 29, as the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
index of consumer sentiment fell more than economists estimated.
Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, slid 9.2
percent.  
 “The revenue misses, coupled with the softer U.S. consumer
confidence number, served to reinforce the possibility of growth
stalling in the U.S.,” said  Angus Gluskie , who oversees $300
million at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney.  
 James Hardie slumped 1.9 percent to A$6.09 in Sydney and
Westfield Group, which runs shopping malls in the U.S., lost 0.5
percent to A$12.41.  
 U.S. Sales  
 Li & Fung retreated 2.6 percent to HK$35.55 in Hong Kong.
Samsung Electronics Co., which gets a fifth of its sales in
America, sank 0.9 percent to 795,000 won in Seoul and  LG
Electronics Inc. , South Korea’s No. 2 electronics maker, fell
1.2 percent to 97,500 won.  
 BHP declined 1.1 percent to A$37.75, while  Rio Tinto Group ,
the world’s third-largest mining company, sank 1.1 percent to
A$65.03.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. , Australia’s biggest gold producer,
slumped 1.8 percent to A$33.67.  
 Copper futures fell 2.7 percent in New York on July 16 and
gold lost 1.7 percent, while a gauge of primary metals traded in
 London  slipped 2.4 percent. Crude oil fell for a fourth day in
electronic trading today.  
 Sundance Resources Ltd.  plunged 7.7 percent to 12
Australian cents, resuming trading today after a plane crash
last month that killed key executives and board members.
 Aquarius Platinum  plunged 25 percent to A$3.97 after saying new
directives from the Principal Inspector of Mines in South Africa
may have a “detrimental economic effect” on some mines.  
 Australian Election  
 Australian commodity stocks also fell as Prime Minister
Gillard called a general election for Aug. 21, setting the stage
for a battle that will determine whether the nation’s resources
companies pay higher taxes.  
 “Some investors will start to speculate on the outcome as
preliminary polls emerge, so we can expect to see share prices
bouncing around with the ebb and flow of investor sentiment,”
said White Funds’ Gluskie.  
 In Hong Kong, Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit
of China’s largest maker of the lightweight metal, dropped 2.3
percent to HK$6.02.  Zijin Mining Group Co.  fell 3.7 percent to
HK$4.47 after the Chinese company said investigators found a
“substantial leakage” of waste water at a copper plant.  
 Lower Valuations  
 Finance companies as a group were the biggest drag on the
MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index on concern a stalling
recovery will crimp credit growth. Gauges of finance, consumer
companies and  raw-material producers  in the MSCI gauge all fell
at least 1.2 percent, the most among 10 industry groups.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc. , Europe’s biggest bank, dropped 2.3
percent to HK$73.95, while in Sydney,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , the nation’s largest lender by market value, declined
1.7 percent to A$50.50. Industrial Bank of Korea, South Korea’s
largest lender to small- and medium-sized companies, slumped 4.5
percent to 14,950 won.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index’s slump this
year has driven the average price of shares in the gauge to 12.6
times  estimated earnings , lower than the 13 times for the S&P
500 gauge and 13.9 times for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which
also tracks Japanese equities.  
 Both Asian gauges were little changed last week as reports
of a contraction in U.S. manufacturing and a slowing Chinese
economy countered record sales at Intel Corp. and economic
expansion in Singapore. China’s  export  growth is expected to
slow in the second half as the government removes tax rebates
and Europe’s debt crisis worsens, the China Securities Journal
reported today.  
 Low-Income Housing  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index has slumped 6.2
percent this year on concern European budget deficits and
Chinese measures to curb property prices will crimp global
growth. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has dropped 4.4 percent.  
 In Shanghai,  Poly Real Estate Group Co.  advanced 2.9
percent to 11.59 yuan and China Merchants Property Development
Co. climbed 3.6 percent to 14.15 yuan after Citic Securities
said local governments will step up construction of low-income
housing to boost investment.  
 “Expectations that the government will boost domestic
demand has spurred optimism that earnings at these companies
will bottom out,” said  Wang Zheng , a fund manager at Jingxi
Investment Management Co. in Shanghai.  
 Chinese airlines climbed after Shenyin & Wanguo Securities
Co. said the industry will benefit from a government plan to
boost domestic consumption.  China Eastern Airlines Corp.  rose
4.9 percent to 6.92 yuan and Air China Ltd. jumped 7 percent to
11.40 yuan.  
 In Sydney, Healthscope Ltd., Australia’s second-biggest
hospital operator, surged 10 percent to A$5.94 after Carlyle
Group and TPG Capital agreed to buy the company for A$2 billion
($1.7 billion).  
 Ramsay Health Care Ltd. , Australia’s biggest private
hospital operator, gained 5.4 percent to A$14.55 after its stock
rating was raised to “overweight” from “equal-weight” by
analysts at Morgan Stanley.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ka Chung Law, chief economist and strategist at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications Ltd., China's fifth-biggest lender, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his outlook for the Hong Kong stock market and global economy.
     Hong Kong stocks dipped on Friday after the U.S. reported manufacturing declined, heightening concern an economic recovery may falter. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
