-- U.K. Stocks Fall for Fourth Day as BP Drops, Overshadowing Tomkins Rally
-- David Altaner
-- 2010-07-19T15:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/barclays-bp-land-securities-vodafone-group-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks fell, sending the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  to its fourth straight decline, as BP
Plc dropped, offsetting gains by International Power Plc and
Tomkins Plc.  
 BP  slipped after the oil company’s talks with Apache Corp.
on selling some Alaskan assets were said to stall. International
Power surged 10 percent as GDF Suez SA started talks to gain
control of the London-based company. Tomkins soared 28 percent
after saying it may receive a takeover offer.  
 The FTSE 100 fell 0.2 percent to 5,148.28 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London, after earlier rising as much as 0.7 percent.
The gauge has slumped 12 percent from this year’s high on April
15 amid concern that economic growth will be curbed by austerity
measures from European governments cutting their budget deficits
and as data on the U.S. and Chinese economies disappointed
investors. The  FTSE All-Share Index  declined 0.1 percent today,
while the  ISEQ Overall Index  decreased 1 percent.  
 “Heading into the final hour of trading, a weaker than
expected start in the U.S. has pulled the rug from under the
U.K.’s small rally,” wrote  Yusuf Heusen , a senior sales trader
for IG Index, in a note to investors. “In recent weeks the
5,100 area has proved to be a floor for the FTSE 100 index and
after this afternoon’s performance it may not be too long before
this area is tested again.”  
 More Pessimistic  
 Stocks declined as a  report showed  builders in the U.S.
turned more pessimistic in July than forecast, a sign the
expiration of a government tax credit will depress home
construction. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo confidence index dropped to 14 this month, the lowest
level since April 2009, from 16 in June, data from the
Washington-based group showed today. Readings lower than 50 mean
more respondents said conditions were poor  
 Ireland’s  ISEQ  fell the most among all 18 western European
benchmark indexes. Ireland had its credit rating cut one level
at Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a “significant loss
of financial strength” and the cost of bank bailouts.  
 The agency lowered Ireland to Aa2 from Aa1 and moved the
country to a “stable” from a “negative” outlook, it said
today in a statement. Ireland lost its top rating at Moody’s in
April 2009. Irish bonds fell after the downgrade.  
 Stalled Twice  
   BP  fell 4.4 percent to 389.15 pence, as a person familiar
with the matter said talks to sell half the company’s stake in
Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to Apache stalled twice over the
weekend, raising doubts whether the deal will be completed.  
 Separately, BP was told it can keep its Gulf of Mexico well
shut for another 24 hours after agreeing to monitor a leak
through the sea floor.  
 International Power Plc  rose 10 percent to 350 pence, the
biggest gain since November 2008. The company said GDF Suez,
operator of Europe’s largest natural-gas network, is in early
talks to combine some assets with International Power, creating
a bigger London-traded company majority-owned by GDF. [bn:WBTKR=TOMK:LN]   
 Tomkins [] soared a record 28 percent to 294.2 pence after the
London-based company said Onex Corp., Canada’s biggest publicly
traded buyout firm, and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
are in the late stages of reviewing it, after indicating they
may bid about 2.9 billion pounds.  
 The two investors outlined a 325 pence-a-share cash bid for
the maker of auto parts and window frames, while reserving the
right to lower the offer if Tomkins agrees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Altaner  in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        