-- Bernanke Dodging Jabs on Rates Holds Back Treasuries
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-07-19T17:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/bernanke-dodging-lawmakers-jabs-on-interest-rates-holds-back-treasuries.html

          
          
             It’s an election year and
unemployment is high. Congress’s response? Give the  Federal
Reserve  a break.  
 Lawmakers who will question Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
this week during his semiannual report on monetary policy say in
interviews they recognize he has little left in his arsenal
after reducing the federal funds rate on overnight loans among
banks almost to zero and buying $1.7 trillion of securities to
lower mortgage costs.  
 Instead, Democratic Senator Jack Reed says he wants
Bernanke to use his “bully pulpit” to pressure Congress to
make up for declines in spending by states and municipalities.
Republican Senator Mike Johanns says Bernanke should urge
President Barack Obama to “quit hammering businesses” with
policies such as  tighter financial regulations  that may restrict
employment. Politicians say they also want the Fed chairman to
help reverse a drop in loans to small businesses, which account
for more than half of U.S.  job creation .  
 “There aren’t a lot of bullets left in that weapon” of
monetary policy, said Johanns, 60, of  Nebraska , who served as
secretary of agriculture from 2005 to 2007. “I just don’t think
there’s one or two things they could do and it would make it
right,” said  Rhode Island ’s Reed, 60, the banking committee’s
No. 3 Democrat behind Chairman Christopher Dodd of  Connecticut 
and South Dakota’s Tim Johnson.  
 Restrain Rally  
 A lack of additional monetary stimulus would restrain a
rally in long-term government bond prices, said  Stuart Thomson ,
who helps manage the equivalent of about $100 billion at Ignis
Asset Management in Glasgow.  
 “Without the Fed’s help, the flattening of the yield curve
will be much slower,” Thomson said. Should the central bank
fail to act, yields on two-year Treasuries would drop to 0.4
percent by the end of 2010 from 0.59 percent on July 16, and the
10-year rate would decline to 2.75 percent from 2.92 percent.  
 With Fed action, which Thomson ultimately expects because
of a slowing economy, the 10-year Treasury yield would fall to 2
percent and the two-year yield would decline to 0.5 percent,
Thomson said.  
 The Fed’s aversion to further stimulus now means stock
investors should expect slow earnings growth and look for
companies with access to faster-growing markets, said Jerry Webman, chief economist and senior investment officer at
OppenheimerFunds in New York, which has more than $155 billion
under management.  
 Gucci Handbags  
 “It isn’t just about selling Gucci handbags in  Shanghai ,
although a big part of it is that,” Webman said, referring to
the luxury brand owned by  France ’s  PPR  SA. “It does mean
identifying markets that have spending power and more rapid
growth than the U.S. consumer.”  
 Bernanke, 56, is scheduled to testify on July 21 at 2 p.m.
before the Senate committee, and the next day before the House
Financial Services Committee, chaired by Massachusetts Democrat
Barney Frank.  
 While Fed officials have said the central bank has no plans
to deploy additional tools to accelerate the recovery, it does
have options for monetary stimulus.  
 These include additional asset purchases, reducing the 0.25
percent rate it pays on bank cash reserves it holds and
declaring that the “extended period” of low rates depends on a
specific economic indicator or will last a specific length of
time,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York , said in a July 8 research note. None would be
as effective as a traditional move of cutting the federal funds
rate target by 1 or 2 percentage points, said Feroli, a former
Fed researcher.  
 Trimming Forecasts  
 Policy makers trimmed economic-growth forecasts for this
year and next during the Federal Open Market Committee’s June
22-23 meeting in  Washington  and said they would need to consider
additional stimulus “if the outlook were to worsen
appreciably,” according to the minutes, released July 14.  
 Central-bank officials projected expansion for 2010 would
range between 3 percent and 3.5 percent, compared with their
previous estimate of as much as 3.7 percent. Growth in 2011
would be between 3.5 percent and 4.2 percent; the earlier
forecast was as much as 4.5 percent.  
 “We’re being held back by a shortage of capital in the
banking system; that’s nothing about monetary policy,” said  John Ryding , co-founder and chief economist of RDQ Economics LLC
in New York and a former Fed economist. The economy is also
“held back by uncertainty over the regulatory and tax outlook
for next year.  Monetary policy  can’t do anything about that.”  
 Falling Consumer Confidence  
 Consumer confidence fell this month to the lowest level in
a year, according to a Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index released July 16. Private employment growth
rose 83,000 in June, less than the 110,000 gain forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey, and new-home sales
plunged an unprecedented 33 percent in May after a tax credit
expired.  
 The situation Bernanke faces contrasts with 1992, when
former President George H.W. Bush’s administration clashed with
then-Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  about keeping  interest rates 
too high after the 1990-91 recession. The Greenspan-led Fed cut
the benchmark rate to 3 percent from 4 percent in 1992. Bush
later said Greenspan’s actions helped cost Bush the presidential
election that year.  
 The Fed “has acted in an almost timid manner and has
reacted instead of being ahead of the curve,” then-Senator
Alfonse D’Amato, a New York Republican and member of the banking
committee, told Greenspan during his semiannual testimony in
July 1992, when the jobless rate was 7.7 percent, near the
highest since 1984.  
 Lower Rates  
 Almost two decades later, few people accuse Bernanke, who
began a second four-year term in February, of being too timid
during the past year. He and his colleagues lowered the
overnight interbank lending rate to a range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008 and have repeated after each meeting
since March 2009 that borrowing costs will stay “exceptionally
low” for an “extended period.”  
 The Fed finished buying $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities in March. While some policy makers want to start
unloading them soon, Bernanke has signaled no action is
imminent. The purchases helped expand the Fed’s balance sheet to
$2.34 trillion as of July 14 from $876.7 billion three years
ago, just before the financial crisis began.  
 Lawmakers say they plan to pressure the former chairman of
Princeton University’s economics department in other ways.
Reed’s concern encompasses a combined state budget gap of $127.4
billion, according to a  June report  by the Washington-based
National Governors Association and National Association of State
Budget Officers.  
 State Spending Cuts  
 “That’s something that’s clearly in our bailiwick more
than” the Fed’s, he said, adding that spending cuts by state
and local governments could slow the recovery.  
 Not everyone is ready to give the Fed a pass on monetary
policy. Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York, who chairs
the Joint Economic Committee and is the third-ranking Democrat
on the House Financial Services panel, said she will question
Bernanke about what else the central bank can do to boost
employment.  
 “I worry that the inflation hawks at the Fed are not
allowing him to pursue monetary policy that can spur hiring,”
Maloney, 64, said in an interview. Bernanke “is creative and
has a great mind for coming up with targeted and innovative
options.”  
 Obama’s administration is fighting tension with companies
after Ivan Seidenberg, chief executive officer of New York-based  Verizon Communications Inc ., said in a  June 22  Washington speech
that White House regulatory programs are discouraging job growth
and creating an anti-business climate.  
 Expand Trade  
 White House senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  invited
executives last week to send ideas about changing the corporate
tax code, reducing the deficit and expanding trade.  
 “While we may disagree on some issues, we have an open
door,” Jarrett wrote to Seidenberg, who is also chairman of the
Washington-based Business Roundtable, an association of U.S.
CEOs.  
 Another focus at the hearing will likely be reversing cuts
in loans to small businesses, the subject of a July 12  Fed
conference .  
 Companies with fewer than 500 workers employ about half of
Americans and account for about 60 percent of gross job
creation, Bernanke told the forum. One measure of banks’ loans
to small businesses fell to $670 billion from $710 billion
during the past two years, he said, while reserves banks hold
above Fed requirements have topped $1 trillion since November.  
 No Credit  
 “He’s got to figure out a way to get credit extended,”
said Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat. “I hear from
business people in my state all the time that they have the
capacity, they know they can hire people and they have the
orders. And they can’t get credit.”  
 William Dunleavy, 55, a podiatrist in Easton,  Pennsylvania ,
laid off one of two employees this year and is considering
shutting his practice, which serves 70 to 100 patients a week.
Banks revoked credit lines totaling $60,000, and attempts to get
other loans failed, forcing him to borrow on personal credit
cards to stay afloat.  
 “This is the most difficult time I’ve ever seen,”
Dunleavy said in a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, speaks at a forum in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Edward McKelvey, senior U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., discusses U.S. economic conditions and the prospects for the Federal Reserve to deploy additional tools to stimulate the economy.
     McKelvey talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
