-- Biden Says Financial Regulation Measure Removes Uncertainty for Markets
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-07-18T16:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/biden-says-financial-regulation-measure-removes-uncertainty-for-markets.html

          
          
             Congress’s approval of new
regulations on Wall Street has helped settle “uncertainty”
among business leaders that has been a drag on the U.S. economy,
Vice President  Joe Biden  said.  
 “The very uncertainty they had has now been settled by the
passage of the reforms,” Biden said in an interview broadcast
today on ABC’s “This Week” program.  
 “There is increased certainty now that the major reform
they were worried about is law,” he said. Business leaders in
the position to create jobs and invest in the economy are
“going to know how to deal with it.”  
 The U.S. Senate voted 60-39 last week to rewrite the rules
governing the financial industry, ending a year of partisan
debate over strengthening protections for consumers and
investors. The legislation, designed to prevent a repeat of the
2008 financial crisis, was approved by the House last month and
now goes to Obama for his signature on July 21.  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has led business groups in
criticizing the Obama administration for policies that it said
hurt the economy through the expansion of government, tax
increases and increased  budget deficits .  
 Some business leaders have told the White House in recent
months that Americans will be “surprised” by “how many people
we’re going to be hiring,” Biden said.  
 Politically, Biden said he expected Democrats to retain
control of the House of Representatives and the Senate in the
November midterm elections.  
 ‘Shock’ Prediction  
 “I don’t think the losses are going to be bad at all,”
for the Democrats, Biden said. “I think we’re going to shock
the heck out of everybody.”  
 Biden said one reason public confidence in Obama has been
on the decline in recent polls, including a survey by Bloomberg,
is that “the vast majority of the American people and a lot of
the people really involved don’t even know what’s inside”
legislative measures such as the revamp of financial regulations
and the overhaul of the health-care system.  
 “I think we’re going to have to firmly make our case”
before November’s elections, he said. “I think we can make it
and especially in the context of who’s going to be opposing
us.”  
 He also said that the Tea Party movement, which favors
significantly limited government, contains racist strains.  
 “The truth is that at least elements that were involved in
some of the Tea Party folks expressed racist views,” Biden said
in the interview. “I wouldn’t characterize the Tea Party as
racist. There are individuals who are either members of or on
the periphery of some of their things” that “have expressed
really unfortunate comments.”  
 ‘Very Conservative’  
 He continued: “But I don’t believe, the president doesn’t
believe that the Tea Party is -- is a racist organization. I
don’t believe that. Very conservative. Very different views on
government and a whole lot of things. But it is not a racist
organization.”  
 Biden commented after the  National Association  for the
Advancement of Colored People adopted a resolution at a
convention last week saying that elements of the Tea Party are
racist.  
 The  National Tea Party Federation  has expelled the authors
of a letter mocking the NAACP, which was “clearly offensive,”
David Webb, a Tea Party organizer, said today on CBS’s “Face
the Nation” program.  
 Biden, in the ABC interview, also said he is confident U.S.
troops will return home from Iraq and Afghanistan on the
timetable that has been laid out by the Obama administration.  
 ‘Too Early’  
 The U.S. combat mission in Iraq is to end by Aug. 31.
Following a troop buildup in Afghanistan that will bring the
U.S. military contingent there to about 100,000, Obama has said
a withdrawal would begin next July, depending on conditions on
the ground.  
 Asked to evaluate the status of the war against the Taliban
and al-Qaeda insurgents, Biden said, “It’s too early to make a
judgment. We don’t even have all the troops of the so-called
surge in place yet. That won’t happen until August.”  
 In early July, Biden traveled to Iraq to urge politicians
to put aside personal ambitions and form a government
representative of all Iraqis.  
 Biden also said he didn’t “take it personally at all”
when General  Stanley McChrystal , the then-head of U.S. and NATO
troops in Afghanistan, and the commander’s aides mocked him in a
Rolling Stone Magazine interview. He said that “compared to
what happens in politics, that is -- that was a piece of cake.”  
 McChrystal returned to Washington after the interview
appeared and was removed from his post by Obama. He was replaced
by General  David Petraeus , the commander of U.S. forces in the
Middle East and Central Asia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Holly Rosenkrantz  in
Washington at   hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Vice President Joe Biden. Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
