-- Bombardier Says World Economy Clouds CSeries Jet Order Outlook
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-19T20:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/bombardier-says-order-outlook-for-cseries-jet-is-clouded-by-world-economy.html

          
          
             Bombardier Inc.  said some
prospective buyers of its CSeries jet, aimed at the lucrative
single-aisle market of Airbus SAS and Boeing Co., are still
hesitant to place orders as the economy takes time to rebound.  
 “A lot of our customers right now are waiting to see if
the economy is going to recover, if they can get healthy
financing, if they can afford to take on a couple of billion
dollars worth of orders,”  Guy Hachey , president of Bombardier’s
aerospace unit, said in an interview yesterday.  
 Hachey’s comments contrast with predictions by Airbus and
Boeing of winning more business at the Farnborough Air Show
starting today in England. The CSeries is due to enter service
in 2013, competing in a narrow-body jet market that Boeing
estimates will reach $1.68 trillion in the next 20 years.  
 Bombardier  fell 31 cents, or 6.5 percent, to C$4.43 at 4:10
p.m. in Toronto for the steepest one-day decline since April 1.
The drop was the worst among among 229 companies in the
 S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index .  
 Chief Executive Officer  Pierre Beaudoin  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Farnborough that the Montreal-based
company is in “advanced discussions” with leasing firms for
CSeries orders, and is targeting a 50 percent share of the
market for jets carrying 110 to 130 passengers. Bombardier has
said lessors may account for half of orders for the model.  
 Boeing, Airbus  
 The planemaker is marketing the  CSeries  as more fuel-
efficient alternative to the single-aisle models of Airbus and
Boeing, which dominate the market for single-aisle jets. Hachey
said he’s in negotiations with about 65 potential buyers
worldwide, and in “advanced discussions with a handful.”  
 Bombardier won support from Deutsche Lufthansa AG, which
placed an order for 30 jets in February 2009, followed by
accords with  Republic Airways Holdings Inc.  and lessors, pushing
the backlog to 90.  
 “There is serious interest and there have been serious
conversations with a number of customers, and we’ll see what
happens at the show,”  David Hess , president of engine maker
Pratt & Whitney, said in an interview July 18. Pratt & Whitney’s
geared turbofan engine is the sole choice on the CSeries.  
 The CSeries will come in versions with 110 to 130 seats or
130 to 145 seats and have a list price of $52.4 million to $60.9
million, depending on the model. Airbus and Boeing have both
said they may attach new engines to their older A320 and 737
planes to gain fuel efficiency and fend off the challenge.  
 Qatar Interest  
 Qatar Airways Ltd. CEO  Akbar al-Baker , who may be in the
market for as many as 30 CSeries planes, said in Farnborough
today that a potential order is hung up on talks with engine
maker Pratt & Whitney over “commercial issues.”  
 Al-Baker declined to elaborate, saying he was in
discussions with the United Technologies Corp. unit via
Bombardier.  
 “Bombardier, Pratt & Whitney and Qatar are actively
engaged in finding a mutually acceptable way forward with the
CSeries,” Katy Padgett, a Pratt & Whitney spokeswoman, said
without elaborating.  
 Some buyers may be waiting to see what Airbus and Boeing do
about their engine options before committing to the CSeries.
Pressure is also building on Bombardier from Brazil’s  Empresa
Brasileira de Aeronautica SA , which has said it may create a
commercial jet with more than 100 seats as well.  
 “Bombardier has been saying for years that they have a
window of opportunity to get into the market,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of consultant Teal Group in Fairfax,
Virginia. “This aperture doesn’t get any bigger, and it starts
closing as Airbus and Boeing and Embraer start to react.”  
 Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy  said July 17 he
aims to double the 131 orders his company has won so far in 2010
during the Farnborough show.  Jim Albaugh , the head of Boeing’s
commercial division, said yesterday Airbus and Boeing will
probably win more orders “than anyone would have expected.”  
 “We’ll see what happens during the show,” Bombardier’s
Hachey said. “We’re very pleased with our position, we still
have tremendous interest in the aircraft.”  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Farnborough, England, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Guy Hachey, president and CEO of Bombardier Aerospace  
                       
                         
                           John Morstad/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Guy Hachey, president and chief operating officer of Bombardier Aerospace, speaks during a meeting in Montreal. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Guy Hachey, president and chief operating officer of Bombardier Aerospace, speaks during a meeting in Montreal. Photographer: John Morstad/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Pierre Beaudoin, chief executive officer of Bombardier Inc., talks about new aircraft orders and market share targets for narrow-body jets.
     He speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat at the Farnborough Air Show in England. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
