-- BP, Obama May Keep Macondo Oil Well Shut Until Final Kill
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-18T23:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/bp-obama-may-keep-macondo-oil-well-shut-until-final-kill.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s use of a tight-fitting cap
to shut off oil flowing from its Gulf of Mexico Macondo well may
be the solution the company has sought since the undersea gusher
was triggered by an explosion three months ago.  
 “We are pleased that no oil is currently being released
into the Gulf of Mexico and want to take all appropriate action
to keep it that way,” National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  
said in a statement today.  
 Three days of tests on the capped gusher have so far shown
no problems that would prompt  BP  to reopen the well,  Doug Suttles , chief operating officer for exploration and production
for BP, said today in a conference call from Houston.  
 The company will monitor the well closely, running a
continuous series of seismic, pressure and temperature tests to
make sure it isn’t damaged, Suttles said. U.S. government
officials will review the test data daily to decide whether it’s
safe to keep the well closed, Allen said.  
 Scientists fear that a seep detected near the well may be a
sign of a hidden leak, the Associated Press reported today,
citing an unnamed federal official familiar with oversight of
the spill. The official provided no additional details to the
press service.  
 On July 17, BP, based in London, said it will investigate
bubbles coming from one of the valves on the well cap near the
seabed. Kent Wells, BP’s senior vice president for exploration
and production, said the bubbles might be nitrogen or methane
and were “quite normal,” but would be studied “with an abundance
of caution.”  
 Seal Plans  
 BP declined to comment on the Associated Press report. The
company continues to work closely with the government to review
the data and decide on the best course of action, John Curry, a
BP spokesman, said.  
 As long as no leak is confirmed, BP plans to keep the well
sealed until it is permanently plugged with cement next month,
preventing any more oil from flowing into the sea.  
 Stopping the flow of oil from the well represents a
significant success,  Tad Patzek , chair of petroleum and
geosystems engineering at the University of Texas at Austin,
said in an interview.  
 “BP is finally doing the right thing,” Patzek said. “The
best thing to do now is to wait for another couple of days and
watch the well, and see how the pressure evolves, how it
stabilizes, and draw conclusions from it.”  
 Resuming Containment  
 Any negative data may prompt BP to reopen the well and
resume capturing the oil gushing from the seabed. Resuming the
containment process might take three days, during which oil
would again be spilled into the Gulf, Suttles said.  
 The Macondo well has produced the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history, spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day from a
mile-deep in the water, according to a U.S. government-led panel
of scientists.  
 BP  bolted a 40-foot (12-meter) stack of valves on top of
the well that it used to stop the flow of oil July 15, when it
began testing for damage.  
 The company, taking advice from outside scientists ranging
from a nuclear bomb inventor to space experts, failed repeatedly
in earlier efforts to stop the leak or plug the well. Plans to
contain the spewing oil with a 40-foot-tall steel box failed
when the box became clogged with ice crystals.  
 An effort to plug the well from the top, called “top kill,”
was called off after days of pumping mud into the well could not
stanch the flow of oil, and a so-called junk shot injection of
golf balls and rubber scraps was unable to stop it.  
 New Cap  
 The main purpose of the new cap sitting on the top of the
well, built with assistance from  Transocean Ltd.  and  Cameron
International  Corp., was to help channel more oil to the surface
if the well could not be sealed, Allen has said.  
 The previous, loose cap allowed BP to capture about 25,000
barrels a day of oil from the well, while still letting some
escape. If it’s necessary to reopen the well, the new
installation would enable vessels to eventually contain about
80,000 barrels, Suttles said today.  
 President  Barack Obama  praised the new cap on July 15 as
“good news,” with a caveat.  
 “It’s important that we don’t get ahead of ourselves here,”
Obama said. “We’ve got an enormous amount of work to
do, and people down in the Gulf, particularly businesses, are
still suffering.”  
 BP and government officials have emphasized that the only
permanent fix for the leak is to drill relief wells to intercept
Macondo and fill it with cement.  
 The first relief well has reached a depth of 17,864 feet
and could intercept the leak before the end of July. Then BP
will begin pumping drilling mud and cement into the well to plug
it, an operation that may be completed within days or continue
through mid-August, Suttles said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thad Allen, the U.S. official in charge of the response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Photographer: Sean Gardner/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
