-- BP Plans to Keep Gulf of Mexico Well Sealed Until Plugging It Permanently
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-18T18:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/bp-plans-to-keep-gulf-of-mexico-well-sealed-until-plugging-it-permanently.html

          
          
             BP Plc  plans to keep its Gulf of
Mexico well sealed until it permanently plugs the leak with
cement next month, preventing any more oil from flowing into the
sea.  
 Tests so far have shown no evidence of hidden leaks that
might be made worse by keeping the well closed,  Doug Suttles ,
chief operating officer for exploration and production for  BP ,
said today in a conference call from Houston. The company will
monitor the well closely, running a continuous series of
seismic, pressure and temperature tests to look for problems, he
said.  
 “We’re hopeful that if the encouraging signs continue,
we’ll be able to continue the integrity test all the way to the
point that we get the well killed” Suttles said.  
 BP was cleared to carry on its testing until 4 p.m. today
Washington time. The government will review the test data daily,
and may approve leaving the well sealed in 24-hour increments,
said National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  in a statement.  
 Shutting off the oil from the well represents a significant
success,  Tad Patzek , chair of petroleum and geosystems
engineering at the University of Texas at Austin, said in an
interview.  
 “BP is finally doing the right thing,” Patzek said. “The
best thing to do now is to wait for another couple of days and
watch the well, and see how the pressure evolves, how it
stabilizes, and draw conclusions from it.”  
 Restarting Capture  
 Any negative signs may prompt BP to reopen the well and
resume capturing the oil gushing from the seabed. Restarting the
containment process might take three days, during which oil
would again be spilled into the Gulf, Suttles said.  
 BP  bolted a 40-foot (12-meter) stack of valves on top of
the well that it used to stop the flow of oil July 15, when it
began testing the well to look for damage.  
 “We are pleased that no oil is currently being released
into the Gulf of Mexico and want to take all appropriate action
to keep it that way,” Allen said in the statement.  
 The Macondo well has produced the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history, spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day into the
Gulf, according to a U.S. government-led panel of scientists.  
 The main purpose of the cap, built to fit the Macondo well
with assistance from  Transocean Ltd.  and  Cameron International 
Corp., was to help channel more oil to the surface if the well
could not be sealed, Allen has said.  
 The previous, loose cap, allowed BP to capture about 25,000
barrels a day of oil from the well, while still letting some
escape into the water. If it’s necessary to reopen the well, the
new installation would enable vessels to eventually contain
about 80,000 barrels, Suttles said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Admiral Thad Allen has ordered BP to prepare for reopening the company’s Macondo well.Photographer: Sean Gardner/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
