-- Cameron to Use Obama Visit to Ensure BP Survives
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-19T20:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/cameron-will-use-visit-to-u-s-to-tell-obama-that-bp-should-survive.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will meet U.S. President  Barack Obama  in Washington tomorrow,
using his first trip to the U.S. as British leader to quell
criticism of BP Plc.  
 Cameron, who met BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg July  16,
indicated he’ll tell Obama that London-based BP, Europe’s
second-largest energy company by market value, needs to survive
if it’s to make good on its promise to compensate victims of the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 “It’s important at the end of the day that we have a
strong and stable company that’s able to survive,” Cameron told
a public meeting July 16 in Luton, near London. “Not least so
they can pay compensation.”  
 For the U.S. side, “Afghanistan is first and foremost on
our list” when the two leaders sit down for talks at the White
House,  Robert Gibbs , Obama’s spokesman, said. The other topics
will be the global economic recovery and the Middle East, he
said. BP also will be on the agenda, Gibbs said.  
 As BP sealed the leak last week, a U.S. Senate probe
suggested there were links between BP’s interests and the 2009
release of Lockerbie bomber  Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi , risking
further damage to the company. While Cameron’s spokesman  Steve Field  said yesterday he didn’t expect that to be “a major
issue” for the leaders, Britain has raised the issue with the
U.S. at least three times in the past four days.  
 Foreign Secretary  William Hague  wrote Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  on July 17, saying there was no evidence  BP  was
involved in the release. He also spoke to her by phone about it
July 16. The previous day, Ambassador to the U.S.  Nigel Sheinwald  wrote Senator  John Kerry , whose Foreign Relations
Committee is holding a hearing on the matter. He said
“inaccuracies” about the Lockerbie bomber were “harmful to
the U.K.”  
 Gibbs said the issue will come up “in some form” when
Cameron and Obama meet.  
 ‘Personal Relationship’  
 Field said Cameron wants to “build his personal
relationship” with Obama. The prime minister last week set out
how he sees Britain’s relationship with America, offering the
U.K. as a “junior partner.” He’s previously said he wants to
focus on diplomacy beyond the U.S., pointing to India as a
potential partner. That’s a shift from the stance of his
predecessors  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown , who sought to show
their closeness to the White House.  
 “This is the most difficult part of the dance that’s
coming up,” said  Robin Niblett , director of London-based
foreign affairs institute Chatham House. “He wants to say he’s
more unsentimental about this relationship than his predecessors
It’s fairly easy to say that when you’re at home, but when you
get there, how do you say it to your host, who’s going to be
very important to you in the coming years?”  
 The row over Lockerbie follows Obama’s criticism of BP over
the Gulf of Mexico oil leak. Shares of BP have dropped 36
percent this year as the company fought the biggest spill in
U.S. history. The stock on Friday rose  1.3 percent  in London
trading after the company said it stopped the flow of oil for
the first time it rupture in April.  
 Megrahi Remains Alive  
 Megrahi was freed by Scotland, which has an independent
justice system, on compassionate grounds in August because he
was dying of cancer. He remains alive. The Libyan was jailed in
2001 for the 1988 killing of 270 people in the bombing of Pan Am
Flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie.  
 The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee  said last week 
it will hold a hearing on July 29 into the circumstances of
Megrahi’s release. Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat, said the panel will ask BP officials to testify. BP
signed an exploration agreement with Libya’s National Oil Corp.
in May 2007 during a visit by then Prime Minister  Tony Blair .  
 “There is no evidence that corroborates in any way the
allegations of BP involvement in the Scottish Executive’s
decision to release Megrahi on compassionate grounds in 2009,”
Hague wrote to Clinton. “Nor any suggestion that the Scottish
Executive decided to release Megrahi in order to facilitate oil
deals for BP.”  
 ‘Repulsed’  
 At the time of Megrahi’s release, Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said he couldn’t intervene in Scotland’s decision.
Afterward, he said he had been “repulsed” by the hero’s
welcome Megrahi was given on his return to Libya. His government
later said it had supported the release on diplomatic grounds,
while insisting it hadn’t been involved in the decision.  
 Cameron, who replaced Brown in May, opposed the release at
the time, a point Hague made in his letter to Clinton.  
 State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said today the U.S.
is seeking “reassurance” from Scottish authorities that they
relied on solid medical advice in making the decision to release
Al-Megrahi.  
 The prime minister and Obama will meet one-on-one in the
White House before being joined by officials for a working
lunch. Cameron will later have meetings with congressional
leaders. On Wednesday he’ll visit the Pentagon for a briefing on
Afghanistan.  
 U.K. Defence Secretary  Liam Fox  yesterday told the British
Broadcasting Corp. that the prime minister’s goal of withdrawing
British combat troops from the country by 2015 was “quite
conservative.” Britain is increasing its aid package to the
country with the aim of increasing stability.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        