-- Cameron Raids Dormant U.K. Accounts as Minister Attacks Banks
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-19T14:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/cameron-raids-dormant-u-k-accounts-while-minister-attacks-rip-off-banks.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
announced plans to use “hundreds of millions of pounds” from
dormant bank accounts to fund community projects, while Business
Secretary  Vince Cable  said lenders “ripped off” customers.  
 Cameron said he will press ahead with a proposal set out in
the  coalition government’s program  to establish a “Big Society
Bank” to finance moves by charitable groups and not-for-profit
companies to take over jobs currently done by the government.  
 “These unclaimed assets, alongside the private-sector
investment that we will leverage, will mean that the Big Society
Bank will over time make available hundreds of millions of
pounds of new finance to some of the most dynamic social
organizations in our country,” Cameron said in a speech in
Liverpool, northwest England, today.  
 Cameron said the idea ties in with his plans for a general
overhaul of the public services, as the government tries to
narrow a  record budget deficit . The new Office for Budget
Responsibility forecasts that 490,000 public-sector jobs will be
lost by April 2015.  
 “We’ve got to get rid of the centralized bureaucracy that
wastes money and undermines morale,” Cameron said. “In its
place, we’ve got to give professionals much more freedom and
open up public services to new providers like charities, social
enterprises and private companies so we get more innovation,
diversity and responsiveness to public need.”  
 Existing Legislation  
 A  law passed in 2008  under  Gordon Brown ’s Labour government
allows the government to use money from dormant bank and
building-society accounts “for social or environmental
purposes.” An account is dormant if the holder has made no
transactions over a period of 15 years.  
 The British Bankers’ Association, a lobby group, estimates
that about 400 million pounds ($610 million) is unclaimed in
bank accounts. The government will set up a fund to be
administered by  Co-operative Financial Services  that will hand
over money to Cameron’s Big Society Bank by the end of this
year, the Treasury said. The Co-op expects as much as 100
million pounds to be disbursed.  
 A senior Labour lawmaker,  Tessa Jowell , said in an e-mailed
statement that Cameron’s proposals are “simply a brass-necked
rebranding of programs already put in place.”  
 The coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats
elected in May is maintaining pressure on the financial-services
industry following the bailout of  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group  by Labour.  
 Banking Probes  
 Parliament’s Treasury Committee announced a probe into
banking to run alongside a government panel looking at the
future of the industry. Cable has attacked the level of interest
charged by banks, saying lenders in Britain face less
competition now and can keep costs higher.  
 “One of the negative side effects of this crisis is that
our banking system that was already very concentrated, is now
even more concentrated so there’s less competition, less choice
and a bigger temptation for banks to earn margins at the expense
of their customers,” Cable told BBC television’s Panorama
program, which will be broadcast this evening.  
 “When we talk about restructuring the banks, what’s going
to come out of this is a more competitive system where the
customers are not ripped off,” Cable said.  
 He went on to attack the culture of bonuses. “Unacceptable
bonuses are continuing and that is something we want to try to
stop,” he said. “That reflects the lack of moral compass.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Prime Minister David Cameron. Photographer: Ben Stansall/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
