-- China's Stocks Rally for Biggest Two-Day Gain Since May on Policy Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T07:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/china-coal-energy-china-cosco-zijin-mining-zte-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rallied, sending the
benchmark index to its biggest two-day advance since May, as the
prospect the government may relax its policy tightening measures
spurred gains for the nation’s banks and property companies.  
 Poly Real Estate Group Co.  and Gemdale Corp. surged at
least 2 percent after International Strategy & Investment Group
and Morgan Stanley said China may loosen measures to curb
overheating as the economy slows.  SAIC Motor Corp.  led an
advance for automakers after the company said its first-half
profit may have quadrupled. Citic Securities Co. climbed 2.6
percent after the China Securities Journal reported the
government may allow foreign investors to trade index futures.  
 “China is a potent force of growth,”  Robert Doll , vice
chairman of BlackRock Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today from New York. “We do think they have the
muscle to help continue the emerging markets being the leader of
the world’s growth scene.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 53.31, or 2.2 percent, to 2,528.73
at the 3 p.m. close. The measure, which gained 2.1 percent
yesterday, had its best two-day rally since May 24 and advanced
the most among 93 global indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The Shanghai Composite has declined 23 percent this year,
the worst performance among benchmark Asian gauges, on concern
measures by the government to control real-estate speculation
and rising consumer prices will damp growth.  
 ‘Visible Softening’  
 China’s policy cycle has troughed and investors may see a
“visible softening” in the government’s policy tone in the
third quarter, according to Morgan Stanley. China may revise up
its loan targets while investment project approvals may be eased
by the fourth quarter,  Qing Wang  and  Steven Zhang , Morgan
Stanley economists, wrote in a note to clients.  
 Falling housing prices and slowing economic growth may give
policymakers leeway to adjust their tightening policies after
they increased bank reserve requirements three times this year
to curb record loan growth and asset bubbles. China’s economic
expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter and
industrial production cooled more than forecast in June.  
 China’s slower growth shows the nation’s macroeconomic
policies are working and that growth has gradually been restored
to “normal,”  Yi Xianrong , a researcher with the Institute of
Finance and Banking under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
wrote in a commentary published in today’s China Daily newspaper.  
 ‘Back Away’  
 The nation will “back away” from its tightening policies
in the housing market within three months as the economy faces a
bigger risk from a slowdown than inflation, according to  Donald Straszheim , senior managing director for China research at ISI.  
 “The policy launched in April has totally demoralized both
home buyers and developers with no promise of lasting
benefits,” Straszheim wrote in a note to clients. “We expect
Beijing to quietly relax their lending restrictions and to
launch a variety of supply-side initiatives to increase the
amount of housing for low-and middle-income homebuyers.”  
 Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, rose 2.9 percent to 11.93 yuan. Gemdale, the
fourth largest, gained 2 percent to 6.69 yuan.  
 Home prices in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Guangzhou and
Shenzhen may decline 20 percent from current levels in the
second half, the China Business News reported today, citing real
estate broker Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  
 No Double Dip  
 China won’t face an economic double dip in the second half
of this year,  Zhu Hongren , the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology’s chief engineer, said at a briefing.  
 The Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development last
week reiterated that it will maintain curbs on speculative
purchases and increase market supply. The banking regulator also
said it has made no changes to policies on home loans. It called
on commercial banks to strictly enforce home loans.  
 China should use “flexible measures” such as providing
more subsidies for the poor and reducing tax duties to curb
inflation, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing
 Li Daokui , an advisor to the central bank.  
 China’s major insurance companies have begun to add
“strategic positions” in equities by buying stocks directly
and through mutual funds, Shanghai Securities News reported
today. They bought financial stocks and consumer companies with
low valuations, it said.  
 Banks Gain  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s
biggest listed lender, added 1.2 percent to 4.24 yuan.  China
Construction Bank Corp. , the second largest, rose 0.8 percent to
4.81 yuan.  
 The government is seeking to offset a slowdown in export
growth by boosting domestic consumption. Domestic consumption
will become the most important element of the nation’s economic
growth in the future, the commerce ministry said in Beijing. In
the second half of this year, consumption will continue to grow
at a relatively fast pace, spokesman  Yao Jian  said.  
 SAIC Motor gained 0.8 percent to 14.36 yuan. China’s
largest carmaker said its first-half net income may have more
than quadrupled from a year earlier after vehicle sales rose.  
 FAW Car Co. , which makes passenger cars in China with
Volkswagen AG, added 2.2 percent to 17.07 yuan. Chongqing
Changan Automobile Co., the Chinese partner of Ford Motor Co.
and Mazda Motor Corp., rose 4.8 percent to 9.96 yuan.  
 Index Futures  
 China may allow qualified foreign institutional investors,
or QFIIs, to use as much as 10 percent of approved investment
quotas to trade stock-index futures, China Securities Journal
reported today, citing an unidentified person.  
 “The significance lies in the fact the index-futures
market will see foreign capital inflows and the market will
become more international,” said  Jiao Hongmei , an analyst at
Citic Newedge Futures Co. in Shanghai. “Still, the initial
participation will be limited given the 10 percent ceiling.”  
 Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, climbed
2.6 percent to 12.06 yuan. Haitong Securities Co. rose 3.1
percent to 9.56 yuan.  Guoyuan Securities Co.  gained 3.1 percent
to 12.50 yuan after saying it plans to list a unit based in Hong
Kong on the city’s stock exchange.  
 Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s largest gold producer,
jumped the 10 percent daily limit to 5.73 yuan as brokerages
said recent losses were excessive. The shares had plunged 10
percent before today in the week since the company announced
acid-laced water had leaked from its largest mine.  
 Zijin Valuations  
 “Because of the pollution scandal, Zijin’s price is
relatively low compared to other gold mining companies,”  Geng Nuo , analyst at Great Wall Securities Co., said in a phone
interview. At Shenyin & Wanguo, analyst  Peggy Ye  said the gains
weren’t unusual. “It’s a bounce from the bottom,” she said.  
 Zijin Mining today expressed “deep regret” for the leak
of and a nine-day delay in admitting to the breach and losses
caused to fish farmers.  
 China’s stocks probably ended a slump after reaching a low
earlier this month, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  
 The  CSI 300 Index , a measure of yuan-denominated shares
traded on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, yesterday
rose the most in more than a week to close at 2,682.47. That’s
8.9 percent higher than this year’s intraday low of 2,462.20
July 2, near the 50 percent retracement level of the 2008 to
2009 advance, according to the Fibonacci sequence.  
 That “key support zone,” along with a “bullish
divergence” between its price and 14-day relative strength
index, a momentum indicator, suggests that the measure “has
either completed a corrective move from the August 2009 peak is
close to doing so,” analysts  Laurence Balanco  and Tiara
Fontanilla wrote in a report yesterday.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Coal stocks:  Datong Coal Industry Co.  (601001 CH), China’s
third-largest coal company by capacity, surged 9.9 percent to
31.77 yuan, the most since Nov. 16.  Sdic Xinji Energy Co. 
(601918 CH) rose 2.4 percent to 11.74 yuan after the coal
producer said profits in the first six months probably rose 32
percent from a year earlier.  
 China’s coal stocks may rise as much as 30 percent as
expectations have eased about the falling demand for the fuel
and limited supplies keep prices stable, analyst  Zhan Lingyan  at
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. wrote in a report today.  
 Huayu Automotive Systems Co.  (600741 CH) added 2.5 percent
to 9.18 yuan after the company said profit in the first half of
this year will more than double from a year ago on higher orders.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from Shiyin Chen in Singapore,
 Shani Raja  in Sydney and  Susan Li  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Reinie Booysen   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
