-- Clinton Visits Pakistan for Security, Afghanistan Talks
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-18T19:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/clinton-visits-pakistan-for-two-days-of-talks-on-security-afghanistan.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
arrived in Pakistan today for two days of strategic talks on
development and security that got a boost from a newly announced
Pakistan-Afghanistan trade deal.  
 U.S. officials said in a statement that the two countries
agreed to expand existing trade routes and open new ones, which
may help curb smuggling and other illicit border commerce.  
 The agreement is a victory for the administration. The U.S.
has been encouraging closer relations between the two countries
as a cornerstone of its efforts to fight Taliban extremists in
Afghanistan, said  Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. special
representative to Pakistan and Afghanistan.  
 The deal “represents the most significant bilateral
economic treaty ever signed between Afghanistan and Pakistan,”
according to a statement released by the U.S. Embassy in
Islamabad. The last transit-trade agreement between the two was
signed in 1965, the State Department said.  
 Clinton is in Pakistan to lead a second round of
ministerial-level talks meant to improve the country’s
management of water, expand energy capacity and address gender
equity, just some of the 13 areas in their so-called Strategic
Dialogue. The talks are also aimed at the larger U.S. goal of
deepening ties with Pakistan.  
 “What happens in Pakistan has tremendous implications, not
only for our goals in Afghanistan, but also for the stability of
south-central Asia and for U.S. national security,”  Holbrooke 
said on July 14.  
 Aid Tripled  
 To support those aims, the administration has tripled aid
for civilian projects and conditioned military assistance on
Islamabad’s progress in fighting extremists and fostering
democracy.  
 By the end of fiscal year 2010, Pakistan will have received
about $6 billion in U.S. development and humanitarian aid since
2001, according to a June report by the nonpartisan
Congressional Research Service, which serves the U.S. Congress.  
 Clinton and Pakistan’s Foreign Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  will head the Strategic Dialogue talks that will examine
projects on education, energy, law enforcement, health,
counterterrorism, market access, science and technology,
security, women’s empowerment, economics, defense and public
diplomacy.  
 During her visit, Clinton will take questions from the
public in a town-hall meeting and give a TV interview.  
 After Clinton’s meetings in Islamabad, she will travel to
Afghanistan for the Kabul Conference, where Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  will present plans for strengthening governance,
the rule of law and economic development to about 70 donor
nations.  
 Clinton’s mission will also take her to South Korea and to
Vietnam for a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Secretary of State Hillary Clinton  will lead a second round of ministerial-level talks meant to improve Pakistan’s management of water, improve energy capacity and gender equity. Photographer: Paul J. Richards/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
