-- Crude Oil Drops a Fourth Day Amid Concern Slow Recovery Will Hurt Demand
-- Ann Koh
-- 2010-07-19T07:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/crude-oil-drops-a-fourth-day-amid-concern-slow-recovery-will-hurt-demand.html

          
          
             Crude oil declined for a fourth day
in New York as Asian equities fell and confidence among U.S.
consumers slipped, adding to concerns a recovery in fuel demand
may falter in the biggest energy-consuming nation.  
 Oil dropped after Asian stocks slumped by the most in two
weeks as revenue at Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and
General Electric Co. missed analyst estimates and a gauge of U.S.
consumer confidence sank to the lowest in a year. The dollar
strengthened against the euro for a second day, reducing the
investment appeal of commodities.  
 “Macro sentiment has taken a negative turn,”  Toby Hassall ,
a commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty in Sydney, said by
telephone. “The global growth outlook is dampening the outlook
for the oil market.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery dropped as much as 51 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $75.50 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It was at $75.86 at 3:01 p.m. Singapore time. The contract fell
61 cents to $76.01 on July 16. Futures have declined 4.4 percent
this year.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  dropped 1.2
percent to 390.33 as of 1:15 p.m. in Hong Kong. The dollar was
at $1.2877 per euro at 2:57 p.m. Singapore time from $1.2930 in
New York on July 16.  
 U.S. Earnings  
 The Dow Jones Industrial Average declined 2.5 percent and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 2.9 percent.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported last week
that its general economic index fell to 5.1 in July from 19.6
the prior month. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index declined to 5.1 this month, the lowest
level since August 2009, from a reading of 8 in June.  
 “Right now, crude oil markets are not too hot and not too
cold, so we are likely to stay in the mid-$70s range,”  Victor Shum , a senior principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc., said in a
Bloomberg Television interview from Singapore today.  
 Brent crude oil for September settlement dropped as much as
35 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $75.02 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange, and was at $75.23 at 2:57 p.m.
Singapore time.  
 U.S. Government officials ordered BP Plc to submit plans
for reopening its sealed Gulf of Mexico well and resuming
efforts to capture oil after tests found a suspected leak
seeping from the seabed.  
 In a letter addressed to  Bob Dudley , BP managing director,
National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said tests had detected a
“seep a distance from the well and undetermined anomalies at
the well head.” The letter was posted yesterday on the website
of the joint information center for the spill.  
 BP Valve  
 No decision was announced as to whether BP will be ordered
to open the valves sealing the well, which would allow oil to
resume flowing. BP would restart efforts to capture the oil and
funnel it to vessels at the surface after the well is opened.  
 The spill was “already having some impact on non-OPEC
supply,” said Purvin & Gertz’s Shum. “But there is a global
supply overhang, so it has no impact on pricing. Going into 2011,
we’re going to see some evidence of impact.”  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in New York crude-oil futures in the
week ended July 13, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  
 Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 34,645 contracts on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 8,430
contracts, or 32 percent, from a week earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Victor Shum, a senior principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for crude oil prices and Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' production.
     Crude oil declined for a fourth day in New York after confidence among U.S. consumers slumped, adding to concern a recovery in fuel demand may falter in the biggest energy-consuming nation. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
