-- Dubai Property Companies Face `Significant' Refinancing Risks, Fitch Says
-- Zainab Fattah
-- 2010-07-18T07:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/dubai-real-estate-companies-face-significant-refinancing-risks-fitch-says.html

          
          
             Dubai’s property companies may face
significant refinancing risks as the emirate’s real estate
market will likely remain under pressure until at least 2012-
2013, Fitch Ratings said.  
 The property industry “is likely to see a period of
stagnant growth at best and a double-dip contraction at worst,”
Bashar al-Natoor, director at Fitch’s Europe Middle East Africa
corporates team wrote in a note e-mailed today.  
 Property prices in Dubai fell by 55 percent since mid-2008
mainly because of the financial crisis, prompting some foreign
homeowners to stop paying off mortgages and leave the country.
Some analysts expect property prices to dip another 20 percent
to 40 percent. Developers such as Union Properties PJSC are
trying to sell assets to pay debts and complete projects.  
 Without a major improvement in market conditions, sizeable
disposals, equity raising or significant government support,
“it is unlikely that developers will deleverage quickly enough
to repay the upcoming 2011/2012 maturities from internal
resources,” al-Natoor wrote.  
 The credit outlook for Dubai’s real estate remains negative
as the availability and the cost of debt is likely to
deteriorate, prompting investors to demand higher risk premiums,
al-Natoor wrote.  
 Dubai’s real estate and construction industries will
continue to weaken on increased customer delinquencies, tighter
liquidity and the reliance on short-term maturities, according
to the report.  
 “Oversupply, limited mortgage availability and rising
interest rates will also pose significant constraints for real
estate companies and buyers,” al-Natoor wrote. Dubai rents are
expected to decline over the next 12 to 18 months as developers
try to prevent tenant defaults, Fitch said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        