-- Carlyle, TPG Agree to Buy Healthscope for $1.7 Billion
-- Jason Gale
-- 2010-07-19T06:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/healthscope-accepts-a-6-26-a-share-cash-takeover-offer-from-tpg-carlyle.html

          
          
             Carlyle Group and TPG Capital agreed
to buy Australia’s  Healthscope Ltd.  for A$2 billion ($1.7
billion), gaining the second-biggest hospital operator in a
market where health spending is rising about 11 percent annually.  
 Shareholders should accept the A$6.26-a-share cash offer,
the Melbourne-based company  said  today. That’s 39 percent higher
than the stock price before Healthscope disclosed a takeover
offer on May 14. Including debt, the offer values the company at
A$2.7 billion, Healthscope said.  
 Healthscope shares surged to the highest in three years
after the announcement ended two months of speculation on
details of the buyout, which would be the largest in Australia
since 2002. The purchase will give the private-equity group a
company whose cash from operations has increased fivefold in as
many years.  
 “They have essentially bought a dividend stream, which
looks pretty good,”  Shane Storey , an analyst at Wilson HTM
Investment Group in Brisbane, said by telephone. “Their
hospital division is a very nice business.”  
 Healthscope  gained  10 percent to close at A$5.94, the
highest since May 14, 2007. The stock has advanced 17 percent
this year.  
 The company owns or runs 44 hospitals including the Prince
of Wales Private Hospital in Sydney’s eastern suburbs and
Melbourne Private Hospital on the fringe of the central business
district, according to its  website . It also operates a  pathology
chain  in Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia and Singapore.  
 Higher Dividends  
 Healthscope’s  dividend  payout has increased 15 percent in
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s more than the 12 percent combined average growth for
 Ramsay Health Care Ltd.  and  Sonic Healthcare Ltd. , its biggest
Australian rivals in hospitals and pathology respectively.  
 Australia’s government projected in May that health-care
spending would rise in the four years through June 2014 to reach
about A$80 billion. Reduced government subsidies for medical
services such as blood tests have led to a weaker earnings
outlook for pathology companies including Sonic.  
 Healthscope, led by Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Dixon ,
gave bidders access to its accounts after receiving competing
proposals. Healthscope said May 20 its board was considering an
offer of A$5.75 a share, raised from A$5.50 announced on May 14.
Two more takeover offers of A$5.80 a share were received, the
company said May 31, without identifying the potential buyers.  
 Rival Bid  
 KKR & Co.  also submitted a bid, two people familiar with
the matter said. Blackstone Group LP dropped out of the Carlyle-
TPG bidding group, according to media reports.  
 The new owners plan to “retain management and support
management’s strategy, business plans and growth initiatives,”
Healthscope Chairman  Linda Nicholls  said in a statement.  
 Healthscope expects the transaction to be completed by
October after shareholder and regulatory approval. Goldman Sachs
JBWere Pty and Lazard are its advisers.  
 Carlyle and TPG are paying about 18 times estimated
earnings per share for the year ending June 2011, Wilson HTM’s
Storey said. Ramsay shares trade at 17 times, Bloomberg data
show.  
 “These guys are getting it at a reasonable price, not one
that I would call outstanding,” said  George Clapham , who
oversees $4.3 billion of equities excluding Healthscope at
Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney. “Their timing is good
and the stock had been discounted because of the pathology
business.”  
 Carlyle and TPG arranged about A$1.5 billion in five-year
 loans  from 17 banks, including Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. and Commonwealth Bank of Australia, to help fund the
purchase, said a person familiar with the matter.  
 Buyout Deals  
 The transaction would be the biggest buyout in Australia
since the 2002 takeover of Sydney Airports Corp., Bloomberg data
show. Announced private-equity takeovers in the country total
$2.7 billion so far this year, compared with $10 million in the
same period in 2009, according to the data.  
 Private equity firms are resuming buyouts as economies
recover. Washington-based Carlyle said in May it had $33.5
billion waiting to be invested at the end of 2009. The firm
agreed last week to acquire Ronkonkoma, New York-based
nutritional supplements maker NBTY Inc. for $3.8 billion.  
 The worldwide credit crisis has led banks to be reluctant
to extend more than A$1 billion for a leveraged buyout, even
when lending together, the Australian Private Equity & Venture
Capital Association Ltd. said last month.  
 Today’s announcement “shows the confidence that private
equity see in Australia,” said Bryan Zekulich, Sydney-based
private equity managing partner at Ernst & Young LLP. “Debt
capacity is back sufficiently for larger deals.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Healthscope Chairman Linda Nicholls  
                       
                         
                           Healthscope Ltd via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The new owners plan to “retain management and support management’s strategy, business plans and growth initiatives, ” said Healthscope Chairman Linda Nicholls. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The new owners plan to “retain management and support management’s strategy, business plans and growth initiatives, ” said Healthscope Chairman Linda Nicholls. Source: Healthscope Ltd via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Iyan Adewuya discusses Nokia Siemens Networks' agreement to pay $1.2 billion for wireless network assets from Motorola Inc. to expand in North America and Japan.
     Adewuya also discusses Carlyle Group and TPG Capital's agreement to buy Australia's Healthscope Ltd. for A$2 billion ($1.7 billion) and Kinder Morgan Inc.'s possible initial public offering. He talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
