-- Economy Sets Up Democrats for Autumn of Discontent: Albert Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-07-18T15:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/economy-sets-democrats-for-autumn-of-discontent-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html

          
          
             Over the past several months, a
handful of high-profile Senate races,  Connecticut ,  Florida ,
 Kentucky ,  Illinois  and Nevada, have tilted in the Democrats’
direction. This has sparked hope in President Barack Obama’s
party that the November elections may not be so bad after all.  
 It’s a mirage. All these changes are due to sui generis
Republican woes. Today, it’s an even bet Republicans will pick
up the 39 House seats necessary to take control and gain a net
of more than a half-dozen Senate seats.  
 What’s lethal for Democrats is that the election is being
framed by the economy, and views are locking in, with voters
getting more, not less, pessimistic.  
 Last week’s Bloomberg poll of Americans underscored the
deep and pervasive economic pessimism. Most voters say they
think the country is really off on the wrong track and remains
in a recession, even though the downturn actually ended last
September.  
 A couple groups are especially unsettling for the president
and Democrats. Less than one in five independents says the
country is on the right track, and a plurality gives Obama
negative ratings. In 2008, Obama carried the independent vote 52
percent to 44 percent.  
 Obama captured 56 percent of women age 30 to 59, who also
were major supporters of Democratic congressional candidates in
2006 and 2008. In the survey, more of these women in that age
bracket say they think the economy is getting worse rather than
better, and more believe that personally they are worse off than
when Obama became president.  
 Economic Performance  
 Ray Fair , an economist at New Haven, Connecticut-based  Yale
University  who projects electoral results based primarily on
economic performance, currently  sees  Democrats winning 50.5
percent of the House popular vote, which would probably be
enough for the party to retain control, though sharply down from
the current 255 to 178 split (with two vacancies). This is
predicated, he says, on “reasonably strong” economic growth in
the third quarter.  
 Currently, the consensus forecast is for growth of a little
less than 3 percent, which probably would reduce Fair’s forecast
for Democrats.  
 Ann Selzer, the Des Moines,  Iowa , pollster who conducted
the Bloomberg survey, says it will be exceedingly hard to
reverse these perceptions about the economy over the next three
and a half months. “If Democrats had a bullet that would create
jobs without adding to the deficit, maybe,” she says,
emphasizing maybe, “that would be an issue to run on.”  
 The smartest and most credible political strategists from
both parties analyze the politics similarly.  
 Focus on Jobs  
 “This election is mostly driven by the economy,” says
John Weaver, a Republican strategist and former top adviser to
that party’s 2008 presidential nominee, Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona . “The White House, for reasons inexplicable to me, has
chosen not to focus on jobs and the economy; nothing matters
more, and Obama doesn’t strike a very empathetic pose at
times.”  
 Geoffrey Garin, one of the top Democratic pollsters and
political advisers, says this drives his concerns. “The lack of
optimism that people are feeling about the economy really sets
the tone for this election,” he says.  
 The gap between the reality of an economy, which, while
struggling, is rebounding from the depths and the public’s
perception that it is worse than before reflects communications
shortcomings as well as events beyond the control of either the
president or his party.  
 Stimulus Spending  
 Last week, the administration claimed that its 2009
economic stimulus package saved between 2.5 million and 3.6
million jobs. Many respected private analysts, such as  Mark Zandi , chief economist at New York-based Moody’s Analytics Inc.,
concur.  
 The public disagrees, costing Democrats a traditional
advantage. “Stimulus has become a code word for overspending
and deficits, not  job creation ,” Weaver says. “Democrats have
lost that debate amongst swing voters.”  
 Talk to voters about the stimulus and it’s not uncommon for
them to start railing about bailing out the banks or rescuing
the inept auto companies. There is less talk about programs that
prevented teachers or cops from being laid off or created green
jobs.  
 Garin suspects that the BP Plc oil spill in the  Gulf of
Mexico  has been a double negative whammy for Obama. It has
distracted the White House’s focus from the overarching economic
issue. And voters figure that the spill itself has substantial
economic consequences.  
 ‘Angry Everywhere’  
 “People are angry everywhere, from border to border, coast
to coast,” Garin worries.  
 That is apparent in election expert Stu Rothenberg’s recent
calculation that 79 House contests are in play or competitive in
the November election. Of those, 67 are held by Democrats and
while there is concentration in some states -- seven in  New
York , five in  Ohio  -- it’s national in scope, affecting
Democratic-held seats in 35 states.  
 So why are Democrats doing better in those handful of
Senate races, including  Nevada , where Majority Leader Harry Reid
was written off for dead in May? The answer is self-inflicted
Republican wounds. These are caused either by candidates taking
politically unpopular positions, such as privatizing Social
Security, or by the party’s purging of its strongest candidates,
as in Florida, where it’s possible that Governor Charlie Crist
will win as an independent, after being driven out of his
party’s primary by a more conservative candidate.  
 Trending Republican  
 At the same time, there are at least as many Senate races,
including Washington, Wisconsin,  California ,  North Carolina  and
 Indiana , that have moved more in the Republicans’ direction.  
 Yet Weaver, who expects his party to have a banner
November, says the gains may not be enduring and may even signal
problems in 2012.  
 “We’re still the party of the angry white man, and we seem
to have not learned anything about reaching out to new voters,
Hispanics or younger people,” he says. “Even with our success
in November, we’re creating a huge deficit structurally going
into the next presidential election.”  
 That won’t much matter, he says, in the midterm elections.
Voters now seem eager to punish the incumbent party for their
economic insecurities.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        