-- Hedge Funds Raise Bull Oil Bets Most Since 2007: Energy Markets
-- Asjylyn Loder
-- 2010-07-19T14:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/hedge-funds-increase-bets-on-oil-gains-by-most-since-2007-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Hedge funds and other large
speculators raised bets that oil would gain by the most in more
than three years just as it began to slide, the second straight
week money managers lined up on the wrong side of the market.  
 So-called net long positions on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange rose 67 percent the week ended July 13, the most since
February 2007, according to the weekly Commitments of Traders
report from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Oil fell
on four out of five days on the Nymex last week, ending down 0.1
percent at $76.01 a barrel as of July 16. It rose 5.4 percent
the previous five days, the biggest weekly gain since May.  
 “Just like last week, when they were short when prices
were up, now they were long when prices were down,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst with Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  
 Oil slipped last week amid evidence that the U.S. economic
recovery is slowing, reducing fuel demand in the world’s biggest
energy-consuming country.  Hedge funds  suffered their worst
second quarter in a decade this year, losing 2.79 percent,
according to Hedge Fund Research’s HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index.  
 Crude oil for August delivery rose 95 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $76.96 at 10:17 a.m. today on the Nymex.  
 Net-long positions among hedge funds and other large
speculators in crude oil futures and options combined on the
Nymex rose to 84,455 for the seven days ended July 13, according
to the CFTC data.  
 Slowing Economy  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
sentiment index for July fell to 66.5 from 76 in June. The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  reported July 15 that its
general economic index dropped to 5.1 in July from 19.6 the
prior month. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index declined to 5.1 this month, the lowest level
since August 2009, from 8 in June.  
 Stocks dropped on the slump in  consumer confidence  and
lower-than-estimated revenue at companies from  Bank of America
Corp . to  General Electric Co . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
declined 2.5 percent July 16 to 10,097.90. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index slipped 2.9 percent to 1,064.88.  
 While bets that oil will rise may bring returns in coming
months, it’s unlikely to be anytime soon, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Thirteen of 33 analysts polled, or 39
percent, forecast crude will decline through July 23. Twelve
respondents, or 36 percent, predicted that futures will be
little changed and eight saw an increase. Last week, 53 percent
of analysts forecast a gain.  
 ‘Low Base’  
 Speculators have pared bullish bets on oil by 56 percent
since April, when crude traded at this year’s high of $86.84 a
barrel on the Nymex. Net-long positions in futures and options
combined fell to 50,503 in the week ended July 6, the lowest
level in more than a year.  
 Last week’s “low base” exaggerated the significance of
this week’s jump in bullish bets, said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  
 “Most of the money is really on the sidelines, we just
don’t have big bets in these markets right now,” he said.
Markets may “chop sideways, possibly for years,” he said.  
 Crude will have to break out of its range in order to
entice managed money back into the market, said Khan at Schork
Group. Oil has traded mostly in an $18 band since August, making
it hard for speculators to turn a profit on crude, he said.  
 “We’ve been unable to break below $68 or above $86,” Khan
said. “The buy-and-fly mentality just isn’t working in equities
and it isn’t working in crude.”  
 The CFTC publishes aggregate numbers every Friday for long
and short positions for speculators such as hedge funds and
institutional investors, as well as commercial companies that
buy or sell futures to protect against price moves.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        