-- Egypt Seeks Direct Mideast Talks by September After Meetings
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-18T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/egypt-hopes-for-direct-mideast-talks-by-september-foreign-minister-says.html

          
          
             Egyptian Foreign Minister  Ahmed Aboul Gheit  said he hoped Israel and the Palestinian Authority
would move to direct peace talks by September.  
 “We must create the circumstances that give both sides the
confidence to start direct talks,” he told a news conference
yesterday in Cairo, after Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  held
separate meetings with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and U.S. Middle
East envoy  George Mitchell .  
 The Arab League endorsed U.S.-sponsored indirect talks in
May and gave them four months to produce tangible results.
President  Barack Obama  has been trying to persuade Abbas and
Netanyahu to move beyond the indirect talks they have been
conducting via Mitchell and hold face-to-face negotiations.  
 Obama said direct Israeli-Palestinian talks may get started
within less than three months, after meeting Netanyahu at the
White House on July 6 and praising him as a leader prepared to
take “risks for peace.” Netanyahu has imposed a temporary
freeze on construction in West Bank settlements, which expires
on Sept. 26.  
 Abbas, who visited Obama at the White House on June 9, says
he wants to see more progress in the indirect talks before going
to the negotiating table with Netanyahu.  
 The Palestinian leader’s comments were echoed yesterday by
Mubarak, who told U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  by
telephone that there needs to be progress in the so-called
proximity talks before direct negotiations take place, the
state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  
 Gaza Blockade  
 Direct talks were unlikely before September “unless the
Palestinians decided to do this or the American side succeeded
in convincing both sides that this is the way to go,” Aboul
Gheit said.  
 Before departing for Cairo yesterday, Netanyahu said he
planned to discuss with Mubarak ways to move quickly to direct
talks with the Palestinians. Following his meeting with Obama,
he said Israelis were “prepared to do a lot for peace but they
want to make sure” no threat emerges such as the 2007 seizure
of the Gaza Strip by Hamas.  
 Israel and Egypt have been blockading Gaza since the
Islamic militant group, which is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel, seized
full control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year.  
 European Perspective  
 Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, visited Gaza yesterday and said more goods must be
allowed into the territory.  
 “It is only through the free import and export of
commercial goods that we can talk about true economic activity
and a sustainable economy,” Ashton said. “That is why I
reiterate the importance of an expansion to the capacity of the
crossings.”  
 Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  confirmed his
office has raised the idea of Israel completely disconnecting
from Gaza, to which it presently provides electricity and other
services, and allowing foreign countries to police the borders.  
 He said he hoped the European Union would help finance
“big projects in Gaza like power stations, desalination plants
and waste management,” that would help boost the local economy.  
 Ashton said the European Union was looking at options
concerning “how to best support the Palestinian Authority at
the crossings in ways that would insure the smooth transition of
goods” as well as other ways to boost the economy and improve
the lives of Gaza’s residents.  
 Israel and Egypt loosened their restrictions on Gaza
following international criticism of Israel’s May 31 raid on one
of six Gaza-bound aid ships that left nine Turkish citizens
dead.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Egypt Hopes for Direct Mideast Talks  
                       
                         
                           Jean-Christophe Verhaegen/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit. Photographer: Jean-Christophe Verhaegen/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
