-- Etisalat Profit Declines 21%, Missing Estimates, Amid Competition From Du
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-07-18T15:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/etisalat-second-quarter-profit-drops-21-to-517-million-amid-du-challenge.html

          
          
             Emirates Telecommunications Corp. ,
the United Arab Emirates’ biggest phone company, said second-
quarter profit dropped 21 percent as it competes with  Emirates
Integrated Telecommunications Co.  for the local phone market.  
 Net income fell to 1.9 billion dirhams ($520 million), from
2.4 billion dirhams a year earlier, the Abu Dhabi-based company
known as Etisalat said in an e-mailed statement today. That fell
short of the 2.025 billion dirhams median estimate of four
analysts. Revenue remained unchanged at 8.1 billion dirhams.  
 “Etisalat has followed a powerful strategy to offset the
potential impact of today’s global economic conditions which
continue to affect the results of companies around the world,”
Etisalat Chairman  Mohammad Omran  said in the statement. “We
have seized opportunities to stand strong and have faced all the
challenges and continue to achieve exceptional results.”  
 Etisalat is facing increased competition from the U.A.E.’s
second telecommunications company Emirates Integrated, also
known as Du. The company, which operates in 18 countries
servicing more than 100 million customers, according to the
company’s  website , said the number of mobile subscribers in the
country increased 10 percent to 7.8 million from the first
quarter, the statement showed.  
 Etisalat plans to invest 8 billion Egyptian pounds ($1.4
billion) in the next three years to expand the network of its
Egyptian unit, Abu-Dhabi based Etisalat said June 13. The
company in April raised its stake in Zanzibar Telecom to 65
percent. It’s also considering several opportunities in India,
including buying a stake in Reliance Communications Ltd., Omran
said in Jordan in June.  
 The shares gained 0.5 percent to 10.4 dirhams in Abu Dhabi,
giving the company a market value of about 82 billion dirhams.
The stock has gained 4 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        