-- Europe CFOs Pick Dollar for Bonds as Faith in Euro Wavers: Credit Markets
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-07-19T16:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/europe-cfos-pick-dollar-for-bonds-as-faith-in-euro-wavers-credit-markets.html

          
          
             European borrowers are selling more
of their bonds in dollars than at any time since the euro’s
record low in 2000 as issuers lose faith in the common currency.  
 Companies in Western Europe sold $162.8 billion of bonds in
dollars this year, 24 percent of their total issuance and up
from 16 percent in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Euro-denominated sales fell to 63 percent from 68
percent, the lowest share since 2007 and below the average of
the past decade.  
 The euro, introduced in 1999 and now shared by 16 nations,
lost 10 percent of its value against the dollar this year as
concern over the creditworthiness of Europe’s most indebted
governments roiled markets.  Pacific Investment Management Co. ,
which runs the world’s largest bond fund, is selling European
debt, saying the euro is “unlikely” to become world’s most
important reserve currency “anytime soon.”  
 “It’s a good move with what’s going on in Europe to issue
in dollars,” said  Stephen Mahoney , a money manager at Glenmede
Trust Co. in Philadelphia who oversees $4 billion in fixed-
income assets. “The euro’s been getting beat up pretty good and
the U.S. is a much more liquid market.”  
 Telefonica SA, Europe’s second-largest telephone company,
raised $3.5 billion in the U.S. bond market this year while
issuing 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) of debt, Bloomberg data
show. The Madrid-based company sold $2.25 billion and 5.75
billion of euros of debt in 2009. Telefonica spokesman  Miguel Angel Garzon  declined to comment.  
 Total’s Sales  
 Total SA, Europe’s biggest oil refiner, sold $2.75 billion
of bonds in the U.S. and none in Europe since Jan. 1 compared
with $1.3 billion and 3.7 billion euros last year, Bloomberg
data show.  Michael Crochet-Vourey , a spokesman for the Paris-
based company, declined to comment.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debt fell
for a second week, reaching the lowest since May. The cost of
protecting company debt in the U.S. and Europe from default rose
today.  
 Corporate-bond spreads narrowed 5 basis points to an
average of 187 basis points, or 1.87 percentage points, the
lowest since May 20, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The gap was 142 on
April 21 before expanding to as much as 201 on June 11. Yields
fell to 3.856 percent from 3.973 percent on July 9.  
 Credit Swaps  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.2 basis point to 113.1
basis points as of 11:30 a.m. in New York, according to Markit
Group Ltd. That’s the highest since July 8. In London, the
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings climbed 2.87 basis points to 120.37.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 9 basis points to 137 basis points
today, the biggest jump since June 4, prices from Credit
Agricole CIB and CMA show.  
 The indexes typically rise as investor confidence wanes and
fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of bonds and loans.  
 BofA CLO  
 Bank of America Corp. is arranging a $300 million
collateralized loan obligation as Wall Street seeks to revive
investments that help fuel leveraged buyouts, according to
people familiar with the situation.  
 LCM Asset Management LLC, a $2.35 billion investment firm,
will manage the CLO, a form of collateralized debt obligation
that bundles high-yield, high-risk loans and slices them into
securities of varying risk, according to a copy of the marketing
documents.  Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. , a Guernsey, Channel
Islands-based publicly traded company that bought LCM in January
to capitalize on recovering credit markets, is helping fund the
deal, said one of the people, who declined to be identified as
the talks are private.  
 Charles Schwab Corp.  may sell $500 million of 10-year
senior notes as soon as today, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Proceeds will be used for general
corporate purposes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 The euro is the Group of 10 nations’ worst performing
currency against the dollar over the past 18 months in its most
volatile period since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008.  
 Investor Pool  
 The common currency weakened to $1.1877 on June 7, the
lowest since March 2006, before rallying to $1.2902 as of July
19 as investors gained confidence in governments’ ability to
tackle their budget crises.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s largest oil company, sold
$7 billion of bonds in dollars in two separate offerings this
year while shunning the euro market, Bloomberg data show. The
Hague, Netherlands-based Shell issued $7.5 billion of bonds in
the U.S. currency and 8 billion euros last year. Company
spokesman Kim Blomley declined to comment.  
 A deeper pool of investors is attracting some European
companies to the U.S. market, which lets them raise more money,
said  Timothy Cox , an executive director of debt capital markets
at Mizuho Securities USA in New York, who has been visiting
clients in Europe to entice them to sell bonds in dollars.  
 It’s also cheaper for European companies to sell bonds in
dollars and swap the proceeds back to euros than it is to sell
euro-denominated debt, according to  Morven Jones , Nomura
Holdings Inc.’s head of European debt capital markets. The so-
called euro basis swap measures the cost of converting dollar
interest payments into euros.  
 Basis Swap  
 “The basis swap cost of going from a foreign currency into
dollars has become hugely expensive,” Jones said in a phone
interview. “The reverse is true for those able to borrow
dollars in the bond market. For many issuers, issuing dollars
and swapping back into euros has generated relatively cheaper
euros than issuing euros directly.”  
 The five-year basis swap is at 29 basis points below the
euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, from 19.3 basis points
at the start of the year. The gap was as wide as 40.5 basis
points below Euribor on May 7.  
 In a basis swap a company borrows in one currency and
simultaneously lends in another one. Two floating-rate payments
are exchanged, each denominated in a different currency and
based on a different index.  
 Supranationals, top AAA rated organizations formed by two
or more governments to promote economic development, are also
favoring the dollar for their debt sales.  
 Supranationals  
 The  Asian Development Bank , which aims to reduce poverty in
the Asia-Pacific region, issued $5.8 billion of debt in the U.S.
this year and none in Europe, Bloomberg data show. The last time
the bank sold bonds in euros was in March 2007.  
 The dollar “has always been the bank’s major funding
currency,” Assistant Treasurer  Kazuki Fukunaga  said in a phone
interview from Manila, declining to comment on the euro.  
 European sales in dollars have been falling since the
sovereign debt crisis “took off in full force” in May, driving
up relative borrowing costs for even the safest European issuers
and eliminating the benefit of the basis swap, said  Justin D’Ercole , head of investment-grade syndicate for the Americas at
Barclays Capital in New York.  
 “Even the best names in the best sovereign locations are
trading dramatically better in Europe,” he said. “It’s more
attractive right now for U.K. banks and European industrials to
issue in euros.”  
 Debt sales in the common European currency slumped 51
percent to 369 billion euros this year compared with the same
period of 2009, Bloomberg data show. That’s even as European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said some investors
are being “excessively pessimistic” about the continent.  
 “With the euro in trouble supranationals are effectively
dollarizing,” said  Bill Blain , co-head of fixed income at
Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in London. “The kind of investors
we’re talking about can see past Trichet’s rhetoric and they’re
not buying euros.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
