-- Gillard Starts Australia's Election Campaign With a Poll Lead Over Abbott
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-18T02:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/gillard-starts-australia-s-election-campaign-with-poll-lead-over-abbott.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  started a five-week election campaign with a poll
showing she has a winning lead that relies on support from
Greens Party voters.  
 Gillard won 52 percent support against 48 percent for
opposition Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott  in a
head-to-head Galaxy poll published today by the Sunday
Telegraph newspaper. She drew a 39 percent primary vote
compared with Abbott’s 42 percent and 13 percent for the Greens,
the poll showed.  
 Gillard, 48, called the ballot yesterday for Aug. 21,
betting the Labor Party’s record of delivering growth during
the global financial crisis will help ensure re-election. She
begins the first full day of the campaign in Queensland, home
to former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  whom she ousted last month,
and where Labor aims to retain 10 seats with margins of less
than 4.6 percent.  
 Even though the polls show Gillard is leading, the result
is likely to be far closer than most people expect, said
Anthony Green, an Australian Broadcasting Corp. election
analyst.  
 “The government’s position isn’t as secure as that
sounds,” Green said on the ABC’s Insiders program today.  
 Abbott’s coalition has 63 seats in the 150-member House of
Representatives. Labor has 83 lawmakers and there are four
independents, according to the parliamentary  website .  
 Contested Seats  
 Queensland has 10 of the most-closely contested seats in
the country and New South Wales, Australia’s most populous
state, has eight Labor lawmakers with majorities of less than 5
percent, the level below which seats are considered marginal.  
 “A lot of the leaders will be spending their time in
Queensland and New South Wales because that’s where there’s the
most bang for their buck in terms of seats,” Green said.  
 Gillard’s campaign started amid questions about the
circumstances of her ouster of Rudd on June 24, after party
factions and key labor unions switched their allegiance.  
 Some 57 percent of people thought the manner in which Rudd
had been treated would undermine Labor’s chances of winning the
election, today’s Galaxy poll showed. The survey was based on
800 voters on July 16 and no margin of error was given.  
 Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said concern among voters about the
dumping of Rudd is “certainly a factor” in Queensland. “But
the predominant factor here is the head-to-head contest between
Julia Gillard and Tony Abbott,” he told the Nine Network in
Sydney today.  
 Resources Tax  
 The election will determine whether resources companies
led by  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Ltd. pay higher taxes, a
policy championed by Rudd and diluted by Gillard to win their
support. Abbott, bidding to make Labor the first one-term
government in 80 years, has pledged not to adopt the tax,
describing it as a punishment for the nation’s most profitable
industry.  
 Swan today also sought to draw attention to Labor’s
handling of the economy through the worst global recession
since World War II. In contrast to most developed economies,
Australia’s  gross domestic product  expanded for the past five
quarters as government stimulus spending helped boost consumer
demand.  
 Aggressive Tightening  
 The economic rebound has prompted the central bank to
boost the  benchmark  rate six times to 4.5 percent since early
October, from a half-century low of 3 percent, the most
aggressive round of monetary policy tightening by a Group of 20
member.  
 Signs that the expansion will accelerate, including a 5.1
percent jobless rate that fell below Japan’s level for the
first time since at least 1978 and to almost half the level of
the U.S., could increase pressure on Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  to resume raising borrowing costs on Aug.
3, potentially hurting voters in marginal seats.  
 “We are doing everything we possibly can to get the
overall settings in the economy right to minimize inflationary
pressures,” Swan told the Nine Network today.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        