-- Israeli Economy Grew 3.4% in First Quarter, Less Than Previously Reported
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-18T11:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/israeli-economy-expands-3-4-in-first-quarter-less-than-earlier-reported.html

          
          
             Israel’s  economy expanded  an
annualized 3.4 percent in the first quarter, less than
previously reported, due to slower growth in exports.  
 The expansion rate declined from a revised 4.4 percent in
the earlier three months, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said today in a report on its website. The statistics
bureau reported on June 16 that the economy expanded 3.6 percent
in the first quarter.  
 “The pace of growth in exports moderated, and this was
expected,”  Ayelet Nir , chief economist at Tel Aviv-based IBI,
which manages about 20 billion shekels ($5.2 billion). “Given
what is going on in Europe, and the shekel exchange rate, I
don’t see how exports can return to center-stage and lead growth
in the economy to higher levels.”  
 Israel’s rebound from the global financial crisis has been
powered by exports which make up almost 50 percent of gross
domestic product. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said
on June 29 the economy is likely to be affected by the European
crisis, with the depreciation of the euro expected to hurt both
exports to Europe and exports that compete with European
products.  
 Exports in the first quarter rose 3.1 percent, compared
with 7.4 percent reported in June’s release, the bureau said.
Growth during the next few years will be “heavily influenced”
by the rate of recovery of the global economy, the Bank of
Israel said in its April 21 annual report.  
 Economic Growth  
 Fischer said on July 1 that recent export figures have been
lower than expected and there is some concern that economic
growth this year may be below the Bank of Israel’s 3.7 percent
forecast. The recovery began in the second quarter of last year,
when the economy expanded a revised 1.3 percent. Growth picked
up in the third quarter to 3.9 percent.  
 Private consumption rose by 4.4 percent, revised from a
previously reported 4 percent, the bureau reported today.  
 “The question is whether domestic demand can continue to
carry economic growth,” said Nir, who expects 3.5 percent GDP
growth this year, and 3 percent to 3.2 percent growth in 2011.
“I am a bit skeptical about that.”  
 Israeli  inflation  eased in June to an annual 2.4 percent,
its slowest pace in more than 2 1/2 years, the Central Bureau of
Statistics reported July 15.  
 Fischer is likely to keep the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 1.5 percent at the end of July for a fourth month,
four out of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg said at the
beginning of the month. The remaining three predicted a quarter-
point increase to 1.75 percent.  
 Israel’s benchmark  TA-25  stock index has gained about 22
percent in the past 12 months, led by Perrigo Co., the world’s
largest maker of non-prescription, store-branded drugs, which
more than doubled.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        