-- NAB Wins More Time to Gain Regulatory Approval for $11.5 Billion Axa Bid
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-07-19T06:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/nab-wins-more-time-to-gain-regulatory-approval-for-11-7-billion-axa-bid.html

          
          
             National Australia Bank Ltd.  won
more time to obtain regulatory approval for its A$13.3 billion
($11.5 billion) purchase of Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd.  
 Australia’s largest business lender, bidding for the asset
manager with French insurer Axa SA, has until Aug. 31 to
overcome objections from the  Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission , the bank and Axa Asia said in separate statements.  
 The Melbourne-based bank said June 4 it was in talks with
possible buyers of Axa Asia Pacific’s North investment platform
as it sought to overturn competition concerns at the ACCC, which
blocked the agreed deal in April. The second extension to the
planned takeover further blocks out  AMP Ltd. , whose sweetened
offer for Axa Asia Pacific was spurned in December.  
 National Australia Bank “continues to pursue its options
in relation to the ACCC objections,” it said in its statement.
The bank, which pushed back the overall deadline for the
takeover to Jan. 31, can also opt to fight the ruling in court
or drop the deal.  
 The Australian Financial Review said this month that
investment manager  IOOF Holdings Ltd.  was close to an agreement
to buy the Axa Asia Pacific North platform, an Internet portal
offering investment and pension products.  
 National Australia Bank plans to keep the Australian and
New Zealand operations of Axa Asia Pacific and sell the Asian
units to Paris-based Axa SA, which controls Axa Asia Pacific.  
 National Australia Bank fell 1.8 percent to A$24.05 at the
4:10 p.m. close in Sydney trading today.  Axa Asia Pacific 
dropped 1.5 percent to A$5.17, lower than the A$6.43 offer it
accepted from National Australia Bank in December.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        