-- Homeowners Use Airbnb Room-Renting Site to Pay Mortgage, Dodge Foreclosure
-- Dan Levy
-- 2010-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/homeowners-use-airbnb-room-renting-site-to-pay-mortgage-dodge-foreclosure.html

          
          
             Nichelle Morant was on the verge of
losing her three-unit house in Brooklyn, New York, earlier this
year, after tenants renting the second and third floors lost
their jobs and moved out.  
 With bills mounting and foreclosure looming, Morant
converted the space into a bed and breakfast. Using the San
Francisco-based rental site  Airbnb.com  to take reservations, she
was soon raking in $4,500 a month, enough to cover her mortgage.  
 “This has been our stimulus package,” said Morant, a
pastry chef, who lives with her family on the ground floor of
the home. “We were going to lose our house.”  
 For Airbnb -- along with Craigslist and rival rental sites
like HomeAway.com Inc. -- the threat of foreclosures is bringing
a surge of listings. Local  entrepreneurs  Brian Chesky and Joe
Gebbia didn’t have that in mind when they conceived of Airbnb.
They just wanted to take the hassle out of renting out a house,
a spare room, or even just a couch.  
 With U.S. unemployment near a 26-year high and foreclosures
in their fifth year of increases, there’s no shortage of
homeowners seeking relief. Using Airbnb presents risks, though.
Renting rooms forces homeowners to share space with strangers,
and amid a backlash from the lodging industry, there could be
legal challenges.  
 New York Law  
 New York lawmakers passed a bill this month, backed by the
 Hotel Association of New York City  and the Hotel and Motel
Trades Council, banning rentals of less than 30 days in
apartment buildings.  
 The legislation is directed at larger multifamily dwellings
in New York City and not individual homeowners. Still, there’s
broader concern about unregulated rentals, said  Joe McInerney ,
chief executive officer of the  American Hotel & Lodging
Association  in Washington, which advocates for the industry.  
 “What are the qualifications, what are the sanitary things
that are going to be done, how are you going to make sure that
noise is regulated, how are you going to make sure they’re not
parking all over the place?” McInerney said. “You have to take
a look situation by situation and area by area.”  
 Morant, 37, sees short-term rentals as more of a solution
than a problem. By converting part of her house into lodging for
tourists, Morant has caught up on payments to her lender,  Wells
Fargo & Co. , after falling more than three months behind. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo declined to comment on the pending
New York legislation or Morant’s situation, said spokesman  Jason Menke .  
 ‘So Many People’  
 “We’ve made a huge contribution to saving a whole bunch of
homes,” said Airbnb’s Chesky, who’s received more than 300 e-
mails from customers that were on the brink of losing their
residences. “There were so many people who just couldn’t pay
their mortgage and couldn’t sell their home.”  
 A tenth of all U.S. mortgages were delinquent in the first
quarter, and more than half of all loans modified under federal
relief programs went into default again within a year, according
to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office
of Thrift Supervision. Bank seizures rose to a record 269,962 in
the second quarter and more than 1 million properties are
expected to be taken back by lenders this year, according to
 RealtyTrac Inc.   
 When Chesky and Gebbia came up with Airbnb in October 2007,
they were roommates in need of some money. With a design
conference coming to town, they rented out space in their house
to attendees. From there, they saw a business opportunity and
brought on one of Gebbia’s friends, Nathan Blecharczyk, to build
the website for Airbnb.  
 The closely held company was originally called AirBed &
Breakfast, because Chesky and Gebbia offered their air mattress
to the guests and served them breakfast. They later shortened
the name to Airbnb.  
 Startup Incubator  
 In early 2009, the three founders -- all in their late-20s
-- received an investment from  Y Combinator , an incubator for
startups. Later in the year, they raised money from venture firm
 Sequoia Capital .  
 Airbnb is now used by homeowners in more than 5,700 cities
in 148 countries. Revenue is doubling every three months, Chesky
said, declining to give specific figures. The company charges an
average fee of 10 percent to travelers and 3 percent to the
homeowner.  
 HomeAway , an Austin, Texas-based vacation rental company,
uses a different model, charging homeowners an annual fee of
$300 to list. The company is adding 15,000 new properties to its
website each month, according to CEO  Brian Sharples . While few
of HomeAway’s customers are at risk of foreclosure, about 20
percent of those who have signed up this year are renting out
their vacation home because of economic hardship, he said.  
 ‘Pretty Scary’  
 For Airbnb users like Lara Hawketts, the situation was
dire. Hawketts was in jeopardy of missing loan payments before
stumbling upon the site last year. She was relocated to
Washington, D.C., from the U.K. in late 2008 by her employer, a
technology consulting company. Two months later, the company
decided not to expand its U.S. office because of the recession.
Instead, it gave her six months of severance at half-pay.  
 She was in the process of buying a house with a $2,700
monthly mortgage.  
 Hawketts found Airbnb from an ad on Craigslist. She
immediately joined the site, and within days was getting
inquiries. By charging about $115 a night, she’s earned more
than $13,000 this year, covering most of her mortgage.  
 “We’ve got bookings that span between now and 2011,” said
Hawketts, who has taken a sales job that pays her half what she
earned previously. “It’s worked out, but it was pretty scary at
the time.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        