-- Oosthuizen Says British Open Was Decided on 12th Hole Swing
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-19T11:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/oosthuizen-says-british-open-was-decided-by-four-shot-swing-at-12th-hole.html

          
          
             Louis Oosthuizen  came to the 12th
hole worried that  Paul Casey  would pass him and win the British
Open. He teed off at the 13th knowing the title was his to lose.  
 The South African was four shots ahead of Casey when the
pair hit their first shots on the 12th hole at St. Andrews in
Scotland yesterday. The Englishman triple-bogeyed and Oosthuizen
had a birdie to push the lead to eight shots.  
 “It was actually very tight until the 12th,” Oosthuizen
told reporters after winning the tournament by seven strokes.
“It could easily be I make bogey and Paul makes birdie, and
it’s a one-shot game. All of a sudden, it was mine to throw
away.”  
 Oosthuizen led from the second round, holding off world No.
3  Lee Westwood , who birdied the 18th hole to finish second.
 Tiger Woods , who won the past two times the British Open was
held at St. Andrews, was tied for 23rd at 3-under par.
Oosthuizen shot a 16-under-par 272 and was one shot off tying
the modern record of an eight-stroke victory in the event.  
 Going into the tournament, the 27-year-old had just one
victory on the European Tour and had missed the cut in seven of
his eight major appearances. Journalists and fans struggled to
pronounce his last name (WUHST-hi-zen), and just as many
questions were posed about his “Shrek” nickname as his play.  
 “I’m proud of the way I held my nerves,” the 5-foot-10
player told reporters. “I knew that I could throw a big lead
away. It was still nerve-wracking, but it’s just great.”  
 Gary Player’s Call  
 Oosthuizen is the fourth South African to win the Open,
joining Bobby Locke,  Gary Player  and  Ernie Els . He was on the
South African team that won the World Junior Team Championships
in 2000. While his father and brother both played tennis in
regional tournaments in his home country, he picked up golf.  
 His given name is Lodewicus Theodorus, after his
grandfather, but almost everyone calls him Louis. Except for his
friends, who’ve nicknamed him “Shrek” because, the movie buff
says, the gap in his front teeth makes him look like the
animated film character.  
 He grew up on a rural sheep farm in Heidelburg, and built a
driving range to practice on, according to Hannes van Niekerk,
head of the Ernie Els & Fancourt Foundation, which provide
support to Oosthuizen in the early 2000s.  
 Own Techniques  
 “From day one, he had his own techniques,” van Niekerk
said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think there was any
coaching involved for many, many years. Because he was so far
off in the bush, he was on his own for most of the time. Louis
worked out that swing very early on.”  
 Oosthuizen received a telephone call from Player yesterday
morning. He knew Casey -- who shot 3-over-par 75 to finish in a
tie for third place with Northern Ireland’s  Rory McIlroy  and
 Henrik Stenson  of Sweden -- would get a lot of support from
British fans, so Player counseled him in his first language,
Afrikaans, to keep his head.  
 “He was saying just to stay calm out there, have a lot of
fun,” Oosthuizen said. “He told me the story when he played
against  Arnold Palmer  when he won his first Masters. He said,
‘They wanted to throw stuff at me.’”  
 It didn’t get that bad for the South African, who was
greeted with applause by the crowd on the 18th.  
 Oosthuizen joined Els’s golf foundation at the age of 17.
Els, a three-time champion, said he’d recognized the player’s
ability early on. In March, Oosthuizen started his own golf
academy for local students at his home course in Mossel Bay,
which is on the south coast between Cape Town and Port
Elizabeth.  
 Proud Moment  
 “It would be difficult to find anybody in the world who is
more proud of him right now,” Els said in comments distributed
by tournament officials. “I thought long before anybody had
heard of him that he was going to be an exceptional player.”  
 Oosthuizen’s 65 on the first day was overshadowed by
McIlroy, who tied the record lowest round in a major with 63.  
 The South African took advantage of calm conditions on the
morning of the second day to score a 67 and take the lead for
good. Gusting winds in the afternoon sent scores soaring, with
McIlroy shooting 80.  
 Even without his errors at the 12th, Casey said it would
have been tough to beat Oosthuizen.  
 Very Calm  
 “That was an unbelievable performance,” Casey told
reporters. “He was very calm, played wonderful golf.”  
 As he prepared to play the last hole, Oosthuizen said he
wasn’t taking anything for granted and knew he had to stay
focused.  
 “That’s one thing I learned in this game, you’re certain
when the last putt goes in,” he said. “I didn’t want to make
six or seven.  
 “When my tee shot was down on 18, I felt that was it,” he
said. “I’m definitely not going to 10putt around there. I just
hit the first putt way to the right and then didn’t really
matter from there, and I was too excited.”  
 After hitting the green with his drive, Oosthuizen allowed
his mind to drift. He said he walked up the 18th fairway
thinking of former South African President  Nelson Mandela , who
celebrated his 92nd birthday yesterday.  
 “It felt a bit special out there,” he said. “What he’s
done for our country is unbelievable, so happy birthday to him
once again.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at St. Andrews through the London sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South African golfer Louis Oosthuizen kisses the Claret Jug, the trophy for the Champion golfer of the year after winning the 139th British Open Golf Championship at St Andrews in Scotland. Photographer: Glyn Kirk/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
