-- Hotel for Innard Lovers, Bargain Ducasse Lunch: Food Buzz
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-07-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/hotel-for-innard-lovers-bargain-ducasse-lunch-food-buzz.html

          
          
             St. John Hotel is scheduled to
open in  London ’s Chinatown in mid-October, 16 years after the
debut on Oct. 22, 1994, of St. John restaurant, best known for
serving innards. Remember that we once thought brains were for
boffins and hearts for Valentine’s Day?  
 The 15-room property, on the site of Manzi’s restaurant,
will feature a dining room with 60 to 70 covers (compared with
100 at St. John in Smithfield) and an upstairs bar, said
Trevor Gulliver, the business partner of chef  Fergus
Henderson . Gulliver said he is focusing on the project: He
broke his leg in a collision with a bicycle on July 12 and has
difficulty getting out to party.  
 Wahaca plans to add a fourth branch, on the site of the
old Slug & Lettuce bar at 80 Wardour Street, in London’s Soho
district. Opening of the Mexican eatery is scheduled for
October and the fit-out will be certifiably green as it will
be assessed under Building Research Establishment
Environmental Assessment Method, or  Breeam .  
 Bompas & Parr’s “The Complete History of Food” (with
Courvoisier) offered an extraordinary ambulant meal on July 14
at a neoclassical terraced mansion in Belgrave Square. Courses
included medieval cocktails from Saf, foie gras Ferrero Rocher
from Gauthier and a Victorian dinner inside an iguanodon, 
courtesy of Bistrotheque. It’s worth watching out for 
future projects at  http://www.jellymongers.co.uk/ .  
 Koffmann’s opened at the Berkeley Hotel on July 15,
before Pierre Koffmann even had his head chef in place. That
job will be taken by Clive Dixon, who previously ran the
kitchen at  Heston Blumenthal ’s pub, the Hinds Head. I keep
reading that Koffmann is “iconic.” I have no idea what that
means.  
   Alain Ducasse  at the Dorchester is offering a two-course
set lunch -- including vegetarian options -- with wine, water
and coffee for 39.50 pounds. Not bad for a three-Michelin-star
restaurant. Three courses are 45 pounds, as at London’s other
three-star,  Gordon Ramsay , where drinks cost extra.  
 The Mall Tavern, in Notting Hill, opened its own Kitchen
Table on July 15. The aim is to create private dinner and
lunch parties, rather than to replicate the chef’s tables
pioneered in London by Ramsay. Head Chef Jesse Dunford-Wood
will work with the host to develop a menu and matching wines
from Lea & Sandeman, with prices starting at 25 pounds a head.  
 Marlon Abela, whose  MARC Ltd.  owns the Greenhouse, plans
to open a contemporary Provencal bistro in October. Cassis
will occupy the site of the Oratory at 232 Brompton Road. The
head chef will be David Escobar, who has worked at the three
Michelin star Lameloise, in Chagny-en-Bourgogne,  France .  
 Waitrose rolled out some of Heston Blumenthal’s planned
dishes on July 14 when it showed off its Christmas range to
journalists in London. Sitting under a Christmas tree, I
particularly enjoyed his Tea Smoked Salmon, with its back note
of Lapsang Souchong. The “Heston at Waitrose” range also
features a savory Vanilla Mayonnaise. Watch out for a new line
of free-range, slow-growing turkeys. The name? Plumpie?  
 The reopening date for the Savoy and, of course, the
Savoy Grill under Chef Director Stuart Gillies, is now Oct.
10. To find out when bookings open, e-mail
 savoygrill@gordonramsay.com .  
 (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tom Parker Bowles and Matt Parr  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Food writer Tom Parker Bowles, left, and organizer Matt Parr at "The Complete History of   Food," in London. Guests were escorted from room to room in an old mansion.  Matt Crossick/Bompas & Parr via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Food writer Tom Parker Bowles, left, and organizer Matt Parr at "The Complete History of   Food," in London. Guests were escorted from room to room in an old mansion.  Matt Crossick/Bompas & Parr via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A "buccaneer" bartender pours cocktails for guests at Bompas & Parr's "The Complete History of Food," in London. Guests were escorted around an old house to sample food and drink. Photographer: Matt Crossick/Bompas & Parr via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Anya and Felix Hindmarch  
                       
                         
                           Matt Crossick/Bompas & Parr via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Designer Anya Hindmarch and her son Felix at "The Complete History of Food," in London. Guests at the event enjoyed drinks and foods from different historical eras. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Designer Anya Hindmarch and her son Felix at "The Complete History of Food," in London. Guests at the event enjoyed drinks and foods from different historical eras. Photographer:  Matt Crossick/Bompas & Parr via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chef Pierre Koffmann  
                       
                         
                           Network London via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chef Pierre Koffmann. U.K. chefs are betting that Koffmann’s , L’Anima and Marcus Wareing
will be among the London restaurants that gain a star. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chef Pierre Koffmann. U.K. chefs are betting that Koffmann’s , L’Anima and Marcus Wareing
will be among the London restaurants that gain a star. Source: Network London via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
