-- Motorola Near $1.3 Billion Sale of Unit to Nokia Siemens
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/motorola-said-near-sale-of-network-unit-to-nokia-siemens-for-1-3-billion.html

          
          
             Motorola Inc.  is near a deal to sell
its wireless-network equipment business to Nokia Siemens
Networks for more than $1.3 billion, according to one person
familiar with the sale.  
 The sale may be announced as early as today, according to
the person who wouldn’t agree to be identified because the deal
hasn’t yet been made public. The final price is expected to be
between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion, the person said.  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Motorola, declined to comment.  
 Nokia Siemens Networks, a joint venture between Finland’s
 Nokia Oyj  and Munich-based  Siemens AG , wants to boost its
presence in North America to compete with larger rival  Ericsson
AB  and faster-growing competitors such as China’s Huawei
Technologies Co. Nokia Siemens unsuccessfully bid twice for
assets belonging to Toronto-based Nortel Networks Corp. during
the past year after the telecom-equipment maker filed for
bankruptcy protection and sold off units.  
 Nokia Siemens has been cutting jobs and shutting offices to
adjust to falling demand and price competition from Ericsson and
Huawei. Nokia Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Rajeev Suri  in
November said the company will expand through acquisitions and
partnerships while trimming its existing operations.  
 A Nokia Siemens spokesman didn’t immediately return phone
calls seeking comment.  
 Over the past decade, telecom-equipment companies have
combined to cope with declines in spending by some customers.
France’s Alcatel SA acquired Lucent Technologies Inc. in 2006 to
create  Alcatel-Lucent , a Paris-based rival to Nokia Siemens.
Since that deal closed,  the stock  has declined 52 percent.  
 Spinoff  
 Motorola is negotiating to sell the wireless-network unit
as it prepares for a broader restructuring. The company is
planning to spin off its mobile-phone and set-top box operations
into a company that will be led by co-Chief Executive Officer
 Sanjay Jha . The spinoff is on track for the first quarter, Jha
said last month.  
 Sales from the wireless networks business fell 7 percent to
$896 million last quarter from a year earlier, accounting for 18
percent of Motorola’s total revenue. The division’s operating
profit climbed to $112 million from $62 million a year earlier,
helped by contracts it won from companies including China Mobile
Communications Corp.  
 If a wireless-network sale goes ahead, it would leave  Greg Brown , the other co-CEO at the Schaumburg, Illinois-based
company, responsible for just the enterprise mobility business
that makes two-way radios and bar-code scanners. Brown said in
April that a sale of the networking business was possible.  
 “If there is an alternate equation or partnership that
improves that trajectory even further than what we think, we’d
consider it,” he said.  
 Nokia Siemens is being represented by  Barclays Capital ,
while Motorola is being advised by Centerview Partners,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , according to people
familiar with the discussions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 Jmccracken3@bloomberg.net 
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nokia Siemens Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Suri said the company will expand through acquisitions and partnerships while trimming its existing operations. Source: Nokia Siemens Networks via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Andersen, portfolio manager at Congress Asset Management Co., talks about his investment strategy.
     Andersen also discusses prospects for Motorola Inc. He speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Motorola Inc. is planning to spin off its mobile-phone and set-top box operations into a company that will be led by co-Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
