-- Tour de France Champion Contador Fails to Take Yellow Jersey
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-18T22:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/tour-de-france-champion-contador-lies-in-wait-for-leader-s-yellow-jersey.html

          
          
             Alberto Contador  was kept waiting
at least another day for the Tour de France yellow jersey.  
 Contador accelerated and slowed twice as he battled with
 Andy Schleck  on the final climb of stage 14 yesterday before
they crossed the line together in the Ax-3 Domaines ski resort.
France’s Christophe Riblon won. Schleck leads defending champion
Contador by 31 seconds overall.  
 “It was a little bit of a mind game between him and me,”
Schleck told reporters. “I guess he’s not happy, he didn’t gain
a single second.”  
 Spain’s Contador, who’s seeking a third Tour de France win
in four years, has three more  Pyrenees mountain stages  and a
time-trial to pass Schleck before the race ends July 25 in
Paris. Schleck is trying to become Luxembourg’s first winner of
cycling’s premier race since 1958.  
 Samuel Sanchez  of Spain is third, 2 minutes, 31 seconds
behind Schleck following yesterday’s 115-mile stage, the first
in the Pyrenees. Russia’s  Denis Menchov  is fourth, 13 seconds
further back. Seven-time champion  Lance Armstrong , riding his
last Tour de France, dropped two places to 38th and is almost 40
minutes behind Schleck.  
 Schleck and Contador were so alert to each other’s moves
they allowed Sanchez and Menchov to gain 14 seconds on them.
That won’t have any bearing on the race’s outcome, according to
 Bjarne Riis , who manages Schleck’s Saxo Bank team.  
 “These two guys are so strong that it doesn’t matter about
losing time,” Riis said. “It’s a tactic game between them.”  
 Rivalry With Armstrong  
 Contador won last year’s Tour in a race marked by his
rivalry with Astana teammate Armstrong, now with RadioShack. It
wasn’t just 38-year-old Armstrong that failed to keep up with
the pace of the race leaders yesterday. Two-time runner-up Cadel
Evans and 2008 champion  Carlos Sastre  also fell behind.  
 “It was a fight between me and him,” Contador said,
referring to Schleck.  
 Riblon, who rides for the AG2R team, won the stage by 54
seconds after a solo ride over the 9.6-mile Port de Pailheres --
a climb that is rated out-of-category because it’s so difficult
-- and the five-mile ascent to Ax-3 Domaines.  
 A team official driving alongside Riblon squirted him with
water from a bottle as he covered the last few miles as the
temperature approached 30 degrees Centigrade (86 degrees
Fahrenheit). Schleck said he’s expecting more pressure from
Contador in the Pyrenees today.  
 “It’s stressful,” Schleck said. “I’ve got a lot of
pressure on my shoulders but the pressure motivates me.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  at Ax-3 Domaines via the London sports desk 
   aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alberto Contador of Spain waits at the start of stage thirteen of the 2010 Tour de France from Rodez to Revel. Photographer: Bryn Lennon/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
