-- Toyota Settles Infringement Case Over Hybrid Patent
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-19T20:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/toyota-s-prius-success-threatened-by-soviet-emigrant-s-hybrid-patent-claim.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s
biggest automaker, settled a patent-infringement dispute that
had threatened U.S. imports of its newest hybrid vehicles,
including the Prius.  
 The agreement with Paice LLC, ending six years of
litigation, was announced today as a hearing was to begin on a
claim against Toyota before the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington. Terms weren’t disclosed and lawsuits
pending in Texas and at a U.S. appeals court will be dismissed.  
 Paice founder Alex Severinsky, a Soviet emigrant who began
his career developing antitank-warfare instrumentation, had said
his 1994 patented system for a high-voltage method to power gas-
electric hybrid cars was used by Toyota without permission.
Severinsky, 65, has sought royalties from the automaker.  
 “Finally people understand the merits of what I invented
and give it the proper value,” Severinsky said today in an
interview. “Toyota is the leading technology company and
finally appreciates the value of the invention.”  
 Ford Motor Co., maker of the Fusion hybrid car, agreed to
license Paice’s technology, the companies said on July 16
without revealing terms.  
 The Paice patent covers a way to supply torque to a car’s
wheels from both an electric motor and internal combustion
engine using a combination of high voltage and low current.  
 Toyota, which was found to have infringed the patent in an
earlier case, had said its hybrid vehicles are the result of its
own research and asked the  trade commission  to deny Severinsky’s
latest claims.  
 Paice Patent ‘Equivalent’  
 “The parties agree that, although certain Toyota vehicles
have been found to be equivalent to a Paice patent, Toyota
invented, designed and developed the Prius and Toyota’s hybrid
technology independent of any inventions of Dr. Severinsky and
Paice as part of Toyota’s long history of innovation,” both
companies said in separate statements.  
 Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, rose 47 cents to $71.22 at 4:02 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The ITC is an independent agency set up to protect U.S.
markets from unfair trade practices. When a violation is found,
it has the power to block imports of products and typically
sides with patent owners unless there are health or public-
policy issues.  
 The issue in the trial that was to begin today hinged on
what is more important: Severinsky’s right to protect the
millions of dollars invested in his invention or the potential
economic harm of banning Toyota’s hybrid-vehicle imports.  
 Public Interest  
 ITC Judge  Theodore R. Essex  had said Toyota couldn’t try to
reargue the validity of the patent or whether it’s infringed,
leaving open the question of whether Paice has a domestic market
to protect, and if it was in the public interest to issue a ban.  
 Citing potential job losses, lawmakers wrote the ITC to
side with Toyota. Among them were Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, who has a Toyota plant in his state that
makes hybrid vehicles, and Democratic Representative  Travis Childers  of Mississippi, where Toyota is building a factory.  
 Toyota is the biggest seller of hybrid vehicles in the U.S.
In June, the company sold 14,639 hybrids in the U.S., including
1,933 Lexus hybrids, about 10 percent of its total sales. The
ITC’s case related to the company’s current, third-generation
Prius as well as the Camry hybrid, Lexus HS250h and Lexus
RX450h.  
 2005 Trial  
 Toyota was found in a 2005 trial to have infringed
Severinsky’s patent on torque technology used in earlier
versions of the Prius, Lexus RX400h and hybrid Toyota
Highlanders. A federal jury awarded $4.27 million to the company
Severinsky founded, Bonita Springs, Florida-based  Paice .  
 The judge declined to halt sales of the hybrids, and
instead told the automaker to pay Paice $25 for every car. He
later raised the amount to about $98 after an appeals court
ordered a recalculation. Toyota appealed that decision.  
 If the $98 rate were applied to all of Toyota’s hybrids now
on sale in the U.S., the company would have to pay $1.43 million
in royalties for June alone. The company reported fourth-quarter
net income of 112 billion yen ($1.27 billion) on May 11.  
 Paice Chairman  Frances M. Keenan , vice president of finance
at Baltimore’s  Abell Foundation  that has invested $20 million in
Paice since 1998, declined to say if the company is talking to
additional automakers about licensing the Paice patent.  
 The ITC case is In the Matter of Hybrid Electric Vehicles,
337-688, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington). The
civil cases are Paice LLC v. Toyota Motor Corp., 04-cv-211;
07cv180 and 08-cv-261, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Marshall).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Toyota Motor Corp.'s U.S sales unit Jim Lentz. Photographer:  Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A man walks near Toyota Motor Corp.'s third-generation Prius hybrid vehicle displayed at the company's showroom in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
