-- TPG, Carlyle Group Said to Lead KKR as Preferred Bidders for Healthscope
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-07-18T21:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/tpg-carlyle-group-said-to-lead-kkr-as-preferred-bidders-for-healthscope.html

          
          
             A group including Carlyle Group and
TPG Capital will be named the preferred private-equity bidder
for  Healthscope Ltd. , the Australian hospital operator that
received takeover offers of A$1.8 billion ($1.56 billion) in May,
three people familiar with the matter said.  
 Healthscope plans to make a statement to the Sydney stock
exchange today, the people said, declining to be identified
because the details are private. The Melbourne-based company is
also considering a rival offer from  KKR & Co. , which was bidding
alone, two of the people said.  
 The offer values Healthscope shares at A$6.26 each and
includes more than A$700 million of debt, the Australia
Financial Review reported, without saying where it got the
information. The group’s takeover price would be 39 percent more
than the stock’s close on May 13, the day before Healthscope
said it received a buyout proposal from a private equity group.  
 Buying Healthscope would grant the winner access to the
expanding Australian market for private health care. Healthscope,
whose profit growth has averaged 36 percent in the past nine
years, is spending more than A$240 million adding 583 hospital
beds and 24 operating theaters in the country.  
 The company, Australia’s second-biggest hospital owner,
last month gave bidders access to its accounts after receiving
competing proposals. It asked for final bids by July 16.  
 Private Equity Interest  
 Kate Inverarity , an external spokeswoman for Healthscope,
declined to comment.  Sue Cato , head of Cato Counsel, which
represents the Carlyle and TPG consortium, declined to comment.
Ian Smith, a spokesman for KKR in Adelaide, also declined to
comment.  
 Carlyle’s group in May offered A$5.75 for each Healthscope
share, valuing the company at A$1.82 billion, people familiar
with the matter have said. KKR was behind a A$5.80-per-share
approach later that month, another person familiar with the
matter said. Blackstone LP pulled out of the Carlyle bidding
group last week because it couldn’t agree on pricing, Reuters
reported on July 15.  
 Healthscope fell 0.2 percent to A$5.40 in  Sydney trading  on
Friday. On May 14, the shares surged 17 percent, its biggest
one-day gain in almost a decade, after Healthscope said it
received an offer.  
 Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty  and Lazard are advising
Healthscope.  
 Private hospital revenue in Australia climbed an average of
7.9 percent annually to A$8.98 billion in the five years ended
June 2009, the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare said
June 17.  
 Health Insurance Coverage  
 One in two Australians have hospital policies, and health
insurance coverage in the country reached a 27-year high in
March, Health Minister  Nicola Roxon  said in May.  
 Healthscope owns or operates 44 hospitals in Australia,
including the Prince of Wales Private Hospital in the eastern
suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne Private Hospital on the fringe
of the city’s central business district, according to its
website. It also runs a pathology chain in Australia, New
Zealand, Malaysia and Singapore.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        