-- Airbus, Boeing Double Orders on Leasing Demand
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/plane-leasing-companies-said-resuming-airbus-boeing-orders-at-farnborough.html

          
          
             Airbus SAS  and  Boeing Co.  announced
189 orders on the first day of the Farnborough Air Show, more
than double the total from last year’s event, as leasing
companies returned to the market after the recession.  
 Airbus won contracts yesterday for 122 planes worth $11.6
billion at list prices, while Boeing logged 67 orders valued at
$7.5 billion. They had 69 and 9 respectively at the 2009 Paris
Air Show, which alternates annually with Farnborough, England.  
 Leasing companies led by  General Electric Co. ’s GECAS unit
accounted for 151 of the contracts, eclipsing the business done
by airlines. The biggest airline order was from Emirates, which
agreed to buy 12 Boeing 777-300ERs with a list price of $3.3
billion.  
 “Much was written about the leasing companies’ demise, but
not only have they survived, their portfolios have performed
remarkably well,”  Mike Cave , president of Boeing’s finance
unit, said in an interview. “You’re also seeing private equity
come in and start up new leasing companies, so the aggregate
appetite to be in the leasing business is as large as ever.”  
 GECAS ordered 40 Boeing 737-800s and 60 Airbus A320s in
Farnborough with a value of about $8 billion, while  Steven Udvar-Hazy ’s Air Lease Corp. bought 51 Airbus single-aisle jets
worth about $4.4 billion. Hazy said more will follow today.  
 Air Lease, Boeing  
 Air Lease will buy about 50 additional planes from Boeing,
according to two people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the agreement hasn’t been made public.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is also set to buy planes,
two people familiar with the negotiations have said. RBS
spokesman Nigel Meffen said he had no comment on order prospects
for his company.  
 “The conditions for the aircraft placements are good
because of the growth in emerging markets and fleet replacement
needs in developed markets,” said  Norman Liu , president and
chief executive officer of GECAS, the world’s largest plane
lessor. The GE unit has about 1,800 leased aircraft.  
 Boeing and Airbus’s parent, European Aeronautic Defence &
Space Co., both gained yesterday. Chicago-based  Boeing  jumped
$1.28, or 2.1 percent, to $63.18 for the biggest advance among
the 12 companies in the  Standard and Poor’s 500 Aerospace &
Defense  Index.  EADS , based in Paris and Munich, rose 14 cents to
16.56 euros in Paris.  
 Biggest Customers  
 Leasing companies are usually planemakers’ biggest
customers. The purchases reflect airlines’ demand for
replacement planes as well as for fleet expansion.  
 In the market for smaller planes, Sukhoi Civil Aircraft
Co., the maker of Russia’s first post-Soviet passenger airplane,
concluded a deal to sell 30 of its new SuperJets with a book
value of $951 million to Indonesian carrier Kartika Airlines.  
 Qatar Airways Ltd. placed an order for two Global 5000
business jets from Bombardier Inc., the third-biggest planemaker
after Boeing and Airbus, plus a single Challenger 605.  
 Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA , the No. 4 aircraft
maker, won a $211 million order for five 120-seat 195 regional
jets from Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras, and one worth $80
million for two 100-seat 190s from Trip Linhas Aereas. Both
carriers operate in Brazil, where Embraer is based.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in London via at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in London via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in London via 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jim Albaugh, head of Boeing Co.'s commercial division, reacts during an interview on the first day of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Tom Enders, chief executive officer of Airbus SAS, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for aircraft orders this year and production of the company's A380 and A320 jets.
     Airbus and Boeing Co. announced 189 orders on the first day of the Farnborough Air Show, more than double the total on day one of last year’s Paris event, as leasing companies returned to the market after the recession. Enders speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       John Leahy, chief operating officer of Airbus  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         John Leahy, chief operating officer of Airbus SAS, at the Internationale Luftfahrt Ausstellung (ILA) Berlin International Air show in Berlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John Leahy, chief operating officer of Airbus SAS, at the Internationale Luftfahrt Ausstellung (ILA) Berlin International Air show in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. announced 189 orders  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An Airbus SAS A380 airplane, right, flies over a Boeing 787 Dreamliner airplane on the first day of the Farnborough International Airshow. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An Airbus SAS A380 airplane, right, flies over a Boeing 787 Dreamliner airplane on the first day of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Airplane Leasing Companies Said to Resume Orders  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Boeing 787 Dreamliner airplane sits on display on the tarmac prior to the opening of the Farnborough International Airshow. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Boeing 787 Dreamliner airplane sits on display on the tarmac prior to the opening of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
