-- Portugal Telecom Shares Slip After Telefonica Drops $9.2 Billion Vivo Bid
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-07-19T16:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/portugal-telecom-may-fall-after-telefonica-ends-9-2-billion-bid-for-vivo.html

          
          
             Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  fell in
Lisbon trading after  Telefonica SA  ended its 7.15 billion-euro
($9.3 billion) offer for the Portuguese company’s stake in a
venture that controls Brazil’s largest wireless operator.  
 Portugal Telecom  declined  0.3 percent to 8.02 euros at the
4:30 p.m. close of trading, after falling as much as 4.8 percent
earlier. Before today, the shares had gained 14 percent since
May 6, the day Telefonica submitted its initial 5.7 billion-euro
proposal. Telefonica lost 0.2 percent to 16.125 euros in Madrid.  
 “This is negative for both companies but more so for
Portugal Telecom,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein. “If the market were rational it
would be positive for Telefonica, as this means they won’t
overpay for the asset.”  
 Chairman  Cesar Alierta  raised the bid twice to win the
support of Portugal Telecom investors, before the Portuguese
government blocked the deal. The latest offer was equivalent to
99 percent of Portugal Telecom’s entire market value based on
July 16 closing prices.  
 Telefonica hired Dutch law firm De Brauw Blackstone
Westbroek to help dissolve Brasilcel NV, the 50-50 venture that
controls  Vivo Participacoes SA , said a person close to the
matter, who asked not to be identified as legal proceedings
haven’t started. The firm worked on the creation of the venture.
Telefonica spokesman  Miguel Angel Garzon  said the Spanish
company “will go its own way” after trying for two months to
negotiate a deal. He declined to comment on the law firm.  
 Dividend Risk  
 Telefonica said in May that a bid rejection could put
Portugal Telecom’s “dividend cover” at risk as payouts from
their venture need to be approved by both partners. Portugal
Telecom has said investors should ignore such Telefonica claims.  
 “The expiration of the Telefonica offer creates
significant uncertainty,”  Paul Marsch , an analyst at Berenberg
Bank, said in a note to investors. He cut his recommendation on
Portugal Telecom stock to “hold” from “buy.”  
 Vivo has a 30 percent share of the Brazilian mobile market.
Telefonica wants full control of the venture to generate cost
savings from a merger with its fixed-line business in Brazil.
Portugal Telecom needs Brazil to spur revenue growth.  
 Portugal Telecom’s directors met on July 16, the deadline
for the offer, and demanded more time to find a solution. The
offer has “expired,” Spain’s largest telephone company replied
to its Lisbon-based partner, according to a copy of a fax
published in a regulatory filing. Portugal Telecom had asked for
an extension to July 28.  
 Drawing a Line  
 “Telefonica had to draw a line somewhere,” Bienenstock at
Sanford C Bernstein said. “The rational thing for them would be
to aggressively seek the dissolution of Brasilcel.”  
 Portugal’s government, which used its “golden share” veto
powers to block the deal on June 30, said late July 17 it backs
the stance of the former state phone monopoly’s board.  
 The European Court of Justice on July 8 deemed those veto
powers illegal. Portugal said it will alter its special rights
in the company to comply with the ruling.  
 Telefonica wants to combine Vivo’s mobile-phone network
with  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA , or Telesp, the Spanish
company’s fixed-line unit in Brazil.  
 The Spanish company, which competes in Brazil with Vivendi
SA and America Movil SAB, controlled by Mexican billionaire
 Carlos Slim , is seeking to bolster Telesp. The fixed-line phone
company reported a 1.4 percent decline in first-quarter sales in
local-currency terms.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cesar Alierta, chairman and CEO of Telefonica SA  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Cesar Alierta, chairman and chief executive officer of Telefonica SA, speaks during an interview in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Cesar Alierta, chairman and chief executive officer of Telefonica SA, speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
