-- Treasury Bids Rise 18% as Investors Surpass Dealers
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-07-19T10:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/treasury-auction-bids-rise-18-to-record-as-investors-surpass-bond-dealers.html

          
          
             For the first time since the
government started collecting the data, central banks, mutual
funds and U.S. banks are buying more  government securities  at
Treasury auctions than Wall Street’s bond dealers.  
 Foreign and domestic investors bidding directly at note and
bond auctions bought 57 percent of the $1.26 trillion in
Treasuries sold by the government this year, up from 45 percent
during the same period in 2009 and as little as 32 percent for
all of 2008, according to government data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bids compared with the amount of debt sold, the bid-to-cover
ratio, rose 18 percent from last year’s 14-year high, according
to data that Treasury started collecting in 1994.  
 The combination of the lowest U.S. inflation rate in four
decades and continuing concern that the global recovery will
falter is  boosting bonds  even as yields on 10-year notes fall
below 3 percent, the lowest since April 2009. The surge in
demand through so-called direct and indirect bids is helping
drive down rates for U.S. President  Barack Obama  as he grapples
with a  budget deficit  that’s forecast to swell 14 percent to a
record $1.6 trillion.  
 “The economic backdrop is favorable for Treasuries,” said
Thomas Girard, who helps manage $115 billion in fixed income at
New York Life Investment Management in New York. “There’s no
fear of inflation. The bigger fear is deflation.”  
 Confidence Tumbles  
 Yields on 10-year notes fell 13 basis points last week to
2.92 percent, according to BGCantor Market Data. That’s 88 basis
points above the record low of 2.04 percent reached on Dec. 18,
2008, after the collapse of New York-based Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. spurred investors to seek only the safest
government securities. The yield was at 2.94 percent as of 6:32
a.m. in  New York .  
 The two-year yield dropped to an all-time low of 0.577
percent on July 16 as a report showed confidence among U.S.
consumers tumbled to the lowest level in a year.  
 Trading of bills, notes and bonds was shut in Japan today
for a holiday. The implied yield on 10-year Treasury futures
contracts for September delivery fell one basis point to 3.25
percent today as of 12:49 p.m. in  Singapore .  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment decreased to 66.5, the lowest since
August and less than the most pessimistic forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Consumer prices excluding energy and
food remained at a 44-year low of 0.9 percent in June for a
third consecutive month, the Labor Department said the same day.  
 Job Losses  
 The drop in sentiment followed the Labor Department’s July
2 report showing that the U.S. lost 125,000 jobs in June, the
first decline since December. Retail sales excluding autos have
fallen for two consecutive months for the first time since 2008,
while new home sales plunged to a record low in May after
reaching a 20-month high of 446,000 in April.  
 The  U.S. economy  grew 2.7 percent in the first three months
of 2010, expanding for a third straight quarter after the
longest recession since the Great Depression. Gross domestic
product will increase 3.1 percent this year, according to
estimates from 54 economists compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The data shift that we had from the first quarter to the
second quarter has been fairly dramatic and came sooner than
many investors would have expected,” said Eric Pellicciaro, New
York-based head of global rates investments at BlackRock Inc.,
which manages about $1 trillion in bonds. “Treasuries are still
attractive.”  
 Bond Bears  
 Even  bond-market  bears such as primary dealer Morgan
Stanley have trimmed forecasts for U.S. yields to rise in the
second half of the year, with slow growth likely to keep the  Federal Reserve  from increasing record low borrowing rates into
2011. The target for overnight loans between banks has been zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  
 Morgan Stanley of New York has lowered its estimate for the
10-year yield at the end of the 2010 to 3.5 percent from 5.5
percent at the start the year. The median projection of 55
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey is 3.36 percent, down from 3.80
percent in June.  
 Primary dealers , which are required to bid in government
auctions and act as the trading partner to the New York Fed,
have won the lowest proportion of Treasuries in auctions since
the government began releasing the data in 2003.  
 Increasing Demand  
 Increasing demand for longer-term debt from central banks
moving out of the euro and into dollar assets has helped keep
yields low, said  Jeffrey Rosenberg , a credit strategist at
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.  China 
holds $867.7 billion of Treasuries, making it the biggest lender
to the U.S.  
 “The auction participation data and the holdings data show
an increase in holdings in the long-term,” said Rosenberg.
International investors have displayed “comfort with moving out
the curve,” he said.  
 Purchases by China in recent months have focused on longer-
term debt, unlike in 2008, when most of the cash went into
Treasury bills. While China has slashed its bill holdings by
nine-tenths to $6.8 billion as the global credit crunch eased,
total holdings are up 8.3 percent in the 12 months through May,
with notes and bonds due in two years or more surging 46
percent, the Treasury said July 16.  
 ‘Rare Opportunity’  
 China should reduce its U.S. dollar assets, Yu Yongding, a
former adviser to the Chinese central bank, wrote in a
commentary published in today’s China Securities Journal.  
 The proportion of dollar assets in China’s reserves is too
high, Yu wrote. When demand for Treasuries is high, it will
offer China a “rare opportunity” to cut holdings, Yu wrote.  
 The amount of Treasuries kept at the Fed for accounts
including central banks have increased 4.7 percent this year to
a record $2.29 trillion.  
 “This has been a pretty ferocious flight-to-quality,”
said Wan-Chong Kung, who helps manage $89 billion at FAF
Advisors in  Minneapolis , the asset-management arm of U.S.
Bancorp. “Investors more broadly are embracing the idea of a
slower U.S. economy where inflation is not a problem.”  
 Spending by companies and consumers has slowed as economic
data has shown signs of weakening. Companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index have stockpiled a record $2.3 trillion of cash
and equivalents. At the same time,  consumer credit  has declined
in 15 of the last 16 months, while factory orders fell 1.4
percent in May, the biggest drop in 14 months, the Commerce
Department said.  
 ‘Paralyzed With Uncertainty’  
 Companies “are paralyzed with uncertainty,” said Barr Segal, a managing director at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc.,
who helps oversee $72 billion in fixed-income assets. “They’re
sitting on cash. There’s a lot of powder there that’s going
nowhere. It is in a way deflationary.”  
 Almost 87 percent of the 23 companies in the S&P 500 that
reported earnings since July 12, including Alcoa Inc. of New
York and  Santa Clara , California-based  Intel Corp ., have beaten
analysts’ forecasts for earnings per share, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. General Electric Co. in Fairfield,  Connecticut ,
Bank of America and four other companies reported sales that
trailed projections.  
 While analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show that
profits at S&P 500 companies are forecast to increase by 34
percent in 2010 and 18 percent in 2011, investors remain
concerned the earnings expansion is being driven by cost
reductions rather than sales growth, Segal said.  
 Biggest Buyers  
 Investment funds and U.S. banks have been among the biggest
direct buyers of Treasuries this year. Banks held $1.48 trillion
in Treasuries and agency debt as of June 30, up 2.1 percent from
the end of 2009, according to Fed data.  
 Depository institutions bought $1.2 billion of the $13
billion in 30-year U.S. bonds auctioned on June 10, $3.1 billion
of those offered on March 11 and $2.7 billion of the $16 billion
sale on Feb. 11, Treasury data show.  
 “There is definitely a sense that banks are reluctant to
lend and are parking reserves either at the Fed, in Treasuries
or other non-consumer lending assets,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
Connecticut. “Banks have tightened their standards and even if
their standards remained the same, the position of consumers has
deteriorated with the economy under stress. It’s more difficult
to get a car loan, it’s more difficult to get a mortgage.”  
 Company borrowing slid 29 percent in the first half of the
year to $528 billion amid a dearth of business investment,
Bloomberg data shows.  
 Auctions Peak  
 The drop in debt issuance comes with Treasury auctions
starting to decline after reaching record levels. Monthly fixed-
coupon sales of Treasuries decreased 7.3 percent to $178 billion
in June from $192 billion in April.  
 Primary dealers told U.S. officials in February that the
increase in direct bids from investors at auctions risked
distorting prices in the $7 trillion market for  U.S. government
debt , according to people involved in the discussions at the
time. The firms said the rise in direct bids may increase
borrowing costs for the Treasury and taxpayers if dealers bid
less aggressively because of higher volatility at the sales.  
 “The change in bidding behavior should increase the
volatility around auctions,” Joe Leary and Brett Rose, New
York-based strategists at primary dealer Citigroup Inc., wrote
in a July 14 report. “A counter effect that comes along with an
increased number of direct bidders is increased competition.
This recent change in auction behavior may not be completely
adverse for Treasury borrowing costs.”  
 Rising Deficit  
 The U.S. deficit rose $68.4 billion in June to $1 trillion
for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, the government said July
13. Tax receipts have increased 0.5 percent to $1.6 trillion
while spending has declined 2.8 percent to $2.6 trillion.  
 The S&P 500, the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities, has
fallen 4.5 percent this year while Treasuries have risen 6.2
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  
 Globally, bond returns topped stock gains by the widest
margin in nine years in the first half as optimism about the
global economic recovery waned.  
 The MSCI World Index of 24 developed countries fell 9.5
percent, including dividends, in the first half of 2010, while
bonds gained 4.2 percent, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market Index shows.  
 “The bond market has finally come to the conclusion that
we’re going to have shallow growth and low inflation for years
to come,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. “That’s being manifested
in the auction process. It’s a bullish environment for
Treasuries.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:  Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Central banks, mutual funds and U.S. banks are buying more government securities at Treasury auctions than Wall Street's bond dealers. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
