-- U.S. Faulted for Pushing GM, Chrysler to Speed Dealer Closings
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/treasury-s-push-to-close-auto-dealers-may-have-cost-jobs-u-s-audit-finds.html

          
          
             The Obama administration’s push to
accelerate  General Motors Co.  and Chrysler Group LLC dealership
closings, aimed at helping the companies compete, may not have
been necessary and added to unemployment, a U.S. watchdog said.  
 The Treasury Department should have considered whether
speeding up the closings was worth the potential loss of tens of
thousands of jobs, according to a  report  released yesterday by
 Neil Barofsky , special inspector general for the Troubled Asset
Relief Program. The U.S. had rejected reorganization plans from
the carmakers in March 2009, in part citing a “slow pace” for
GM to scale back its dealer network.  
 “Such dramatic and accelerated dealership closings may not
have been necessary and underscores the need for Treasury to
tread very carefully when considering such decisions in the
future,” Barofsky concluded.  
 The report may prompt congressional criticism of the
administration’s handling of the automaker bailouts. Lawmakers
have already complained about the job losses in their districts
from dealership closings and the process by which retailers were
selected for shutdowns.  
 “This sobering report should serve as a wake-up call as to
the implications of politically orchestrated bailouts,”
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and ranking
member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform, said yesterday in a statement.  
 Obama’s Treasury Department, which has spent $80.7 billion
on auto assistance under the TARP program, criticized the
inspector’s audit and said without government aid both companies
faced failure and possible liquidation.  
 Too Slow  
 The department’s autos task force in early 2009 found
Detroit-based GM’s plan for closing 1,650 dealers by 2014 too
slow, according to Barofsky’s report. In response, GM identified
1,454 dealerships to be shut down by October, Barofsky said.  
 Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler, which planned to
shut almost 1,200 dealerships by 2014, instead decided to
immediately close 789 in bankruptcy, after Treasury’s urgings,
according to the report.  
 The Treasury Department, using advice received from
industry experts, had encouraged smaller dealer networks to help
the carmakers boost sales and better compete with Japan’s Toyota
Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co., according to the report.  
 GM, which later moved to trim the closures by about half,
said in a statement that events described in the report “have
since been overtaken by a new GM and a stronger dealer network
to match.” The statement added, “The new GM is also moving
forward to improve dealer relations and has already reinstated
several hundred.”  
 Chrysler Network  
 Chrysler’s “optimized dealer network is already
contributing to improved vehicle sales for Chrysler and will be
a vital part of the company’s success as we continue to deliver
outstanding products,” the automaker said in a statement.  
 General Motors Co. was formed last year out of  bankruptcy 
from the best-performing assets of General Motors Corp., while a
group led by  Fiat SpA  purchased most of the bankrupt Chrysler
LLC assets, forming Chrysler Group LLC. Taxpayer aid made the
reorganizations possible.  
 Dealer complaints about closures prompted lawmakers
including Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, to
ask Barofsky to investigate.  
 “There is substantial confusion, even among dealers
themselves, as to how GM and Chrysler selected dealerships for
termination,” Rockefeller, chairman of the Commerce, Science
and Transportation Committee, said in the letter to Barofsky.  
 The report found that Chrysler, which made decisions on a
case-by-case basis, followed the criteria for targeting dealers
for termination. GM was inconsistent and retained more than
1,300 dealers who would have been shut based on sales, consumer
satisfaction and profitability, according to the report.  
 ‘Special Care’  
 “The fact that Treasury was acting in part as an investor
in GM and Chrysler does not insulate Treasury from its
responsibility to the broader economy,” Barofsky said.
“Treasury should have taken special care given that the auto
team’s determinations had the potential to contribute to job
losses.”  
 Herbert Allison , assistant Treasury secretary for financial
stability, said in a letter included in the report that the
restructuring process “was not easy” and required “deep and
painful sacrifices” from all parties.  
 “We strongly disagree with many of your statements, your
conclusions and the lessons learned,” Allison told Barofsky.  
 President  Barack Obama  signed a law in December that
required the automakers to offer binding arbitration to dealers
whose outlets were being closed.  
 GM said in March it planned to reinstate 661 dealers after
the company began re-evaluating the closing of 1,100 retailers.  
 Chrysler said that same month it was offering new
franchises to 50 dealers who applied for arbitration, in
addition to 36 previous offers or new agreements. Chrysler
terminated 789 dealers last year and said in January that 409
had applied for arbitration.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Neil Barofsky, special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
