-- Republicans May Gain 40 Seats, Win House Control, Campaign Chairman Says
-- Molly Peterson
-- 2010-07-18T18:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/republicans-may-gain-40-seats-win-house-control-campaign-chairman-says.html

          
          
             Republicans may gain more than 40
U.S. House seats in November to wrest control, while Senate
candidates are leading or are tied in races for eight Democratic
seats, the heads of the party’s campaign committees said today.  
 “I think our candidates are going to take us from good to
great to victory, and I think Republicans can win in November,”
Representative  Pete Sessions  of Texas, chairman of the
Republican campaign committee, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  
 Republicans may be outspent by “1.7 to 1” in House
campaigns while picking up “slightly over 40” seats, Sessions
said. Democrats hold 255 seats and Republicans have 178 with two
vacancies. Republicans need 40 to gain a majority of 218.  
 While House Republicans are “popping the champagne bottles
already,” Democrats are confident they can retain control,
Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, chairman of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said on NBC.  
 “We know that it’s going to be a tough election,” Van
Hollen said. “When voters focus on the choice before them,
whether it’s to continue the progress we’ve made or go back to
the policies that got us into this mess to begin with, the
choice is clear.”  
 In the Senate, it’s too early to predict whether
Republicans can gain a majority, Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas,
chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said
on “Meet the Press.” Republicans are “leading or tied” in
about eight races for seats now held by Democrats, he said.  
 “If the election were held today, it would be a pretty
good election” for Republicans, Cornyn said. “But we’ve got a
little bit more than 100 days to go, and it’s anybody’s guess.”  
 ‘History, Headwinds’  
 Democrats, who hold 58 of 100 Senate seats, will keep
control of the chamber in November, “despite midterm election
history and headwinds,” said Senator  Robert Menendez  of New
Jersey, chairman of his party’s Senate campaign committee.  
 “We are competitive in a series of races that are
Republican-held,” Menendez said on the broadcast. “We wouldn’t
have said that six weeks ago.”  
 Of seats up for election in November, 16 are held by
Democrats, 18 by Republicans.  
 President  Barack Obama  has been an asset for House
Democrats on the campaign trail, Van Hollen said.  
 “The president and the White House know that they need a
strong majority in the House and Senate in order to complete
their agenda,” he said. “They also know that the day after the
elections, it will be interpreted as a referendum of the
president’s policies in the press, whether they like it or
not.”  
 The November election will be less a referendum on Obama
than a choice of “whether or not we go back to the Bush
economic policies” espoused by Republicans, Menendez said.  
 Tea Party Candidates  
 Voters may reject Republican Senate candidates backed by
the Tea Party movement, including  Rand Paul  of Kentucky and
 Sharron Angle  of Nevada, because their positions on issues such
as the government’s response to BP Plc’s Gulf oil spill are too
extreme, Menendez said. The Tea Party favors limited government.  
 “When Rand Paul says that it’s un-American to pressure BP
to do the right thing in the Gulf, it’s not going to sell,”
Menendez said.  
 The Tea Party is evenly divided among Democrats,
Republicans and independents, Sessions said. Members of the
movement believe Obama’s agenda is “about extremism and it’s
about bankrupting this country and every state within this
country,” he said.  
 The  National Association  for the Advancement of Colored
People last week adopted a resolution saying elements of the Tea
Party are racist. Cornyn said there’s “no basis” for linking
the movement to racism.  
 ‘Slanderous’ Suggestion  
 “It’s slanderous to suggest that the vast movement of
citizens who have gotten off the couch and showed up at town
hall meetings and Tea Party events, somehow to smear them with
this label,” Cornyn said.  
 The Tea Party may be a “mixed bag” for Republicans in
November, Van Hollen said.  
 “On the one hand, there is a lot of energy on the Tea
Party side,” he said. “On the other hand, it is driving a lot
of their candidates farther and farther to the right. Most of
the districts that are in play are swing districts; they’re
centrist districts.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “I think our candidates are going to take us from good to great to victory, and I think Republicans can win in November,” Rep. Pete Sessions said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Photographer: Jonathan Ernst/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
