-- Riblon Wins Stage 14 of Tour de France; Schleck Keeps Overall Race Lead
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-07-18T15:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/riblon-wins-stage-14-of-tour-de-france-schleck-keeps-overall-race-lead.html

          
          
             Christophe Riblon of the AG2R La
Mondiale team won the 14th stage of cycling’s Tour de France
today as Andy Schleck kept the leader’s yellow jersey.  
 Team Saxo Bank’s Schleck maintained a 31-second lead over
defending champion Alberto Contador of Astana, although the
jockeying for position between them on the final climb allowed
Samuel Sanchez and Denis Menchov to gain time on both. It was
the first of four stages in the Pyrenees.  
 “I’m so happy, I’ve been waiting for this for a long, long
time. It’s amazing,” France’s Riblon, who was in tears as he
crossed the finish line, told Eurosport after the 184.5-
kilometer (115-mile) ride from Revel to the Ax-3 Domaines ski
resort. It was his first stage win on the Tour.  
 Riblon was part of a nine-man breakaway but had opened up a
solo lead by the time he was first over the Port de Pailheres,
one of the most difficult, or “out of category,” climbs.  
 He sped down the descent and managed to hang on to the lead
until the end of the category-1 ascent to the finish, another
climb that’s among the most testing on the Tour.  
 While Spain’s Contador and Luxembourg’s Schleck were mainly
intent on ensuring neither gained a decisive advantage on the
other, Menchov and Sanchez followed Riblon over the line, 54
seconds behind him and 14 seconds ahead of the two leading
race contenders.  
 Overall, Sanchez is third, 2 minutes, 31 seconds behind
Schleck, with Menchov 13 seconds further back.  
 Seven-time champion Lance Armstrong finished more than 15
minutes behind the stage winner and is 38th in the overall
standings, almost 40 minutes off the lead.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        