-- Russian Private Bonds Beating Government Securities on `Compelling Yields'
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-19T11:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/russian-private-bonds-beating-government-securities-on-compelling-yields-.html

          
          
             Bonds sold by non-state companies in
Russia from OAO Mobile TeleSystems to TNK-BP beat debt of
government-controlled borrowers by as much as 4.7 percentage
points in the past month as the nation’s economic recovery
increases demand for higher-yielding assets.  
 Cellular provider Mobile TeleSystems’ dollar bonds due 2020 
returned 6.3 percent during the period, topping a 1.6 percent 
gain from similar-maturity government notes, according to data 
compiled  by Bloomberg. Bonds of the commercial banking unit of
Renaissance Group returned almost twice as much as debt of 
state-owned lender OAO Sberbank while a rally in oil producer 
TNK-BP’s bonds due 2018 cut the extra yield over debt of gas
monopoly OAO Gazprom to 37 basis points from 81.  
 Investors are taking on more risk by buying bonds of lower-
rated Russian issuers as better-than-estimated  employment  and
retail  sales  reports bolster earnings prospects. Debt of Mobile
TeleSystems and TNK-BP will keep outperforming as economic
growth as high as 5 percent this year boosts profits, according
to Aliso Viejo, California-based hedge fund Armored Wolf LLC.  
 “In the Eurobond market our most recent additions have
been in the private sector, because they still offer some
compelling yields relative to quasi-sovereign or sovereign
debt,” said  Ronald Solberg , a managing director at Armored Wolf
with more than $160 million under management and former head of
emerging-market research at Pacific Investment Management Co.
“The Russian macroeconomic story will drive corporate profits
higher and lead to further spread tightening.”  
 Higher Yields  
 The yield difference for all Russian corporate debt
compared with government bonds fell to a two-month low of 110
basis points, or 1.1 percentage point, on July 14 from as high 
as 942 in October 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 indexes . That’s more than seven times the spread of 14 for 
developing nations as a group and compares with 97 basis points 
in Brazil, JPMorgan indexes show.  
 Even after their outperformance, Russian non-state company
debt yields are higher than sovereign and quasi-sovereign notes.
The 8.625 percent bonds sold on June 15 by Mobile TeleSystems,
Russia’s largest cellular company known as MTS, had a yield of
7.52 percent on July 16 and are rated BB at Standard & Poor’s,
or two steps below investment grade. That compares with the 5.27
percent yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due 2020 with a BBB
rating, three steps higher than MTS.  
 CB Renaissance Capital’s 13 percent three-year bonds sold
on March 25 with a B3 rating from Moody’s Investors Service, six
levels below investment grade, yielded 13.4 percent on July 16.
Sberbank’s bonds due the same year and rated nine steps higher
at A3 by Moody’s yield 4.22 percent.  
 Earnings Growth  
 The Renaissance bonds rallied today, sending yields 15 basis 
points lower as of 2:42 p.m. in Moscow. Yields on the MTS notes 
dropped three basis points. The TNK-BP bonds slipped, pushing 
yields five basis points higher.  
 Private and government-controlled companies in Russia’s
 Micex Index  will probably increase earnings 59 percent over the
next 12 months, almost double the 30 percent gain projected for
Brazil’s  Bovespa  index and 33 percent for the 21-country MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, according to more than 2,000 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Total debt of private companies in the  Micex  amounts to 23
percent of their capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Debt of private and government-owned companies in the
MSCI emerging index is 36 percent of capital on average,
Bloomberg data show.  
 New Benchmark  
 The rally in MTS notes has reduced their yield from 8.31
percent a month ago. The yield rose 4 basis points on July 16
after the Moscow-based company said it purchased Russian
regional broadband and cable provider Multiregion for $123.5
million in cash and took on debts of $94.4 million.  
 MTS doesn’t have plans to sell more international debt this
year, and aims to borrow rubles through bonds or loans, Chief
Financial Officer  Alexey Kornya  said in an interview on July 16,
without specifying an amount. The company will redeem $400
million of dollar bonds due in October with some of its $1
billion in cash, Kornya said.  
 The Russian government’s 5 percent dollar bonds due 2020
rose today, reducing the yield by one basis point.  
 RenCap Rally  
 Yields for TNK-BP, the Moscow-based oil producer jointly
owned by BP Plc, have fallen even as the London-based parent’s
debt costs surged on spiraling expenses to clean up the worst
oil spill in U.S. history. Yields on TNK-BP’s 7.875 percent
notes due 2018, with the lowest investment-grade rating of BBB-
from S&P, dropped to 6.68 percent on July 16 from 7.52 percent a
month ago.  Alexander Shadrin , a TNK-BP spokesman, declined to
comment.  
 Bonds of Moscow-based CB Renaissance Capital gained during
the past month, with the 13 percent dollar notes due 2013
climbing 2.5 percent as of July 16. The rally beat 1.4 percent 
returns on the similar-maturity 6.48 percent dollar bonds from
Moscow-based state-controlled lender Sberbank.  
 Russia’s Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  didn’t reply
to phone calls seeking comment. The government sold $5.5 billion
of dollar bonds in April, the first international issue since
1998, in part to help set a benchmark for Russian companies to
sell new debt, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said at the time.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own the Russian
government’s foreign-currency debt rather than U.S. Treasuries
rose fell three basis points to 256 today, more than the spread
of 177 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 226 for Brazil,
which is rated one step lower at BBB- by S&P, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Indexes. The yield gap for Russian bonds is 55
basis points below the average for emerging markets, according
to JPMorgan.  
 CDS, Ruble  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps was little changed at 173
basis points on July 16, according to CMA DataVision prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The ruble weakened 0.3 percent to 30.5063 per dollar in
Moscow today, ending a five-day winning streak that was the
longest in a month. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as they
allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate
at a specific level in the future, show the ruble weakening to
30.7107 per dollar in three months.  
 ‘Distinctly Nervous’  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by Gazprom is 196 basis
points above the same-maturity Gazprom debt in dollars, down
from a yield difference of about 600 a year ago, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The spread narrowed to as little as 115 on
June 14.  
 The economic recovery in Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter, remains dependent on demand for commodities, leaving
Russian asset prices vulnerable to a global “double dip”
recession, according to ING Groep NV.  
 A decline in oil prices to $50 a barrel would translate
into zero growth for the Russian economy, ING strategists led by
 Daniel Salter  in Moscow wrote in a research note July 15. Oil
dropped 0.8 percent on July 16 to $76.01 a barrel after the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of U.S. consumer
 sentiment  tumbled to 66.5 in July, trailing the median estimate
of 74 from economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “The recent weakening of global macro data has combined
with deflationary tail risks in the developed world to make
markets distinctly nervous,” Salter wrote.  
 Russia’s unemployment rate fell to an 18-month low of 7.3
percent in May, compared with the 8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 12 economists. Retail sales rose 5.1 percent
from the same month a year earlier, the eighth-straight gain.  
 MTS may increase earnings 31 percent this year while TNK-BP
will post a profit gain of 17 percent, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Russia’s economy right now is in relatively good shape,”
said Armored Wolf’s Solberg. “The private sector is picking
up.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bonds of Renaissance Capital, the Moscow-based investment bank half-owned by billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, gained during the past month. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
