-- Sabic Net Triples to $1.34 Billion on Prices, Output, Missing Estimates
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-07-18T15:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/saudi-basic-second-quarter-profit-rose-to-1-34-billion-below-estimates.html

          
          
             Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, said second-quarter profit
almost tripled on higher prices and as demand for fertilizers
and plastics recovered in a strengthening global economy.  
 Net income surged to 5 billion riyals ($1.34 billion) from
1.81 billion riyals in the year-earlier period, the Riyadh-based
company said in a statement to the Saudi bourse today. The
average estimate of eight analysts was for a profit of 5.7
billion riyals, according to  Bloomberg data .  
 New production and a global economic recovery helped  Sabic 
overcome last year’s slump, when sales of its automotive,
construction and consumer products weakened. Sabic has seen
strong demand for its petrochemical products from China and the
U.S., Chief Executive Officer Mohamed al-Mady said on May 23.  
 Second-quarter profit “is a result of better prices and
improvement in demand than seen in the second quarter last
year,” said  Syed Taimure , a senior analyst at  Global Investment
House KSCC . During the same quarter last year, “there was an
uncertainty in the market, which had a negative impact on the
overall demand for petrochemical products,” he said.  
 Sabic shares  closed unchanged at 87.75 riyals in trading in
Riyadh before the results were announced. The stock has gained
6.4 percent this year against a 0.07 percent drop in the
benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index . BASF SE, Sabic’s main
competitor, has gained 3.5 percent this year.  
 Tripling Production  
 The  International Monetary Fund  on July 8 raised its
forecast for global economic growth this year to 4.6 percent,
which would be the fastest rate since 2007, from the 4.2 percent
it predicted in April. Canada and the U.S. are leading advanced
economies out of the worst recession since World War II, the
Washington-based fund said.  
 Sabic, also a steelmaker, is increasing production to meet
rising demand, as the kingdom spends $400 billion over five
years to stimulate economic growth and build new infrastructure.
The company aims to triple petrochemicals production to 130
million tons by 2020.  
 Sabic started commercial operations this year at its units
Eastern Petrochemical Co., known as Sharq, and  Yanbu National
Petrochemical Co. , known as Yansab. In addition, Sabic and China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., or Sinopec, started producing this
year at a joint-venture complex in Tianjin, China.  
 The second-quarter profit “is attributable to the
increased production and sales volumes with the new capacity
coming on-stream at Sharq, Yansab and the joint venture with
Sinopec,” Sabic said in the statement. “The improved pricing
environment for most of the products had a positive bearing on
the consolidated financial performance.”  
 Earnings gained at its unit  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. ,
which posted an 89 percent jump in second-quarter profit. Yansab
reported a profit of 502.4 million riyals for the three months
to June 30 after losing 6.65 million riyals a year ago.  
 Sabic said it would pay a second-half dividend of 1.5
riyals a share, according to another company statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mohamed Al-Mady, chief executive officer of Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC). Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
