-- Savola Second-Quarter Profit Falls as 2009 Capital Gains Are Not Repeated
-- Mourad Haroutunian
-- 2010-07-18T14:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/savola-second-quarter-profit-falls-2-after-one-time-gain-is-not-repeated.html

          
          
             Savola Azizia United Co. , a Saudi
food producer, said second-quarter  profit  declined 2.3 percent
as capital gains in the year-ago period weren’t repeated.  
 Net income declined to 207.7 million riyals ($55.4
million), from 212.5 million riyals a year earlier, the Jeddah-
based company said in a statement on the Saudi bourse  website 
today. That fell short of an  average estimate  of 241 million
riyals by four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Savola’s second-quarter profit retreated because it had
capital gains of 11 million riyals in the second-quarter of last
year, the company said in its statement, citing Managing
Director  Abdul Raouf Mannaa .  
 “The poor profit growth was a combination of weaker-than-
expected growth on top-line, plus some margin pressure due to
higher global food costs,” said  Farouk Miah , an analyst at NCB
Capital in Riyadh today.  
 Lower raw material prices in the wake of the global
financial crisis might also have helped increase last year’s
second-quarter margins. “Last year’s second-quarter margins
were positively impacted by the sharp decline in raw material
prices,” said  Wafaa Baddour , Director of Research at EFG-Hermes
in Cairo on July 11.  
 Savola, which has 113 outlets across the kingdom, has
enlarged its retail operations amid rising demand in the Arab
world’s biggest economy. “A relatively young population, with
over 60 percent of the population under the age 30, as well as
rising per capita income and increasing acceptance of western
culture, lifestyle and tastes are expected to drive demand for
food in Saudi Arabia,” NCB Capital said in a report in June.  
 Savola also decided to pay a dividend of 0.25 riyals a
share, it said in a separate statement on the bourse website
today.  
 Savola  shares  rose 0.3 percent to 35.4 riyals in Riyadh
before the earnings were announced. The stock has gained 17.2
percent this year, and the company has a market capitalization
of 17.7 billion riyals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        