-- Singamas Expects Shipping Container Prices to Rise Amid `Acute' Shortage
-- Kyunghee Park
-- 2010-07-19T09:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/singamas-will-charge-more-for-shipping-containers-amid-acute-shortage.html

          
          
             Singamas Container Holdings Ltd. ,
the world’s second-biggest maker of shipping boxes, said prices
will rise as much as 9 percent by year-end as shippers struggle
for containers amid rebounding global trade.  
 The price of a standard 20-foot box has already risen 50
percent this year and it may climb to about $3,000 as early as
December, Chief Executive Officer  Teo Siong Seng  said in an
interview in Singapore July 16. He declined to elaborate on the
company’s own pricing plans.  
 The global dearth of containers may persist for as long as
two years as box-makers have to reactivate plants idled during
the global recession, Teo said. Shipping lines have refused
cargos and raised rates this year because of a lack of boxes.  
 “The market is quite tight right now,” said  Um Kyung-A ,
an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in Seoul. “Shipping
lines have to bring back empty containers from Europe and the
U.S. to meet Asia’s export demand.”  
 Globally, there may be a container shortfall of as many as
4 million, Teo said. The worldwide box fleet shrank 4 percent
last year, according to  Textainer Group Holdings Ltd. , the
world’s largest container-lessor.  
 Singamas  dropped 1.9 percent to close at HK$1.57 in Hong
Kong. The stock has advanced 30 percent this year, compared with
an 8.2 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . All six
analysts tracked by Bloomberg in the past 12 months with ratings
on the Hong Kong-based company recommend investors  “buy”  its
stock.  
 New Workers  
 Singamas only returned its 12 Chinese plants to “desired”
capacity in the past two months after hiring new workers from
January, Teo said. Last year, the company’s output dropped 85
percent as it shuttered factories, cut staff and slumped to its
first annual loss since 1996.  
 “We didn’t realize that the shortage would be so acute,”
Teo said. “Still, it’s about time that we were able to have
healthy orders at a reasonable price.”  
 The company started turning empty containers into houses,
complete with electric appliances and bathroom fittings, during
the slump to offset the drop in demand from shipping lines.  
 Singamas’s production tally will surpass last year’s 86,600
20-foot containers, Teo said, without elaborating. The company
expects to post a  profit  for the first half of this year,
compared with a loss a year earlier, it said in a June 21 Hong
Kong stock exchange statement.  
 Hong Kong-dollar denominated shares of China International
Marine Containers (Group) Co., the world’s biggest box-maker,
have risen 9.1 percent this year in Shenzhen.  
 Shipping lines including  China Cosco Holdings Co.  and  China
Shipping Container Lines Co. , the nation’s two biggest, have
imposed extra surcharges this year citing a shortage of boxes.  
 The International Monetary Fund earlier this month raised
its forecast for global growth this year, reflecting a stronger-
than-expected first half. The world economy will expand 4.6
percent in 2010, the biggest gain since 2007, compared with an
April projection of 4.2 percent  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Teo Siong Seng, chief executive of Singamas Container Holdings Ltd. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Singamas Container Holdings CEO Teo Siong Seng  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Singamas Container Holdings CEO Teo Siong Seng poses for a photograph at his office in Singapore. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Singamas Container Holdings CEO Teo Siong Seng poses for a photograph at his office in Singapore. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
