-- Louis Oosthuizen Wins British Open for First Major Golf Title
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-18T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/south-africa-s-louis-oosthuizen-wins-british-open-title-by-seven-strokes.html

          
          
             South Africa’s Louis Oosthuizen won
his first major golf title yesterday with a seven-stroke victory
in the British Open at St. Andrews.  
 Oosthuizen, who plays on the European Tour, shot 71 on the
Old Course in Scotland to finish with a four-round total of 16-
under-par 272. The 27-year-old never relinquished the lead after
taking it in the second round.  
 “I’m proud of the way I held my nerves and everything
around the back nine,” Oosthuizen, who earned 850,000 pounds
($1.3 million), told reporters.  
 England’s  Lee Westwood  finish second at 9-under, one shot
better than countryman  Paul Casey ,  Rory McIlroy  of Northern
Ireland and  Henrik Stenson  of Sweden.  
 Casey who shot 3-over-par 75, was four shots behind when he
triple-bogeyed the 12th hole and Oosthuizen birdied to push the
lead to eight.  
 “Even if you take away the mistakes I made, the couple of
sevens I’ve had this week, I don’t think it was good enough to
get near Louis,” Casey said. “I’m disappointed, but the
emphasis has to be on that performance, because that was
fantastic.”  
 Westwood, ranked  No. 3  in the world, birdied the 18th hole
to take sole possession of second place. It was his best finish
at the Open following his tie for third last year.  
 ‘In Contention’  
 “I’m showing a lot of consistency, but it’s not been
enough (to win a major),” Westwood said. “I keep putting
myself in contention, that’s all I can do.”  
 Tiger Woods , who won the British Open the last two times it
was held at St. Andrews, in 2000 and 2005, shot even-par 72 to
finish tied for 23rd at 3-under.  
 Woods switched back to his old putter on the final day
after changing before the tournament because of the slower
greens on the Old Course. He took 99 putts in the first three
rounds to rank 71st of 77 players who made the halfway cut. He
finished with 27 putts yesterday.  
 “I did not putt well at all,” Woods told reporters. “You
just can’t play and expect to win golf tournaments if you have
nine or 10 three-putts for a week. No one can win doing that.”  
 Oosthuizen’s win came on  Nelson Mandela’s  92nd birthday,
which he said made it feel “special.”  
 Oosthuizen brought a four-shot lead into the fourth round
and quickly saw it increase to five as Casey bogeyed the second
hole. The South African then saved par on the par-5 fifth after
pulling his second shot well left of the double green.  
 Casey birdied the sixth hole, pumping his fist as he left
the green, and Oosthuizen followed with a bogey at the par-3
eighth after pulling his tee shot left, reducing the lead to
three.  
 Lead Doubles  
 Both players drove the 352-yard ninth hole and Oosthuizen
rolled in a 50-foot putt for eagle. Casey settled for birdie and
the lead was back to four.  
 Oosthuizen reached 17-under with his second birdie on the
12th hole and saw his lead double when Casey had to take a drop
after putting his tee shot into a gorse bush.  
 Casey then wound up with a triple-bogey after putting his
approach shot through the green, all but ending his chances of
being the first Englishman to win the Open since  Nick Faldo  in
1992.  
 Oosthuizen strung together four straight pars before making
bogey on the 17th hole. He then drove the 18th green and was
greeted by applause as he made his way up the fairway.  
 After putting out for par, he hugged his caddie and kissed
his wife Nel-Mare and baby daughter Jana, who had come onto the
green to greet him.  
 “It’s probably going to hit me tomorrow or the week after,
what I did,” Oosthuizen, who won his first European Tour event
in March, told the British Broadcasting Corp. “I felt like I
played really well the whole week.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at St. Andrews through the London sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South African golfer Louis Oosthuizen kisses the Claret Jug, the trophy for the Champion golfer of the year after winning the British Open Golf Championship at St. Andrews. Photographer: Glyn Kirk/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
