-- Abu Dhabi's Aabar, IPIC Raise Delisting Offer by 34% on Regulator Demand
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-18T13:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/u-a-e-regulator-asks-aabar-to-raise-delisting-offer-to-shareholders-by-34-.html

          
          
             Aabar Investments PJSC  and its
parent will raise an offer to Aabar’s minority  shareholders  by
34 percent, after the market regulator sought changes to the
company’s terms for delisting its stock. The shares surged the
most since December.  
 Aabar and its main shareholder, Abu Dhabi government-owned
International Petroleum Investment Co., have agreed to offer
investors 1.95 dirhams (53 cents) a share to reflect the six-
month average of Aabar’s closing share price on the Abu Dhabi
bourse, the Securities & Commodities Authority said in a
 statement  today. The offer will run from July 20 to Aug. 5 and
the payment should be made on Aug. 10.  
 Aabar, the largest shareholder in German carmaker Daimler
AG, on July 12 offered investors 1.45 dirhams a share with the
offer valid until Aug. 1, as it sought to turn itself into a
private company. Akram Anous, a deputy fund manager at Al Mal
Capital PSC, said July 12 that the company’s share listing has
been a distraction because Aabar doesn’t need money from public
shareholders to fund acquisitions and the market was not giving
it a “reasonable” valuation.  
 “If there’s going to be a change in price, the shares
should have been suspended until those discussions take place,”
said  Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief executive officer at Shuaa
Securities in Abu Dhabi. The issue will reflect badly on the
regulator, “if this kind of haggling on price continues,” he
said.  
 Aabar shares  soared 8.3 percent, the most in seven months,
to close at 1.57 dirhams today on the Abu Dhabi Securities
Exchange. The stock declined 24 percent this year, while Abu
Dhabi’s benchmark index dropped 7.9 percent.  
 Decision by Committee  
 A committee of representatives from the U.A.E.’s market
regulator, the Ministry of Economy and Abu Dhabi’s economic
department decided on the offer price, the regulator said.  
 Aabar paid $2.7 billion in 2009 for a 9.1 percent stake in
Daimler, the world’s second-biggest luxury carmaker after
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG of Germany. Aabar last month bought
almost 5 percent of Italy’s biggest bank UniCredit SpA valued at
$2.2 billion, and it acquired American International Group
Inc.’s private banking unit in 2008.  
 International Petroleum Investment, which invests mainly in
oil assets around the world, owns 71 percent of Aabar after
having converted 6.68 billion dirhams of bonds in 2009. IPIC
owns stakes in companies including industrial services provider
Ferrostaal AG and Canada’s largest chemical maker Nova Chemicals
Corp. IPIC uses Aabar for investments outside the oil industry.  
 Aabar is borrowing $2 billion to refinance debt and to make
acquisitions, a banker familiar with the plan said July 4. The
company had total long-term liabilities of 19.6 billion dirhams
at the end of March, according to  Bloomberg data .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        