-- Hague Writes to Clinton Denying BP Involvement in Lockerbie Bomber Release
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-18T10:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/u-k-minister-hague-denies-bp-involvement-in-lockerbie-bomber-release.html

          
          
             U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
has written to U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , saying
there’s no evidence  BP Plc  was involved in last year’s decision
to release Lockerbie bomber  Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi .  
 “There is no evidence that corroborates in any way the
allegations of BP involvement in the Scottish Executive’s
decision to release Megrahi on compassionate grounds in 2009,”
Hague wrote yesterday in a letter released by the U.K. Foreign
Office. “Nor any suggestion that the Scottish Executive decided
to release Megrahi in order to facilitate oil deals for BP.”  
 Megrahi was freed by Scotland, which has an independent
justice system, on compassionate grounds in August because he
was dying of cancer. He remains alive. The Libyan was jailed in
2001 for the 1988 killing of 270 people in the bombing of Pan Am
Flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie.  
 The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee  said last week 
it will hold a hearing on July 29 into the circumstances of
Megrahi’s release. Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat, said the panel will ask officials from London-based BP
to testify. The energy company, which is Europe’s second-biggest 
by market value, signed an exploration agreement with Libya’s
National Oil Corp. in May 2007 during a visit by then-U.K. Prime
Minister  Tony Blair .  
 Hague’s statement, in a letter that was copied to Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , is at least the third
time Britain has raised the matter with the U.S. in the days
running up to next week’s visit by Prime Minister  David Cameron 
to Washington DC. British Ambassador to the U.S.  Nigel Sheinwald 
wrote his own letter to Kerry on July 15, saying
“inaccuracies” about the Lockerbie bomber were “harmful to
the U.K.”  
 Oil Spill Backlash  
 The row over Libya follows President  Barack Obama ’s
criticism of BP over the Gulf of Mexico oil leak. Shares of BP
have dropped more than 30 percent this year as the company
fought the biggest spill in U.S. history. The stock on Friday
 closed up 1.3 percent  on the previous day in London trading
after the company said it stopped the flow of oil from the Gulf
of Mexico well for the first time since it ruptured in April.  
 At the time of Megrahi’s release, Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said he couldn’t intervene in Scotland’s decision.
Afterward, he said he had been “repulsed” by the hero’s
welcome Megrahi was given on his return to Libya. His government
later said it had supported the release on diplomatic grounds,
while insisting it hadn’t been involved in the decision.  
 Cameron, who replaced Brown as prime minister in May,
opposed the release at the time, a point Hague made in his
letter to Clinton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        