-- Hungary Assets May Fall as IMF, EU End Talks Without Backing Deficit Plan
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-18T12:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/hungary-assets-may-fall-as-imf-eu-end-talks-without-backing-deficit-plan.html

          
          
             Hungarian bonds and the currency may
fall after the  International Monetary Fund  and European Union
ended talks with the government without endorsing Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban’s  plans to control the budget deficit.  
 The Washington-based IMF, which is providing the bulk of a
20 billion-euro emergency loan to Hungary under a 2008 bailout
agreement, said late yesterday that “a range of issues remain
open.” The government must make “tough decisions, notably on
spending,” to comply with  deficit  requirements, the EU said.  
 The statements are a blow to Orban’s efforts to rebuild
investor confidence after ruling party officials raised the
spectre of a Greek-like crisis last month, driving the forint
down 4.6 percent against the euro in two days. Hungary, in its
fifth year of austerity measures, sought to persuade creditors
to widen the country’s deficit target for next year.  
 “This is definitely negative for bonds and negative for
the currency, both in speculative terms and in real flows,”
 Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at Nomura International Plc
in London. “For an IMF statement, it’s pretty damning. This
supranational cushion behind Hungary is actually far softer than
people realize.”  
 The forint has lost 6.5 percent against the euro in the
past three months, the worst performance among the more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on the benchmark
three-year government bond rose 153 basis points to 6.93 percent
on July 16.  
 Landslide Victory  
 Orban won a landslide victory in April by pledging to end
the budget cutting strategy of his predecessors, which helped
reduce Hungary’s deficit to 3.8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2008 from 9.3 percent in 2006. The shortfall widened
to 4 percent last year and may reach 4.1 percent this year,
according to the European Commission.  
 After the election, Fidesz said the previous administration
lied about the budget as he lobbied the IMF and EU to allow
wider deficits this year and next. Fidesz officials roiled
markets on June 3 and 4, saying the economy was “much worse”
than the government had forecast and the country had a “slim
chance to avoid a Greek situation.”  
 The government sough to ease concern on June 5 by pledging
to stick with this year’s creditor-approved deficit target of
3.8 percent of GDP.  
 The EU, in its July 17 statement, welcomed Hungary’s
commitment to the 2010 deficit target and said the country has
one of the lowest budget deficits in the 27-member bloc.  
 ‘Tough Decisions’  
 “However, the correction of the excessive deficit by next
year will require tough decisions, notably on spending,”  Olli Rehn , commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, said in a
statement released from Brussels. “Care will also be needed to
ensure a stable environment for both domestic and international
investors.”  
 Concluding the review is a condition for disbursing funds
from the bailout loan. Hungary has 5.7 billion euros of the
package available. The government has refrained from tapping it
this year as it was able to finance spending through debt sales.  
 “Our talks with the Hungarian government have been
interrupted as we have not been able to find enough common
ground and there remain too many unresolved issues to take this
review to our board,”  Christoph Rosenberg , who led the IMF
mission, said in a phone interview today. “It makes eminent
sense for Hungary to reduce its fiscal deficit, as the country
continues to be vulnerable due to its high debt ratio.”  
 During the IMF’s visit, Hungary’s government tried to
persuade the fund to accept a deficit target of as much as 3.8
percent of GDP for 2011 instead of 2.8 percent, Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in a July 2 interview. Hungary needs the
extra room to finance changes, such as merging state agencies at
the county level, to yield longer-term savings, he said.  
 ‘Continues to be Vulnerable’  
 The government also sought a two-year “precautionary”
loan agreement for as much as 20 billion euros beginning in
2011, Matolcsy said.  
 “During the talks with the IMF and EU delegations, the
Hungarian government openly and honestly revealed the problems
stemming from the misguided budget management in the first
half,” Matolcsy said in a statement released late yesterday
through the MTI news service. “The government will naturally
continue negotiations with international organizations,
including the IMF and the EU.”  
 Bank Tax Concerns  
 In an effort to persuade investors the government can reach
its deficit target, Orban on June 8 announced plans to raise 187
billion forint ($527 million) this year from a new tax on the
financial industry. He also said Hungary would cut spending,
reduce personal income taxes and lower taxes for small
businesses.  
 The planned levy on banks, insurers and financial leasing
companies “is likely to adversely affect lending and growth,”
the IMF said in its statement.  
 “The statements suggest that the parties didn’t turn
hostile,” said  Gergely Suppan , an economist at Takarekbank Zrt.
In Budapest. “The IMF probably wanted to see the basis of the
2011 budget and the government couldn’t show specifics.”  
 Any negative market reaction may be tampered by the fact
that Hungary doesn’t rely on the bailout loan to finance itself
and has been able to raise funds on the market, Suppan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Viktor Orban, prime minister of Hungary. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
