-- Hungary Holds Benchmark Interest Rate for Third Month on Inflation, Budget
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-19T13:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/hungary-central-bank-to-hold-key-rate-for-third-month-on-inflation-budget.html

          
          
              Hungary’s central bank left the
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged today for a third month
because of concern that the forint’s weakening may boost
inflation after talks with the country’s creditors broke down.  
 The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  left the  benchmark two-week deposit
rate  at 5.25 percent, the lowest since communism ended 20 years
ago. The decision was unanimous as policy makers didn’t discuss
any other option, central bank President  Andras Simor  said in
Budapest today. Interest rates may rise in case of a sustained
increase in risk premiums, the bank said.  
 Hungary’s talks with the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund about its progress under a bailout
loan agreement unexpectedly ended on July 17. Investors were
looking for reassurance from the creditors that the country’s
finances are sustainable after the new government raised concern
that it may loosen budget controls. The central bank raised its
 inflation  forecast in May because of rising energy prices.  
 “With the forint under pressure, there was no way” the
central bank “could cut rates and if currency weakness
intensifies, we could expect talk of a rate hike to start making
the rounds,”  Win Thin , a senior currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in London, said in an e-mail to clients.  
 The forint has lost 8.2 percent against the euro in the
past three months, the worst performer among the more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 289.28 per euro at
3:11 p.m. in Budapest from 282.10 on July 16.  
 ‘Deterioration in Risk Assessment’  
 The unit dropped as low as 290.52 on June 7 after officials
from the ruling Fidesz party compared Hungary’s economic
situation with Greece’s and said that the previous government
lied about public finances. Hungary’s five-year credit-default
swaps, measuring the cost of insuring against a default, fell to
314.51 on July 15 from 410.235 on June 4.  
 The forint’s exchange rate is a “significant” risk for
inflation, Simor told reporters today. The currency may become
more volatile after the talks with the IMF and the EU broke down
without the country’s creditors endorsing the government’s
budget plans for this year and next, he said.  
 The central bank halted 10 months of rate cuts in May as
the forint weakened on concern Europe’s debt crisis may spread
and Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government may loosen fiscal
policy. The cabinet has since reversed course and pledged to
meet a creditor-approved budget- deficit  target.  
 Inflation Forecast  
 The central bank in May raised its average annual  inflation 
forecast to 4.9 percent from 4.4 percent for this year and to 3
percent from 2.3 percent in 2011. It estimates inflation will
slow to its 3 percent target in the first half of 2011, instead
of the second half of this year, with a 2.9 percent average rate
in 2012.  
 Investors’ rate-cut expectations were erased after the
increased inflation forecast and the forint’s drop following the
comments comparing Hungary with Greece. The six-month forward-
rate agreement was 0.17 percentage point higher than the current
benchmark on June 16. On the day of the last rate decision, the
forward rate matched the key rate, signaling a bet for unchanged
rates through December.  
 The cabinet is seeking 187 billion forint ($825 million)
this year from a special tax on financial institutions to plug
budget holes and reduce the shortfall to 3.8 percent of gross
domestic product from 4 percent last year. It also plans to cut
public spending while reducing taxes on personal income and
small businesses to boost growth.  
 The government is freezing 40 billion forint in state
spending at all eight ministries and several public agencies,
according to the official gazette Magyar Kozlony. Orban plans to
save 120 billion forint this year by freezing public spending
and reducing aggregate state wages by 15 percent.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        