-- Hungary Debt Risk Soars, Forint Drops Most in Six Weeks as IMF Halts Talks
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-19T14:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/hungarian-bonds-forint-may-fall-as-imf-eu-fail-to-endorse-budget-plan.html

          
          
             The forint tumbled to the weakest
level in 14 months and the cost to insure Hungary’s debt against
default soared as the  International Monetary Fund  and European
Union ended talks without endorsing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban’s  plans to control the budget deficit.  
 The currency depreciated as much as 3.5 percent against the
euro to the weakest since April 2009, and was trading 3.3
percent lower at 291.27 at 4:20 p.m. in Budapest. Credit-default
swaps protecting the country’s debt against nonpayment for five
years climbed 46 basis points to 362.5 basis points, the most
since comments by local politicians comparing Hungary to Greece
roiled world markets six weeks ago, according to CMA.  
 The IMF ended its review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro
($25.8 billion) emergency bailout because “a range of issues
remain open,” the Washington-based lender said in a July 17
statement. The government must make “tough decisions, notably
on spending,” to comply with  deficit  requirements, the EU said.
Hungary won’t impose further austerity measures, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on M1 television today.  
 “This news is very negative,” said  Gabor Orban , who helps
manage $4 billion in emerging-market debt at Aegon Fund
Management in Budapest. “This won’t be the type of selloff
where the smart investor is buying. The first reaction will be
panic, then the market may calm down.”  
 The IMF’s statements are a blow to Prime Minister Orban’s
efforts to rebuild investor confidence after ruling party
officials raised the specter of a Greek-like crisis last month,
driving the forint down 4.6 percent against the euro in two
days. Hungary, in its fifth year of austerity measures, sought
to persuade creditors to widen the country’s deficit target for
next year. The IMF will return to Hungary in September to
continue negotiations and an agreement will eventually be
reached, Matolcsy said on CNBC.  
 ‘Fiscal Laxity’  
 “It seems the new government has not learnt its lessons
from the previous gaffe, while the market is in no mood to
overlook any fiscal laxity,”  Timothy Ash , head of emerging
market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London,
said in a note to clients today. “Unless something can be
agreed to very quickly, the risk is that Hungary may be
downgraded by ratings agencies as a result of the uncertainties
that arise out of Sunday’s developments.”  
 The forint lost 6.5 percent against the euro in the past
three months as of last week, the worst performance among 177
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on the benchmark
three-year government bond rose 37 basis points today to 7.28
percent after increasing 124 basis points in the second quarter.  
 Deficit Lobbying  
 Hungary’s currency may tumble another 6 percent to 300 per
euro “in the coming days” as investors take break off with IMF
and any delays in an agreement “very negatively,”  Win Thin , a
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York, wrote in an e-mailed report.  
 Hungary will reach a deal with the IMF in the end,
 Elisabeth Andreew , chief foreign-currency strategist at Nordea
Markets, said by phone from Copenhagen. Still, Nordea cut its
outlook for the forint, predicting it may only strengthen to 280
per euro in three months, compared with an earlier forecast of
260. Even though Hungary’s economy is recovering, halting talks
has damaged investor confidence, Andreew said.  
 Orban won a landslide victory in April by pledging to end
the budget cutting strategy of his predecessors, which helped
reduce Hungary’s deficit to 3.8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2008 from 9.3 percent in 2006. The shortfall may
widen to 4.1 percent this year, compared with the EU target of 3
percent, according to the European Commission.  
 Lied About Budget  
 After the election, the Fidesz party said the previous
administration lied about the budget as they lobbied the IMF and
EU to permit wider deficits this year and next. Fidesz officials
roiled markets on June 3 and 4, saying the economy was “much
worse” than the government had forecast and the country had a
“slim chance to avoid a Greek situation.”  
 While the government sought to ease concern by pledging to
stick with this year’s deficit target of 3.8 percent of GDP, it
continued to seek relief from the 2011 goal.  
 “We believe the government will finally agree with the
IMF/EU but it might not come before the autumn local
elections,”  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based emerging-market
strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a note to clients. “The
government will simply have no other choice in our view.” The
bank retains “bearish positioning” in Hungary’s assets and may
recommend selling euro against the forint in case of
“exaggerated moves” around 295 against the common currency.  
 Hungary’s central bank may intervene to prop up the
currency as the 300 forint-per-euro level draws near and raise
interest rates if it breaches that level, RBS’s Ash said.  
 Silent Intervention  
 Policy makers may start “silently intervening” in the
market at 300 per euro and increase borrowing costs should the
currency weaken beyond 315,  Peter Attard Montalto  and  Olgay Buyukkayali , analysts at Nomura Internation Plc in London, wrote
in a note. Morgan Stanley & Co’s strategist James Lord  predicted
the bank may step into the market should the forint decline
beyond 290 although it won’t be enough to reverse the forint’s
“trend weakness,” he wrote in a note to clients.  
 Hungarian monetary policy makers may need to raise interest
rates and will strive to stem forint volatility, the central
bank said today after keeping borrowing costs unchanged. The
bank halted 10 months of rate cuts in May after reducing the
rate to 5.25 percent, the lowest since communism ended two
decades ago.  
 Hungary’s central bank today kept the benchmark  rate 
unchanged for a third month at 5.25 percent, matching
predictions from all 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy
makers halted 10 months of rate cuts in May as the forint
weakened on concern Europe’s debt crisis may spread and Orban’s
government may loosen fiscal policy.  
 Rate Increases  
 The central bank may adopt an “aggressive” interest-rate
increase by as much as 4 percentage points to protect foreign-
currency loans if the forint selloff continues, Danske Bank A/S
wrote in a report today.  
 Hungary “does not have a short-term funding problem, but
things are likely to get messy anyway as the breakdown has
sparked a sharp sell-off in the Hungarian markets, which in
itself is highly destabilizing,” the bank said.  
 Poland’s zloty declined as much 1.2 percent before paring
losses to 0.5 percent at 4.1285 per euro. The weakening has been
“overdone” and investors should buy the zloty at current
levels, according to Cheuvreux strategist  Simon Quijano-Evans .  
 At a time when investors are looking closely at deficits
and debt levels, Hungary must comply with the previously agreed
targets, the IMF mission to Budapest said. To meet these goals,
Hungary needs to make “difficult decisions” on revenue and
spending, and unprofitable state enterprises should be
restructured, the IMF said.  
 ‘Unresolved Issues’  
 The talks were “interrupted as we have not been able to
find enough common ground and there remain too many unresolved
issues,”  Christoph Rosenberg , who led the IMF mission, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “It makes eminent sense for
Hungary to reduce its fiscal deficit, as the country continues
to be vulnerable due to its high debt ratio.”  
 Concluding the review is a condition for disbursing funds
from the bailout loan. Hungary has 5.7 billion euros of the
package available. The government refrained from tapping it this
year because it was able to finance spending through debt sales.  
 “During the talks with the IMF and EU delegations, the
Hungarian government openly and honestly revealed the problems
stemming from the misguided budget management in the first
half,” Matolcsy said in a statement released July 17 through
the MTI news service. “The government will naturally continue
negotiations with international organizations.”  
 Bank Tax  
 In an effort to convince investors Hungary would reach its
deficit target, Orban announced plans to raise 187 billion
forint ($527 million) this year from a new tax on the financial
industry. Hungary will also cut spending, reduce personal income
taxes and lower taxes for small businesses, he said.  
 The levy on banks, insurers and financial leasing companies
“is likely to adversely affect lending and growth,” the IMF
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
