-- Vaginal Gel Study Charts New Course for HIV Prevention
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-07-19T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/vaginal-sex-gel-to-protect-women-against-aids-unveiled-at-hiv-conference.html

          
          
             A vaginal gel containing  Gilead
Sciences Inc. ’s AIDS drug Viread cut HIV infections by as much
as 54 percent in a trial in South Africa, the first time such a
product has protected women after six previous gels failed.  
 Among 445 women who applied the gel before and after sex,
there were 39 percent fewer HIV infections overall than among
those who used a placebo gel, according to the trial results
released today by the journal Science. There were 54 percent
fewer infections among those who used the gel more than 80
percent of the time and a 28 percent reduction among those who
used it least.  
 About 2.7 million people are newly infected with AIDS each
year, and new methods are needed to curb the epidemic that still
ravages countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Previous gels relied on
drugs that weren’t specifically designed to target HIV, the
virus that causes AIDS. The new approach, in which medicines are
used before sex to prevent infection, is also being tested with
antiviral pills and rings inserted vaginally once a month,
eliminating the need to use the gel every time women have sex.  
 “It’s a game-changing trial,” said  Mitchell Warren ,
executive director of the New York-based AIDS Vaccine Advocacy
Coalition, a nonprofit group, in an interview. “At last, here
is now proof of concept that we can use a microbicide against
HIV. It’s a transformative moment in prevention science.”  
 Prevention Trials  
 Women who used the gel had the added benefit of being
protected from genital herpes, or HSV-2, a disease that
increases a person’s susceptibility to HIV infection. Women who
used the gel had a 51 percent reduction in new herpes
infections, said Salim Abdool Karim, the director of the Centre
for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa, or  Caprisa ,
which coordinated the study.  
 Herpes, which causes open lesions in some patients, affects
as much as 74 percent of some populations in developing
countries, according to the World Health Organization in Geneva.
Women who have herpes are twice as likely to acquire HIV, and
blocking herpes will help the gel decrease AIDS infections over
time, Karim said.  
 The gel was developed by  Conrad , a nonprofit organization
based in Arlington, Virginia, and funded by the U.S. and South
African governments under royalty-free license from Foster City,
California-based Gilead, the world’s biggest maker of AIDS
medicines.  
 PrEP Theory  
 The experimental product is the first gel to employ a
proven treatment to prevent infections, and may indicate the
prospects for five other major trials of the pre-exposure
prophylaxis, or PrEP, theory of HIV prevention. Researchers are
also testing Viread and Gilead’s Truvada as a means of blocking
the virus in gay men, drug users and heterosexuals.  
 “It’s a fantastic outcome and one that everyone should
look to as another step,”  Howard Jaffe , chairman of the Gilead
Foundation, which manages the company’s relationship with
Conrad, said today in an interview. “The bigger line item for
Gilead is, what does this mean in terms of PrEP overall? One
can’t help but come away from these results and feel even more
optimism.”  
 Gilead , which donated the active ingredient in the gel,
won’t participate in the commercialization of the product in
developing nations. It’s “an open question” as to whether the
company markets it in the U.S. and Europe, he said.  
 “We’re not in the business of doing vaginal or rectal
gels,” Jaffe said. “I’ve always believed that it’s easier to
pop a pill than it is to apply a gel.”  
 Gilead’s top three drugs, which all rely on Viread as a key
ingredient, are given to 85 percent of newly diagnosed AIDS
patients in the U.S. Gilead  shares  rose 97 cents, or 3 percent,
to $32.91 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading.  
 Sexual Pleasure  
 Gels could be made more appealing by emphasizing their
ability to increase sexual pleasure, Karim said in a conference
call with reporters.  
 “The future is going to involve making this gel something
that is part of the sex act, that enhances sex even,” said
Karim. The gel in the trial “is a simple cylindrical white
plastic tube. There is no color, no design, nothing. Even Coke
would have gone bankrupt if they took this approach in marketing
their product.”  
 A product could be ready as early as 2013 if the results
are confirmed by a second study known as Voice that is enrolling
patients, said Warren, of the AIDS advocacy group.  
 Further Tests  
 “After these results are confirmed in an ongoing and
similar study supported by the National Institutes of Health in
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, as well as
other studies, we will work with partners at the global and
country levels to integrate this product into programs,” said
USAID Administrator  Rajiv Shah  in a statement.  
 Conrad gave the rights to manufacture the gel to the
government of South Africa to get the product to women in the
country most affected by the disease as quickly as possible,
said  Henry Gabelnick , the nonprofit’s executive director, in a
statement.  
 “It’s not something that can happen overnight, but it
should be achievable that when you have a positive result it’s
less than three years before it’s scaled up quite
substantially,”  Bill Gates , the co-founder of Microsoft Corp.
told reporters at the biennial  International AIDS Conference  in
Vienna today. His foundation helped fund the trial.  
 The WHO and the United Nations will meet with the South
African government next month to discuss how to speed plans for
more testing of the gel, said  Cate Hankins , the chief scientific
officer of UNAIDS, a UN agency. The Voice trial will take too
long to complete, and a quicker study may be developed using the
same patients from South Africa trial, she said.  
 ‘First Time’  
 “It’s the first time we have something women can use,”
Hankins said in an interview in Vienna. “What’s really
important now is to move very, very quickly.”  
 A study in pregnant women will be needed, Hankins said.
Women in the South African trial were taken off the gel if they
became pregnant, though there were no signs of complications in
those pregnancies. No serious side effects were reported, and
there was no evidence of the virus developing resistance to
Viread, according to the study.  
 The results are scheduled to be presented tomorrow at the
conference in Vienna.  
 In studies presented today,  Merck & Co. ’s Isentress tablets
suppressed HIV as successfully as older drugs by Abbott
Laboratories and Gilead, and London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s 
experimental AIDS drug cut virus levels in patients for whom
Isentress no longer worked. Research on medicines from Gilead,
Glaxo and New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson  will
be reported later this week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Founder of Microsoft Corp. Bill Gates, right, speaks at the XVIII International AIDS Conference in Vienna. Photographer: Vladimir Weiss/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     HIV AIDS activists lie on the ground as they hold placards that read "Broken promises kill no retreat fund aids" at the opening of the 18th International AIDS conference on July 18, 2010 in Vienna's Messe conference centrum. Photographer: Samuel Kubani/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
