-- Volkswagen's U.S. Leadership Vacuum May Disrupt Turnaround
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-19T15:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/volkswagen-u-s-leadership-vacuum-may-disrupt-ceo-winterkorn-s-turnaround.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG  Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  will explain today how he plans to
return the U.S. unit to profit as it heads for an eighth annual
loss. He’ll do so without a leader to oversee the turnaround.  
 The CEO hasn’t named a permanent successor to U.S. chief
 Stefan Jacoby  almost a month after the VW veteran of 25 years
stepped down. Jacoby’s exit coincides with the final phase of
introducing a new Jetta compact, VW’s best-selling American
model, and as VW prepares to open a factory in Tennessee and
present the first car built exclusively for the U.S. market.  
 Winterkorn, who will discuss VW’s electric-car strategy in
California and test drive the Jetta, has pledged to almost
triple VW’s share of the second-biggest auto market to 6 percent
by 2018 and boost deliveries to 1 million cars, including the
Audi luxury unit. U.S. progress will be vital for VW to reach
its goal of surpassing  Toyota Motor Corp.  in sales and
profitability, said IHS Global Insight Inc.’s  Rebecca Lindland .  
 “The timing is anything but ideal for VW to lose its
leader,” said Lindland, an analyst at the Lexington,
Massachusetts-based researcher. “Jacoby’s departure will
definitely be disruptive.”  
 Winterkorn, 63, is banking on localization of models and
giving up the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker’s premium-
pricing strategy in the U.S. to compete with small-car leaders
Toyota and  Honda Motor Co.   
 Price Cuts  
 The new Jetta, VW’s first model altered specifically for
the U.S. market, is 3.5 inches (8.9 centimeters) longer than the
European version. VW is targeting annual deliveries of more than
100,000, with the model going on sale in October, said  Mark Barnes , interim chief of the VW brand in the U.S.  
 VW cut the extended Jetta’s price to about $16,000 from the
current base of $17,735. The reduction brings it closer to the
starting prices of Toyota’s Corolla and Honda’s Civic, now
$15,450 and $15,455 respectively, according to company websites.  
 The price cut is “a distinct change” from the past when
VW kept a U.S. pricing premium of as much as 10 percent, said
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany.  
 “The new Jetta will be a very nice volume product for
us,” VW’s Barnes said in a July 16 interview. “The goal is to
bring the masses to Volkswagen who currently believe they cannot
afford a Volkswagen.”  
 Deliveries Increase  
 In the first six months, VW boosted U.S. deliveries by 30
percent to 126,000. Jetta sales increased 19 percent to 55,258
cars, accounting for 44 percent of the total. Other models that
posted gains included the Tiguan, Passat CC and Rabbit.  
 Jacoby’s successor will have to capitalize on the $1
billion plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee, scheduled to begin
production in the third quarter of next year, and lift sales by
designing more models for the U.S., said  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt who recommends buying
VW stock.  
 By 2013, VW wants 85 percent of vehicles sold in the U.S.
to be produced in Chattanooga and in an existing factory in
Puebla, Mexico, where the new Jetta will be built and where the
carmaker plans to invest as much as $1 billion over three years.  
 VW unexpectedly named Barnes and  Michael Lohscheller  on
June 24 to run the U.S. operations on an interim basis, saying
the company was holding contract talks with Jacoby. The
negotiations focused on Jacoby’s obligations to VW before he
takes over as CEO at Volvo Cars, people familiar with the matter
said June 25.  
 Focus  
 As recently as June 15, Jacoby reaffirmed a plan to return
the U.S. operations to profit by 2012 or 2013. The division last
reported a  profit  in 2002. VW, which does not break out earnings
figures for the U.S., reported net income last year of 960
million euros on 105 billion euros in revenue.  
 “Our strategies are still very much on target,” Barnes
said, confirming VW’s 1 million delivery target by 2018. “We
haven’t lost our focus even without Stefan here.”  
 Volkswagen ’s American depositary receipts  fell  as much as
1.5 percent and traded at the equivalent of 71.36 euros as of
11:52 a.m. in New York. VW’s  preferred stock  in Germany lost 1.8
percent to 74.63 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading on the
Frankfurt exchange.  
 Besides the revamped Jetta, VW is counting on a new mid-
sized sedan, its first car built for the U.S. from scratch, to
help lift its market share from about 2.2 percent so far this
year. VW is targeting annual deliveries of 150,000 of the model,
which will be assembled in Chattanooga and go on sale next year.  
 ‘Uphill Battle’  
 Winning customers for the new car will be “an uphill
battle” in a “highly competitive segment” that includes
models such as Toyota’s Camry and Honda’s Accord,” said  Anil Valsan , director of automotive research at Frost &amp; Sullivan
in London.  
 “I doubt that the new sedan by itself will suffice to
propel their U.S. business,” Valsan said.  
 Winterkorn will visit the manufacturer’s electronics-
technology research facility in Palo Alto, California today.
Tomorrow he’ll take part in a presentation of the new Jetta.  
 The CEO, who travels to the U.S. regularly to test drive
vehicles, has repeatedly vowed to turn around the American
operations and said July 6 that he plans to name a successor to
Jacoby as soon as possible. Some  analysts  say Winterkorn may be
able to minimize the disruption from Jacoby’s departure.  
 “I don’t doubt it’s a loss,” said  Mike Tyndall , an
automotive specialist at Nomura Securities in London. “In some
ways the cake has been baked and it’s almost ready for the
eating.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Detroit via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Martin Winterkorn, chief executive officer of Volkswagen AG. Photographer: Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          March 31 (Bloomberg) -- Stefan Jacoby, chief executive officer of Volkswagen AG's North American unit, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about VW's new Tennessee plant and model vehicles.
     Jacoby, speaking at the 2010 New York International Auto Show, also discuss the outlook for the U.S. auto market and VW sales. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
