-- Wheat Prices Peaking as Glut Subdues Best Performer
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-19T20:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/wheat-prices-peaking-as-two-year-glut-overwhelms-best-performing-commodity.html

          
          
             The five-week rally in wheat that
made it the best performer of any commodity is under threat as
prospects for the second-biggest stockpiles in almost a decade
overwhelm damage caused by drought.  
 Wheat rose 36 percent to $5.8225 a bushel in Chicago since
June 9 as a lack of rain in  Russia , Kazakhstan and the European
Union and floods in  Canada  hurt crops. That prompted the U.S.
Department of Agriculture on July 9 to cut harvest estimates by
1.1 percent, while global inventories will be the second-highest
since 2002. Prices will drop 15 percent to $4.94 by Dec. 31,
based on the median in a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  
 “I don’t think prices will hold these higher levels,”
said Pete Sorrentino, who helps manage $13.1 billion at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati and correctly predicted
the 2008 crash in commodity prices. “We’re going to be getting
some massive harvests, and that’s going to keep stockpiles
swelling.”  
 The 50 percent jump in stockpiles from a quarter-century
low in 2008 shows there’s little chance of a return to the
record $13.495 reached that year and the food riots that erupted
from  Haiti  to  Egypt . The world’s poorest nations will spend 37
percent less on cereal imports this year than at the peak,
according to the United Nations, whose food-price index has
fallen 24 percent from an all-time high in June 2008. Cheaper
wheat may boost profit for  Kellogg Co ., the largest U.S. cereal
maker, and  General Mills Inc .  
 Russia Drought  
 Prices rallied from a three-year low of $4.255 on June 9 as
drought and flooding damaged crops. Russia, the world’s fourth-
largest exporter, declared emergencies in 17 regions by July 15,
and Canada said July 9 it would pay as much as $432 million to
farmers hurt by floods, the biggest aid package ever under the
country’s AgriRecovery disaster-relief program.  
 While output may be lower than originally estimated,
stockpiles will still reach 187 million metric tons by the end
of the season in May 2011, the USDA estimates. That’s 62.6
million tons more than in 2008 and equal to three years of
production in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter.  
 “There are very plentiful stocks,” said Christin Tuxen,
an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen who was the most
accurate first- and second-quarter forecaster surveyed by
Bloomberg. “U.S. crop progress has been good, which suggests
there might be some further downside for wheat.” Tuxen expects
prices to drop as low as $4.25 before the end of the year.  
 Speculator Holdings  
 Speculators including hedge funds also are still betting
the rally will end. Their net-short position, or wagers on lower
prices, on the  Chicago  Board of Trade fell 52 percent in the
week ended July 13 to 16,927 contracts, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Speculators have held a net-short
position since June 2009.  
 Wheat’s surge since June 9 is the biggest in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities. The gain topped corn’s 16
percent advance and is more than three times the 8.4 percent
jump in soybeans. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index, tracking the
net amount investors received, advanced 2.7 percent over the
same period. The gauge slumped 46 percent in 2008, the worst
crash since at least 1970.  
 For now, traders are focused on production rather than
stockpiles. Wheat futures traded on the CBOT jumped 9.2 percent
last week, the biggest gain since November, after drought
worsened in Russia and lower grain output was forecast in  Kazakhstan , Germany and  France . All the countries are exporters.  
 Futures are pricing in $6.7025 by the end of 2011, exchange
data show. The December 2011 contract traded at $5.80 about five
weeks ago, indicating some traders expect drought and flooding
to tighten supply through the end of next year.  
 No Crop Benefit  
 While rain is forecast to return this week to France,  Europe ’s biggest wheat producer, it may do little to bolster
yields.  
 “The rain has come too late,” said Sebastien Poncelet, a
consultant at Paris-based farm adviser Agritel. Ripe grain soaks
up moisture like a sponge, yielding less flour, he said.  
 In the U.K., “the last thing we want now is solid rain in
the last week of July and first two weeks of August,” said Gary Sharkey, the head of wheat procurement for St. Albans, England-
based  Premier Foods Plc , the U.K. maker of Hovis breads. “That
would obviously delay the harvest but would also ruin the
quality.”  
 Production in other countries may help offset the declines
in parts of Europe and Canada, said Dale Mohler, a senior
meteorologist who specializes in agriculture forecasts at
Accuweather.com in  State College , Pennsylvania.  
 Bigger Harvests  
 “Ukraine is going to have a decent crop,” Mohler said.
“It’s been too wet, and that slowed down the initial harvest.
That looks like it’s going to improve. Farmers will be able to
harvest and they’ll have good yields because of the rains.”  
 The U.S. crop will be bigger than originally anticipated,
the USDA said July 9, raising its estimate 7.2 percent to 60.3
million tons. Domestic stockpiles will total 29.8 million tons
in the year that ends in May, 12 percent more than a year
earlier, the USDA estimates.  
 Wheat was the fourth-biggest U.S. crop behind corn,
soybeans and hay last year, valued at $10.6 billion, government
data show.  
 Yields are improving in Kansas, the biggest U.S. producer
of winter wheat, the most common variety grown in the country.
In the northwest part of the state, yields may reach 60 bushels
(1.63 tons) an acre, said Darrell Holaday, the president of
Advanced Market Concepts, a commodities consulting and brokerage
firm in Wamego, Kansas. In May, analysts, growers and
agronomists had expected 40.7 bushels an acre after touring
fields in the state.  
 Bulging Silos  
 Silos are filling up in some areas, forcing growers to
cover harvested crops with plastic tarps.  
 “They’re storing wheat on the ground in northwest Kansas,
and they’re not done yet,” Holaday said.  
 Production in Australia may rise about 2 percent to 22.2
million tons, Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  forecast this
month. Output is rebounding after droughts in 2007 and 2008. The
USDA expects bigger harvests in  Argentina ,  Brazil  and the
European Union.  
 Global stockpiles are equal to about 28 percent of
consumption, USDA data show. Any figure above 25 percent means a
“limited” potential for a shortage, said Mike Zuzolo, the
president of Global Commodity Analytics in Lafayette,  Indiana .  
 “The second half of the year will still be mired by
surplus stocks,” said Abah Ofon, an analyst at Standard
Chartered Bank Plc in Dubai who expects prices to drop to $4.30
before the end of the year. “That is going to put a cap on how
far prices can actually go.”  
 Profit Boost  
 Lower prices may help to bolster profit for cereal makers.
Kellogg, based in  Battle Creek ,  Michigan , will report earnings
per share of $3.58 this year, compared with $3.16 last year,
according to the mean of nine analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock has fallen 3.6 percent this year in New
York trading. General Mills, which produces Wheaties cereal,
will post earnings per share of $2.49 in its fiscal year ending
in May, up from $2.24 a year earlier, based on eight estimates.
The stock is little changed this year in  New York .  
 The price of wheat “could drop as fast as it’s gone up,”
said Alexandre Marie, a grain analyst at Bourges, France-based
Offre et  Demande Agricole , which advises about 5,000 farmers.
“The market is looking first and foremost at production levels,
but forgets that behind it are enormous stocks of wheat in the
world.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        