-- Yen Near Week High Versus Euro on Signs Recovery Waning; N.Z. Dollar Falls
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-19T05:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-18/yen-rises-for-second-day-versus-euro-on-signs-global-recovery-is-slowing.html

          
          
             The yen traded near the highest in
almost a week against the euro as signs the global economic
recovery is waning damped demand for higher-yielding assets.  
 Japan’s currency rose for a third day versus South Korea’s
won after U.K. home sellers cut prices for the first time this
year and economists said a U.S. report today will show builders
turned the most pessimistic in four months. The New Zealand
dollar fell for a second day against the greenback as traders
cut bets on the amount of interest-rate increases the central
bank will make as the growth outlook worsens.  
 “There’s enough food for the bears to keep them in control
at this point,” said  Sean Callow , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s
second-largest lender. “There is some element of risk aversion
supporting the yen and to a lesser extent the dollar.”  
 The yen traded at 111.74 per euro as of 6:47 a.m. in London
from 111.96 last week in New York, after climbing to 111.53, the
strongest level since July 13. Japan’s currency gained 1.1
percent to 14.05 won. The dollar was at $1.2901 per euro from
$1.2930, and bought 86.63 yen from 86.57 yen. New Zealand’s
dollar weakened 0.4 percent to 70.79 U.S. cents.  
 U.K. home asking  prices  fell 0.6 percent in July to 236,332
pounds ($362,000) and will drop 7 percent in the second half,
 Rightmove Plc  said in a statement in London. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index in the
U.S. declined to 16 in July, the least since March, according to
a Bloomberg News survey before the report today.  
 The yen and the dollar were also boosted as Asian stocks
extended a worldwide slide in equities. The  MSCI Asia Pacific 
excluding Japan Index declined 1 percent, the biggest loss in
two weeks. Japan’s financial markets were shut for a holiday.  
 New Zealand Dollar  
 New Zealand’s currency weakened for a third day versus the
yen after the Labor Department said the jobless rate is likely
to “remain elevated” over coming quarters.  
 Swaps traders lowered their expectations for rate increases
by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand to 1.16 percentage points
over the next 12 months, from 1.22 percentage points last week,
according to a Credit Suisse AG  index .  
 “The market is starting to question whether we’re going to
get more interest-rate rises out of New Zealand,” said  Jim Vrondas , a manager in Sydney at OzForex Ltd., an online foreign-
exchange dealer. “The slowing in the global economic
environment and risk appetite, although it has weighed the
Aussie down, it’s weighing on the kiwi more.”  
 Australian Dollar  
 Australia’s dollar dropped toward a one-week low after
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called an election for Aug. 21,
reinforcing speculation the central bank will refrain from
raising interest rates next month.  
 The so-called Aussie also declined before the central bank
tomorrow releases minutes of a July 6 meeting when it said
monetary policy was “appropriate,” pending further information
on demand and prices. Australia’s statistics bureau will release
 consumer price  data on July 28.  
 “The RBA won’t raise rates on Aug. 3 during the election
campaign,” said  Alex Sinton , a senior dealer at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “If the RBA minutes tomorrow say they’re
reasonably comfortable with where rates are, then I suspect even
with an elevated CPI number, they won’t move early August.
That’s likely to provide more weakness for the Aussie.”  
 Australia’s currency weakened 0.1 percent to 86.79 cents
after sliding to 86.34, the lowest since July 8. The currency
traded at 75.17 yen from 75.21 yen.  
 Hungarian Forint  
 Hungary’s forint declined for a second day versus the
dollar after the International Monetary Fund and European Union
ended talks with Hungary’s government without endorsing Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s plans to curb the budget deficit.  
 The IMF said in a July 17 statement it ended its review of
Hungary’s 20 billion-euro ($25.8 billion) emergency bailout
because “a range of issues remain open.”  
 The currency fell as low as 224.77 per dollar, the weakest
since July 7, before trading at 223.95 from 218.18 last week.  
 “The lack of agreement in talks with the IMF and EU is
likely to further unsettle the Hungarian forint,” said  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Sydney. “It could be a factor that keeps risk appetite low
to start this week.”  
 Threatening Exporters  
 The euro’s biggest rally in a year is threatening exporters
in Europe’s weakest economies as they grow more reliant on
international sales for growth.  
 The 8.6 percent gain to $1.2901 from a four-year low on
June 7 reduced speculation the region’s debt crisis would break
up the single currency. At the same time, the head of Spain’s
Exporters Club says the stronger euro will make it harder to
counter a “paralyzed” domestic market.  
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the maker of
Airbus planes, says at $1.20, the currency still wouldn’t be
weak. Salvatore Ferragamo SpA says it’s counting on exports to
boost sales as austerity measures crimp demand.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The yen advanced to 111.59 per euro as of 8:55 a.m. in Singapore from 111.96 in New York last week, after earlier rising to 111.53, the highest level since July 13. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Mitul Kotecha, head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro.
     Kotecha, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses stress tests by European regulators on a total of 91 of the biggest banks and the implications of the tests for the common currency. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ka Chung Law, chief economist and strategist at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications Ltd., China's fifth-biggest lender, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his outlook for the Hong Kong stock market and global economy.
     Hong Kong stocks dipped on Friday after the U.S. reported manufacturing declined, heightening concern an economic recovery may falter. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
