-- Steel Authority's Profit More Than Doubles on Prices
-- Pratik Parija
-- 2007-01-29T10:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-29/steel-authority-s-profit-more-than-doubles-on-prices-update3-.html

          
          
             Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the
largest steelmaker, reported third-quarter net income more than
doubled, beating analyst estimates, because of an increase in
prices and sales. Its shares rose to a record.  
 Profit rose to 14.71 billion rupees ($332 million), or 3.6
rupees a share, in the quarter ended Dec. 31, from 6.56 billion
rupees, or 1.6 rupees, a year ago, the company said today. Sales
rose by a third to 83.52 billion rupees.  
 Asian steel prices are recovering because of a slowdown in
output in  China , which supplies one-third of the world's steel,
and a construction boom in  India . Demand for vehicles, homes and
appliances has risen amid record incomes and bank lending in
Asia's fourth-biggest economy, lifting sales at Steel Authority.  
 ``This has been such a good quarter with prices remaining
firm and the company raising production,'' said Sang Hyun Kim,
an analyst with ABN Amro Bank NV in Hong Kong. ``The next few
quarters also look good as steel consumption is rising and the
company is striving to cut costs.''  
 Steel prices in India were 21 percent higher in the quarter,
helped by an average 9.1 percent expansion in the economy in the
first nine months of the fiscal year.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India's
fourth-biggest producer, said Jan. 22 profit more than doubled,
while  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the second-biggest, may tomorrow report a
48 percent jump in net income to 11.13 billion rupees.  
 Steel Authority's profit exceeded the 14.38 billion rupees
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 `Optimism is Back'  
 Shares of Steel Authority are the best-performers this year
on India's 50-share S&P CNX Nifty index. The stock, which has
doubled in the past year, climbed 1.2 percent to a record 113
rupees when trading ended on the Bombay Stock Exchange.  
 ``We expected earnings to surprise us this quarter,'' said
Sanjay Makhija, vice president at Fortune Financial Services
Ltd., a Mumbai-based brokerage. ``Optimism is back in metals.''  
 Steel Authority sold a record 3 million tons in the three
months ended Dec. 31, up 9 percent from a year ago, as demand
rose from construction companies and carmakers. Sales reached
8.4 million tons in the April-December period, the highest-ever,
the company said today. Output in the three months ending March
will rise 5 percent from the December quarter.  
 India's steel usage will expand 7.7 percent annually from
2010 to 2015, faster than 4 percent a year globally, according
to the International Iron & Steel Institute. That's encouraged
 Arcelor Mittal (MT)  and  Posco (005490)  to plan $21 billion of investments in
the South Asian nation over the next seven years.  
 Raising Output  
 ``Domestic demand is growing, steel prices have stabilized
in China and are recovering in  Europe  and the U.S.,'' Chairman
S.K. Roongta told reporters in New Delhi. ``The steel market
will be stable in the near future.''  
 To meet demand, Steel Authority plans to triple capacity to
40 million tons by 2020, Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said Jan. 12.
The expansion will cost about 1 trillion rupees ($22.4 billion)
and will be done in stages, he said.  
 Earnings were buoyed by a decline in prices of coal, which
accounts for two-thirds of the company's raw material costs. The
benchmark contract prices for coking coal dropped 8 percent in
2006 to $115 a ton and declined further to $98 a ton this year.  
 ``We're going to be draw benefits from the fall in prices
of coal,'' said Roongta.  
 Input Costs  
 Steel Authority, which sources it's ore requirement from
own mines, buys about 9 million tons, or two-third of its coal
requirement, from overseas. Raw material costs rose 2.5 percent
in the third-quarter to 31.65 billion rupees.  
 ``The company is gearing itself to meet the growing demand
and at the same time keeping a close watch on costs,'' Kshitiz Prasad, analyst at Anand Rathi Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, said.
``This is a good company to have in your portfolio.'' He has an
``outperform'' rating on the company's  shares. (NIFTY)   
 The company said it will pay 1.6 rupees a share in interim
dividend. The government owns 85.82 percent of the steelmaker.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Deli at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        