-- VTB Forms Namibia Uranium Venture With Russian Trader
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-05-14T13:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-14/vtb-forms-namibia-uranium-venture-with-russian-trader-update1-.html

          
          
             VTB Group (VTBR) , Russia's second-biggest
bank, will help fund the country's hunt for new sources of
uranium after forming a venture to mine and explore for the
nuclear fuel in  Namibia .  
 VTB and another state-owned company, OAO Techsnabexport, or
Tenex, agreed to prospect for the metal in the southern African
country with the world's sixth-largest reserves of the metal,
the Moscow-based bank said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 ``The two sides will review forming a joint company to
explore and mine uranium in Namibia under the licenses they
already hold and also review taking stakes in other companies
pursing similar goals in the country,'' VTB said.  
 Tenex signed a strategic agreement with Russian billionaire
 Viktor Vekselberg 's Renova Group in January to hunt for uranium
deposits in Africa and Asia. Russia, the world's largest
enricher of uranium, is looking to secure foreign sources of the
metal to meet growing export contracts. The price of uranium has
gained more than 10-fold in five years.  
 ``Tenex may not have the money to develop all the projects
it is attempting and the bank is a purely financial partner,''
said  Mikhail Stiskin , an analyst with Troika Dialog in Moscow.
``Russia's primary uranium output needs to increase several fold
in the medium term in view of the country's aggressive nuclear
plans.''  
 Details of the bank's investments into the African venture
and the methods of financing will be worked out within three
months, said a Tenex spokesman, who declined to be named.  
 Namibian Licenses  
 VTB holds a uranium mining license in Namibia while Renova
won a tender for two licenses in the country last year. Namibia
has more than 300,000 tons of uranium reserves and last year's
output of 3,147 tons made it the world's fifth-largest producer.  
 Russia plans to help Namibia establish a strategy for
issuing uranium mining licenses and draft a framework for the
development of a nuclear power industry in the African nation,
chief of  Russia 's atomic energy agency Sergei Kiriyenko said in
February during a visit to Namibia.  
 VTB raised $8 billion last week in a share sale, the
largest initial public offering this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        