-- New Mortgage Insurance Policies Fall to Record Low
-- Erik Holm
-- 2008-12-01T21:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-12-01/new-mortgage-insurance-policies-fall-to-record-low-update2-.html

          
          
             The number of private mortgage
insurance policies sold in October reached a record low as the
U.S. housing downturn persisted and companies selling coverage
tightened standards amid continuing losses.  
 Homeowners with new policies fell to 42,167, a 76 percent
decline from the same month a year earlier and the lowest since
2001, when the Mortgage Insurance Companies of America changed
the way it reports its statistics, according to  data  released by
the Washington-based trade group today. Mortgage insurance pays
lenders when homeowners default, and is typically required when a
borrower puts down less than 20 percent on a home.  
 “They’ve tightened their underwriting standards and they
can’t go out and write a ton of new businesses because they’ve
put aside so much capital” to pay claims on policies sold in
prior years, said Michael Grasher, an analyst at Piper Jaffray &
Co. in  Chicago . “You don’t want to get too cute and start
writing a bunch of new business until it’s clear how that’s going
to work out.”  
 Mortgage insurers have faced mounting losses this year as a
record number of homeowners proved unable to keep up with
payments. The number of homeowners who defaulted on privately
insured mortgages reached 80,071 in October, almost twice the
number who caught up on their house payments and the most since
the trade group changed its methodology for tallying the figures
in April.  
 MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the largest U.S. mortgage insurer,
fell 69 cents, or 25 percent, to $2.03 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. No. 2 PMI Group Inc. fell 37
cents, or 22 percent, to $1.30. The two companies have lost about
90 percent of their market value in the past year and have
reported net losses in five consecutive quarters.  
 Home Sales Fall  
 Another mortgage insurer,  Triad Guaranty Inc. (TGIC) , stopped
selling policies in July after capital to fund claims from new
business ran short.  
 Mortgage insurers have tightened underwriting standards and
raised prices this year to counter the losses. Existing home
sales  fell  1.6 percent in October from the same period a year
earlier, further limiting the number of potential new customers.  
 Until last year, private mortgage insurance had been among
the most profitable types of coverage sold by insurers. From 2004
to 2006, members of the  Mortgage Insurance Companies of America 
reported a profit margin of at least 35 cents for every dollar
they collected in premiums. In contrast, auto insurers made less
than 5 cents on every dollar in 2006, according to AM Best Co.  
 In 2007, the mortgage insurers spent $1.54 on claims and
expenses for every dollar they collected in premiums as U.S. home
foreclosures climbed.  
 Radian, Triad  
 The trade group’s figures on delinquencies aren’t comparable
to any month prior to April because a lender changed the way it
calculates defaults that month. Triad, the smallest of the
companies that provide data to the group, stopped supplying
information on its existing customers in July.  
 The figures have also excluded Philadelphia-based  Radian
Group Inc. (RDN) , the third-largest mortgage insurer, since 2003.
Radian rejoined the group Nov. 1, said Jeff Lubar, a spokesman
for the trade association.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Holm in New York at 
 eholm2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        