-- Bush to Seek $104 Billion for Weapons in Fiscal 2009
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2008-02-01T19:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-01/bush-to-seek-104-billion-for-weapons-in-fiscal-2009-update3-.html

          
          
             The  Bush administration  will ask
Congress to let the U.S. military spend $104.2 billion on weapons
in fiscal 2009, an increase of 5.3 percent over the amount
approved this year, according to Defense Department documents.  
 The proposal includes money for planes produced by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , trucks built by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/) , a new family of armored vehicles built by  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and helicopters produced by United Technologies Corp.'s Sikorsky
Aircraft unit.  
 The Pentagon's overall budget -- not counting $70 billion
more for the wars in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  -- totals $515.4
billion and would be the 11th straight year of increase. Since
President  George W. Bush  took office, U.S. defense spending --not
counting war costs -- has increased about 30 percent when
adjusted for inflation.  
 This ``has been a remarkable period of sustained growth'' --
one not seen since World War II, said Steven Kosiak, vice
president of budget studies for the Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments in  Washington .  
 The budget Bush submits to Congress Feb. 4 will be his last
and won't be ``very meaningful'' without a full accounting of war
costs, Kosiak said.  
 The $70 billion is to cover the cost of the wars from Oct.
1, the start of the fiscal year, until a new administration takes
over in January 2009, and doesn't represent what the Pentagon
believes would be the cost for the full fiscal year, spokesman
Bryan Whitman told reporters Jan. 28.  
 War Spending  
 War costs are running about $12 billion a month, of which
about $9.2 billion is for Iraq, Pentagon spokesman Lieutenant
Colonel Brian Maka said Jan. 28.  
 Since the Sept. 11 attacks, Congress has approved about $627
billion extra for the military, Congressional Research Service
analyst Amy Belasco reported Dec. 12. In addition to financing
the wars, this spending has covered Iraq reconstruction, base
security, foreign aid, embassy costs and veterans' health care.  
 The fiscal 2010-2013 defense plan presented last year
anticipated minimal growth, with  defense spending  declining when
adjusted for inflation, Kosiak said.  
 ``A new administration could change things,'' but it would
``be very tough to continue with anything like the significant
increases'' seen ``over the past seven years or so, given growing
concerns about the size of the federal deficit and other
budgetary pressures,'' he said.  
 Budget Breakdown  
 The Pentagon's $515.4 billion base budget doesn't include
$21 billion for the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons.  
 The budget to be presented Feb. 4 finances the military's
annual operations, maintenance, health care, pay, construction
and the research, development and purchase of weapons. Documents
detailing each service's request were obtained from government
officials.  
 The Army's request totals $140.7 billion, an increase of 9
percent over the $128.9 billion Congress approved this year and
almost 26 percent above the fiscal 2007 amount. It includes $15.5
billion, up from $7.7 billion this year, to add 65,000 active-duty personnel by 2011 to the current force of 523,000.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  promised in speeches last
year that the service would receive enough money to pay for its
growth and ease the strain on the all-volunteer force that's seen
multiple deployments to Iraq.  
 Army's Procurement Request  
 The Army's proposed budget includes $4.1 billion to buy
weapons, vehicles and ammunition, spending that will benefit
contractors General Dynamics, BAE Systems and  Alliant Techsystems
Inc. (ATK)  The Army's full procurement request is $24.5 billion, up
from $23.8 billion this year. Other proposals include:  
 -- $3.6 billion to continue research and procurement of the
Boeing-Science Applications International Corp. Future Combat
Systems of armored vehicles, drones, robots and radio networks;  
 -- $1.2 billion to buy 119 more Stryker wheeled combat
vehicles from General Dynamics;  
 -- $1.2 billion to buy from Boeing 16 new and 23 modified
``F'' model CH-47 cargo helicopters;  
 -- $1.1 billion to buy 63 more UH-60 Black Hawk Helicopters
from Sikorsky;  
 --$947 million to buy from closely held AM General Corp.
5,065 more Humvees;  
 -- $945 million to buy 3,171 more Medium Tactical trucks
from BAE;  
 -- $439 million to buy 28 Armed Reconnaissance Helicopters
from  Textron Inc. (TXT) 's Bell Helicopter unit. The Army asked to buy
64, but the Pentagon cut that number because this program has
been dogged by cost growth and delays.  
 -- $302 million to buy the first seven of a new plane that
will transport troops and equipment in combat zones. The Joint
Cargo Aircraft transport is built by a team led by L-3
Communications Holdings Inc.  
 Navy Programs Cut  
 Two of the Navy's highest-profile programs would be cut: the
Littoral Combat Ship and the VH-71 presidential helicopter.  
 The ships, low-cost vessels designed to operate close to
shore, are being built by Lockheed and General Dynamics. The Navy
would buy two, four fewer than planned because cost overruns have
hampered the program and eroded congressional support.  
 Lockheed's VH-71 program aims to replace the 19 aircraft,
some of them 40 years old, known as Marine Helicopter Squadron
One. These craft ferry the president, vice president and heads of
state. The Pentagon refused the Navy's request to buy four
helicopters, shifting the $555 million for this purchase to
continued development of a program that started at $6.1 billion
and has seen major cost overruns. With the $555 million, the
request for continued development totals $1 billion.  
 Ships, Planes  
 Overall, the Navy is requesting $16.9 billion. This includes
funding to continue development of the CVN-21 Gerald Ford class
aircraft carrier built by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and the purchase
of one DDG-1000 destroyer, one Virginia-class submarine, two
high-speed cargo vessels and the two littoral ships.  
 The  Air Force 's proposed budget contains $3.8 billion to buy
20 more F-22 fighters from Lockheed, capping the program at 183.
The budget also includes:  
 -- $3.4 billion for the Air Force's share of continued
research and development of the Lockheed Joint Strike Fighter;  
 -- $1.1 billion to research and develop an unmanned bomber;  
 -- $8.6 billion to develop and buy communications, early-warning, weather and Global Positioning satellites.  
 Missile Defense  
 For missile defense, the Pentagon requests $10.5 billion,
including $719.8 million to continue development of a system to
be based in  Poland  and the  Czech Republic ;  
 The request includes money to buy 10 interceptor missiles
from  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  that the administration wants to
install in Poland. Congress last year blocked funding for
construction until the U.S. has agreements with both nations.  
 -- $405.8 million for Boeing's Airborne Laser program that
would use high-powered lasers on a 747 aircraft to shoot down
ballistic missiles shortly after launch;  
 -- $375.7 million for Northrop to continue to develop a
high-speed rocket booster that also could intercept missiles
shortly after they were launched.  
 In addition, the budget requests $344.2 million for
competing efforts by Lockheed Martin and Raytheon to develop a
missile that can fire multiple warheads -- like a shotgun blast -
- at an incoming enemy missile.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        