-- ABB Units Charged by U.S. With Making Corrupt Payments in Mexico, Iraq
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-29T21:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-16/abb-siemens-schneider-to-gain-from-demand-for-smart-grids-goldman-says.html
Units of  ABB Ltd. , the world’s
biggest electricity-networks builder, were charged by the U.S.
with conspiracy and violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  ABB and its co-conspirators made “concealed, corrupt
payments” from 1997 to 2005 to officials at Comision Federal de
Electricidad, an electric utility owned by Mexico, “in exchange
for improper business advantages to ABB Inc. and ABB NM,
including the award of contracts,” prosecutors said in
documents filed today in Houston federal court. The U.S. anti-
bribery law bars companies from paying foreign officials to gain
a business advantage.  The payments related to an upgrade for Mexico’s electrical
network in a contract that generated $44 million in revenue for
an ABB unit, prosecutors claim.  Starting in 2000, another unit, ABB Ltd.-Jordan, paid more
than $300,000 in kickbacks to the government of Iraq for
$5.9 million in purchase orders from regional companies of the
Iraqi Electricity Commission as part of the United Nations oil-
for-food program, prosecutors said in a separate filing. The
unit was charged with conspiracy.  “The primary purpose of the conspiracy was to obtain and
retain lucrative business with the Iraqi government through the
payment of kickbacks to the Iraqi government, which were
concealed from the U.N. and portrayed as legitimate charges,”
prosecutors claim.  Representatives of the ABB units were scheduled to appear
at an arraignment today before Judge  Lynn N. Hughes , according
to court filings.  Laurence A. Urgenson , a lawyer representing Zurich-based
ABB, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. A media
representative for ABB didn’t immediately return an e-mail
message seeking comment.  The cases are U.S. v. ABB Inc., 10-664, and U.S. v. ABB
Ltd.-Jordan, 10-cr-665, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 