-- New Candidates May Win Half of Afghan Parliament Seats Amid Ballot Fraud
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-10-20T11:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-16/taliban-plans-attacks-to-disrupt-afghan-vote-intended-to-promote-stability.html
New candidates may win half the
seats in Afghanistan’s lower house of parliament amid fraud
complaints that forced the scrapping of nearly a quarter of
votes cast in last month’s poll, the election commission said.  “The preliminary results indicate that as many as 50
percent of the members may be new faces” in the 249-seat  Wolesi
Jirga , or House of the People, commission chairman Fazil Ahmad
Manawi told reporters at a press conference today in Kabul.  President  Hamid Karzai  often clashed with the previous
parliament over his cabinet appointments. The power of
Afghanistan’s parliament is limited by strong  presidential
authority , and by the absence of broad political parties to
exert leadership in the legislature.  As Karzai has faced corruption allegations and President
 Barack Obama  confronts  declining public support  for a war with
the Taliban that this year is costing the U.S. $105 billion,
both governments wanted the election to help cement the
political system built since 2001.  The U.S.-backed Afghan government has faced problems of
political legitimacy partly due to corruption and also because
vote fraud tainted Karzai’s re-election last year, said
Waliullah Rahmani, director of the  Kabul Center for Strategic
Studies , in the capital, and other analysts.  As in last year’s vote, the  Independent Election Commission 
received complaints of ballot stuffing and other malpractice,
and has ordered the cancellation of 1.3 million out of 5.6
million votes cast, Manawi said. That decision will be reviewed
by a separate agency, the  Election Complaints Commission  said,
leaving it uncertain when final results will be announced.  Results Audit  Candidates have complained of the month-long delay in
announcing preliminary results.  The Independent Election Commission received more than 3,000
fraud complaints, originating from each of  the country’s 34
provinces , Manawi said. That means all results will be audited
by the complaints commission, which is headed by a Supreme Court
justice, Sayed Murad Sharifi.  The Washington-based  National Democratic Institute , which
sent observers to 730 polling stations in 30 out of 34 provinces,
said in a Sept. 20  report  that the conduct of the ballot showed
“substantial improvement over past elections,” in part due to
the removal of 6,000 officials suspected of fraud in the 2009
presidential poll and the introduction of unique serial numbers
on voting slips.  Vote Delay  While this year’s parliamentary vote was due by law to take
place by May, officials postponed it until Sept. 18 in the hope
that the U.S. deployment of 30,000 more troops, taking NATO’s
strength in Afghanistan to 142,000 soldiers, might provide
better security.  The Taliban movement, which four years ago was concentrated
in a half-dozen provinces on the border with Pakistan, is now a
threat nationwide, says the Kabul-based  Afghan NGO Security
Office , which advises aid organizations.  This year 596 coalition troops have been killed in the
Afghan war, double the 295 who died in 2008, according to
 icasualities.org , a website that tracks the conflicts in
Afghanistan and Iraq. Last year, there were 521 fatalities among
international forces.  Today’s announcement came amid reports that Karzai has
initiated talks with the Taliban movement. The New York Times
reported Oct. 14 that U.S. and NATO leaders are letting senior
Taliban representatives attend peace negotiations in Kabul,
citing NATO and Obama administration officials.  While the discussions are preliminary, they indicate the
U.S. is supporting talks designed to end the war in the country,
the newspaper said.  In a May 12  press conference  with Karzai, Obama cited
“credible parliamentary elections” as a part of efforts by
both countries to improve Afghan governance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eltaf Najafizada  in Kabul, Afghanistan, at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;  James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
   jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net , 