-- Finland to Push for Renewable, Wind Power With Tariffs (Correct)
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-09-29T07:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-16/finland-to-push-for-renewable-wind-energy-with-feed-in-tariff-subsidies.html
(Corrects unit on power capacity in seventh paragraph in
story published on Sept. 16.)  Finland will promote renewable
energy with fixed prices for wind and biogas power to encourage
producers to meet emission targets set by the European Union.  Feed-in tariffs, a set price guaranteed to producers, come
into force on Jan. 1 and will last for 12 years, the government
in Helsinki said today in an e-mailed statement.  Finland is seeking ways to add non-polluting power
generation to meet a need in a country that consumes per capita
more than twice the electricity used by Germany because of its
cold climate and energy-intensive industries such as
papermaking. Finland, which currently has four nuclear reactors
and is building a fifth, also in July approved permits for two
more units scheduled to come online in the 2020s.  The country must increase the share of renewable energy to
38 percent by 2020 from about 28 percent in 2008 to help Europe
reduce its emissions of carbon dioxide, a gas blamed for warming
the planet, according to a plan by members of the European
Union. The Nordic country will also reduce energy demand to help
meet the goal, the government has said.  The feed tariffs will increase wind power in Finland to 6
terawatt-hours by 2020, the government said. Wind power
accounted for 0.3 percent of the 80.8 terawatt-hours of
electricity consumed in 2009, Finnish Energy Industries said on
its website. Renewable generation increased 15 percent in 2008,
Statistics Finland data shows.  To Parliament  Finland is seeking alternative sources of energy to
supplement nuclear power because it lacks the oil and hydropower
supplies of neighbors such as Russia and Norway, which gets
almost all of its electricity from water.  The motion will tomorrow be sent to parliament for
approval. Finland had 118 wind turbines at the end of 2009 with
a combined capacity of 147 megawatts, the Finnish Wind Power
Association said on its website.  The target for the feed-in tariffs will be 83.50 euros
($109) a megawatt-hour, the government said. Electricity from
biogas will get an additional 50 euros a megawatt-hour for
combined heat and power generators. For the first three years,
wind power would be paid 105 euros a megawatt-hour to ensure
implementation, the government said.  Finland imports about 15 percent of the electricity used in
the country. Fortum Oyj, Finland’s biggest utility, owns stakes
in wind power generators Tunturituuli Oy and Hyoetytuuli Oy as
well as a stake in a wind plant in Olkiluoto, Finland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  