-- North Carolina Job Search a `Battle' as Poverty Rises in U.S.
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-09-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-16/north-carolina-job-search-a-battle-as-u-s-poverty-rate-hits-15-year-peak.html

          
          
             Brandy Burkhead, 28, says she lost
her $13-an-hour job as a medical assistant in April and hasn’t
been able to find work since.  
 “It’s a battle,” said Burkhead, standing in a line of
people waiting yesterday to apply for jobs at a Tanger Outlet
Center that will open in Mebane, North Carolina, in November.  
 Burkhead said her family of five subsists on $600 a month
in  unemployment  benefits plus help from relatives, putting them
below the threshold of poverty. The proportion of Americans
living in poverty, defined as $21,954 in income for a family of
four, climbed to a 15-year high last year, according to a Census
Bureau  report  released yesterday.  
 The number of poor rose to 43.6 million, the most in the 51
years for which the figures have been published, underscoring
the toll exacted by the deepest recession since the 1930s. The
poverty rate climbed to 14.3 percent from 13.2 percent.  
 “There are a lot of people hurting out there,” said  Wade Horn , a former assistant secretary for Children and Families at
the Department of Health and Human Services. “The only way to
lift people out of poverty is to have a robust economy so that
that people who are at the bottom can work their way up.”  
 The Census Bureau report comes as Congress debates the
effectiveness of more spending to reduce unemployment, and it
may add fuel to an election-year debate over the Obama
administration’s economic policies.  
 President  Barack Obama  last week urged approval of a
package of $180 billion in business tax breaks and
infrastructure spending to boost the economy, a proposed
supplement to the $814 billion stimulus measure enacted last
year.  
 ‘Just Beginning’  
 The Census figures “make it clear that our work is just
beginning,” Obama said yesterday in a statement. He urged
policies “to improve our schools, build the skills of our
workers, and invest in our nation’s critical infrastructure.”  
 Rising poverty, along with unemployment near a 26-year high
and a wave of home foreclosures, are symptoms of the economic
distress that will help Republicans capture more seats in the
House and Senate in November, said  Jeffrey Berry , a politics
professor at Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts.  
 “This report is part of a long-term trend, which is an
economy that can’t quite lift itself out of mediocre growth
rates,” Berry said. “The Democrats own this recession. They
didn’t cause it, but it was on their desk when Barack Obama was
elected.”  
 Median Incomes  
 The median household income fell to $49,777 last year from
$50,112 in 2008, a change the Census Bureau report said wasn’t
statistically significant.  
 The 1.1 percentage point increase in the poverty rate was
the biggest since 1980, Census Bureau officials said on a
conference call with reporters. The number of poor increased
from 39.8 million in 2008.  
 The unemployment rate in the U.S. has risen to 9.6 percent
in August from 5 percent in December 2007, when the recession
began. While the rate has dropped from 10.1 percent last
October, sluggish private job creation following the loss of 8.4
million jobs has weighed on incomes and consumer spending,
slowing the pace of recovery.  
 Barbara Hood, 52, has been out of work since August, 2008,
when she lost her job as an educational assistant in the
Washington, D.C., public school system. She said she has applied
for 15 positions and couldn’t even land a temporary job at a
clothing store.  
 “Lord knows I’ve tried to get a job,” she said.  
 Line of Job Seekers  
 In Mebane, a town of 9,851 people located midway between
Durham and Greensboro, North Carolina, the line of job seekers
circled three sides of the Mebane Arts & Community Center before
veering across an adjacent lawn and running alongside a football
field.  
 Even before the doors opened, about 500 people had applied
online for jobs at Bass, Izod and Van Heusen stores, said Lu Ann
Austin, a Philips-Van Heusen Corp. district sales manager.  
 “It’s nothing like I’ve ever seen,” said Austin, who
expects to hire as many as 45 for the three stores. “People
need work.”  
 Tanger Factory Outlets Inc. , a Greensboro, North Carolina-
based real estate investment trust that operates outlet shopping
centers and stores that will occupy the new center plan to hire
about 800 people, according to Kathy Hackshaw, the center’s
general manager.  
 Traffic Backed Up  
 The community center’s parking lot was full by late
morning, prompting police to close the street leading to the
center, where traffic was backed up for more than a mile. Some
people parked on side streets and walked to the fair.  
 Timothy Masho, 43, lost his cleaning job of 11 years at a
local hospital a year ago. “I’m looking for anything, stocking
or helping customers,” he said.  
 Burkhead, the mother of three who lost her nursing job,
said her $722 monthly rent exceeds her unemployment benefits,
and she has turned to her mother and grandmother to help pay the
bills. Her husband, Stevie, last worked installing car
windshields about six years ago. “We’re living off of
nothing,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at 
1348 or  cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        