-- Starr Said `Not That Much' to Theft-Size Accusation
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-21T21:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-07/judge-in-starr-fraud-suit-by-sec-names-receiver-bars-payments-to-clients.html

          
          
             Kenneth I. Starr  replied “not that
much” to an investigator who accused him of stealing
$30 million, a prosecutor said in court -- a statement the
government said it may try to use against the accused investment
adviser.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney William Harrington today told
District Judge  Shira Scheindlin  in New York that prosecutors are
deciding whether to use the statement Starr made May 27 after he
was found hiding in a closet in his home.  
 “At the time he was handcuffed, the agent made some
comment about, ‘This is your time to get things straight. You’re
at the crossroads. You stole $30 million,’” Harrington said.
“The defendant responded, saying, ‘Not that much.’ This
occurred after he was in custody, after being handcuffed.”  
 Starr, 66, was indicted June 11 for 20 counts of wire fraud
and one each of securities fraud, money laundering and fraud by
an investment adviser. He stole at least $59 million, almost
twice the first estimate, according to the indictment. He is
being held without bail.  
 Scheindlin asked Harrington if the government was certain
of Starr’s exact words and whether the alleged comment made was
made after he’d been advised of his constitutional right not to
incriminate himself.  
 Harrington said that the government would put together a
report from the agent’s notes to determine the exact timing of
the comment and if the U.S. would seek to use them against him
at a trial.  
 Facing 20 Years  
 Starr, who pleaded not guilty, faces as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of wire fraud, prosecutors in the Manhattan
office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said.  
 Harrington today told Scheindlin the government last week
turned over more than 800,000 pages of documents compiled as
evidence in the case from Starr’s computer and his company.  
 Peggy Cross , a public defender appointed by the court to
represent Starr, told Scheindlin she is determining whether her
client can obtain funds to pay a private lawyer. As part of the
government’s case, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
froze his bank accounts.  
 Scheindlin granted Cross’s request for a two-week
adjournment delay. The next hearing is set for July 7.  
 Starr once managed more than $700 million for about
175 wealthy clients, including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon
and actors  Sylvester Stallone  and  Wesley Snipes .  
 The civil suit is SEC v. Starr, 1:10-cv-04270, and the
criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-mj-01135, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        