-- Wal-Mart posts higher sales, sees margin pressure
-- By  Nicole Maestri
-- Thu Aug 9, 2007 12:00pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/09/businesspro-walmart-sales-dc-idUSN0944455420070809

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) on 
Thursday posted a 1.9 percent rise in July sales at U.S. stores 
open at least a year, toward the top end of its forecast, after 
cutting prices to attract shoppers. 

  But the world's largest retailer, which will report 
quarterly earnings on Tuesday, warned that its aggressive price 
reductions were hurting gross margins.  Sarah Henry, an investment analyst at the Sovereign Asset 
Management group at MFC Global, said it was worrisome to hear 
Wal-Mart talk about margin pressure.  "It means that the sales they did get were due to 
discounting," she said, which can wind up hurting profits.  Wal-Mart shares were down nearly 2 percent in midday 
trading.  The company is working to revive sales in its namesake U.S. 
stores after attempts last year to play down its discount roots 
and sell higher-margin goods, like trendy clothes and home 
decor, backfired with its low-income consumers.  Wal-Mart has returned to emphasizing low prices. To spur 
sales around the July 4 U.S. Independence Day holiday, it 
implemented "deep cuts" in prices on top brand-name items and 
food.  And last month it announced price cuts of as much as 50 
percent on 16,000 items, like school supplies and backpacks, to 
jump-start back-to-school sales.  Wal-Mart had forecast July same-store sales would rise 1 
percent to 2 percent. Analysts on average were expecting a gain 
of 1.5 percent, according to Reuters Estimates.  Same-store sales rose 1.3 percent at Wal-Mart stores and 
5.1 percent at the Sam's Club warehouse unit.  Meanwhile, Wal-Mart's smaller rival, Target Corp. ( TGT.N ), 
posted a 6.1 percent rise in its July same-store sales and 
forecast a gain of 4 percent to 6 percent for August.  Wal-Mart said net sales in the four weeks ended on August 3 
rose 6.5 percent to $27 billion, while total sales for the 
second quarter that ended July 31 were about $92 billion.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer said it was 
encouraged by positive early signs in back-to-school categories 
and was seeing strong demand for dorm-room items like 
microwaves, small refrigerators, and coffee makers.  But it said its clothing and home businesses were still 
soft and are expected to remain so through the third quarter.  Grocery sales were still stronger than general merchandise, 
and demand for electronics, including televisions, computers 
and digital cameras, was robust.  Wal-Mart shares were down 86 cents, or 1.8 percent, at 
$47.56 on the New York Stock Exchange.