-- Bernanke's U.S. economy testimony to House panel
-- 
-- Wed Feb 27, 2008 11:03am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/27/us-text-usa-fed-bernanke-idUSN2742936520080227

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Following is the full text of Federal 
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's testimony on the U.S. economy and monetary 
policy delivered on Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee: 
"Chairman Frank, Ranking Member Bachus, and other members of the Committee, I 
am pleased to present the Federal Reserve's Monetary Policy Report to the 
Congress.  In my testimony this morning I will briefly review the economic 
situation and outlook, beginning with developments in real activity and 
inflation, then turn to monetary policy.  I will conclude with a quick update 
on the Federal Reserve's recent actions to help protect consumers in their 
financial dealings. 
The economic situation has become distinctly less favorable since the time of 
our July report.  Strains in financial markets, which first became evident late 
last summer, have persisted; and pressures on bank capital and the continued 
poor functioning of markets for securitized credit have led to tighter credit 
conditions for many households and businesses.  The growth of real gross 
domestic product (GDP) held up well through the third quarter despite the 
financial turmoil, but it has since slowed sharply.  Labor market conditions 
have similarly softened, as job creation has slowed and the unemployment 
rate--at 4.9 percent in January--has moved up somewhat. 
Many of the challenges now facing our economy stem from the continuing 
contraction of the U.S. housing market.  In 2006, after a multiyear boom in 
residential construction and house prices, the housing market reversed course. 
Housing starts and sales of new homes are now less than half of their 
respective peaks, and house prices have flattened or declined in most areas. 
Changes in the availability of mortgage credit amplified the swings in the 
housing market.  During the housing sector's expansion phase, increasingly lax 
lending standards, particularly in the subprime market, raised the effective 
demand for housing, pushing up prices and stimulating construction activity. 
As the housing market began to turn down, however, the slump in subprime 
mortgage originations, together with a more general tightening of credit 
conditions, has served to increase the severity of the downturn.  Weaker house 
prices in turn have contributed to the deterioration in the performance of 
mortgage-related securities and reduced the availability of mortgage credit. 
The housing market is expected to continue to weigh on economic activity in 
coming quarters.  Homebuilders, still faced with abnormally high inventories of 
unsold homes, are likely to cut the pace of their building activity further, 
which will subtract from overall growth and reduce employment in residential 
construction and closely related industries. 
Consumer spending continued to increase at a solid pace through much of the 
second half of 2007, despite the problems in the housing market, but it appears 
to have slowed significantly toward the end of the year.  The jump in the price 
of imported energy, which eroded real incomes and wages, likely contributed to 
the slowdown in spending, as did the declines in household wealth associated 
with the weakness in house prices and equity prices.  Slowing job creation is 
yet another potential drag on household spending, as gains in payroll 
employment averaged little more than 40,000 per month during the three months 
ending in January, compared with an average increase of almost 100,000 per 
month over the previous three months.  However, the recently enacted fiscal 
stimulus package should provide some support for household spending during the 
second half of this year and into next year. 
The business sector has also displayed signs of being affected by the 
difficulties in the housing and credit markets.  Reflecting a downshift in the 
growth of final demand and tighter credit conditions for some firms, available 
indicators suggest that investment in equipment and software will be subdued 
during the first half of 2008.  Likewise, after growing robustly through much 
of 2007, nonresidential construction is likely to decelerate sharply in coming 
quarters as business activity slows and funding becomes harder to obtain, 
especially for more speculative projects.  On a more encouraging note, we see 
few signs of any serious imbalances in business inventories aside from the 
overhang of unsold homes.  And, as a whole, the nonfinancial business sector 
remains in good financial condition, with strong profits, liquid balance 
sheets, and corporate leverage near historical lows. 
In addition, the vigor of the global economy has offset some of the weakening 
of domestic demand.  U.S. real exports of goods and services increased at an 
annual rate of about 11 percent in the second half of last year, boosted by 
continuing economic growth abroad and the lower foreign exchange value of the 
dollar.  Strengthening exports, together with moderating imports, have in turn 
led to some improvement in the U.S. current account deficit, which likely 
narrowed in 2007 (on an annual basis) for the first time since 2001.  Although 
recent indicators point to some slowing of foreign economic growth, U.S. 
exports should continue to expand at a healthy pace in coming quarters, 
providing some impetus to domestic economic activity and employment. 
As I have mentioned, financial markets continue to be under considerable 
stress.  Heightened investor concerns about the credit quality of mortgages, 
especially subprime mortgages with adjustable interest rates, triggered the 
financial turmoil.  However, other factors, including a broader retrenchment in 
the willingness of investors to bear risk, difficulties in valuing complex or 
illiquid financial products, uncertainties about the exposures of major 
financial institutions to credit losses, and concerns about the weaker outlook 
for economic growth, have also roiled the financial markets in recent months. 
To help relieve the pressures in the market for interbank lending, the Federal 
Reserve--among other actions--recently introduced a term auction facility 
(TAF), through which prespecified amounts of discount window credit are 
auctioned to eligible borrowers, and we have been working with other central 
banks to address market strains that could hamper the achievement of our 
broader economic objectives.  These efforts appear to have contributed to some 
improvement in short-term funding markets.  We will continue to monitor 
financial developments closely. 

