-- Norilsk Offers $1.4 Billion to Buy Out Utility OGK-3
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2007-03-26T14:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-26/norilsk-offers-1-4-billion-to-buy-out-utility-ogk-3-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) ,  Russia 's
biggest mining company, offered as much as $1.4 billion to buy
out electricity generator OAO OGK-3 from minority shareholders
before spinning it off this year.  
 The offer for 16.7 percent of OAO OGK-3, equivalent to 17.3
cents a share, could raise Norilsk's stake to as much as 62.9
percent, the Moscow-based mining company said today on its Web site.  
 OGK-3 will form the core of a new holding, Norilsk Power,
which will be spun off by the end of this year and listed in the
first half of 2008, Norilsk Chief Executive Officer-designate
Denis Morozov said today during a conference call.  
 ``Strategic investors are ready to pay significant premiums
for generating assets because they're confident of growth in the
industry,'' said Alexander Kornilov, a utilities analyst at Alfa
Bank in Moscow. ``Most minority shareholders will probably tender
their shares to Norilsk.''  
 Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , a Norilsk owner and the
company's outgoing CEO, plans to create a $10 billion energy and
hydrogen power holding as he and partner Vladimir Potanin split
up their business empire. Prokhorov will leave Norilsk by April 3
and sell his shares to Potanin.  
 Norilsk's board will decide how much cash to provide to the
new company in August, Morozov said.  
 The offer to minority shareholders will run from April into
July, Morozov said, without giving exact dates. All shareholders
of OGK-3 during the period may participate in the offer, he said.
Unified won't participate in the buyback offer.  
 Morozov declined to say what the record date is for Norilsk
shareholders to participate in the power company.  
 Power Holding  
 Prokhorov and Potanin, who together hold 54.8 percent of
Norilsk, spun off its gold-mining operations last year to create
the country's biggest gold producer, OAO Polyus.  
 Norilsk bought 37 percent of OGK-3 for $3.1 billion after a
March 9 auction, raising its stake to 46.2 percent. The per-share
price Norilsk is offering minority shareholders is equivalent to
its winning bid of 17.3 cents (4.54 rubles).  
 Shares of OGK-3 rose as much as 3.4 percent to 4.37 rubles
today on the Micex Stock Exchange. OGK-3 is worth $5 billion,
taking into account the utility's debt, Dmitry Usanov, Norilsk's
head of investor relations, said during a conference call today.  
 State-controlled OAO Unified Energy System's stake in OGK-3
fell to 37 percent from 61 percent, marking the first time the
government has ceded control of a power generator during an
industrywide reorganization to boost competition and attract
investment for upgrades and expansion projects.  
 Norilsk will form its power holding from OGK-3, its 3.5
percent stake in Unified Energy, 7.4 percent of St. Petersburg-
based generator OAO TGK-1 and 27.8 percent of Chita-based OAO
TGK-14. The holding will include Norilsk's distribution and
transmission assets in Krasnoyarsk, Tyva and the Kola peninsula.  
 Norilsk will keep ownership of strategic power plants that
supply its largest mines in the Taimyr region. The company's
total power assets are now worth $6.7 billion, Morozov said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        