-- Tribune Shares Rise on Reports of $8 Billion Zell Bid
-- Leon Lazaroff
-- 2007-03-26T20:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-26/tribune-shares-rise-on-reports-of-8-billion-zell-bid-update4-.html

          
          
             Shares of Tribune Co., owner of the
 Los Angeles  Times and  Chicago Cubs , rose after the Los Angeles
Times reported the company may accept an $8 billion takeover
offer from real estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  
 The shares gained 1.9 percent after the newspaper said Zell
is offering $33 a share to acquire the Chicago-based media
company, citing a person with knowledge of the negotiations.  
 A sale to Zell would salvage a six-month auction marked by
sagging interest from buyers after Tribune's advertising sales
deteriorated. The company, the second-largest U.S. newspaper
owner, said it would consider a sale or restructuring in
September, three months after its  biggest  shareholder, the
Chandler family, demanded action to boost the stock price.  
 ``Tribune is limping to a finish here in what has been a
tough process,'' said Steven Barlow, an analyst at Prudential
Equity Group who has an ``underweight'' rating on the stock and
doesn't own any shares. ``When the Chandlers began their campaign
last summer, I, like most on  Wall Street , valued Tribune at about
$42 a share. Now look where they might end up.''  
 Tribune said this month that newspaper advertising fell 5.1
percent in February to $233 million, led by a 13 percent drop in
classifieds.  
 Zell declined to comment through his spokeswoman Terry Holt.
Tribune spokesman  Gary Weitman  declined to comment.  
 Shares of Chicago-based Tribune rose 59 cents to $31.12 at
4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have fallen 8.4 percent since the company announced its
auction on Sept. 22.  
 Intact  
 Zell said this month he would not sell any of Tribune's 23
television stations or 11 newspapers, which include the  Chicago
Tribune  and stakes in the Food Network and CareerBuilder Inc., a
Web site that lists job openings and resumes of job-seekers.  
 ``My intention is not to break it up,'' Zell, 65, said in a
March 12 interview. ``My interest in Tribune Co. reflects my own
assessment of the value of its assets.''  
 Zell was a late entry in Tribune's auction. His interest in
Tribune emerged in February just days before the  Chicago  native
sold Equity Office Properties Trust, his hometown-based real
estate investment trust, to Blackstone Group LP for $39 billion.  
 The Zell proposal would create an employee stock ownership
plan to help finance billions of dollars of debt for the
acquisition. The structure would shield the company from certain
tax obligations. Zell altered the mix of debt and equity in his
plan amid concern employees would take on too much risk.  
 The offer is an alternative to Tribune's so-called ``self-
help'' plan to spin off its television assets and pay a one-time
shareholder dividend funded with debt.  
 Industry Slump  
 Tribune also received offers from California billionaires
Eli Broad and  Ron Burkle  and from the Chandlers, who would have
broken it up. Broad and Burkle wrote to the board during the
weekend to complain about favorable treatment the company offered
to Zell, the Los Angeles Times reported.  
 The perceived risk of owning Tribune's bonds rose to the
highest in almost five months as credit-default swap investors
increased bets that the company will be loaded up with debt in a
Zell buyout.  
 Credit-default swaps based on $10 million of the company's
bonds jumped $35,000 to $194,000, according to prices compiled by
CMA Datavision in  London . An increase in the contracts, used to
speculate on the company's ability to repay its debt, indicates
deterioration in the perception of  credit quality .  
 Tribune has about $9 billion in total liabilities, including
$4 billion in long-term debt, according to the company's filings.  
 Ad Slump  
 Tribune is battling an industry advertising slump, fed by
the U.S. real estate slowdown and competition for classified ads
from Internet sites such as  Craigslist.org  and Yahoo Inc.'s
 HotJobs.com .  
 A sale would resolve a split on Tribune's board over the
direction of the company under Chief Executive Officer Dennis FitzSimons. Tribune, which bought Times Mirror Co. for $7.5
billion from the Chandlers in 2000, pursued cross-ownership of TV
stations and newspapers in the biggest U.S. markets, including
Los Angeles, New York and Chicago.  
 ``It does allow management to extract itself from operating
under the pressure of a public company,'' John Janedis, an
analyst at Wachovia Capital Markets in  New York , said today in a
report to clients. He rates the stock ``market perform.'' Janedis
said he had been anticipating an offer closer to $35.  
 The Chandler trusts, owner of 20 percent of Tribune's stock,
in June demanded a sale or breakup of the company after a 33
percent decline in the stock price over two years.  
 FitzSimons in September agreed to explore a sale or breakup
of the company and in November, after tepid interest from
potential buyers, delayed a decision until the first quarter.  
 The Chandler holdings are through trusts run in part by
Jeffrey Chandler, the nephew of Otis Chandler, the former Los
Angeles Times publisher, who died in February 2006. Jeffrey
Chandler is also the great-great-grandson of Harrison Gray Otis,
a Civil War general who bought a stake in the newspaper in 1882,
a year after it started publishing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at   emoody@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        