-- Judge denies govt bid to block Wild Oats deal
-- By  Diane Bartz
-- Thu Aug 16, 2007 9:29pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/17/businesspro-wildoats-wholefoods-ftc-dc-idUSN1639616120070817

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Federal antitrust authorities lost a 
bid on Thursday to temporarily block organic foods grocer Whole 
Foods Market Inc's WFMI.O acquisition of rival Wild Oats 
Markets Inc OATS.O. 

  Wild Oats shares soared 20 percent in late electronic 
trading, while Whole Foods' stock jumped 6 percent.  U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman's ruling was a blow to 
the Federal Trade Commission, which had argued that the $565 
million deal could hurt competition in two dozen U.S. markets 
and could lead to the closing of some Wild Oats stores.  The two chains said they already faced stiff competition 
from traditional supermarkets.  Friedman, who rejected an FTC request for a preliminary 
injunction against the deal, gave no hint why he denied the 
injunction.  Lawyers for both sides will meet to discuss redactions 
needed to protect confidential information so the judge's 
sealed, 93-page opinion can be released.  The FTC could appeal the judge's decision or bring its case 
against the deal to an administrative trial.  But in the absence of any further legal action, the 
companies may complete the merger on Monday.  The FTC said it was reviewing its options.  Jeffrey Schmidt, director of the FTC's competition office, 
said in a statement the agency had authorized its staff to act 
on its administrative complaint to block the merger but did not 
say directly if the FTC would appeal.  But Cliff Aronson, an antitrust lawyer representing Wild 
Oats, said the government would go back to court.  "I know they're going to seek a stay, pending the appeal," 
he told Reuters in a phone interview.  "We've agreed to give them until Monday," Aronson said. "We 
will close as soon as possible after noon on Monday."  Aronson said the judge had denied the injunction because he 
felt the FTC failed to prove its argument that the merger would 
create a monopoly, defining the affected market as a premium, 
organic market.  "The FTC brought a very narrow case and it's just not 
sustainable," he said.  Jack Bodner, a partner in law firm Covington & Burling's 
Mergers & Acquisitions group, said the decision was surprising 
as general opinion had been that the FTC had a "decent case."  "This decision would suggest that at least this court is 
erring on the side of allowing transactions to go forward where 
there is at least a serious question posed as to whether there 
would be real competition after this merger were to be 
consummated," Bodner said.  "To the extent you can read anything into this case, it's 
at least a tendency to allow mergers to go through," he added.
  FTC THROWING IN THE TOWEL?  Other experts said the government was likely to drop its 
case.  "The commission will throw in the towel," a Washington 
antitrust lawyer said in a phone interview.  The FTC could go ahead with an administrative trial, the 
lawyer said, but Whole Foods would be free in the meantime to 
merge and begin closing stores.  Or as Bodner put it: "Once a deal's done and the two 
companies get together, it's very difficult to put the genie 
back in the bottle."  Bert Foer, head of the American Antitrust Institute, 
agreed, saying an administrative trial and all its appeals 
could take six months to a couple of years.  The FTC made a notable misstep in the case this week by 
failing to properly redact Whole Foods' proprietary information 
in a court filing, resulting in some of it being released. The 
filing was electronically redacted but some news organizations 
downloaded redacted portions before it was replaced.  What initially looked like an uncontroversial merger of two 
relatively small grocer chains made news when the FTC disclosed 
that Whole Foods Chief Executive John Mackey said in an e-mail 
that buying Wild Oats would prevent "nasty" price wars and head 
off future competition with conventional supermarkets.  In comments cited by the FTC, Mackey told Whole Foods' 
board: "(Wild Oats) is the only existing company that has the 
brand and number of stores to be a meaningful springboard for 
another player to get into this space.  "Eliminating them means eliminating this threat forever, or 
almost forever," Mackey said.  The government also pointed to postings by Mackey on a 
Yahoo financial forum for seven years that talked up his own 
company while predicting a bleak future for Wild Oats.  Neither organic chain is a major player in the U.S. grocery 
industry. Whole Foods is based in Austin, Texas and operates 
197 stores in the United States and United Kingdom.  Wild Oats, based in Boulder, Colorado, has 110 stores in 
the United States and Canada.  (Additional reporting by  Megan Davies  in New York)