-- Levitt Says Asset-Backed Bonds Need Better Disclosure
-- Mark Pittman
-- 2007-11-05T22:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-05/levitt-says-asset-backed-bonds-need-better-disclosure-update1-.html

          
          
             Wall Street needs to make trading in
asset-backed securities more transparent before rules to do so
are forced upon it, former Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Arthur Levitt said.  
 Levitt suggested that asset-backed trading prices could be
made publicly available through the Trade Reporting and
Compliance Engine, or Trace, operated by the Financial Regulatory
Authority.  
 ``For the securitization market to continue, we cannot
ignore the need to be transparent at all levels,'' Levitt said at
the ABS East conference in  Orlando . ``If we don't, as an
industry, work with regulators to come up with a better plan for
transparency, one will be imposed upon us.''  
 Prices disclosure has been good for the corporate bond
market and would work as well for asset-backed securities, Levitt
said. Since July 2002, traders have been required to report sales
to a computer system that disseminates prices to anyone with
Internet access. Levitt spoke via telephone yesterday at a panel
organized by Joseph Fichera, chief executive officer of Saber
Partners LLC.  
 Levitt's remarks came after  Citigroup Inc. (C)  wrote down about
$11 billion in structured financial products such as
collateralized debt obligations and Merrill Lynch & Co. wrote
down $8 billion in the securities. Both firms forced out their
chief executives. The housing crisis that sparked the losses in
CDOs has prompted the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates twice
in two months to head off a recession in the U.S.  
 Liquidity Preserved  
 Mortgage debt and bonds backed by trade receiveables, as
well as car and credit card payments are not currently subject to
Trace-style reporting rules.  
 Corporate bond trades average about 20,000 a day and have a
value of between $17 billion and $20 billion, said Finra
executive vice president Steve Joachim, also a panelist.
Predictions that corporate bond trading would wither after Trace
have proven not to be true, he said.  
 ``We've seen no evidence of damage to liquidity,'' said
Joachim.  
 Dealers still are frequently unwilling to commit capital for
trades because of Trace disclosures, said SIFMA Senior Managing
Director Michael Decker, another panelist.  
 SIFMA, a trade group that represents bond underwriters and
dealers, says Trace cut trading of corporate debt because dealers
aren't being compensated. Trace posts prices almost instantly
after trades occur.  
 Oriental Bazaar  
 Levitt, who's a member of the board of directors of
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, said the corporate bond
market used to work like an ``Oriental bazaar.'' He left the SEC
in 2001.  
 Kumar Venkataraman, who teaches portfolio management at the
Edwin L. Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University
in  Dallas  and another panelist, estimated that corporate bond
traders lost $1 billion in fees from mid-2002 to mid-2003, or
about $2,000 a trade, according to a study published earlier this
year in the Journal of Financial Economics.  
 ``The ABS market is large and it's the fastest-growing one
in the U.S.,'' Venkataraman said. ``If investor confidence has
been shaken in this market, then it has implications for the
overall economy. For that point alone, the regulators have a
right to look at this issue.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Pittman in New York at 
 mpittman@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        