-- Gramercy to Buy Lewis Ranieri's AFR for $1.1 Billion
-- Brian Louis
-- 2007-11-05T21:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-05/gramercy-to-buy-lewis-ranieri-s-afr-for-1-1-billion-update6-.html

          
          
             Gramercy Capital Corp. agreed to buy
Lewis Ranieri's office leasing company, American Financial
Realty Trust, for about $1.1 billion to become the top U.S.
landlord to banks and brokerages.  
 Gramercy, the real estate finance company controlled by SL
Green Realty Corp., offered about $8.43 in cash and stock for
each American Financial share. That's 31 percent more than
Friday's closing price. American Financial rose 24 percent, the
biggest gain since the stock debuted in 2003.  
 Ranieri is selling after American Financial  shares  fell 45
percent in the past year and he announced a plan to unload $2
billion in assets and seek a buyer. The new company will own 27
million square feet (2.5 million square meters) of real estate
in 37 states leased to companies including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and Wachovia Corp., two of the five largest U.S. banks.  
 ``They didn't sell when the market was stronger, so that
left an opportunity for Gramercy to come in at a time when
there's not a lot of buyers in the market,'' said Sam Lieber,
chief executive officer of Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC,.
American Financial ``was poorly structured originally, and I
think the original management was perhaps a little overaggressive
on some transactions. Their fundamental business is all right.''  
 Alpine owned about 915,000 shares of American Financial as
of June 30, according to Bloomberg  data .  
 The transaction is worth about $3.4 billion including debt,
New York-based Gramercy said today in a statement.  
 AFR's Holdings  
 Gramercy Chief Executive Officer Marc Holliday said on a
conference call that his company will become the largest U.S.
landlord to financial institutions. As of June 30, American
Financial owned or leased more than 1,100 U.S. properties
including 700 bank branches, according to company filings.  
 American Financial gained $1.56 to $8.01 at 4:02 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They closed at a
record low of $6.45 on Nov. 2, giving the company a market value
of $837 million. Gramercy today rose 3 cents to $24.25.  
 Gramercy will acquire Jenkintown, Pennsylvania-based
American Financial for $5.50 in cash plus 0.12096 shares of
Gramercy stock. American Financial investors will own about 31
percent of Gramercy when the transaction is completed.  
 ``We like this deal for Gramercy Capital as it doubles the
asset base and diversifies away from a pure play commercial
lender,'' Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst David Fick wrote in a
report today. He rates Gramercy shares ``buy.''  
 Gramercy  
 Gramercy was created by SL Green,  Manhattan 's largest
office landlord, in 2004. It originates and buys commercial real
estate loans on properties in the U.S. Gramercy held $2.9
billion in loans and commercial mortgage backed securities as of
June 30. It will have $7 billion of assets split between real
estate and debt investments when the deal is completed.  
 The company's largest investor is  SL Green (SLG)  with 7.62
million shares, or a 26 percent stake, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 ``This major strategic acquisition will provide a powerful
growth engine for the future,'' Holliday said in the statement.
``The American Financial portfolio contains unrealized potential
that we are uniquely qualified to extract.''  
 Ranieri founded American Financial Realty with Nicholas Schorsch in 2002. It is a self-administered trust that buys
properties from financial institutions and then leases them
back. Its $804 million initial public offering in 2003 was the
second-largest ever for a REIT at the time.  
 Ranieri Explains  
 ``Gramercy represented the best alternative for our
shareholders,'' Ranieri said on the conference call.  
 In August 2006, the company said it could sell as much as
$2 billion in assets, or half of its total, to improve
profitability. It had also hired Greenhill & Co. to advise it on
the sale of the entire company. In June, Chief Executive Officer
Harold Pote died while on vacation in  Turkey  and the company
hadn't filled the job before the sale.  
 Ranieri, 60, started in the mailroom at  Salomon Brothers 
when he was 19 and built a career as a trader and leader of the
mortgage-bond department through the 1980s. His efforts were
chronicled in `` Liar's Poker ,'' the 1989 book about bond traders
by  Michael Lewis .  
 Ranieri, who helped create the mortgage bond market, also
founded Hyperion Capital Management Inc. in 1989. The asset
management firm was bought by Toronto-based Brookfield Asset
Management in 2005 for $50 million.  
 Banc of America Securities, Greenhill and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. advised American Financial along with Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen and Katz and Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP.  
 Citigroup Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., and Morgan Stanley
advised Gramercy. Clifford Chance US LLP was legal counsel to
Gramercy and Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson was
special counsel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        