-- Bayer Sues Watson, Sandoz Over Generic Yasmin Pills
-- Cary O'Reilly
-- 2008-04-21T21:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-21/bayer-sues-watson-sandoz-over-generic-yasmin-pills-update1-.html

          
          
                  April 21 (Bloomberg) --  Bayer AG (BAYN) , Germany's biggest
drugmaker, sued  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) 's
Sandoz unit, seeking to prevent the companies from selling
generic versions of the Yasmin birth-control pill.  
 The lawsuit, filed April 18 in federal court in Manhattan,
claims the copies would infringe patents owned by Bayer. The suit
delays U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for Watson and
Sandoz for as long as 30 months, or until a court resolves the
dispute, Watson said today in a statement.  
 Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc. last month won a court ruling that
voided Bayer's patent on Yasmin. The ruling, which Bayer is
appealing, means Barr may win FDA approval to sell its lower-
priced version of Yasmin before Bayer's patent expires in 2020.  
 Yasmin and related contraceptives were the single biggest
 contributor  to Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer's pharmaceutical
revenue last year, with sales of 1.04 billion euros
($1.58 billion). About a third of sales came in the U.S.  
 Makers of generic medicines undercut prices by as much as
90 percent, eroding revenue for branded drugmakers. The first
copy on the market usually gets six months of exclusivity.  
 Watson, based in Corona,  California , fell 59 cents, or
2 percent, to $29.23 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have advanced 7.7 percent this year. Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis rose 1.48 euros to 49.84 in Zurich.
Bayer rose 34 cents to 53 euros in Frankfurt.  
 The case is Bayer Schering Pharma AG v. Sandoz Inc.,
08cv3710, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Cary O'Reilly in  Washington  at   caryoreilly@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        