-- UPDATE 3-Berkshire Hathaway profit nearly quintuples
-- 
-- Fri Nov 3, 2006 6:30pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/03/financial-berkshire-earns-idUSN0340328920061103

 

  (Adds details throughout) 

  By Jonathan Stempel NEW YORK  Nov 3 (Reuters) - Warren Buffett's Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. ( BRKa.N )( BRKb.N ) on Friday said third-quarter
profit nearly quintupled, as its insurance operations rebounded
a year after paying out billions of dollars in hurricane
claims.  Net income for the Omaha, Nebraska-based insurance and
investment company rose to $2.77 billion, or $1,797 per Class A
share, from $586 million, or $381, a year earlier.  Excluding investment gains, profit totaled $2.6 billion, or
$1,687 per share. Analysts polled by Reuters Estimates on
average had forecast profit of $1,244 per share.  "Clearly, these are highly satisfactory ... earnings," said
Buffett, the world's second-richest person, in a statement.
"Just as clearly, our insurance business has benefited in a
major way from the absence of catastrophe losses. This is due
not to managerial brilliance but rather to good luck."  Buffett was not available for an interview, but his
assistant Debbie Bosanek confirmed he wrote the statement.  Revenue rose 24 percent to $25.36 billion, helped by
acquisitions and improved results at its Geico Corp. auto
insurance unit and General Re Corp. reinsurance unit.  Expenses fell 6 percent to $17.66 billion from last year,
when Berkshire suffered losses from Hurricanes Katrina and
Rita.  Insurers raised premiums amid fears the 2006 hurricane
season would be more active than normal. It has instead proven
mild and Berkshire's insurance losses fell 47 percent to $3.2
billion.  "Berkshire is popping on all cylinders," said Steven Check,
who oversees $500 million at Check Capital Management Inc. in
Costa Mesa, California, including $100 million of Berkshire
stock. "The storms took a lot of capacity among underwriters.
Berkshire was able to push through significant increases in
premiums and with few storms, it is profiting tremendously."  Berkshire Class A shares closed Friday up $894 at $105,000
on the New York Stock Exchange and its Class B shares rose $28
to $3,501. The Class A shares are up 18 percent this year,
twice the gain in the Standard & Poor's 500 index  .SPX  and
six times the gain in the S&P Insurance Index .GSPINSC.  "FORT KNOX"  All four of Berkshire's insurance groups posted pretax
 underwriting gains after three had lost money a year earlier.  Buffett said insurance industry profitability is sure to
decline in 2007.  "We do expect, however, that our insurance results will
usually outpace those of the industry and that our long-term
advantage could be significant," he wrote.  Check said: "Berkshire can withstand a lot of hiccups,
which makes it the Fort Knox of insurers for the long-term."  Berkshire owns some 50 companies that make things including
Benjamin Moore paint, Dairy Queen ice cream, Fruit of the Loom
underwear, and Ginsu knives.  The company ended the quarter with $42.25 billion of cash,
little changed from June.  Buffett has tried to whittle the cash stake this year by
spending $9.7 billion for western U.S. utility PacifiCorp,
Israeli tool firm Iscar Metalworking Cos. and athletic apparel
maker Russell Corp.  He is also finding new stocks to buy, including health care
giant Johnson & Johnson ( JNJ.N ) and retailer Target Corp.
( TGT.N ).  Berkshire ended September with a $1.1 billion stake in
foreign currency contracts, compared with $1.2 billion in June
and $16.5 billion a year earlier. Buffett began betting against
the dollar in 2002, amid concern about U.S. trade and budget
deficits, but prefers to invest in businesses and stocks.  Buffett in June signed over most of his fortune, recently
estimated at $46 billion by Forbes magazine, to the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation and four family charities. In August,
on his 76th birthday, he married longtime companion Astrid
Menks.



