-- Ceridian responds to Pershing Sq. on deal plans
-- By Svea Herbst-Bayliss
-- Wed Jun 13, 2007 1:48pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/13/businesspro-ceridian-pershingsquare-dc-idUSN1336991320070613

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Ceridian Corp. ( CEN.N ), whose biggest 
shareholder regards a $5.3 billion takeover bid for the 
human-resources company as too low, said on Wednesday it would 
be prepared to consider other plans to sell itself. 

  "The Board welcomes involvement by shareholders and is 
prepared to review any proposals that might result in a 
Superior Proposal per the merger agreement," Minneapolis-based 
Ceridian wrote on Wednesday.  Last month, the company agreed to be acquired by buyout 
firm Thomas H. Lee Partners and insurer Fidelity National 
Financial Inc. for $36 a share. Ceridian said on Wednesday this 
deal "provided the greatest and most certain value of the 
available alternatives."  Hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, which owns 
14.9 percent of Ceridian, however, is disappointed by the 
proposed takeover price and has hired investment bank Lazard 
Freres & Co. and law firm Sullivan & Cromwell to find an 
alternative to the current plan.  "We do not support a sale of the company at this low 
price," Pershing's founder, William Ackman, wrote to Ceridian 
shareholders. "It appears to us that the current deal is an 
ill-suited response to our proxy contest, and is suboptimal for 
Ceridian stockholders.  Ackman has added to his position in Ceridian, adding 
roughly 900,000 shares in the last days.  His campaign illustrates how influential activist investors 
like hedge funds can be in pressuring publicly traded companies 
to do better for their shareholders.  Ackman is proposing to replace Ceridian's board with an 
independent slate and has long pressured the company to improve 
performance by splitting up its two main units -- the 
human-resources division and the credit-card payment procession 
division. Ceridian said it plans to hold its shareholder 
meeting on or before September 21.  Since Ceridian announced plans to sell itself, other 
private equity buyers and strategic partners have expressed 
interest in the company, Ackman told shareholders in the 
letter. Among some of the alternatives to the current deal, 
Ackman said he would like to see Ceridian sold for a higher 
price or split apart.  Ackman declined to comment on the matter and would not say 
who the potentially interested parties may be.  Ceridian's share price traded up 18 cents, or 0.5 percent, 
to $35.39 on Wednesday.  Ackman has also not put a preferred price tag on the 
company but gave some hints in a securities filing. In addition 
to earning its retention fee, Lazard would be paid $1.5 million 
if the shares are sold at $38.50 or more, the filing said.