-- Suddenly 30-year fixed mortgages look good: report
-- By  Jim Christie
-- Wed Jun 13, 2007 3:54pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/13/businesspro-usa-mortgages-fixed-dc-idUSN1338129820070613

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Amid a steady stream of headlines 
about turmoil in the U.S. mortgage market propelled by rising 
defaults of subprime loans, home buyers and owners are fast 
turning to traditional, long-term mortgages for home financing 
needs, according to a report released on Wednesday. 

  Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages provide certainty and 
security, features that had been of little concern to many home 
buyers and owners who tapped initially less expensive 
adjustable-rate mortgages during the housing boom of recent 
years to buy houses and refinance mortgages.  Now with the housing market in an extended slowdown, in 
part because so many adjustable-rate mortgages are in default 
as "teaser" interest rates have lapsed and monthly payments 
have soared, home buyers and owners are taking a second look at 
long-term, fixed-rate debt and are liking what they see, 
according to Wharton School Professor Susan Wachter's U.S. 
Mortgage Payment Index.  Wachter said she found in researching recent home financing 
trends for the index that "Americans have heard the warning 
bells," a reference to rising defaults of adjustable-rate 
mortgages, and are increasingly taking on 30-year home loans in 
a "flight to safety."  Many are applying for the loans on their own, but others 
are being put into them by brokers because lending standards 
have been tightened in recent months.  "I think it's both -- definitely directed, but they're 
choosing to move as well," Wachter told Reuters during a 
telephone interview.
  READY FOR PRIME TIME  She noted that in January, more than 60 percent of all new 
mortgages were "prime" products and that in the first quarter, 
89 percent of borrowers with one-year adjustable-rate mortgages 
refinanced into long-term loans.  Additionally, home buyers and owners are loading up on 
mortgage insurance, spurred in part because it became tax 
deductible in January, Wachter said.  Mortgage insurance applications jumped 55 percent in March 
from February, she noted.  Mortgage holders considering refinancing should act fast 
because interest rates may rise in the third or fourth 
quarters, Wachter said.  "Refinancing is still out there," she said.  Its availability may decrease later this year if the 
Federal Reserve raises interest rates in response to 
inflationary pressures, a move that would further depress 
housing activity in many markets, Wachter said.  "My hope is we hold steady going forward, but there is that 
potential risk out there," she said.  Home owners and prospective home buyers are correctly 
sensing higher long-term mortgage interest rates are in the 
offing, said John Karevoll, an analyst with La Jolla, 
California-based real estate information service DataQuick 
Information Systems.  "The perception out there is that a year from now, mortgage 
interest rates will be higher," he said. "It's just a question 
of how much."