-- French Daily Le Monde Weighs Offers from Potential Investors
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-14T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-04/le-monde-considering-offers-from-five-groups-for-65-year-old-paris-daily.html

          
          
             Le Monde, France’s newspaper of
record, extended a deadline for investors after French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  weighed in on the bids.  
 The 65-year-old Paris daily, which is in talks with
potential partners for capital to stave off a financial crunch,
said the deadline for firm offers was extended to June 21. One
of the two groups making a “pre-offer” said it is still
looking for partners. The other group was opposed by Sarkozy,
according to a labor group at the newspaper.  
 Sarkozy last week met with the afternoon daily’s chief
executive officer,  Eric Fottorino , to discuss the newspaper’s
future, Le Monde spokeswoman  Anne Hartenstein  said yesterday.
The president’s involvement in the newspaper company has
prompted charges of interference in the media.  
 “It’s an old tradition in France,” said  Laurent Dubois , a
professor at the Paris Political Studies Institute. “The
establishment has always meddled in the media. The press is part
of politics in France. There’s less of a tradition of the
independent fifth estate.”  
 Fottorino told colleagues that Sarkozy expressed opposition
to the bid from a group that includes Lazard Ltd. banker
 Matthieu Pigasse ,  Iliad SA  founder  Xavier Niel  and Yves Saint
Laurent Group partner Pierre Berge, said Adrien de Tricornot,
vice president of the Society of Editors labor group.  
 The group “condemns the political interference,” he said.  
 Berge backed Socialist Party candidate  Segolene Royal  in
the 2007 election that delivered the presidency to Sarkozy and
his conservative Union for a Popular Movement.  Franck Louvrier ,
a spokesman for Sarkozy, declined to comment.  
 Other Bid  
 Le Monde  typically stakes out the political center, making
its support important to politicians. The other main newspapers
in Paris are the left-leaning Liberation and conservative Le
Figaro, owned by Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SA.  
 The other “pre-offer” is from weekly news magazine Nouvel
Observateur Chief Executive Officer  Claude Perdriel  and partners
that Le Monde didn’t identify in its statement on such bids on
June 11. Nouvel Obs has a circulation of about 502,000,
according to circulation statistics office  OJD .  
 The parent company of  Nouvel Observateur , Groupe SFA PAR,
sent a letter on June 10 to Le Monde saying that the suitors are
looking for partners for an investment of 80 million euros ($98
million) to 100 million euros, SFA Chief Financial Officer  Eric Bayle  said yesterday in a phone interview. Discussions are being
held with multiple partners, he said, declining to name them.  
 France Telecom  
 France Telecom SA  is in talks with Nouvel Observateur’s
Perdriel that may lead to a joint investment in Le Monde, a
person familiar with the situation said yesterday.  
 France Telecom, the country’s largest phone company, may
make a “minor” investment, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. The discussions could
alternatively result in  France Telecom  entering a partnership
without a direct investment, depending on the timetable of Le
Monde’s recapitalization effort, the person said.  
 Hartenstein declined to comment on whether the partners
included  France Telecom . Le Monde yesterday said in an e-mailed
statement that the chosen suitor will have to pay 10 million
euros to enter exclusive negotiations.  
 Other possible bidders identified by the newspaper,
including Swiss publisher Ringier AG, had expressed concern
about the speed of Le Monde’s timetable for new partners.  
 Shrinking Circulation  
 Le Monde, founded while the German army was being expelled
from France in 1944 and supported by General  Charles de Gaulle ,
is struggling to maintain revenue as advertising migrates to the
Internet. French newspapers, like their U.S. counterparts, are
cutting costs and seeking new ways of making money as readership
shrinks.  
 The daily, based in Paris’s 13th arrondissement, cut 130
jobs after a 2008 cost-cutting exercise that aimed to save 15
million euros ($18.4 million) annually.  
 Circulation declined last year at all three major Paris
dailies. Readership fell by 9.5 percent to 111,000 at
Liberation, 4.1 percent to 288,000 at Le Monde and 1.8 percent
to 314,000 at Le Figaro, according to OJD.  
 Le Monde SA is about 60 percent owned by Le Monde &
Partenaires Associes, 17.3 percent by  Lagardere SCA , 15 percent
by Prisa, 2.9 percent by Stampa SAS, 1.8 percent by Nouvel
Observateur and 2.7 percent by other smaller holders. Le Monde &
Partenaires Associes in turn is 52 percent owned by internal
shareholders and 48 percent by a small group of partner
companies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Le Monde weighs offers from five investors  
                       
                         
                           Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The offices of Le Monde newspaper stand in Paris. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The offices of Le Monde newspaper stand in Paris. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
