-- North and South Sudan Set to Begin Formal Secession Negotiations on July 5
-- Alan Boswell
-- 2010-06-26T16:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-04/southern-sudan-plans-to-have-air-force-before-independence-vote-in-january.html

          
          
             North and south Sudan will begin
formal negotiations on July 5 to specify what arrangements will
follow a January referendum on secession in the south of the
country, including what would happen to the south’s oil wealth
if the region decides to break away.  
 Khartoum’s National Congress Party and Southern Sudan’s
governing Sudan People’s Liberation Movement signed a memorandum
of understanding on June 23 in Mekelle, Ethiopia, laying the
framework for the post-referendum discussions, SPLM secretary-
general and Southern Sudan minister of peace  Pagan Amum  told
reporters today in Juba, the south’s capital.  
 A 2005 peace deal between southern-based SPLM rebels and
Khartoum ended a 21-year conflict in which as many as 2 million
people were killed. The agreement granted Southern Sudan semi-
autonomy leading up to a 2011 referendum on full independence.  
 Under the peace accord, the two sides split the revenue
from oil produced in the south, which produces most of Sudan’s
oil. The export route available for southern oil is a pipeline
running north and ending in Port Sudan on the Red Sea.  
 The revenue sharing will be one of the issues negotiated,
Amum said.  
 “Is this going to continue? Is it going to change? It may
likely change,” he said. “Is Southern Sudan going to pay fees
for the use of the pipeline that is going through the north?
These are issues that we will be discussing.”  
 According to the June 23 agreement seen by Bloomberg, the
two sides will also discuss issues of currency, national debt,
water, international treaties, security, and citizenship.  
 Amum led an SPLM delegation to Washington and New York this
month, where he met with U.S. officials and representatives at
the United Nations, he said.  
 “We have received assurances from the Security Council
that they will ensure the conduct of the referendum to take
place on time in January 2011 and that these members will
recognize, accept, and respect the choice of the people of
Southern Sudan,” Amum said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba, Southern Sudan at  aboswell2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        