-- U.S. urges Swiss banks to steer clear of Iran
-- 
-- Sat Jun 2, 2007 6:26am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/02/businesspro-swiss-iran-us-dc-idUSL0240919220070602

 

 ZURICH  (Reuters) - A U.S. anti-terrorism official warned 
Swiss banks not to do business with Iran on Saturday, saying 
Iranian officials sought to conceal their identity in deals 
designed to fund Iran's uranium enrichment program. 

  Stuart Levey, the U.S. Treasury's top anti-terrorism 
official, said he came to Switzerland as part of a European 
tour to warn banks that they risked tarnishing their 
reputations if they did business with Iran, OPEC's 
second-largest oil producer.  "We delivered new evidence that implicates Iranian 
financial institutions in the uranium enrichment program," 
Levey said in an interview in French-language daily Le Temps.  "We came to offer new information to Swiss bank executives 
to make them aware of the risks to their reputation they could 
run by maintaining financial relations with Iran."  Washington is leading efforts to isolate the Islamic 
Republic over its atomic program and has slapped sanctions on 
two Iranian banks. United Nations sanctions have targeted one 
bank. Iran denies U.S. claims it aims to build the bomb.  U.S. officials have worked hard behind the scenes to ensure 
that Iran cannot raise the cash it needs to finance key oil 
projects as well.  Switzerland's largest bank, UBS AG ( UBSN.VX ), said last 
year it would cut all ties to Iran, an rare move in a country 
that has long proven a safe harbor for international deposits.  Rival Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ) said it would not accept any 
new business but would not sever old ties.  Levey said banks in Switzerland -- the world's largest 
haven for foreign cash and proud of its tradition of banking 
secrecy -- had been cooperating well with U.S. efforts but that 
Iranian parties were seeking to conceal their identities.  "Cooperation is good but it takes a continuous effort to 
prevent development of the Iranian financial system, which is 
attempting by any means possible to remove the names of the 
people who are conducting transactions," he told the paper.