-- Bank of Queensland Sells the Biggest Mortgage Bond in Australia This Year
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-08-18T03:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-18/bank-of-queensland-sells-the-biggest-mortgage-bond-in-australia-this-year.html

          
          
             Bank of Queensland Ltd. , the
regional Australian lender formed in 1874, sold A$1.6 billion
($1.4 billion) of residential mortgage-backed bonds in the
nation’s biggest sale of the securities this year.  
 The Brisbane-based bank’s issue of so-called RMBS is the
biggest since Westpac Banking Corp. raised A$2 billion in
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Australian Office of Financial Management bought A$497.6 million
of notes as part of a plan to support the mortgage market, said
a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named as
the details were private.  
 “Investors are buying a lot of short-dated RMBS and the
AOFM is buying a lot of long-dated,” said  John Sorrell , Sydney-
based head of credit with Tyndall Investment Management, which
oversees A$14 billion of fixed-income assets. “In the secondary
market we’re not seeing good bids on the longer-dated paper,
which makes me feel the market still has a way to recover.”  
 Australia’s government is spending A$16 billion buying
mortgage bonds from small and regional lenders, which are more
dependent on the securities for funding than national banks, to
stimulate competition in the  home loan  market. Australia’s four
biggest banks increased their share of new owner-occupier home
loans to 80 percent as of the end of 2009 from 60 percent in
mid-2007 after the collapse of the U.S. subprime market froze
mortgage bond sales, according to the  Reserve Bank of Australia .  
 Government Support  
 Bank of Queensland’s “large issue size successfully
supports the regional banks’ ability to lend and effectively
achieves the AOFM’s goals,” said  Robert Mead , head of portfolio
management at Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Australian
unit, which manages A$29.4 billion in assets. “The true depth
of the primary market appetite will only really be tested when a
non-AOFM transaction is launched.”  
 Bank of Queensland priced A$960 million of notes with a
weighted average life of 1.5 years to yield 100 basis points
more than the one-month bank bill swap rate, according to an e-
mailed statement from co-arranger National Australia Bank Ltd. A
class of notes with an average 6.2-year span paid a 110 basis-
point spread, the statement shows.  
 The weighted average life is the expected tenor of the
principal outstanding to noteholders after taking into account
the forecast repayment schedule of the underlying mortgage loans.  
 The AOFM bought all of the 6.2-year notes, according to the
person. A document on the AOFM’s  website  says the agency planned
to buy some Bank of Queensland’s notes, without being more
specific, and a call to the AOFM’s office in Canberra wasn’t
immediately returned.  
 “I don’t think the pricing on the longer-dated notes
necessarily reflects where it would be if you were to look at a
market without the AOFM in it,” Sorrell said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        