-- GM Files for IPO That Will Reduce Treasury's Stake
-- Michael Tsang
-- 2010-08-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-18/general-motors-files-for-ipo-that-will-reduce-treasury-s-stake.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. filed for an
initial share offering that will mark the return of what was
once the world’s largest automaker to public markets a year
after it was bailed out by the government.  
 GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury, didn’t disclose
the number of shares that will be sold in the initial public
offering or the price in a statement filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission yesterday. The automaker won’t sell any
common shares itself while offering preferred shares alongside
the IPO, the filing showed. The government will sell some of the
common shares it owns in GM, according to the filing.  
 Outgoing Chief Executive Officer  Ed Whitacre  has pushed to
end government ownership of GM, which received a $50 billion
taxpayer bailout following its bankruptcy in June 2009. The
Detroit-based company is seeking an IPO of as much as $16
billion, a person familiar with the plans said last week, as it
tries to revive its unprofitable European unit and rebuild U.S.
brands that have lost market share in every year since 2002.  
 “It’s important that they retake the legitimacy and prove
that they can be a viable private company,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $13.3 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati. “It eliminates a reason to say no to
their product.”  
 GM may hold the IPO in November, people familiar with the
matter have said. The aim is to sell a fifth of the Treasury’s
304 million shares, people said in June, cutting the
government’s stake to less than 50 percent.  
 Breakeven Point  
 The Treasury said yesterday in a statement it will retain
the right to determine how much of the government’s holding will
be included in the initial sale. The U.S. has about $42.2
billion invested in the automaker’s common equity, according to
a senior official in President  Barack Obama’s  administration.  
 For the government to break even, GM’s shares must be worth
at least $69.4 billion, and even more if the bondholders and
United Auto Workers union exercise warrants for 106 million
shares at strike prices from $30 to $126.92 apiece, according to
the company’s filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 That’s more than three times  GM’s  stock-market value at the
end of the last bull market in U.S. stocks and 65 percent higher
than  Ford Motor Co.’s  current capitalization of $42 billion.  
 At current bond prices, GM’s implied equity value is about
$50 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 On a per-share basis, the government would fully recover
its investment by selling its 304 million shares at an average
price of about $139 each, the data show.  
 $16 Billion Sale  
 “As much as Treasury should and will want a high price,
Treasury will want these shares to trade well in the aftermarket
so they can come back with offerings and continue to sell down
their position,”  Steven Rattner , former head of President
Obama’s Automotive Task Force, said in a interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller .  
 A $16 billion IPO would be the second-largest in U.S.
history behind San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7 billion
deal in March 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The filing
comes after eight of the last nine American companies to
complete their initial offerings took discounts to sell their
shares, while 40 percent of the IPOs this quarter have left
buyers with losses, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 GM’s past dominance of U.S. auto sales has shrunk steadily
since its market share peaked at 51 percent in 1962. Since 2002,
when the company’s share of new vehicle sales in the U.S. was
28.4 percent, it’s fallen every year to just 19.2 percent this
year through July.  
 Not Since 1925  
 The last time GM accounted for a smaller share of new U.S.
vehicle sales on an annual basis was in 1925, according to data
from trade publication Automotive News.  
 Whitacre , 68, said last week that he would step down as CEO
of GM on Sept. 1 and as chairman at the end of the year, ceding
both titles to  Dan Akerson , a managing director of the Carlyle
Group. Akerson, 61, has been on GM’s board since July 2009 and
previously served as chairman and CEO of XO Communications,
Nextel Communications and General Instrument Corp.  
 The company last week reported second-quarter net income of
$1.54 billion as vehicle sales and production increased. Profit
rose 44 percent from $1.07 billion in the first three months of
the year. Revenue increased 44 percent from a year ago to $33.2
billion on growing sales of the Buick Excelle in China and
Chevrolet Equinox in the U.S.  
 The automaker’s European operations continued to drag down
GM’s overall results with a $160 million loss. The unit lost
$506 million in the first quarter.  
 Earnings Results  
 General Motors Corp.  filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after posting $88 billion of losses
since 2004, the last year the company reported an annual profit.
General Motors Co. emerged 39 days later.  
 Morgan Stanley ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. will lead the offering, the filing showed.
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Royal Bank of Canada and UBS AG were also
listed as underwriters on the prospectus.  
 Goldman Sachs didn’t get a top role even after the New
York-based securities firm offering to accept a fee of 0.75
percent, which was then imposed by the government on all
underwriters, people familiar have said.  
 NYSE, Toronto Exchange  
 GM’s common shares will be listed on the  New York Stock
Exchange  under the ticker GM and the  Toronto Stock Exchange 
under a ticker that has yet to be determined.  
 The preferred shares will be convertible to common stock at
a price that wasn’t specified and are contingent on the
completion of the common share sale. The proceeds from the
preferred sale will be used for general corporate purposes.  
 The preferred stock was added to attract hedge funds and
other new investors because the shares have attributes of debt
and equity, two people familiar with the plan said this week.  
 Canada’s government, which owns about 12 percent of GM’s
common stock, may sell some of its shares in the IPO, according
to Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty .  
 “Any decision we take is with the goal of maximizing the
return for taxpayers while reducing our ownership in the company
as quickly as is appropriate,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       General Motors Files for IPO  
                       
                         
                           Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg 
                         
                         General Motors Co. filed for an initial public offering that may be the second-largest American in history. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     General Motors Co. filed for an initial public offering that may be the second-largest American in history. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Rebecca Lindland, an analyst at IHS Automotive, talks about today's filing for an initial public offering by General Motors Co.
     GM, 61 percent owned by the government, didn’t disclose the number of shares that will be offered or the price range in a statement filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The automaker will not sell any common shares itself while offering preferred shares alongside the IPO, the filing showed. Lindland talks with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)    
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Francis Gaskins, president of IPOdesktop.com, talks about his opposition to the General Motors Co. move to file for an initial share offering, which would mark the return of what was once the largest automaker to public markets after it was bailed out by the government. 
     Gaskins talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Anwyl, chief executive officer of Edmunds.com, talks about today's filing for an initial share offering by General Motors Co.
     GM's IPO would mark the return of what was once the world’s largest automaker to public markets a year after it was bailed out by the government. Anwyl talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Adam Johnson and Julie Hyman discuss today's filing for an initial public offering by General Motors Co.
     GM filed for an initial share sale that may be the second-largest American IPO in history and reduce the U.S. to a minority investor. Massar, Miller, Johnson and Hyman talk on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Steven Rattner, the former head of President Barack Obama's automotive task force, talks about today's filing for an initial public offering by General Motors Co.
     He speaks with Carol Massar, Matt Miller and David Welch on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob George, China managing director at J.D. Power & Associates, talks about General Motors Corp.'s initial public offering and business strategy in China.
     GM filed for an initial share offering that will mark the return of what was once the world’s largest automaker to public markets a year after it was bailed out by the government. George speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat from Shanghai. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Dennis Virag, president of Automotive Consulting Group Inc., talks about General Motors Co.'s filing for an initial share offering.
     The filing marks the return of what was once the world’s largest automaker to public markets a year after it was bailed out by the U.S. government. Virag talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
