-- Pharming Issues Convertible Bonds, May Refinance Loan
-- Alex Kuli
-- 2007-10-19T16:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-19/pharming-issues-convertible-bonds-may-refinance-loan-update1-.html

          
          
             Pharming NV, (PHARM)  the Dutch biotechnology
company studying treatments made from the milk of genetically
modified rabbits, raised 70 million euros ($99.9 million) in a
convertible  bond issue .  
 The drugmaker wants to use part of the proceeds to pay off
its $15 million loan from U.S. investor Paul  Capital Partners  by
next year, canceling Paul's right to royalties.  UBS Investment
Bank  managed the sale, Pharming said on its Web site today.  
 Pharming, based in the Dutch city of Leiden, is waiting for
European Union health regulators to decide whether to approve its
Rhucin treatment for hereditary angioedema, a painful and
sometimes fatal genetic disorder. The loan terms entitled Paul to
a percentage of Rhucin's sales, according to the company's annual
report. The convertible bond income will allow Pharming to end
its obligation by paying Paul 20 million euros by next year.  
 ``It's a positive thing that they have refinanced the
company,'' said  Tom Muller , who follows Pharming at Theodoor
Gilissen Securities in Amsterdam.  
 The new loan repayment plan means Pharming would forego a
$10 million milestone payment from Paul on Rhucin, Muller said.
After all obligations are met, Pharming would have about 60
million euros left, he estimated.  
 ``That means sufficient financing is in place for the next
three to four years,'' he said.  
 The  bonds  have a coupon of 6.875 percent a year and a
conversion price of 4.40 euros. They mature in 2012, the
statement said.  
 Third-Quarter Results  
 In a separate statement, Pharming said its third-quarter
 loss  widened as research and development costs exceeded revenue.
The loss was 6.4 million euros compared with a loss of 4.4
million euros in the same period last year. Bloomberg calculated
third-quarter revenue by subtracting first-half sales from the
nine-month figures released today.  
 Revenue was 200,000 euros in the quarter, while total costs
were 6.5 million euros.  
 Pharming fell 11 cents, or 3.1 percent, to 3.48 euros at the
close of trading in Amsterdam. The shares have risen 57 percent
since Aug. 20, when the company said a clinical trial found
Rhucin, made from rabbit milk, helped prevent swelling in the
test.  
 The product could bring in sales of as much as 140 million
euros within five years of its release, according to an estimate
by Sven Smit, an analyst at CA Chevreux in Amsterdam.  
 The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  last week offered
Pharming an expedited approval process and tax breaks for
recombinant human fibrogen, an experimental drug to stop bleeding
in people with a hemophilia-like disorder.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kuli in Budapest at 
 akuli@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        