-- Pharming Third-Quarter Loss Widens on Research Costs
-- Alex Kuli
-- 2007-10-19T06:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-19/pharming-third-quarter-loss-widens-on-research-costs-update1-.html

          
          
             Pharming NV, (PHARM)  the Dutch biotechnology
company studying treatments made from the milk of genetically
modified rabbits, said its third-quarter  loss  widened as
research and development costs exceeded revenue.  
 The net loss was 6.4 million euros ($9.2 million) compared
with a loss of 4.4 million euros in the same period last year.
Revenue was 0.2 million euros in the quarter, while total costs
were 6.5 million euros, the company said in a statement posted
on its Web site today.  
 Pharming, based in the Dutch city of Leiden, is waiting for
European Union medical regulators to decide whether to grant
marketing authorization to its Rhucin treatment for hereditary
angioedema, a painful and sometimes fatal genetic disorder. The
company's shares have risen 62 percent since Aug. 20, when the
company said a clinical trial found Rhucin, made from rabbit
milk, helped prevent swelling.  
 ``There are nearly no revenues and only costs, such as
research and development,'' said  Tom Muller , who follows
Pharming as an analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Securities in
Amsterdam.  
 Bloomberg calculated third-quarter revenue by subtracting
first-half sales from the nine-month figures released today.  
 Pharming is backed by venture capital companies such as
U.S.-based Paul  Capital Partners , which loaned the Dutch company
$15 million last year in return for a share of Rhucin royalties
over a 10-year period, according to the company's annual report.
Pharming also received a loan from the Wisconsin state
government.  
 The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  last week offered
Pharming an expedited approval process and tax breaks for
recombinant human fibrogen, an experimental drug to stop
bleeding in people with a hemophilia-like disorder.  
 Rhucin prevented swelling in all patients who took the drug
in the trial. The product could bring in sales of as much as 140
million euros within five years of its release, according to an
estimate by Sven Smit, an analyst at CA Chevreux in Amsterdam.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kuli in Budapest at 
 akuli@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        