-- Fed to hold rates steady, cite inflation worries
-- By  Ros Krasny
-- Sun May 6, 2007 12:09pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/06/businesspro-usa-fed-dc-idUSN0523224720070506

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve looks certain 
to hold interest rates steady when it meets this week and will 
likely restate worries on inflation, even while nodding to weak 
growth and an easing of price pressures. 

  The central bank has held benchmark overnight borrowing 
costs steady at 5.25 percent for six consecutive meetings 
stretching back to August. It will announce its decision on 
rates around 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT) on Wednesday.  The statement from the rate-setting Federal Open Market 
Committee after its last meeting on March 20-21 was notable for 
dropping the bank's explicit bias toward higher rates, a move 
seen by some as a baby step toward a cut later in 2007.  It also said, however, that its "predominant policy 
concern" was the risk inflation would not ease, and meeting 
minutes released a few weeks later showed the Fed had not 
really altered its views on the risks to inflation and growth.  Analysts believe the central bank will want more time to 
assess whether a softer pace of economic growth will lead 
inflation lower as they hope, and that it will once again leave 
its options open on the future direction of monetary policy.  "Bet on a Fed still on hold in May with their inflation 
bias intact, but with a somewhat softer view of current 
economic and inflation trends," said Scott Anderson, senior 
economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis.  "Flexibility on rates either on the upside or downside will 
remain of paramount importance."  Interest-rate futures, which are used as a measuring stick 
for potential Fed moves, show almost no chance the FOMC will 
cut rates by mid-year, and prospects for an ease in August are 
less than one-in-five.  The final major piece of data policy-makers will pore over 
at their one-day meeting came on Friday with a report on April 
nonfarm payroll growth.  That report showed a slowdown in jobs growth, with only a 
modest 88,000 new positions created, and a tick upward in the 
unemployment rate to a still-low 4.5 percent.  While a touch weaker than many had expected, most 
economists said the report was not dismal enough to knock the 
Fed from its anti-inflation perch.  "This data will tend to reinforce the prospect of an FOMC 
statement that is little changed from March," said Alan Ruskin, 
chief international strategist at Greenwich Capital Markets in 
Greenwich, Connecticut.  Others, however, noted it was the slimmest payroll gain 
since November 2004 and that a government survey of households 
released along with the data from employers showed a drop in 
employment of 468,000, suggesting overall weakness in the 
economy may have finally crept into the labor market.  "This report is a perfect set-up for the Fed to adopt a 
truly neutral policy stance at next week's meeting to replace 
the half-baked inflation bias that caused so much confusion in 
March," said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New 
York. "The reality of the past six months is not only falling 
inflation but also dramatically weaker economic growth."
  SLOW GROWTH, BUT ...  The government's first snapshot of first-quarter growth 
released on April 27 showed the economy expanded at an anemic 
1.3 percent annual rate, the smallest gain in four years.  Still, just when some were counting the economy out, the 
Institute for Supply Management said last week its index of 
national factory activity rose to 54.7 in April, the highest 
since May 2006, suggesting one of the economy's weakest spots 
was beginning to revive.  Fed officials have stuck to forecasts for growth to bounce 
back by year-end, but some have acknowledged greater risks 
flowing from, among other things, the weak housing sector.  "News pertaining to the first quarter has been 
disappointing, and has raised the downside risk for growth," 
San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Janet Yellen said 
on April 26.  While growth has been soft, inflation -- in the Fed's view 
-- has been stubbornly high, although recent price data 
provided some good news.  The 12-month gain in the so-called core PCE price index, 
the Fed's preferred gauge of nonfood, nonenergy costs, eased 
unexpectedly to 2.1 percent in March, tantalizingly close to 
the top of the 1 percent to 2 percent "comfort zone" often 
cited by policy-makers.  But between rising energy prices and the still-tight jobs 
market, the inflation dragon has arguably not been slain.  "Despite the apparent respite in core inflation, it is too 
early to let our guard down," said Adolfo Laurenti, associate 
economist at LaSalle Bank in Chicago.