-- Boardroom and factory feuds rage at Airbus
-- By  Tim Hepher  and Christian Kraemer
-- Tue Apr 3, 2007 2:19pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/03/businesspro-airbus-dc-idUSL0358433120070403

 

 PARIS/MUNICH, France  (Reuters) - Airbus parent EADS 

  faced wrangling in the boardroom over finance and protests 
in its factories over job cuts on Tuesday, hampering efforts to 
end a months-long crisis over jet production delays.  As 2,500-3,000 workers staged a half-day protest over jobs 
in the southwest French city of Toulouse, sources familiar with 
the situation disclosed that the French government was blocking 
advanced plans for a bond issue to raise restructuring cash.  The proposal caused deadlock at a board meeting on Monday, 
which also failed for a second time to set a dividend for EADS 
investors amid sensitivities in France over the potential 
impact on Airbus workers and voters ahead of presidential 
elections.  EADS management has secured backing from core industrial 
shareholders for a deferred equity capital increase involving a 
bond issue that would result only later in the issue of new 
shares, three sources involved in the matter told Reuters.  But the French government, which openly favors a share 
issue sooner rather than later and has expressed a readiness to 
pump in cash to save Airbus, opposed the planned method at 
board talks on Monday, said the sources, all asking not to be 
named.  What the government wants is a "classic" share issue open 
to all investors, a source familiar with the issue said.  "There were disagreements between the French state and the 
industrial shareholders on this issue at Monday's board 
meeting," the source added, adding there was no hurry for a 
capital increase in the French government's view.  The deadlock is seen as another proxy battle over the most 
serious issue to have haunted EADS employees and shareholders 
since its creation from a multinational European merger in 
2000, namely, the relative roles of private industry and the 
state.  Co-Chairman Manfred Bischoff, who represents major German 
shareholder DaimlerChrysler, blasted the French state for 
meddling with Airbus in Le Monde on Monday, two days before he 
is expected to take over as chairman of DaimlerChrysler itself.  With Airbus job cuts having rocked the start of campaigning 
for presidential elections in late April, the conservative 
government has said it wants to act quickly to bolster Airbus.  But industrialists suspect Paris of masking an agenda of 
maneuvering its partners into ceding more of their shares in 
favor of either the state or a new set of industrial backers.  In a secondary dispute, EADS has still not agreed a 
dividend for 2006, when its profits fell sharply, the sources 
said.  Industry sources say DaimlerChrysler wants investors who 
have weathered a prolonged crisis and share volatility at the 
group to receive at least some cash return on their investment 
for last year, despite an 89 percent drop in net profit.  French industrial shareholder Lagardere has also voiced 
support for a dividend, while saying it would reinvest its 
share.  But the French government fears a dividend to investors 
could backfire days before the decisive May 6 run-off vote.  Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has called on EADS to 
abandon a dividend, and conservative presidential front-runner 
Nicolas Sarkozy has questioned the ethics of rewarding 
investors while thousands of Airbus workers worry about their 
future jobs.
  JOBS PROTEST  The dividend issue could make headlines in France, where 
Socialist candidate Segolene Royal has attacked "easy profits," 
but it is the row over new funds that is said to most severely 
test the power balance inside Europe's top aerospace group.  EADS declined comment on the row, which leaves a key 
question over its funding ahead of a shareholder meeting on May 
4. Its shares rose almost 2 percent to 23.82 euros on signs 
that any funding boost would not mean a new share issue soon.  An EADS spokesman said only that an agenda would be issued 
in time for the shareholder meeting.  The French government declined comment.  Job cuts both at Airbus and telecoms equipment firm Alcatel 
Lucent have been a major issue in campaigning for French 
presidential elections later in April, with all parties 
pressing for various degrees of public support for the 
jetmaker.  Tuesday's walkouts were the latest in a series of brief 
strikes since Airbus announced 10,000 job cuts a month ago.  "I'm here because the plan means death for my job," 
assembly worker Bernard Camuzet told Reuters. "With or without 
the unions, I will do everything I can to save my company."  An Airbus spokeswoman said the walkout involved less than a 
quarter of Toulouse workers, and operations were not badly hit.  Airbus is desperate to prop up finances weakened by a weak 
dollar, delays in the A380 and penalties payable to angry 
customers.  It also wants to sell all or part of six European factories 
to help pay for its next new aircraft, the 10 billion euro 
A350, which it needs to catch up with a resurgent Boeing.  Cracks also started appearing, meanwhile, between unions 
over tactics for opposing the "Power8" Airbus restructuring 
plan.  Tuesday's action was orchestrated by the Force Ouvriere 
union and backed by France's two largest labor groups, the 
hard-left CGT and more moderate CFDT. But white-collar union 
CGC and centrist CFTC refused to take part, saying it would be 
"irresponsible and suicidal" to disrupt assembly lines.  (Additional reporting by Nicolas Fichot, William Emmanuel)