-- Starwood may be tempted by buyout after CEO exit
-- 
-- Tue Apr 3, 2007 4:30pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/03/businesspro-starwood-buyout-dc-idUSN0327763620070403

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide 
Inc. ( HOT.N ) may be tempted by the lure of buyout offers after 
Chief Executive Steven Heyer resigned under pressure from the 
board. 

  "We believe there is a greater likelihood that the company 
would be open to strategic alternatives, including the possible 
sale of the company," said UBS analyst William Truelove in a 
note to clients. "We believe that Starwood Hotels would be 
attractive to bidders given its high quality assets, renowned 
brands and low leverage."  On Tuesday, Starwood shares had their second big up day in 
a row and closed up 3 percent, at their year high of $69.84.  Starwood -- parent of the St. Regis, Westin and Sheraton 
hotel chains -- said on Monday that Heyer resigned after the 
company lost confidence in his management style. Chairman Bruce 
Duncan was named interim CEO until the board finds a permanent 
replacement.  While it's unclear what position Heyer had regarding a 
buyout, his sudden departure and the lack of an immediate 
permanent replacement may increase the appeal of a buyout.  Private equity firms, flush with cash, have been on an 
unprecedented buying spree. Travel-related companies have been 
on their shopping list.  "We believe private equity would be the most likely buyer 
given the recent level of activity in the lodging industry," 
UBS' Truelove said in his note.  In February, luxury hotelier Four Seasons Hotels Inc. 
FSH.TO FS.N agreed to a $3.37 billion offer from a group 
that included Bill Gates' Cascade Investments LLC and Saudi 
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal.  In December, Harrah's Entertainment Inc. HET.N, the 
world's No. 1 casino operator, agreed to a $17.1 billion 
takeover by Apollo Management and Texas Pacific Group.  TPG.UL  Starwood is seen as attractive to private equity firms 
because of its substantial real estate assets, which could be 
spun off to pay down the debt that could be used to finance 
such deals. It also has relatively little debt on its balance 
sheet, which adds to its appeal, analysts said.  "Starwood tops everybody's list in the lodging world about 
a potential buyout," said Robert LaFleur, an analyst with 
Susquehanna Financial Group.  Alongside top private equity firms like Blackstone Group 
BG.UL and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts KKR.UL, analysts see 
Starwood Capital Group Global LLC, an investment firm run by 
Starwood's founder Barry Sternlicht, as a potential bidder. 
Starwood Capital declined to comment.  For its part, Starwood said on Monday that it was upbeat 
about its prospects and believed its best strategy was to 
remain an independent public company.  Starwood shares, which have been trading near 19-year highs 
amid the boom for hotel operators, have been buoyed by takeover 
speculation. The stock has risen 6 percent since Heyer's 
departure was announced.  Starwood shares ended Tuesday up $2.02, or 3 percent, at a 
new 52-week closing high of $69.84 on the New York Stock 
Exchange. The stock rose 4.6 percent on Monday after the 
announcement that Heyer was leaving.