-- Air show marks end of order boom
-- By  Tim Hepher  and  Rhys Jones
-- Thu Jul 17, 2008 12:07pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/17/businesspro-airshow-orders-dc-idUSL1710083920080717

 

 FARNBOROUGH  (Reuters) - A $40 billion spree by Gulf oil 
states prevented aircraft orders from going into freefall at 
this week's Farnborough Airshow but left little for Airbus and 
Boeing to scrap over for the rest of the year. 

  Airbus, the planemaking unit of Europe aerospace group EADS 
( EAD.PA ) squeezed out a handful of final orders on day four of 
a show that exposed a yawning divide between the industry's 
rich and poor as oil prices approach $150 a barrel.  Between them, Airbus and Boeing ( BA.N ) posted 444 firm 
orders worth $62 billion. That exceeded the forecasts of many 
who had said they would struggle to reach half the 600 firm 
deals seen at a similar showcase in Paris in 2007.  EADS shares rose 6.1 percent, while Boeing opened flat.  The fierce industry rivals came to Farnborough neck and 
neck with net 2008 orders of 487 planes for Airbus and 475 for 
Boeing, and are now close to their targets for the whole year.  Airbus posted firm orders of 247 planes worth $38 billion, 
bringing net orders so far this year to 734 aircraft.  Sales chief John Leahy upped his forecast for 2008 orders 
to more than 850 aircraft from 700, but acknowledged this meant 
a slowdown in the rest of the year as airlines hoard cash.  "There's definitely more softness in the second half than 
in the first," he told a news conference.  The European company sold 1,341 planes in 2007, which 
proved to be the climax of an unprecedented three-year industry 
bubble.  Boeing announced firm orders for 197 planes worth $23.6 
billion this week, bringing its tally this year to 672 planes.  Boeing Commercial Airplanes Chief Executive Scott Carson 
has predicted fewer than 1,000 orders in 2008 after 1,413 in 
2007.
  FEAR OF GLOOM  High oil prices have raised fears of a slew of order 
deferrals and cancellations as airlines trim capacity or 
wrestle with bankruptcy. Economic and oil fears appear to have 
sharpened the normal cyclical decline expected after a 
prolonged upswing.  Some analysts say that could prompt the planemakers to slow 
down production which has risen to meet a record backlog, or 
encourage them to let the timetable for the next generation of 
single aisle planes which dominate their volumes quietly slip.  But Airbus vowed to stick to planned production hikes even 
if, in the worst case, it loses a third of its 6-year backlog.  And while the mood at Farnborough this week was grim, the 
order slowdown has not yet turned into a rout.  "I don't understand all the doom and gloom, but I 
understand the fear of doom and gloom," said aerospace 
consultant Richard Aboulafia of Teal Group in Washington DC, 
adding the industry had been rattled by the credit crunch and 
spike in oil prices.  "There is a market share grab by Middle Eastern airlines 
and probably lessors," Aboulafia said.  "The legacy carriers have been quiet at this show. And it 
is pretty clear the low-cost carriers need to be cautious; they 
have the most price-sensitive traffic and prices have to rise."  This week, both Ryanair and British Airways announced cuts 
in flights next winter to stem exposure to the rising fuel 
cost.  Orders at the world's largest aerospace event, held in 
Farnborough or Paris on alternate years, are used as a 
yardstick for the health of one of the world's most cyclical 
industries.  Getting to the bottom of air show orders can be tricky.  Many deals "announced" in front of cameras already existed 
in order books as undisclosed buyers. It is a practice favored 
by Boeing to allow it to report its own performance, without 
forcing customers to display their hand before they are ready.  In Airbus's case, many deals including a 100-plane order 
from DAE Capital had already seen the light as provisional 
ones. The European firm regularly announces orders more than 
once.  What worries many in the industry is not the outright 
number of planes sold but how struggling airlines, other than 
those in the Gulf buttressed by high oil prices, can find the 
funds to finance their purchases as the global credit crisis 
spirals.  "There are concerns over the ability of airlines that 
barely made a profit to finance huge capital projects," said 
Howard Wheeldon, senior strategist at BGC Partners, who 
believes the plane manufacturers are only just waking up to the 
risks.  "Pessimism in the airline industry is beginning to approach 
reality. The levels of optimism in the commercial aerospace 
industry are not even beginning to achieve a sense of reality."  (Farnborough team: James Regan, Bill Rigby, Dan Lalor, 
Sarah Marsh, Chloe Fussell, John Bowker, Jim Wolf, Matthias 
Blamont)