-- Merck says Vioxx claimants will soon get checks
-- By Ransdell Pierson
-- Thu Jul 17, 2008 10:37am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/17/businesspro-merck-dc-idUSN1728813420080717

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Merck & Co ( MRK.N ) said on Thursday 
that more than 97 percent of eligible U.S. claimants had 
elected to participate in its $4.85 billion proposed Vioxx 
settlement, an adequate number to trigger funding of the 
program. 

  "The company expects that the distribution of interim 
payments to qualified claimants will begin in August and will 
continue on a rolling basis until all claimants who qualify for 
an interim payment are paid," Merck said in a news release.  The Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based drug maker earlier 
had said it would not commit itself to the settlement until at 
least 85 percent of eligible patients elected to participate.  To be eligible for the proposed settlement, patients or 
their survivors had to have filed a Vioxx product liability 
lawsuit in the United States for alleged heart attacks, stroke 
or death or have signaled officially their intent to do so.  Vioxx had generated sales of $2.5 billion a year before the 
arthritis and chronic pain pill was withdrawn from U.S. 
drugstores almost four years ago, when a Merck study showed 
that long-term users had twice the risk of heart attack and 
stroke.  Merck said on Thursday that more than 48,500 of the 
approximately 50,000 people who had registered eligible 
injuries had enrolled in the program.  Last year the company took a pretax charge of $4.85 billion 
for the proposed settlement.  Personal-injury lawyers representing former Vioxx users 
agreed to the settlement after Merck triumphed in a high 
percentage of court battles with plaintiffs who said the 
medicine had harmed them.  A very large clinical trial of Vioxx conducted almost a 
decade ago showed the medicine caused about a fourfold higher 
risk of heart attack than the widely used painkiller naproxen.  Even so, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration allowed 
Vioxx to remain on the market, and Merck launched a splashy 
advertising campaign that over a period of years helped turn 
the product into one of the world's biggest-selling drugs.  Merck unexpectedly withdrew Vioxx in September 2004 after a 
twofold higher heart attack risk was seen in a smaller trial, 
meant to determine whether the drug could prevent polyps that 
raise the risk of colon cancer.  Industry analysts say the FDA has become far more careful 
about approving new medicines in the wake of the Vioxx 
withdrawal and criticism of the agency's oversight of the 
medicine.  Merck shares were down 31 cents at $36.32 in morning New 
York Stock Exchange trade.  (Reporting by Ransdell Pierson; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn)