-- GE and Blackstone to buy PHH
-- 
-- Thu Mar 15, 2007 6:11pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/15/businesspro-phh-ge-1-dc-idUSHO57981620070315

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - General Electric Co. ( GE.N ) and 
private equity firm Blackstone Group said on Thursday that they 
would acquire mortgage and fleet management services company 
PHH Corp. ( PHH.N ) for $1.8 billion. 


  The offer, which pays a 13 percent premium to PHH's closing 
stock price of $27.81 on Wednesday, will lead to the splitting 
up of PHH's mortgage and vehicle fleet services businesses.  PHH shares rose more than 11 percent to $31.01 in early New 
York Stock Exchange trade.  PHH, which was spun off in 2005 from what was then known as 
Cendant Corp., consists of PHH Arval, which provides vehicle 
fleet management services to corporate and government clients, 
and PHH Mortgage, a retail originator and servicer of 
residential mortgages.  GE Capital Solutions, which already has a vehicle fleet 
management operation, will buy Mount Laurel, New Jersey-based 
PHH Corp. and keep PHH Arval while selling PHH Mortgage to 
Blackstone immediately after closing.  The move comes at a time when the U.S. mortgage sector has 
been under pressure from weakening demand. The subprime sector, 
which focuses on buyers with weak credit histories, is facing 
record levels of defaults, and many independent lenders are 
facing cash crunches.  But a source close to Blackstone said the firm, one of the 
largest in the private equity arena, likes things "at the 
bottom of the cycle."  The source also said that if the mortgage market wasn't 
already "at the trough, we're months from the trough."  In any case, subprime represents only 4 percent of the 
company's portfolio, with the remaining 96 percent being prime, 
he said.  Other sectors of the mortgage market, including "alt a" 
loans that require little documentation from the borrower, are 
also weakening. Prime loans are still performing well, but many 
investors are concerned about subprime turmoil extending to 
other portions of the mortgage market and the broader economy.  GE is paying 16 times expected 2007 earnings of $1.95 per 
share, according to Reuters Estimates, which is based on one 
analyst's estimate. That compares with a multiple of 8 times 
2007 earnings at Countrywide Financial Corp. CFC.N, the 
largest U.S. mortgage lender, according to Reuters analytics.  PHH said in January it expected to post an after-tax loss 
of $22 million to $29 million for 2006. It expects a return to 
profitability in 2007 in its mortgage businesses due to $50 
million in cost cuts, including a work force reduction.  The company anticipates origination of $41 billion in loans 
in 2007, it said in January.  The parties expect the acquisition to close in the third 
quarter.  Lehman Brothers advised GE and Blackstone on the 
transaction. JP Morgan also served as an adviser to Blackstone.