-- Icahn letter to Yahoo chairman
-- 
-- Thu May 15, 2008 10:29am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/05/15/us-yahoo-letter-idUSN1527896620080515

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Below is the text of a letter 
sent by billionaire investor Carl Icahn sent to the chairman of 
Yahoo Inc (biographies of his slate of board nominees 
have been abbreviated by Reuters): 

                      Carl C. Icahn                     ICAHN CAPITAL LP               767 Fifth Avenue, 47th Floor                    New York, NY 10153 May 15, 2008 Roy Bostock Chairman Yahoo! Inc. 701 First Avenue Sunnyvale, CA 94089 Dear Mr. Bostock: It is clear to me that the board of directors of Yahoo has 
acted irrationally and lost the faith of shareholders and 
Microsoft. It is quite obvious that Microsoft's bid of $33 per 
share is a superior alternative to Yahoo's prospects on a 
standalone basis. I am perplexed by the board's actions. It is 
irresponsible to hide behind management's more than overly 
optimistic financial forecasts. It is unconscionable that you 
have not allowed your shareholders to choose to accept an offer 
that represented a 72% premium over Yahoo's closing price of 
$19.18 on the day before the initial Microsoft offer. I and 
many of your shareholders strongly believe that a combination 
between Yahoo and Microsoft would form a dynamic company and 
more importantly would be a force strong enough to compete with 
Google on the Internet. During the past week, a number of shareholders have asked 
me to lead a proxy fight to attempt to remove the current board 
and to establish a new board which would attempt to negotiate a 
successful merger with Microsoft, something that in my opinion 
the current board has completely botched. I believe that a 
combination between Microsoft and Yahoo is by far the most 
sensible path for both companies. I have therefore taken the 
following actions: (1) During the last 10 days, I have 
purchased approximately 59 million shares and share-equivalents 
of Yahoo; (2) I have formed a 10-person slate which will stand 
for election against the current board; and (3) I have sought 
antitrust clearance from the Federal Trade Commission to 
acquire up to approximately $2.5 billion worth of Yahoo stock. 
The biographies of the members of our slate are attached to 
this letter. A more formal notification is being delivered 
today to Yahoo under separate cover. While it is my understanding that you do not intend to 
enter into any transaction that would impede a Microsoft-Yahoo 
merger, I am concerned that in several recent press releases 
you stated that you intend to pursue certain "strategic 
alternatives." I therefore hope and trust that if there is any 
question that these "strategic alternatives" might in any way 
impede a future Microsoft merger you will at the very least 
allow shareholders to opine on them before embarking on such a 
transaction. I sincerely hope you heed the wishes of your shareholders 
and move expeditiously to negotiate a merger with Microsoft, 
thereby making a proxy fight unnecessary. Sincerely yours, CARL C. ICAHN                      SLATE BIOGRAPHIES Lucian Bebchuk - The William J. Friedman and Alicia 
Townsend Friedman Professor of Law, Economics, and Finance and 
Director of the Program on Corporate Governance at Harvard Law 
School. Frank Biondi - Senior Managing Director of WaterView 
Advisors LLC, an investment adviser organization. The former 
Chief Executive Officer of Universal Studios and Viacom Inc, 
Biondi is a director of Amgen Inc, Cablevision Systems Corp, 
Hasbro Inc, Bank of New York Mellon Corp and Seagate 
Technology. John Chapple - President of Hawkeye Investments LLC, a 
privately owned equity firm investing primarily in 
telecommunications and real estate ventures frequently working 
in conjunction with Rally Capital LLC. Chapple was CEO of 
Nextel Partners before it was bought by Sprint. Mark Cuban - Majority and controlling owner of the National 
Basketball Association franchise, the Dallas Mavericks. Cuban 
co-founded HDNet, an all-high-definition television network on 
DIRECTV that broadcasts high-definition sports, movies and 
other entertainment, and co-founded Broadcast.com in 1995 and 
served as its board chairman until it was sold to Yahoo! in 
July of 1999. Adam Dell - Managing General Partner of Impact Venture 
Partners, a venture capital firm focused on information 
technology investments. He also serves as Managing Director at 
Steelpoint Capital Partners, a private equity firm with offices 
in New York and California. Carl Icahn - Chairman of Starfire Holding Corp, a privately 
held holding company, and chairman of the board and a director 
of various subsidiaries of Starfire. Among his many board 
positions he has interests in video shop Blockbuster, biotech 
ImClone Systems Inc, home builder WCI Communities and 
automotive products supplier Federal-Mogul Corp. Keith Meister - Principal executive officer of Icahn 
Enterprises G.P. Inc, the general partner of Icahn Enterprises 
L.P., a diversified holding company engaged in investment 
management, metals, real estate and home fashion businesses. 
Meister is also managing director of Icahn Capital LP, the 
entity through which Carl Icahn manages third party private 
investment funds. Edward Meyer - Serves as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Investment Officer of Ocean Road Advisors Inc, an 
investment management company. He was previously chief 
executive of Grey Global Group Inc, a multibillion-dollar 
global advertising and marketing agency. Brian Posner - A private investor who previously served as 
chief executive of ClearBridge Advisors LLC, an asset 
management company based in New York with approximately $90 
billion in assets and a wholly owned subsidiary of Legg Mason 
Inc. Robert Shaye - Co-CEO of New Line Cinema. He has been 
involved in such films as "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy, 
"Rush Hour," "Austin Powers" and "Seven."