-- Afghan Taliban Contacts Haven't Reached Level of Peace Talks, Envoy Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-10-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/afghan-taliban-contacts-haven-t-reached-level-of-peace-talks-envoy-says.html
Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. special
representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, said recent
contacts between the Afghan government and Taliban leaders don’t
rise to the level of peace negotiations.  “What we’ve got here is an increasing number of Taliban at
high levels saying, ‘Hey, we want to talk,’” Holbrooke said in
an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program, airing
today. “There’s a lot more in the press about this than there
is in reality at this point.”  Staging any kind of formal negotiations would be
particularly difficult because of the variety of militant groups
targeting the U.S. and its allies in Afghanistan, Holbrooke
said. He cited at least five groups, including the Haqqani
network and the leadership of the Afghan Taliban, both of which
are based in neighboring Pakistan.  “There is no clear single address that you go to” that
represents all the forces fighting the U.S.-backed Afghan
government, said Holbrooke, who gathered the top leaders in each
of three warring factions in Bosnia to end that 1990s conflict.  Negotiations with al-Qaeda, the group responsible for the
Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, are out of the question,
Holbrooke said. And the role of  Mullah Omar , the Afghan Taliban
leader believed to be holed up in the Pakistani city of Quetta,
in sheltering  Osama bin Laden  before the attacks “presents
unique difficulties to anyone talking about reconciliation,”
Holbrooke said.  Petraeus’s View  Holbrooke’s assessment reflects the view of Army General
 David Petraeus , the top U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization commander in Afghanistan, and other officials that
the Afghan talks are preliminary. The NATO-led coalition is
trying to exert enough military pressure to force the Taliban
and other militants to the negotiating table to end the war.  Petraeus said last week “there have been several very
senior Taliban leaders who have reached out to the Afghan
government at the highest level, and have also in some cases
reached out to other countries engaged in Afghanistan.”  “These discussions to this point can only be characterized
as preliminary in nature,” said Petraeus, who was in London to
meet with Prime Minister  David Cameron  and defense ministry
counterparts. “They certainly cannot be characterized as
negotiations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva4@bloomberg.net . 