-- Arena Shares Fall After FDA Rejection of Lorcaserin Diet Drug
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-25T11:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/arena-s-lorcaserin-diet-pill-rejected-by-fda-on-concern-over-cancer-risk.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. fell in
early trading after the company failed to win U.S. approval for
diet pill lorcaserin as an advisory panel said the weight loss
achieved with the medicine didn’t justify the risk of cancer.  Arena  slid  18 cents, or 11 percent, to $1.45 at 7:37 a.m.
before the open of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares had
dropped 59 percent this year after regulators suggested that
lorcaserin wouldn’t be approved.  The Food and Drug Administration asked for more information
on the drug for the one-third of Americans who are obese, Arena
said in a statement released on Oct. 23. Lorcaserin is the San
Diego-based company’s first product and is licensed by Tokyo-
based  Eisai Co.   Arena is competing with Mountain View, California-based
 Vivus Inc.  and San Diego-based  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  to
introduce the first prescription weight-loss drug in more than a
decade. Safety issues spelled the demise of Wyeth’s fen-phen in
1997,  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s rimonabant in 2007 and Abbott
Laboratories’ Meridia this month.  “If FDA holds to a higher standard on weight-loss pills,
we will get better ones,” said  Diana Zuckerman , president of
the National Research Center for Women & Families, before the
announcement.  Lorcaserin was linked to cancers in studies of rats and
helped people lose 3 percent more weight than a placebo, short
of the recommended 5 percent, according to an FDA staff review
released Sept. 14. A panel of doctors and scientists advising
the agency voted 9-5 against recommending approval on Sept. 16.  Diabetes Risk  The FDA in its response letter said further studies may be
needed to understand the drug’s risks versus benefits.  Arena will meet and work with the FDA “as quickly as
possible” to better understand what the agency wants,  Jack Lief , Arena’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Before the vote,  Jon Lecroy , an analyst at Hapoalim
Securities in New York, had said peak sales of lorcaserin may
reach $800 million globally in 2015.  Two-thirds of American adults are overweight, raising their
risk of diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure and cancer,
according to the 2008  National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey . More than one-third of American adults are obese,
measured as a ratio between height and weight.  Vivus is scheduled to hear by Oct. 28 the response to its
application to sell a diet pill called Qnexa. An advisory panel
voted 10-6 against approval because of concerns the drug may
cause birth defects and increased heart rate. The pill works
better than lorcaserin and  Eric Colman , deputy director of the
FDA’s Division of Metabolism and Endocrinology Products, said he
was surprised by the advisory panel’s vote.  Orexigen and partner  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co ., of Osaka,
Japan, plan to present their diet pill, Contrave, to an advisory
panel Dec. 7. The FDA is scheduled to make a decision on the
drug by Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 