-- BOJ Said to Consider Buying Lower-Rated Corporate Debt to Ease Credit Cost
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-10-23T06:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/boj-said-to-consider-buying-lower-rated-corporate-debt-to-ease-credit-cost.html
The Bank of Japan may buy lower-
rated corporate debt as part of its latest program to help
companies borrow cash and support the economy, three people with
direct knowledge of the discussions said.  The BOJ will likely consider purchasing BBB-rated corporate
bonds and a-2 commercial paper at a policy meeting on Oct. 28,
according to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are private. The purchases would come
under a 5 trillion yen ($61 billion) program unveiled by the
bank on Oct. 5 that includes government bonds, exchange-traded
funds and real-estate investment trusts.  Japan’s central bank is expanding monetary easing to shore
up a recovery that is under threat from deflation and the yen’s
climb to a 15-year high. Buying lower-grade securities would go
beyond the bank’s 2009 corporate debt purchases that followed
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and were
restricted to bonds rated A or higher and a-1 commercial paper.  “The purpose of the BOJ’s latest effort is very different
from its post-Lehman program, which was aimed at restoring the
function of the market,” said  Toshiyasu Ohashi , chief credit
analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets in Tokyo. “This
time, the BOJ is trying to push down credit risk premiums so it
doesn’t make sense if it only buys high-rated debt.”  The Nikkei newspaper reported the central bank’s plans
earlier today.  Riskier Assets  With money-market rates already low, the central bank is
turning to purchases of riskier assets to reduce borrowing costs,
the policy board said when it announced the program this month,
allocating 1 trillion yen of the fund to buy corporate debt.  The central bank’s shift comes even as some Japanese
companies manage to sell lower-rated bonds. Construction
business  Maeda Corp.  and trading firm  Sojitz Corp.  are among
enterprises that issued BBB securities this month.  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his board unexpectedly
lowered the benchmark  interest rate  to near zero at the Oct. 5
meeting and pledged to keep it there until “price stability is
in sight.” Policy makers will review their outlook for the
economy and  prices  at the Oct. 28 gathering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Masahiro Hidaka  in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  