-- Canada's Dollar Ends Seven-Week Streak of Gains After Central Bank Pauses
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-23T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/canada-s-dollar-ends-seven-week-streak-of-gains-after-central-bank-pauses.html
Canada’s dollar fell against its
U.S. counterpart for the first time since August as the Bank of
Canada signaled interest-rate increases are on hold as the
nation’s economic recovery may be weaker-than-expected.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell this week by
the most since July, breaking the longest winning streak since
November 2007. China’s central bank unexpectedly raised interest
rates Oct. 19, damping demand for assets related to economic
growth. Canada’s currency weakened against 13 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as investors watched for policy changes from
the Group of 20 finance ministers meeting South Korea.  “Risk has come off some as the Bank of Canada signaled a
greater economic slowdown than expected and China surprisingly
raising its rates,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president
at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said
by phone from Toronto. “Heading into next week, attention will
be paid to the G-20 meeting and anything that may alter the
perception of quantitative easing in the U.S, and the dollar is
driving all markets.”  The Canadian dollar fell 1.5 percent to C$1.0259 per U.S.
dollar from C$1.0104 on Oct. 15. One Canadian dollar buys 97.48
U.S. cents.  Carney Stance  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  on Oct. 19 kept the
target rate for overnight loans between commercial banks at 1
percent, and cut his forecast for growth next year to 2.3
percent from a prior estimate of 2.9 percent.  “At this time of transition in the global recovery, with a
weaker U.S. outlook, constraints beginning to moderate growth in
emerging-market economies, and domestic considerations that are
expected to slow consumption and housing activity in Canada, any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered,” the bank said in a statement.  The central bank may not raise rates again for six months,
overnight index  swaps  indicate. The rate on the six-month
security, a gauge of what investors expect the policy rate will
average during that time, slumped to 1.05 percent yesterday,
down from 1.14 percent Sept. 9, the day after the BOC raised its
overnight policy rate to 1 percent from 0.75 percent.  “The Bank of Canada is going to keep a soft-money policy
into the end of the year,” said Jack Spitz, managing director
of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto. “The
market is focused on geopolitical risk out of the G-20 from
here. Currency traders will be headline hunting.”  Flaherty Backs Geithner  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he is siding
with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and his
proposal to have G-20 nations commit to policies that reduce
external imbalances below a specific share of gross domestic
product.  “I think it’s useful,” Flaherty said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Gyeongju, where he is meeting with his
G-20 counterparts after weeks of wrangling about whether nations
are relying on weaker exchange rates to spur growth. “It gets
us directionally where we want to go which is to create an
action plan for our leaders that they can adopt” when they meet
again in Seoul next month.  Finance chiefs and central bankers will say after G-20
talks conclude today that they want a “more market-determined
exchange rate system that minimizes adverse effects of excess
volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates,” an
official from a G-20 member country said, citing a draft
statement and speaking on condition of anonymity. They will
refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies, the
official said.  China Impact  “When the weekend passes, the market will get a clearer
picture of that the future holds for the loonie,” said  Maria Jones , a currency trader in Toronto at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit.  China’s incraese in interest rates will have “a negative
effect” on Canada’s dollar, Michael Leavitt, Montreal-based
institutional-derivatives broker at MF Global Canada Co., wrote
via e-mail, “as China puts the brakes on, slowing growth.”  The one-year deposit rate will increase to 2.5 percent from
2.25 percent, the People’s Bank of China said on its website
today. The lending rate will increase to 5.56 percent from 5.31
percent, it said.  The loonie has gained 0.3 percent against the dollar this
month while gaining 2.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  