-- Carney Says Further U.S. Stimulus Would Affect Canada Dollar and Growth
-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 2010-10-23T13:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/carney-says-further-u-s-stimulus-would-affect-canada-dollar-and-growth.html
A move by the U.S. Federal Reserve
to add more stimulus through quantitative easing will boost
Canada’s exports and affect its exchange rate, Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said.  “The core channel is the direct channel,” Carney said in
a Bloomberg interview, referring to the central bank’s estimate
of how stronger U.S. growth would support Canada. As well,
“depending on where relative policy is and other factors, there
is an exchange-rate channel that naturally flows.”  The Bank of Canada’s forecast, published Oct. 20, included
an assumption the U.S. Federal Reserve would implement more
monetary policy stimulus than the Canadian central bank had
forecast earlier in the year. The bank also cut its forecast for
economic growth for both this year and 2011.  “The number one reason why the forecast is down between
the two MPRs is because of renewed weakness in the United
States,” Carney said. “You see most of that through the net
export channel.”  Canada last week joined central banks in Brazil, Malaysia
and Australia in keeping rates unchanged to gauge the global
recovery and avoiding a divergence with the  Federal Reserve  and
the European Central Bank, where policy makers have signaled
they may offer additional stimulus.  ‘Limits to Divergence’  Carney had said in a Sept. 24 interview on CNBC that
“there are limits to the divergence that there can be between
Canada and the United States.” Asked today if a move to add
stimulus in the U.S. would bring Canada to those limits, Carney
said “I’m not going to be drawn on locking in policy for
Canada.”  “The policy rate is appropriate for this point,” Carney,
45, said following a meeting of Group of 20 policy makers in
Gyeongju, South Korea.  While a U.S. recovery is important, there are reasons to
expect Canadian firms will continue to boost their investment,
supporting Canada’s recovery, Carney said. He pointed to a
central bank survey that found companies say they plan to invest
both to improve their productivity and expand into new business
lines.  Growth in the U.S. and other developed economies will be
slower than expected because of “difficult labor market
dynamics and ongoing deleveraging,” the bank said in its
monetary policy report.  Forecasts Cut  The central bank cut its estimate of Canadian economic
growth for this year to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, and for 2011
to 2.3 percent from 2.9 percent. The expansion will shift from
being driven by consumer and government spending to exports and
business investment, the bank said.  Canada relies on the U.S. for 63 percent of its trade, and
the country’s dollar reached parity with its U.S. counterpart
last week for the first time since April. U.S. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that new stimulus may be warranted
because inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  That could put fresh pressure on  exporters  hurt in the
global recession by lost U.S. orders of manufactured goods such
as autos and paper.  Carney said that while this weekend’s talks had gone some
way to reducing worries that the global economy could be hurt by
currency and trade tensions, the emphasis must remain on
implementing necessary policies.  “Our comfort level will only change with implementation,”
Carney said. “Some progress has been made, but it’s progress
around process, which can be useful, but it’s really about
policy and implementation.”  “What this is, it’s just, on all these fronts, being
relentless and making sure it continues to move forward,”
Carney said. “We’re not satisfied with the moves on exchange
rate flexibility in key emerging markets,” Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Badertscher  in Gyeongju at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 