-- Chelsea Beats Wolves to Increase Its Lead in England's Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-23T18:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/chelsea-beats-wolves-2-0-to-increase-premier-league-lead-to-five-points.html
Chelsea beat Wolverhampton Wanderers
2-0 to increase its lead in English soccer’s Premier League to
five points.  Florent Malouda  and  Salomon Kalou  scored at Stamford Bridge
for Chelsea, which won its 10th straight home game in the league.  In other results, Tottenham tied Everton 1-1, West Bromwich
Albion beat Fulham 2-1, Birmingham beat Blackpool 2-0,
Sunderland defeated Aston Villa 1-0, Wigan drew 1-1 with Bolton,
and Newcastle beat West Ham 2-1.  Chelsea took the lead in the 23rd minute as Malouda side-
footed a pass from Yury Zhirkov past Wolves goalkeeper  Marcus Hahnemann  for his seventh goal of the season, tying Manchester
City’s  Carlos Tevez  for the league lead.  Kalou replaced Malouda in the 73rd minute and made it 2-0
eight minutes later after taking a pass from  Michael Essien .
Chelsea, which has 22 points, hasn’t conceded a goal in its past
eight home league matches.  Rafael van der Vaart ’s goal earned Tottenham the home draw
that lifted it over Arsenal and Manchester United into third
place. Manchester City, which hosts Arsenal tomorrow, is tied on
17 points with Spurs and holds second place on goal difference.  Leighton Baines  gave Everton the lead with a free kick in
the 17th minute. Van der Vaart drew Spurs even just three
minutes later when he tapped in  Peter Crouch ’s headed pass
across goal.  Fourth Place  West Brom came from behind to beat Fulham with goals from
Youssuf Mulumba and Marc-Antoine Fortune. The win moves the
promoted Baggies into fourth place, one point above Arsenal and
Manchester United.  Sunderland ended a run of five straight draws thanks to an
own goal from Aston Villa’s  Richard Dunne , while  Liam Ridgewell 
and  Nikola Zigic  scored in Birmingham’s win over Blackpool.  Bolton came from behind to draw 1-1 at Wigan as  Johan Elmander ’s goal wiped out a earlier score from Hugo Rodallega.
 Kevin Nolan  and  Andy Carroll  scored in Newcastle’s win at last-
place West Ham.  Stoke hosts Manchester United and Blackburn visits
Liverpool in tomorrow’s other games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  