-- China Considers Appealing WTO Rejection of Complaints on U.S. Steel Duties
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-23T07:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/china-considers-appealing-wto-rejection-of-case-against-u-s-steel-duties.html
China will consider appealing a
 World Trade Organization  decision to reject the bulk of the
country’s complaints against U.S. duties on imports of steel
pipes and other products.  China will “carefully study” the WTO’s report and appeal
against some of the findings in line with the trade group’s
dispute settlement procedures, the Ministry of Commerce said in
a statement posted on its website today. WTO judges yesterday
rejected eight out of 11 complaints by China against U.S. duties
on imports of steel pipes, some off-road tires and woven sacks.  The U.S. announced levies in July 2008 on $200 million of
steel pipe shipments from China, South Korea and Mexico. Chinese
exporters of the light, rectangular piping face countervailing
duties, used to offset subsidies, of as much as 200 percent of
the product’s price. They are also subject to anti-dumping
duties, which compensate for goods sold overseas at prices below
those at home, of as much as 265 percent.  Judges upheld the right of the U.S. to impose both sets of
tariffs on the Chinese products, the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office said in a statement yesterday. It’s the second time the
U.S. has imposed duties on Chinese imports to compensate for
subsidies, after a similar case in June 2008 involving a
different type of steel pipe.  Judges agreed with China, the world’s biggest steel
producer, that the duties themselves weren’t compliant because
one element ran counter to WTO rules.  “We recommend that the United States bring its measures
into conformity with its obligations” under the Agreement on
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures and the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade, the judges said in their 283-page  report 
published on the WTO’s website.  Both China and the U.S. have 60 days to appeal the decision.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai at 
 hyang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  