-- Colombia Will Take Measures to Ease Peso's Rally Next Week, Santos Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-23T19:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/colombia-will-take-measures-to-ease-peso-s-rally-next-week-santos-says.html
Colombia will take measures “next
week” to ease the peso’s rally after “carefully” studying a
“complicated” situation, President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in
comments posted on the  presidential website .  Government and central bank officials are seeking to slow
the rally of the peso against the U.S. dollar after the
country’s business associations said in a letter this month that
the advance threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the Colombian
economy’s positive outlook.”  The currency has jumped 11.8 percent this year, the second-
best performance after the Iceland krona among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Investors are betting officials will announce further
measures after the Oct. 29 monetary policy meeting, analysts
including  Julian Ramirez  from brokerage Proyectar Valores SA and
 Daniel Lozano  from brokerage Serfinco SA, have said.  The central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily for at least four months. While the bank has
maintained that average through auctions, central bank chief
 Jose Dario Uribe  has said Banco de la Republica can buy “much
more” or extend purchases beyond the scheduled four months.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said earlier this
month that the government will keep $1.4 billion in dividend
payments from state oil company Ecopetrol SA overseas. The
August dividend was left abroad and the same will be done with
$700 million from the December dividend, he said.  Capital Controls  Speculation that officials will take new measures to stem
the peso’s rally prompted the currency to drop for a second
week, closing at 1,828.65 per U.S. dollar yesterday.  Banco de la Republica may increase daily dollar purchases,
 Daniel Velandia , head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Correval
SA wrote in an Oct. 21 report. He also predicts policy makers
may seek to limit borrowing from abroad, according to the
report.  Uribe said in an Oct. 19 presentation that he sees no need
to implement capital controls as the costs outweigh the
benefits. Should that scenario change the government may
reconsider capital controls, Uribe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  