-- Daimler Sees `Good Progress' in Buffett-Backed Electric Car Pact
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/daimler-byd-have-made-good-progress-on-new-car-zetsche-says.html
Daimler AG , the world’s second-
largest manufacturer of luxury cars, said its electric vehicle
partnership with billionaire Warren Buffett-backed  BYD Co.  is
progressing well.  “The shape and form of the car are soon to be defined and
those are the prerequisites for starting development,” Daimler
Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said Oct. 23 at a forum
in Shanghai. “We know the specific details this car should
fulfill,” Zetsche said. “We have made very good progress.”  Automakers are cooperating on the development of fuel-
efficient vehicles as the U.S., Japan and Europe push them to
cut fuel consumption and carbon emissions tied to global warming.
Daimler also agreed a pact earlier this year with  Nissan Motor
Co.  and  Renault SA  to share platforms and engines and possibly
cooperate on electric-car parts.  Daimler and BYD, partners since May, will be ready to
introduce the electric car as early as 2012, Zetsche said last
week in an earlier interview with Bloomberg News.  “The automobile industry has to reinvent itself and global
partnerships and cooperation such as those between Daimler and
BYD will be crucial in this regard,” Zetsche said. “We have to
act in concert to make sure we are up to the huge challenge we
are facing.”  Daimler is pushing into electric-vehicle production in
China to challenge luxury segment leader  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG , while the tie-up gives Shenzhen-based BYD access to
Daimler technologies.  ‘Complementary’  BYD, which has an advantage in battery technology, is
“complementary and a good partner” for Daimler, Zetsche said.
The two companies have said they will invest 600 million yuan
($90 million) in the 50-50 partnership.  Zetsche said that he expects 1 percent to 5 percent of all
new-vehicle sales in 2020 will be of electric models.  Daimler’s electric-vehicle strategy includes large-scale
production of a battery-powered version of its Smart minicar,
starting in 2012. The company began assembling about 1,000
electric versions of the urban two-seater in November 2009.
Daimler also plans to build more than 500 electric-powered
Mercedes-Benz A-Class cars this year.  Nissan and Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  has
set the goal of expanding global production of its Leaf model to
as many as 500,000 vehicles by the end of 2012 . General Motors
Corp. ,  Toyota Motor Corp.  and other rivals are preparing their
own rechargeable models.  Zetsche said China’s auto sales may reach 20 million to 30
million units by 2020, citing analyst forecasts. That would far
outpace other markets, he said.  “The auto market may be a mature industry but also very
much a growth industry,” Zetsche said. “The global market is
expected to grow by another 50 million in five years. Growth is
accelerating.”  -- Liza Lin  in Shanghai. With assistance from  Andreas Cremer  in
Berlin. Editors:  Kae Inoue ,  Mark Williams   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 Llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  