-- Dollar Rises for First Time in Six Weeks as G-20 Discusses Trade Targets
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-23T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/dollar-rises-for-first-time-in-six-weeks-as-g-20-discusses-trade-targets.html
The  dollar  advanced for the first
time in six weeks versus the euro as Group of 20 finance
ministers debated a U.S. plan to ease foreign-exchange tension
by setting targets for current-account imbalances.  Brazil’s real was the biggest loser against the dollar,
falling this week the most since June after the government
raised taxes on foreign inflows to stem the currency’s gain. The
euro failed to stay above $1.40 as short-term Treasury yields
stabilized before the Nov. 2-3 Federal Reserve meeting.  “The market is starting to take back some of that U.S.
dollar position,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “The market has pushed
the euro and yen too high. We expect a lot of talk, but no
resolution this weekend.”  The dollar gained 0.2 percent to $1.3954 versus the euro,
from $1.3977 on Oct. 15. It was the first five-day gain in the
greenback versus the common currency since Sept. 10, when it
appreciated 1.7 percent. The dollar was little changed at 81.38
yen, compared with 81.45 last week, after touching the 15-year
low of 80.85 yen on Oct. 20. The euro dropped 0.3 percent to
113.53 yen, from 113.88.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers convened in
Gyeongju, South Korea, yesterday after weeks of wrangling about
whether nations from the U.S. to China are relying on weaker
exchange rates to spur economic growth.  Geithner’s Proposal  Participants disagreed about Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s suggestion that nations set a target for current-
account imbalances. Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters “that setting numerical targets would be
unrealistic,” while his Canadian counterpart,  Jim Flaherty ,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview that the idea was a
step in the right direction.  “The most likely outcome is a bland statement where
authorities agree to refrain from competitive devaluation,
promote more foreign-exchange flexibility and shy away from
disorderly movements in foreign exchange,”  Richard Franulovich ,
a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New
York, said in an interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” program. “Then probably we will
see some knee-jerk dollar selling in Asia. The downward path of
the dollar is set in concrete.”  Brazil’s real fell 2.4 percent to 1.7057 against the dollar
in its biggest five-day decrease since falling 2.6 percent
during the five days ended June 4. The real touched a two-year
high of 1.6442 on Oct. 14.  ‘Currency War’  Amid what Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has
described as a global “currency war,” the government raised
taxes on foreign inflows on Oct. 18 for the second time this
month.  The yen ended the week stronger than 82.88 per dollar,
where it traded on Sept. 15, when Japan acknowledged selling the
currency to help its export-dependent economy.  Mexico’s peso was the only major currency to rise against
the dollar this week, appreciating 0.8 percent to 12.3372. The
nation’s economy may grow 4.8 percent this year, Finance
Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said this week. The previous forecast
had been for a gain of 4.5 percent.  The Canadian dollar fell against the U.S. currency for the
first time since August, depreciating 1.5 percent to C$1.0259
after reaching parity with the greenback on Oct. 14 for the
first time since April.  The Bank of Canada kept its 1 percent benchmark interest
rate unchanged on Oct. 19 after three previous increases and
said the nation’s economy will take an extra year to reach its
full potential.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen, pound and Canadian
dollar, gained 0.4 percent to 77.374, from 77.041 on Oct. 15,
when it touched 76.114, the lowest level since Dec. 11.  The gauge of the greenback has dropped 3.8 percent since
Sept. 21, when the Fed said in a statement following its policy
meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation
if needed” to support the recovery.  Figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed yesterday that traders increased their  bets 
that the euro will gain against the dollar to almost the highest
level since October 2009, indicating that its rally may be
poised for a reverse.  The only day the euro closed above $1.40 this month was
Oct. 14, when U.S. first-time unemployment claims unexpectedly
increased and the trade deficit widened. The two-year Treasury
yield was little changed at 0.35 percent this week after falling
to the record low of 0.33 percent on Oct. 12.  “We suspect the dollar’s decline against the euro is
reaching its final stages,” wrote  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York
in a note to clients. “Various indicators, including sentiment
and positioning, warn that the long euro position is a crowded
trade.” A long position is a bet an asset will appreciate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  