-- Flaherty `Comfortable' Increased Canada Investment Will Replace Stimulus
-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 2010-10-23T13:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/flaherty-comfortable-increased-canada-investment-will-replace-stimulus.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he is “comfortable” that an increase in business
investment will allow his government to end its stimulus
measures in March as planned.  Speaking in a Bloomberg interview, Flaherty, 60, said he
has seen “an increase in investment, particularly in machinery
and equipment” since the second quarter of the year. “We’ve
helped stimulate that with tax breaks.”  The Bank of Canada lowered its economic growth forecasts on
Oct. 20, and Flaherty has faced increasing political pressure to
extend some fiscal stimulus measures past their March 31
deadline.  “I’m comfortable where we are,” Flaherty said. “We see
increasingly the private sector moving in to provide the demand
that the public sector has been providing with people’s tax
dollars.”  The central bank cut its estimate of economic growth for
this year to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, and for 2011 to 2.3
percent from 2.9 percent. The expansion will shift from being
driven by consumer and government spending to exports and
business investment, the bank said in its monetary policy report.  Canada last week joined central banks in Brazil, Malaysia
and Australia in keeping rates unchanged to gauge the global
recovery and avoiding a divergence with the  Federal Reserve  and
the European Central Bank, where policy makers have signaled
they may offer additional stimulus.  Exports a ‘Weakness’  Shipments abroad are “clearly a weakness in our economy,
our exports to the United States in particular,” Flaherty said.
“We always wish the Americans well in their recovery.”  Flaherty contrasted his government’s “effective” stimulus
measures with those in the U.S., where economic data suggest the
stimulus has had less of an impact.  “The U.S. has its own
challenges,” Flaherty said, including “a weaker economy and
higher unemployment and still a terrible situation in their
housing market.”  A successful U.S. recovery is important for Canada and the
rest of the world, he said. “As much as we talk about the
emerging economies, the largest economy in the world remains the
United States,” he said.  Relying on U.S.  Canada relies on the U.S. for 63 percent of its trade, and
the country’s dollar reached parity with its U.S. counterpart
last week for the first time since April. U.S. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that new stimulus may be warranted
because inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  That could put fresh pressure on  exporters  hurt in the
global recession by lost U.S. orders of manufactured goods such
as autos and paper.  Flaherty said this weekend’s talks had gone some way to
reducing worries that the global economy could be hurt by
currency and trade tensions. “I’m modestly less concerned, but
I’m still concerned,” he said. “We made some progress this
weekend but there’s more hard work to do” before G-20 leaders
meet in Seoul next month.  “We certainly see the relative inflexibility of certain
Asian currencies, which remains a serious issue,” Flaherty said.
“I hope we’ll see movement there as a result of the discussions
this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Badertscher  in Gyeongju at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 