-- G-20 Pledges to Avoid Devaluations in Push to Defuse Global Trade Tensions
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-10-23T20:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/g-20-pledge-to-avoid-competitive-devaluations-endorse-market-driven-rates.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs sought to
calm trade frictions that threaten the world economy by pledging
to avoid weakening their currencies to boost exports and to let
markets increasingly set foreign-exchange values.  The G-20 agreed to “move towards more market-determined
exchange-rate systems that reflect underlying economic
fundamentals and refrain from competitive devaluation of
currencies,” finance ministers and central bankers said after
talks yesterday in Gyeongju, South Korea. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Chinese Vice-Premier  Wang Qishan  may continue the debate today when they meet in Qingdao,
China, for previously unscheduled talks.  It was the first time the finance officials made a joint
stance on exchange rates as they tried to end concern that
nations from the U.S. to China are relying on cheap currencies
to spur growth, risking a protectionist backlash. The policy
makers delayed further debate over a U.S. proposal for current
account targets until next month’s Seoul summit of leaders,
while agreeing the gaps should be made more sustainable.  “The terms of the currency policy are so vague and broad
that they can be interpreted into different meanings by each
country as well as market players,” said Oh Suk Tae, an
economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul. “I’m not sure
whether the currency war is over. We need to see actions in line
with the verbal vows.”  Recycle  The finance officials previously avoided joint statements
on currencies for fear of alienating China. The communique still
recycles language used at previous G-20 leaders’ summits in
London and Toronto and falls short of the currency accords of
the 1980s.  The group also called the economic recovery “fragile and
uneven.” Seeking to increase the influence of emerging nations
in running of the International Monetary Fund, it endorsed what
IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  called the 
“biggest reform ever” of its governance.  Europe will surrender two seats on the lender’s
24-member executive board and a majority of countries will shift
more than 6 percent of so-called quotas to under-represented
countries. Quotas determine voting rights, financial commitment
and access to aid.  Dollar’s Slide  The policy makers met as China’s restraint of the yuan and
the U.S. dollar’s recent slide force trade partners including
South Korea and Brazil to temper gains in their own floating
currencies to remain competitive. The dollar has dropped as the
Federal Reserve mulls easing monetary policy to lift growth.  The currency on Oct. 22 completed its first weekly advance
since early September against a basket of currencies, according
to IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, rising 0.6
percent. Yuan forwards dropped the most in 22 months on the same
day amid speculation China will rely more heavily on interest-
rate hikes to damp inflation after raising its benchmark for the
first time since 2007.  China should open its markets and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  heard “criticism” of its current policy stance from
within the G-20, German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said.  “It’s the wrong way to try to prevent or solve problems by
adding more liquidity,” Bruederle said. “Excessive, permanent
money creation in my opinion is an indirect manipulation of an
exchange rate.”  Combating Deflation  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
combating deflation risks “was also a contribution to global
prosperity.”  To dilute the focus of such meetings on currencies and make
a revaluation of the yuan more palatable to China, Geithner
suggested countries set goals for their current account
surpluses or deficits. While South Korea and Canada were among
those to back the initiative, it was challenged by major
exporters Germany and Japan.  The group will “pursue the full range of policies
conducive to reducing excessive imbalances and maintaining
current account imbalances at sustainable levels,” the
statement said. The IMF will deepen its monitoring of currencies
and persistently large trade gaps.  The G-20 members will flesh out details by the Seoul forum,
a U.S. official said. Although Japanese Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said Geithner wanted a 4 percent cap on trade
imbalances, the official said the U.S. doesn’t expect a fixed
target and may instead push for a range with an eye on having
sustainable trade positions by 2015.  Balanced Growth  “We need to work to achieve more balance in the pattern of
global growth,” said Geithner. “This requires a shift in
growth strategies by countries that have traditionally run large
trade and current account surpluses, away from export dependence
and toward stronger domestic demand led growth.”  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , who also attended the
talks, said Germany shouldn’t be blamed for having a current-
account surplus.  A current account is the broadest measure of trade because
it includes investment and transfer income, and it would be hard
to achieve any correction in one without a currency shifting.
Saudi Arabia, Germany, Russia and  China  all run surpluses larger
than 4 percent of gross domestic product, while Turkey and South
Africa have deficits bigger than that, according to the IMF.  The G-20 has long attempted to narrow such imbalances and
pivot the world economy away from its reliance on excess U.S.
demand and Chinese savings after those fault lines helped
trigger the credit crisis. Limiting talks to foreign exchange is
too inflexible for nations with trade surpluses and refocusing
them on current accounts would allow tools other than currencies
to be used, officials said.  Yuan’s Rise  Even as it runs a trade surplus and builds currency
reserves, China has curbed the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent
since a June pledge to introduce more flexibility, arguing
anything other than a gradual appreciation would cause social
and economic disruption. At the same time, the Fed has sent the
dollar tumbling by leaning toward the purchase of more assets to
tackle unemployment near a 26-year high and weak inflation.  Caught in the middle, emerging markets are embracing
capital controls or intervening themselves to stay competitive
with China and slow the inflow of speculative cash. South Korea
is discussing several measures including a bank tax or levy on
financial transactions, and Brazil last week raised taxes on
foreign capital for the second time this month.  Advanced economies agreed to be “vigilant against excess
 volatility  and disorderly movements in exchange rates,” the G-
20 statement said. Geithner said the U.S. backs a “strong
dollar” and recognizes its global responsibility to support it.  Trading Edge  The G-20’s statement will encourage Asian nations to allow
their exchange rates to rise without having to worry they will
end up doing so alone and lose a trading edge, said  Douglas Borthwick , head of foreign-exchange trading at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Faros Trading. He said the yuan may climb to
6.60 per dollar in November from 6.66 at the end of last week
and predicted the dollar will drop against the euro and yen.  For all the complaints it faces, China let the yuan gain the
most versus the dollar since 2005 in September and by more than
20 percent in the last five years.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Chase
& Co. Asia Currency Index  is up about 3 percent since August.  “China and its neighbors see the need to strengthen their
currencies,” said Borthwick, whose firm executes currency
transactions on behalf of hedge funds and institutional clients.
“Going forward they will all move together and allow their
currencies to strengthen, over time resulting in a more balanced
economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  