-- German Government Note Yield Reaches 6-Month High on Bets for ECB Exit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-23T06:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/german-government-note-yield-reaches-6-month-high-on-bets-for-ecb-exit.html
German  two-year notes  fell for the
week, sending the yield to a six-month high above 1 percent, as
traders bet the European Central Bank will withdraw emergency
stimulus measures before its developed-nation peers.  The yield had its biggest weekly gain in more than a year
after euro-region interbank borrowing costs rose to the same
level as the ECB’s main interest rate for the first time in 15
months. Indexes of German manufacturing and services rose and a
measure of  business confidence  climbed, giving the European
Central Bank ammunition to exit recovery stimulus measures.
Irish and Spanish debt fell relative to German securities.  “Money-market rates are normalizing, and that seems to be
what’s driving rates higher across the curve,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-markets strategy at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The data has
been supportive for the move.”  The two-year yield rose 19 basis points to 1 percent as of
5 p.m. in London on Oct. 22, the biggest weekly increase since
August 2009. The 0.75 percent security maturing September 2012
traded at 99.53. The yield on a 10-year bund, Europe’s  benchmark 
security, was at 2.47 percent, up 10 basis points on the week.  Germany’s debt is sliding amid growing optimism that the
economic recovery will be sustained, making it more likely the
ECB will unwind the extraordinary measures designed to boost
growth. The securities lost 1 percent so far this month,
trimming returns for the year to date to 8 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Euribor Rises  The euro interbank offered rate, or  Euribor , for three-
month loans increased to 1 percent on Oct. 18, the highest level
since July 2009, data from the European Banking Federation
showed. The rate rose from a low of 0.634 percent on March 31 as
bank stress tests published on July 23 showed just 7 of 91
institutions in the region needed to raise more capital to
withstand a new sovereign-debt crisis.  Irish and Spanish bonds fell relative to bunds on renewed
concern the nations may struggle to finance their budget
deficits. The ECB mustn’t buy government bonds in markets that
are functioning, board member  Juergen Stark  said in an interview
with Die Welt published on Oct. 20. Portugal is scheduled to
sell bonds next week, as are Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium.  Bunds declined relative to U.S. Treasuries as the Federal
Reserve considers more bond purchases. The  difference in yield 
reached a low of 4 basis points on Oct. 20, based on closing
market rates, from a high for the year of nearly 90 basis
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 