-- Germany Says U.S. Federal Reserve Heading `Wrong Way' With Monetary Easing
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-23T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/germany-says-u-s-federal-reserve-heading-wrong-way-with-monetary-easing.html
The Federal Reserve’s push toward 
easier monetary policy is the “wrong way” to stimulate
growth and may amount to a manipulation of the dollar, German
Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  yesterday gave Group of 20
finance ministers and central bankers meeting in Gyeongju, South
Korea an overview of the U.S. central bank’s efforts to
jumpstart the world’s largest economy. His strategy, which
investors expect will soon include greater asset purchases, drew
criticism at the talks, said Bruederle.  “It’s the wrong way to try to prevent or solve problems by
adding more liquidity,” Bruederle told reporters yesterday,
saying that emerging-market officials were among the critics.
Bruederle, a member of the Free Democratic Party, the junior
partner in Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government, stepped in for
hospitalized Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  at the meeting.  The debate over the Fed’s strategy comes as the G-20’s
advanced nations sought to alleviate concerns over big swings in
capital flows to emerging markets by promising to be “vigilant
against excess volatility” in exchange rates. The U.S. central
bank completed purchases of about $1.7 trillion of debt in March
to support the recovery. The policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee next meets Nov. 2-3.  Bill Gross , Pacific Investment Management Co.’s co-founder
and manager of the world’s biggest mutual fund, said Oct. 8 on
Bloomberg TV the central bank may buy about $100 billion in
government debt a month, or $1.2 trillion over the next year.  ‘Indirect Manipulation’  “Excessive, permanent money creation in my opinion is an
indirect manipulation of an exchange rate,” Bruederle said. The
minister has taken a pro-market stance in his first year in
office, criticizing state intervention in cases such as
providing aid for  General Motors Co .’s German Opel unit.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  dismissed
prospects of mounting criticism of the Fed’s approach in his
press conference after the G-20 meeting yesterday. When asked
whether he expected Germany’s criticisms to gain steam, he
replied: “I do not.”  The Treasury chief declined to comment directly on the
Fed’s policy, while also saying that major economies like the
U.S. need to make growth a top priority. One of the global
imbalances is the disparity between rapidly expanding emerging-
market economies and too-slow growth in developed nations, he
said.  Strengthen Recovery  “We are going to continue to try to strengthen the
recovery under way so we can dig out of this as quickly as we
can,” Geithner said.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
that the G-20 made “no particular conclusion” after some
members expressed concern about proposals for further
quantitative easing in the U.S.  “The remark was made that the accommodating policy vis-a-
vis the U.S. might mean problems for the emerging economies, at
least in terms of inflation,” he said. “The point was made
that it was much more complicated than that” and that combating
deflation “was also a contribution to global prosperity. It was
an exchange of views, with no particular conclusion.”  Bernanke said in an Oct. 15 speech that “the risk of
deflation was higher than desirable” and that U.S. inflation
rates are too low. He said the central bank could expand asset
purchases or change the language in its statement, without
offering details on how the Fed would undertake those strategies
at its November meeting. The central bank already decided in
August to keep its balance sheet from shrinking.  Asset Bubbles  Low interest rates and weak recoveries in industrialized
economies such as the U.S. have forced investors to flood
emerging markets with capital, providing resources for growth
yet also threatening to spur inflation, asset bubbles and over-
valued exchange rates. Such concerns have prompted economies
from South Korea to Brazil to take steps to slow the inflow of
speculative cash.  “I’m not a friend of this but I can understand” why
Brazil introduced capital controls, Bruederle said.  Emerging-market equity mutual funds attracted more than $60
billion this year and bond funds lured $41 billion, both on pace
for record annual inflows, according to data compiled by EPFR
Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm. Forty-
nine percent of money managers are now overweight developing-
markets equities, the highest level since 2009, according to a
BofA Merrill Lynch survey released this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 rbuergin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  