-- Iraq War Documents Leak on Iran, Abuses Shows Security Progress Lacking
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-10-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/iraq-war-documents-leak-on-iran-abuses-shows-security-progress-lacking.html
Details of Iranian involvement in
Iraq and abuses by the country’s army and police, revealed in
leaked wartime documents, shows the government may be unable to
provide the security needed for the U.S. to leave, analysts
said.  The revelations contradict claims by the Obama
administration that the country is prepared for the U.S.
military to leave at the end of next year, said  Ilan Berman ,
vice president of the  American Foreign Policy Council  in
Washington.  “We’ve staked our claim for withdrawal on the Iraqi
security forces being capable of standing up as we stand down,”
Berman said in a telephone interview today. “We really need to
impose” better governance first, he said.  President  Barack Obama  is counting on calmer conditions and
the creation of a stable coalition government to ease the way
for the remaining 50,000 U.S. troops to leave next year, as
called for in a security agreement with Iraq. The State
Department is slated to take over the task of helping the Iraqi
government strengthen its institutions, including the police.  The  400,000 classified U.S. military documents  released
yesterday by WikiLeaks.org detail Iranian aid to Iraqi militias
bent on destabilizing the government and abuse of prisoners by
the Iraqi security forces that are taking over from U.S. troops.  The documents also show 15,000 previously unreported
civilian deaths, according to  Iraq Body Count , a group that
tracks civilians killed in the conflict.  Killing With Impunity  The documents, which include military field reports from
2004 to 2009, mostly confirm what many experts and analysts
already knew about the war in Iraq. Human rights  groups  and the
U.S. State Department’s  annual human rights report  also had
documented widespread extrajudicial killings committed with
“virtual impunity.”  Yet the leaks add detail with descriptions of soldiers
killing civilians, including children, and security forces
abusing prisoners.  The documents showed that Iran has spent years trying to
destabilize the U.S.-supported Iraqi government by training and
providing weapons to Iraqi Shiite militias. U.S. officials as
far back as 2004 asserted that Iran was interfering in Iraq.  Iranian Influence  “This seems to prove a degree of involvement by Iran that
many, including myself I must say, thought had been exaggerated
by the administration,” said  Marina Ottaway , director of the
Middle East program at the  Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace .  Berman said Iran, which fought an eight-year war with its
neighbor in the 1980s, is “working to keep Iraq weak and
fragmented.”  While the release of the documents isn’t likely to change
the U.S. plans to withdraw from Iraq, it may affect the internal
politics there, said  David Bender , an analyst at  Eurasia Group ,
a global political risk consulting firm.  Iraqi Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  is vying with former
premier  Ayad Allawi  to form a coalition government after March 7
parliamentary elections left no one with enough support to
govern alone.  Troop Withdrawal  The reports in the documents that U.S. forces killed
civilians could force Maliki to demand that U.S. troops pull out
of the country entirely next year, rather than retaining a small
force to promote stability, as officials had expected, Bender
said.  Former U.S. Ambassador to Iraq  Ryan Crocker , who negotiated
the agreement for the military exit, said Maliki told him at the
time that the government probably would ask for an extension to
keep American soldiers there longer. The U.S. military now
mostly provides advice and assistance to its Iraqi counterparts.  Retired Army Major General  Paul Eaton , who commanded the
training of Iraqi military forces in 2003-2004, said the
documents about Iraqi violence against their own countrymen
might aid in national reconciliation.  They may reflect on the depictions of Iraqi-on-Iraqi
killings and torture and say “‘we have looked into the abyss --
how do we avoid it?’” Eaton said.  The U.S. military will hand off to the State Department in
less than a year the task of training Iraqi police and helping
build the structures they need to function.  State Department Inexperience  Anthony Cordesman , senior defense analyst with the  Center
for Strategic and International Studies , said he’s concerned the
State Department has never handled a police training mission of
that size and that the Iraqi justice system is even further
behind.  “We will create, if these police programs are successful,
a police without creating a justice system,” Cordesman told an
Iraq forum at CSIS in Washington last week.  The issue of how to handle abuses by security forces in
Iraq still doesn’t get the level of attention that it should
within the Iraqi government, said  Patricia DeGennaro , a senior
fellow at the  World Policy Institute  and an expert on
Afghanistan and Iraq at the U.S. Army’s Training and Doctrine
Command Center for Intelligence.  “There still are a lot of challenges there, a lot of
people working independently without a lot of oversight,”
DeGennaro said.  The leaked reports of abuses also risk weakening the Iraqi
government, Cordesman said in a telephone interview today.
Abuses by their own fellow citizens may resonate more strongly
than those by Americans, he said.  Iraqi Political Reaction  “You have to watch how the Iraqi media cover this and
whether it gets picked up in Iraqi political rhetoric and in
sermons” in mosques, Cordesman said. “The next 10 days are a
measure as to whether it’s a speed bump or becomes a serious
issue.”  The U.S. is assessing the documents for their potential
damage, Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said.  Julian Assange ,
the founder of WikiLeaks, told a London press conference
yesterday that a team of specialists removed names and specific
locations that could endanger lives.  Pentagon officials remain concerned that the leaked
documents could endanger U.S. troops by exposing military
tactics, techniques and procedures, Morrell said.  WikiLeaks  previously released a similar batch of field
reports from Afghanistan, and Assange said yesterday that
WikiLeaks will release further documents on that conflict.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Fitzgerald  at 
 Afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  