-- Union’s Bid to Organize Sandwich Shops Rejected
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   F l y n n   M c R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-23T17:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/jimmy-john-s-employees-in-minneapolis-reject-bid-to-join-union.html
Union efforts to recruit workers at
U.S. fast-food restaurants were set back yesterday as
Minneapolis employees at Jimmy John’s sandwich shops rejected a
bid to affiliate with organized labor.  The  Industrial Workers of the World , a Chicago-based group,
failed to win enough votes at 10 shops where the union’s
supporters complained of low wages and too few working hours. A
tally showed 87 workers against the union and 85 in favor,
according to the National Labor Relations Board. The parties
have seven days to file objections.  “We make minimum wage, and if the companies could pay us
less, I’m sure they would,” said Ayo Collins, 20, who delivers
sandwiches and is a union organizer at Jimmy John’s, a
Champaign, Illinois-based chain with 1,000 U.S. shops. “We
don’t have health care either.”  Success at Jimmy John’s would have been a breakthrough for
organized labor in the fast-food business, where 1.3 percent of
workers belong to a union and organizing is difficult because of
rapid turnover and a young workforce, said  Nelson Lichtenstein ,
a labor professor at the University of California at Santa
Barbara. The drive signals that working conditions are “perhaps
a real social problem that requires a more pressing solution,”
he said.  Mike Mulligan, who owns the 10 franchises in Minneapolis
that were targeted in the campaign, said he has been “more than
fair” to his workers. He said the workers include a high
percentage of minority employees and he has “zero tolerance”
for sexual harassment. Most employees have been with the company
for less than six months, and are paid minimum wage of $7.25-an-
hour, he said.  Socialist Wobblies  The I.W.W., known as the  Wobblies , has 1,600 U.S. members
and few union contracts with employers. The socialist union says
on its website that there can be “no end to injustice and want
until the profit system itself is abolished.” The union has
tried in the past to organize baristas at  Starbucks Corp .  Employees at two Jimmy John’s in downtown Chicago, which
wasn’t part of the I.W.W. organizing, said yesterday that pay is
low and hours are inadequate.  “Three hours Monday through Friday isn’t enough,” said
Julian Western, 20, who said he makes $8.25 an hour at the Jimmy
John’s at 2 N. Riverside Plaza and works side jobs to supplement
his income. “You need a second job just to get enough to get
by, pay bills.”  Western and his friend Susana Contreras, 20, a cashier and
baker at a nearby Jimmy John’s, said they hadn’t heard of the
effort in Minneapolis. He said the Wobblies would succeed if
they tried to organize in Chicago.  Hours, Pay  “A lot of people are complaining about the hours and
pay,” said Western, who works the cash register and hands out
sandwiches. “They’d be more than happy to cooperate.”  Mulligan, a retired senior vice president with grocer
 Supervalu Inc ., said he met frequently with workers in the past
six weeks to combat the union effort. He told workers the I.W.W.
is a “socialist-anarchist” group, and that the union wouldn’t
be likely to improve their working conditions.  “They’re trying to take down the quick-service industry,”
said Mulligan, who became a franchisee after he leaving
Supervalu as a way of going into business with his son. “Our
employees don’t deserve these people, and these people don’t
deserve our employees.”  Unfair-Labor Charges  Mulligan said the union filed 22 charges of unfair-labor
practices with the NLRB in the past two weeks, while only one
had been filed against the company in nine years before the
organizing campaign. “We will vigorously defend ourselves
against each one,” he said.  Robert Bruno, director of the labor education program at
the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said it’s
significant for labor unions to target fast-food workers as
potential union members.  “Some of the traditional rationales against unions in the
industry -- that the workers are too young, they don’t stay on
the job -- isn’t true any longer,” Bruno said. “Something has
changed in the economy. It signals that you can’t take these
workers for granted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
 Flynn McRoberts  in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 