-- NBH Holdings Buys Failed Bank, Six More Shut as Toll This Year Reaches 139
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-23T01:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/nbh-holdings-buys-failed-bank-six-more-shut-as-toll-this-year-reaches-139.html
NBH Holdings Corp., a Boston-based
private-equity group, purchased a  failed bank  in Kansas and
real-estate losses crippled six others as the number of U.S.
lenders to collapse this year climbed to 139.  NBH Holdings purchased the $1.54 billion in deposits of
Overland Park, Kansas-based Hillcrest Bank through a newly
chartered bank of the same name, according to a  statement  on the
website of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Banking officials
closed lenders with a combined $2.4 billion in assets this week,
costing the agency’s deposit-insurance fund $478 million.  “Our interest is in banks that expand our footprint in
community banking in key markets and give us a strong and stable
platform for growth,” NBH Chief Executive Officer  Tim Laney 
said in a statement. “We want to bring secure and reliable
community banking back to customers, with the level of service
and quality of products that people want and deserve from their
local banks.”  Banks are closing at a faster pace than last year, which
saw the most failures since 1992, as real estate values remain
depressed. Regulators closed 140 banks last year. The FDIC’s
list of “problem” banks climbed to 829 lenders with $403
billion in assets at the end of the second quarter, a 7 percent
increase from the 775 on the list in the first quarter.  NBH is run by former Citizens Financial Group executives,
who raised more than $1 billion last year, with a plan of
becoming a publicly traded company, according to the statement.
NBH retained  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz as advisers.  Hillcrest  In buying Hillcrest, NBH gets nine regular bank branches in
four states and 32 offices that provide banking services to
residents of assisted-living facilities, according to the
company statement. Hillcrest will be merged with Bank Midwest,
which NBH purchased from Dickinson Financial Corp.  Regulators closed two lenders each in Florida and Georgia,
among the states hardest hit by the banking crisis. First
National Bank of Barnesville and Gordon Bank, of Gordon, became
the 15th and 16th lenders to fail in Georgia this year. Morris
Bank of Dublin, Georgia, paid a 0.05 percent premium to the FDIC
to acquire almost $27 million in deposits from Gordon.  Progress Bank of Florida and First Bank of Jacksonville
became the 26th and 27th banks closed in Florida this year. Bay
Cities Bank of Tampa purchased Progress Bank, while Moultrie,
Georgia-based  Ameris Bancorp  acquired First Bank of
Jacksonville.  The Office of Thrift Supervision closed Scottsdale,
Arizona-based First Arizona Savings, according to a  statement .
The FDIC was unable to find a buyer for just under $200 million
in deposits and $272.2 million in assets. First Suburban
National Bank, of Maywood, Illinois, also collapsed. Its
operations were sold to Chicago-based Seaway Bank & Trust Co.  Earlier this week, the FDIC board approved a plan for
replenishing funds drained by bank failures. The board voted 5-0
on Oct. 19 for a proposal to restore the deposit-insurance fund,
which sat at a negative $15.2 billion balance in the second
quarter. FDIC-member banks pay quarterly fees to the agency for
an insurance fund that guarantees deposits of as much as
$250,000 per account when lenders are shut down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  