-- New York Attorney General Sues FedEx Over Delivery Driver Classification
-- B y   T h e o   M u l l e n
-- 2010-10-23T23:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/new-york-attorney-general-sues-fedex-over-delivery-driver-classification.html
New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  sued  FedEx Corp.  in state court yesterday saying the
delivery company improperly classifies ground delivery drivers
as independent contractors rather than employees.  In the suit, filed in New York’s Supreme Court, Cuomo said
the company’s FedEx Home Delivery service classifying its
drivers as contractors rather than employees fails “to provide
its drivers the rights” afforded other employees and does not
comply with the state’s labor laws.  The contractor model gives FedEx’s Ground unit a cost
advantage of as much as 30 percent over rival United Parcel
Service Inc., University of Pittsburgh business professor  Marick Masters  has estimated.  “FedEx has the power to control, and does in fact control,
almost all aspects of its drivers’ work,” including “hours,
job duties, routes, and even clothing,” Cuomo said in the
filing. “The drivers are clearly perceived by the public to be
employees.”  Some FedEx drivers have filed private litigation. FedEx in
June won partial dismissal of a class-action lawsuit brought by
contract drivers who contend they are entitled to full benefits
because the company treats them as employees. them as employees.  A federal judge in South Bend, Indiana, threw out some
claims in the suit, saying the workers failed to exhaust out-of-
court, administrative procedures that might help them get the
medical, dental and retirement benefits they seek.  701 Contractors  The company’s Home Delivery service has 701 contractors
that, combined, employ 2,500 workers, said  Maury Lane , a FedEx
spokesman. The average contractor had revenue of $190,000, said
Lane, with the 10 largest billing an average of $2.6 million in
2009.  “It is disappointing that in the midst of his campaign for
governor Attorney General Cuomo would choose to destroy that
many jobs in New York,” Lane said, commenting after reviewing a
copy of the filing.  “Any suggestion that the Attorney General’s office
handling of this case is improper is absurd,”  John Milgrim , a
spokesman for Cuomo, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
office and a group of other states had been negotiating with
FedEx for months. The case was filed, as was a similar case by
Kentucky, when those discussions broke down,” Milgrim said.  The Indiana case is In re FedEx Ground Package System Inc.
Employment Practices Litigation, 3:05-md-00527, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  The New York case is New York State vs. FedEx Ground
Package System, Inc., Supreme Court of New York, County of New
York.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theo Mullen at 
 tmullen11@bloomberg.net  