-- Obama Warns Republicans Seek to Repeal Toughened Wall Street Regulations
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-23T12:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/obama-warns-republicans-seek-to-repeal-toughened-wall-street-regulations.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
passage of stronger financial regulations was one of his
administration’s “most important victories” and warned that
Republicans seeking control of Congress would repeal the rules.  In his weekly radio and Internet  address , Obama said the
legislation, which he signed into law July 21, would help
prevent the kind of financial crisis that plunged the nation
into its worst recession in more than 70 years.  “Despite the importance of this law, and despite the
terrible economic dislocation caused by the failures in our
financial system under the old rules, top Republicans in
Congress are now beating the drum to repeal all of these reforms
and consumer protections,” the president said.  Campaigning across the country before the Nov. 2 elections,
Obama is accusing Republicans of threatening to roll back his
policies. Nonpartisan political analysts, including  Charlie Cook 
of the  Cook Political Report  in Washington, project that
Democrats will likely lose several seats in the Senate and cede
to Republicans control of the House of Representatives.  Obama said it would be a “terrible mistake” if
Republicans succeeded in repealing the financial regulatory
overhaul.  “Our economy depends on a financial system in which
everyone competes on a level playing field, and everyone is held
to the same rules,” he said. “And as we saw, without sound
oversight and common-sense protections for consumers, the whole
economy is put in jeopardy.”  Curbing Risks  The new law aims to curb risks, boost surveillance of
emerging threats to markets and give regulators additional
emergency powers to avoid future taxpayer-funded bailouts of
too-big-to-fail financial institutions. It also creates an
agency to oversee consumer financial products.  Obama said the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau would
help prevent situations such as the current turmoil over faulty
paperwork filed as part of mortgage foreclosure proceedings.  “This is only one more piece of evidence as to why Wall
Street reform is so necessary,” he said. “This watchdog will
have the authority to guard against unfair practices in mortgage
transactions and foreclosures.”  Michael Steel, a spokesman for Representative  John Boehner 
of Ohio, the House Republican leader, responded to the
president’s address with an e-mailed statement saying
“‘everyone wants to hold Wall Street accountable and make sure
that the irresponsibility that led to the terrifying crisis of
2008 never, ever happens again.”  Law Inadequate  “But the law that Washington Democrats passed doesn’t do
that,” the statement said. “It hurts Main Street, costs jobs,
guarantees that the taxpayers remain on the hook for endless
bailouts, and does nothing to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
the government mortgage companies that caused the meltdown by
giving high-risk loans to people who couldn’t afford them.”  In the Republican  address , South Dakota Senator  John Thune 
said Democrats, who have controlled Congress and the White House
for two years, are taking the country “in the wrong
direction.”  Thune said Democrats failed to help restore economic growth
and lower  unemployment  and said the nation is worse off today
than when Obama was elected in 2008.  “A new direction is needed,” Thune said.  Thune said the $814 billion stimulus passed last year
didn’t deliver on the administration’s promise to spur job
growth and hold unemployment under 8 percent. The national
 jobless rate  was at 9.6 percent last month and has been at 9.5
percent or higher for the past year.  “Rather than create jobs, the Democrats expanded
government, and now the American people are stuck with another
bill for nearly $1 trillion,” he said. “Republicans want to
reverse the dangerous course the Democrats have us on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  