-- Obama Urges Minnesota Voter Turnout to Regain Governor’s Office
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/obama-urges-minnesota-voter-turnout-to-regain-governor-s-office.html
President  Barack Obama , on the final
leg of a five-state campaign swing aimed at generating
enthusiasm for embattled Democratic candidates, told Minnesota
voters that his work for change depends on their turnout on
election day.  “Change is not easy, power does not give up without a
fight,” Obama said at a rally yesterday at the University of
Minnesota in Minneapolis for Democratic gubernatorial candidate
 Mark Dayton , who is in a three-way race to succeed departing
Republican Governor  Tim Pawlenty . “We’re just in the first
quarter we’ve got a lot more quarters to play.”  Obama is defending his party’s congressional majorities in
advance of the Nov. 2 elections by focusing on Democratic-
leaning states he won in 2008 where he’s likely to have the
biggest impact. The president has sought to revive enthusiasm
for Democrats among voters who supported him two years ago.  Obama campaigned Oct. 23 for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , who is locked in a tight race against Republican  Sharron Angle , a Tea Party candidate. The contest illustrates Democrats’
difficulties as they seek to retain control of Congress.
Nevada’s jobless rate is 14.4 percent, highest in the U.S., and
the home foreclosure rate is five times the national average,
according to RealtyTrac Inc. of Irvine, California.  Reid, a four-term senator, got 61 percent of the vote in
2004. This year, the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report
rates the contest a tossup.  Must-Win States  With White House officials saying that Washington and
California are must-wins for Democrats to keep control of the
Senate, Obama devoted most of his time this week campaigning for
incumbent senators in western states and targeting younger
voters who voted for the first time in 2008 at large rallies on
college-campuses.  Obama raised money on his campaign swing in Los Angeles and
campaigned for Democrats including  Barbara Boxer , a three-term
senator who has a slight lead over Republican  Carly Fiorina , the
former chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard Co. Obama also
stumped Oct 21 for Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington, who is in
a tight race against Republican  Dino Rossi , a businessman and
former state senator.  Fundraising  After yesterday’s rally, Obama attended a Minneapolis
fundraiser for the  Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee ,
where Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said “we fully intend” to retain
control of the House of Representatives.  Obama raised about $3 million this week for candidates and
Democratic committees at fundraisers in Silicon Valley, Los
Angeles, Las Vegas and Minneapolis.  Dayton, 63, served one term as U.S. senator that ended in
2007. He faces Republican  Tom Emmer , a state representative, and
the Independence Party’s nominee,  Tom Horner , a public affairs
executive who portrays himself as a centrist compared with his
rivals.  The contest is one of eight gubernatorial contests rated a
tossup by the independent Cook Political Report. The current
governor, Pawlenty, is a potential Republican presidential
candidate in 2012.  Close Minnesota Race  Dayton is well-known in a state that’s produced liberals
for the national stage such as  Walter Mondale ,  Hubert Humphrey 
and  Eugene McCarthy . Still he leads Emmer by a close 44 percent
to 41 percent, with Horner at 10 percent. The Rasmussen poll of
750 likely voters was taken Oct. 20 and has an error margin of
plus or minus 4 percent.  Dayton has been campaigning for the post for almost two
years, and defeated about a dozen Democratic rivals in the
August primary. There are 37 gubernatorial elections next month,
and Obama needs Dayton to maintain a Democratic power base in
the state for the once-a-decade redrawing of congressional
districts.  To close a multibillion state budget gap, Dayton says he
wants to raise income taxes on the wealthy, a step that mirrors
Obama’s plan to let Bush-era tax cuts expire for those earning
$250,000 or more.  His family founded Dayton’s, the Minnesota-based department
store chain that became  Target Corp. , the second-biggest
discount retailer after  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .  Harry Reid  In Nevada, Obama urged voters there to re-elect  Reid ,
saying he needs the Senate majority leader to continue work on
the policies that brought the U.S. economy out of the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  “If I’m going to be able to help middle-class families all
across this country live out their dreams, then I want to have a
partner in the United States Senate named Harry Reid,” Obama
told a Las Vegas rally.  Obama and the Democrats are confronted with voter anger
over the U.S. economy. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National Poll
shows that almost two-thirds of voters believe the country is on
the wrong track, and unemployment is the top concern for about
half the electorate. The  deficit , which was almost $1.3 trillion
for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, ranks as the second
most pressing issue, cited by 27 percent.  Of the states Obama visited last week, California, Nevada
and Oregon have unemployment rates above the national  average  of
9.6 percent.  Obama will hold four more rallies the final weekend before
the election in states he and other top administration officials
have visited in recent weeks and where there are competitive
Senate, House and gubernatorial races. On Oct. 30, Obama is
scheduled to stop in Philadelphia; Bridgeport, Connecticut; and
Chicago and Oct. 31 he will be in Cleveland, Ohio.  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to get a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. The Rothenberg
Political Report forecasts Republicans will gain 40 to 50 seats,
with 60 possible. In the Senate, where Republicans now hold 41
of 100 seats, report editor  Stuart Rothenberg  expects
Republicans to pick up six to eight seats, not enough to claim a
majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Minneapolis at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  