-- Obama Urges Nevadans to Re-Elect Senator Reid to Help Push Economic Agenda
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/obama-says-he-needs-nevada-s-reid-to-continue-government-s-economic-agenda.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
Nevadans to re-elect  Harry Reid , saying he needs the Senate
majority leader to continue work on the policies that brought
the U.S. economy out of the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  “If I’m going to be able to help middle-class families all
across this country live out their dreams, then I want to have a
partner in the United States Senate named Harry Reid,” Obama
told a Las Vegas rally last night on the third day of a five-
state western campaign swing.  Reid is locked in a tight race against Republican  Sharron Angle , a Tea Party candidate. The contest illustrates Democrats’
difficulties as they seek to retain control of Congress in the
Nov. 2 elections. Nevada’s jobless rate is 14.4 percent, highest
in the U.S., and the home foreclosure rate is five times the
national average, according to RealtyTrac Inc. of Irvine,
California.  Reid, a four-term senator, got 61 percent of the vote in
2004; this year, the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report
rates the contest a tossup.  “Nevadans are fighting a tough fight, but we never give
up,” Reid told the rally at a middle school. He called Angle’s
ideas “extreme” and “dangerous.”  Voter Anger  Obama and the Democrats are confronted with voter anger
over the U.S. economy. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National Poll
shows that almost two-thirds of voters believe the country is on
the wrong track, and unemployment is the top concern for about
half the electorate. The  deficit , which was almost $1.3 trillion
for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, ranks as the second
most pressing issue, cited by 27 percent.  During his speech in the state with the nation’s highest
foreclosure rate, Obama mentioned the topic briefly, stopping
short of addressing remedies or the concerns of state attorneys
general that banks may have acted illegally to seize homes.  “Everybody here in Nevada knows we’ve still got a long way
to go,” Obama said. “Families are hanging on by a thread, a
lot of folks are seeing their homes lose a lot of value, a lot
of foreclosures out here. It keeps me up at night, it keeps
Harry Reid up at night. That’s what keeps us fighting.”  While Reid is among several Democrats who have urged
lenders to put a moratorium on foreclosures because of questions
about paperwork processing, Obama opposes a nationwide freeze
because it could further damage to the housing market by holding
up sales, spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said Oct. 12.  State Probes  Obama has backed investigations by attorneys general in all
50 states, and federal regulators are reviewing whether
employees of lenders including Ally Financial Inc.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . and  Bank of America Corp . have falsified documents
used in foreclosure proceedings.  Administration officials said Obama will address the issue
in the final days before the election because the foreclosure
crisis illustrates one of the choices for voters.  “One of the things that Wall Street reform brought” is
the new  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , White House senior
adviser  David Axelrod  said.  Republicans are “going to shave the ability to provide
oversight and rule-making to prevent the kind of errors that
we’ve seen in the issuance of mortgages and the shortcuts that
we’ve seen that have created all these problems,” Axelrod said.  After the Las Vegas rally, the latest in a series of
similar gatherings intended to revive enthusiasm for Democrats
among the voters who helped Obama win the presidency in 2008,
the president attended a fundraiser for Reid.  Boxer Event  Earlier yesterday, Obama raised money in Los Angeles and
campaigned for Democrats including  Barbara Boxer , a three-term
senator who has a slight lead over Republican  Carly Fiorina , the
former chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard Co.  Obama told a crowd at the University of Southern California
that the election will determine whether the ideas they
supported in 2008 are realized.  “In just 11 days you have the chance to set the direction
of this state and of this country,” Obama said. “Just like you
did in 2008, you can defy the conventional wisdom.”  Obama is campaigning in Democratic-leaning states where he
is likely to have the biggest impact. He won all five states he
is visiting this week in the  2008 election  with majorities
ranging from 54 percent in Minnesota to 61 percent in
California. The president ends his campaign jaunt today in
Minnesota with events for gubernatorial candidate  Mark Dayton .  Senate Seats  Obama stumped for Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington on
Oct. 21. White House officials have said Washington and
California are must-wins for Democrats to keep control of the
Senate.  While in Los Angeles, Obama also taped an interview for the
Piolin Show, a top-rated Spanish-language program broadcast in
Southern California on radio station KSCA, set to air Oct. 25.
California, the most populous U.S. state, is about 32 percent
Hispanic, according to the  Census Bureau .  Separately, the Democratic National Committee is spending
more than $1 million on television and radio advertisements, in
both English and Spanish, to encourage Hispanics to vote.  Obama will hold four more rallies the final weekend before
the election in states he and other top administration officials
have visited in recent weeks and where there are competitive
Senate, House and gubernatorial races. On Oct. 30, Obama will
stop in Philadelphia; Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Chicago and
Oct. 31 he will be in Cleveland, Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Los Angeles at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  