-- Iran's Training for Iraqi Militants Outlined in Leaked Pentagon Documents
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-23T17:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/pentagon-documents-show-u-s-ignored-torture-abuse-reports-guardian-says.html
Iran provided extensive aid to Iraqi
militias, such as training an operative who kidnapped American
soldiers, according to classified U.S. military documents
published yesterday.  Almost 400,000 documents  obtained by WikiLeaks.org also
document cases of U.S. military officials failing to investigate
hundreds of reports of abuse, torture, rape and murder by Iraqi
security forces and detail the deaths of 15,000 civilians in
previously unreported incidents, the group said.  “We can see that Iraq was a bloodbath on every corner of
that country and the stated aims for going into that war of
improving the human rights situation and improving the rule of
law did not eventuate,” WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  told a
press conference in London today. “In terms of raw numbers of
people arbitrarily killed, it worsened the situation in Iraq.”  The documents include field reports from 2004 through 2009
describing Iranian backing for Iraqi Shiite militia and provide
details supporting warnings by U.S. officials of Iranian
interference in Iraq.  In August 2005, for example, then-Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  said that “weapons clearly, unambiguously from Iran”
had been found in Iraq, and that Iran’s failure to prevent their
transport across the border was “unhelpful.” In March 2006,
Rumsfeld accused Iran of sending the Revolutionary Guards, an
elite military unit, into Iraq to foment violence.  ‘The Truth’  The documents, released in advance to the New York Times,
the Guardian of the U.K., Germany’s Der Spiegel and Le Monde of
France, were posted on the WikiLeaks website late yesterday.  WikiLeaks  receives confidential material that governments
and businesses want to keep secret and posts the information on
the Internet “so readers and historians alike can see evidence
of the truth,” the group says on its  website .  The documents were worked through to remove names and
specific locations that could lead to people’s lives being
endangered, Assange told the London press conference, which was
attended by  Daniel Ellsberg , who in 1971 leaked a top-secret
study of Pentagon decision making in the Vietnam War to the New
York Times. Assange said he had approached the Pentagon for help
with the redactions and it had refused.  The U.S. Defense Department “strongly” condemned the
unauthorized release of the documents, spokesman  Geoff Morrell 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  U.S. Assessing  Morrell in an interview today said the U.S. was assessing
the documents for their potential damage, including the extent
to which cooperative Iraqis have been identified.  The documents released yesterday were “absolutely” among
the batch of 400,000 a 120-man team of Pentagon analysts had
reviewed from a military “significant activities” database,
Morrell said.  Those documents included the names of 60,000 Iraqis, “300
of which were particularly concerning to us” because the
materials “clearly demonstrate” they were cooperating with the
U.S., Morrell said.  U.S. Forces-Iraq have been notified of the names and are
ready to take action to alert those 300 and safeguard them, if
needed, Morrell said.  Still, “this may not be our primary concern any longer”
because Wikileaks appears to have taken steps to redact names,
Morrell said. U.S. analysts are assessing the extent of the
redactions.  Pentagon officials remain concerned that the leaked
documents could endanger U.S. troops because they expose
military tactics, techniques and procedures, Morrell said  Iranian Training  The documents indicate that as far back as 2005, Iran armed
and trained squads to kill senior Iraqi politicians and to
undermine U.S. and British military operations, the  Guardian 
reported.  One document from December 2006, posted on the New York
Times website, describes a plan by a Shiite militia commander to
kidnap U.S. soldiers in Baghdad in late 2006 or early 2007. For
the mission, the commander tapped a subordinate who had been
trained by Lebanese Hezbollah operatives in Qom, Iran, under the
supervision of the Quds Force of the Revolutionary Guards,
according to the document.  The next month, four American soldiers were abducted and
killed before the U.S. military could free them, and the
subordinate’s fingerprints were found at the scene, the Times
said. The U.S. tracked down and killed the subordinate four
months later.  Iran Clash  In a separate incident in September 2006, American soldiers
“well inside Iraqi territory” came under fire from Iranians
after a U.S. soldier shot and killed an Iranian soldier who had
aimed a rocket-propelled grenade launcher at the platoon,
according to a document posted on the Times website. The platoon
had been working with Iraqi troops near the border to search for
“key infiltration routes” into the country, the document said.  Army General  George Casey , then the top U.S. military
commander in Iraq, said in June 2006 that Iran was providing
weapons and training to Shiite extremist groups in Iraq who were
attacking U.S. troops and Iraqi security forces.  “We are quite confident that the Iranians, through their
covert special operations forces, are providing weapons and
training,” Casey said.  The WikiLeaks documents also cite detainee testimony, a
captured militant’s diary and discovered weapons caches in
demonstrating how Iran provided Iraqi militias with weapons such
as rockets and lethal roadside bombs, the Times said.  Civilian Deaths  The documents also indicate that the number of Iraqi
civilians killed was greater than the U.S. revealed during the
Bush administration, according to  Iraq Body Count , a group which
uses published reports to estimate the number of civilian deaths
as a result of the war.  “Based on our careful sampling, we estimate that these
logs will bring to public knowledge over 15,000 civilian deaths
to add to the 107,000 already in our database,” John Sloboda,
IBC’s co-founder, told reporters in London. The deaths include
“check point killings and drive-by shootings,” he said. “The
effect that must have had on the Iraqi people is incalculable.”  Mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners by their own forces appeared
to be even more extreme than the accounts of abuse by the U.S.
military at the Abu Ghraib prison, the Times said. The documents
contain references to at least six prisoners who died in Iraqi
custody during the six years covered as well as hundreds of
accounts of beatings, burnings and lashings.  Release of the material is a “hugely irresponsible step on
the part of WikiLeaks,”  Ryan Crocker , a former U.S. ambassador
to Iraq, told a forum at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington yesterday.  ‘Utterly Chilling’  “I’d really be worried if, as looks to be the case, you
have Iraqi political figures named in a context or a connection
that can make them politically and physically vulnerable to
their adversaries,” said Crocker, who is now dean of the Bush
School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University
in College Station.  “That just has an utterly chilling effect on the
willingness of political figures to talk to us, not just in Iraq
but anywhere in the world,” Crocker said.  Kristinn Hrafnsson, an Icelandic journalist who worked on
the redaction process for WikiLeaks, said they had been careful
to avoid releasing details that would endanger people’s lives.
The team working through the documents had started by redacting
everything and then un-redacting details as they established it
was safe to do so, he said.  “We are confident that the documents in the highly
redacted form contain no information that could be harmful to
any individuals,” Hrafnsson told reporters. “Any system can
contain flaws, but the likelihood of any flaws in our model is
minimal.”  Assange said today that WikiLeaks will release further
documents about the U.S.-led war in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  