-- Saudi Arabian Shares Advance, Led by Banks; Saudi Fransi, Samba Gain Most
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-10-23T13:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/saudi-arabian-shares-advance-led-by-banks-saudi-fransi-samba-gain-most.html
Saudi Arabian shares rose the most
in a month, led by banks on optimism about the earnings outlook.  The  Tadawul All Share Index   gauge  added 0.9 percent, the
biggest gain since Sept. 20, to 6286.97 at the 3:30 p.m. close
in Riyadh.  Banque Saudi Fransi , Samba Financial Group and Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. led the advance. Tadawul pared monthly
losses to 1.6 percent.  “The hefty sell-off in the banking sector following
disappointing results seem to have drawn in some fundamental
value seekers,” said  Amro Halwani , a trader at Shuaa Capital
PSC in Riyadh. “Investors are optimistic about the sector’s
upcoming quarterly results, this has led to a rush back into
beaten-down shares.”  Banque Saudi Fransi  rose 5.4 percent, the most since May,
to 46.6 riyals. Samba increased 2.5 percent to 62 riyals, the
highest since Oct. 9.  Sabic , the world’s largest petrochemicals
maker rose 2.2 percent, to 92.75 riyals, the highest in four
months.  Al Rajhi Bank , the kingdom’s largest publicly-traded
lender by market value, advanced 1 percent to 77 riyals, the
highest in almost two weeks.  Red Sea Housing Services Co. , a Saudi Arabian company that
provides readymade housing units, rose the most in almost two
years after saying its order backlog grew more than threefold.
The shares jumped 9.8 percent to 44.7 riyals, the highest since
Aug. 8.  The Tadawul index fluctuated between gains and losses
earlier in the session. “In the short-to-medium term more mixed
bags days like today are expected, with few domestic catalysts
available to give the market direction,” said  Anas Kassem , an
investment analyst at Ajeej Capital in Riyadh.  Saudi Arabia’s stock market is the only Gulf Arab benchmark
tracked by Bloomberg that trades on a Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 