-- Strauss-Kahn Says Officials at G-20 Agreed on `Biggest Reform Ever' of IMF
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-23T06:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/strauss-kahn-says-officials-at-g-20-agreed-on-biggest-reform-ever-of-imf.html
Group of 20 nations agreed on an
overhaul of the International Monetary Fund that gives a larger
voice to emerging market nations, IMF Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said.  More than 6 percent of voting rights will be reallocated to
underrepresented emerging-market nations and Europe will give up
two board seats in the “biggest reform ever in the governance
of the institution,” Strauss-Kahn told reporters today in
Gyeongju, South Korea. The G-20 also agreed on the structure for
a “financial safety net” to stop nascent financial crises
before they speed out of control, he said.  The IMF’s board may approve the package in the first week
in November, and it will probably take a year for the changes to
be put in place, Strauss-Kahn said. The package includes a shift
in the composition of the IMF’s executive board and the fund’s
10 biggest shareholders.  Strauss-Kahn called the deal a “historical agreement” as
the Washington-based lender takes on a larger role in monitoring
the world’s economies, currencies and capital flows. South Korea,
the host of this weekend’s meeting of G-20 financial chiefs,
proposed the safety net.  G-20 officials also prepared an agreement to avoid
competitive devaluations and give the IMF greater sway in
assessing economic imbalances among nations.  All-Elected Board  The IMF will move to an all-elected executive board of
directors and Europe will give up two seats. Earlier today, a G-
20 official said that the Group of Seven, Brazil, Russia, India
and China settled on the plan after a disagreement between the
U.S. and Europe over how to increase the role of emerging-market
countries on the fund’s board.  Group of 20 leaders pledged last year to increase the
voting power of China and others and planned to settle on
details before G-20 leaders meet in Seoul in November. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has cited this plan in
his campaign for China to allow its currency, the yuan, to
appreciate against the dollar.  Strauss-Kahn said the changes will give the IMF a “totally
legitimate board.” European nations will be able to take
advantage of the implementation period to work out exactly how
the shift in board seats will take place, he said.  After the changes take effect, the fund’s 10 biggest
shareholders will comprise the U.S., Japan, four major European
economies and Brazil, Russia, India and China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 rbuergin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  