-- U.S. Yield Curve Widens to Steepest Since September on Fed View
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-23T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/u-s-yield-curve-widens-to-steepest-since-september-on-easing-speculation.html
The difference between yields on 2-
and 10-year Treasuries widened to the greatest amount since
September on trader speculation about how much debt the Federal
Reserve may buy if it resumes purchases of U.S. securities.  Government notes maturing in five years and less were
little changed as St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said the
size of asset buys in a strategy known as quantitative easing
should be based on economic conditions, starting with $100
billion next month. Some previous forecasts have topped $1
trillion for the next year. The U.S. will sell $109 billion in
notes and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities next week.  “People have been pushed into a corner with all the debate
and uncertainty about QE2,” said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New
York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.
“It will be a tough time with the volatility until we find out
more about what’s going on.”  The yield curve, the gap between 2- and 10-year yields,
steepened to 2.204 percentage points, the most since 2.273
percentage points on Sept. 17.  The benchmark  10-year note yield  fell less than one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.55 percent in New York,
from 2.56 percent on Oct. 15. It reached a 2010 high of 4.01
percent in April. The 2.625 percent security due in August 2020
traded at 100 19/32, according to BGCantor Market Data.  The  two-year note  yielded 0.35 percent, near the record low
of 0.327 percent set Oct. 12. The seven-year yield fell two
basis points to 1.86 percent, while the  30-year bond  yield
dropped five basis points to 3.93 percent, after touching a 2010
high of 4.86 percent in April.  Stocks Beat Treasuries  Treasuries returned 0.25 percent this week and lost 0.06
percent for October, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. That compared with gains of 0.6 percent and 3.7
percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Alan Blinder , former vice chairman of the Fed, said
yesterday policy makers are improvising as they debate easing,
“making it up as they go along.” They probably won’t announce
a “shock-and-awe” purchase effort next month and will more
likely “dribble it out” by buying in smaller increments, Blinder
said in an interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Investors have been debating how much debt the Fed may buy
to spur inflation and employment since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said Oct. 15 there appears to be a “case for further action.”
The central bank completed purchases of about $1.7 trillion of
debt in March to support the recovery, including $300 billion in
Treasuries in 2009. The policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee next meets Nov. 2-3.  ‘What Is Left?’  “The problem that the Fed faces is that if this doesn’t
work, then what is left?”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-
income capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc.
in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients. “The Fed has
some big decisions to make.”  The central bank will say after its policy meeting it will
acquire securities at a rate of $100 billion per month for an
initial total of $500 billion to $700 billion, Citigroup
strategists led by  Amitabh Arora  in New York wrote in a research
note yesterday. The firm is one of 18 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed.  Bill Gross , Pacific Investment Management Co.’s co-founder
and manager of the world’s biggest mutual fund, said Oct. 8 on
Bloomberg TV the central bank may buy about $100 billion in
government debt a month, or $1.2 trillion over the next year.  “The Fed should definitely try and expand its balance
sheet a lot -- at least $1 trillion or so if they want to make a
dent on the lack of liquidity,”  Dominic Konstam , global head of
interest rates research in New York at primary dealer Deutsche
Bank AG, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Radio.  Note Auctions  The U.S. will auction $35 billion in two-year notes, an
equal amount of five-year securities and $29 billion in seven-
year debt in sales that begin Oct. 26, the Treasury said Oct.
21. While the $99 billion package is bigger than the $97 billion
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, it’s $1 billion smaller
than the last offering of the maturities in September.  The Treasury will also sell $10 billion of five-year
inflation-indexed securities on Oct. 25.  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets rose in August, a report showed Oct. 18, as investors
bought Treasuries in anticipation of more Fed bond purchases.
Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled $128.7
billion in August compared with net buying of $61.2 billion in
July, according to data from the Treasury Department.  Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$117 billion in August, compared with purchases of $30 billion
in July, the data showed.  ‘Forward Guidance’  Bullard of the St. Louis Fed proposed Oct. 21 that the
central bank acquire long-term Treasuries next month and
consider more purchases later in units of $100 billion.  “We could give forward guidance for the next meeting that
would suggest how likely the committee thinks we would continue
these purchases,” Bullard said at a conference.  Some investors are betting Fed efforts to spur the economy
will lead to faster inflation, yields indicate.  The  difference  between the rate on 30-year bonds and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, widened to 2.54 percentage
points yesterday from 2.12 percentage points on Oct. 1. The
five-year average is 2.40 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  