-- U.S. Stocks Advance for Third Straight Week on Earnings Reports
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/u-s-stocks-advance-for-third-straight-week-on-earnings-reports.html
U.S. stocks  rallied for a third
straight week as earnings and forecasts at companies from Coca-
Cola Co. to Boeing Co. beat estimates and traders speculated the
Federal Reserve will purchase debt to stimulate the economy.  Coca-Cola, Boeing and Travelers Cos. helped lead gains in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average, rising more than 1.6 percent.
More than 85 percent of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies
that have posted third-quarter results since Oct. 7 topped the
average analyst profit projection. Massey Energy Co. surged 13
percent, the most in the S&P 500, amid takeover bets.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.6 percent to 1,183.08 this week. It
closed at 1,184.71 on Oct. 18, the highest level since May 3.
The  Dow  increased 69.78 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,132.56.
Both measures have risen in seven of the past eight weeks.  “Earnings, for the most part, have indicated the economy
still remains very healthy,” said  Robert Stimpson , a money
manager at Oak Associates Ltd. in Akron, Ohio, which oversees
$800 million. “The companies that make up the market are doing
pretty good. Then there’s the idea of additional quantitative
easing coming from the Fed, so the combined effect has been good
for investors.”  U.S. companies are poised to report the fourth straight
quarterly earnings increase as speculation that the Fed will
inject more money into the economy boosted investor confidence
and offset uncertainty about global currency markets. The Fed
said Oct. 20 that U.S. economic growth showed little sign of
acceleration last month, bolstering speculation the central bank
will act to stimulate growth.  More Buybacks  Coca-Cola  gained 2.8 percent to $61.61. The soft-drink
maker boosted third-quarter profit by 8.4 percent after winning
more customers overseas and increasing North American sales
volume for the second quarter in a row. The company also said it
may repurchase $2 billion of its shares this year, up from the
$1.5 billion announced previously.  Boeing  rose 1.6 percent to $71.26. The world’s second-
largest commercial-jet builder boosted its full-year earnings
forecast and posted a third-quarter profit as it delivered more
jetliners, recovering from delays caused by a supplier’s
defective seats. Profit, which was $1.12 a share, beat 20
analysts’ average estimate of $1.07 in a Bloomberg survey.  Travelers  rose 2.7 percent to $55.10. The insurer of homes,
cars and businesses lifted its full-year forecast after third-
quarter profit rose as sales increased and investment gains
climbed. Operating profit, which excludes some investment
results, was $1.81 a share, beating the $1.47 average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Takeover Speculation  Massey  surged 13 percent to $39.83. The Wall Street Journal
said the owner of the Upper Big Branch coal mine where 29 people
died in April is considering a sale and other options. The
newspaper cited people familiar with the matter. In a statement,
Massey said its board and management are “always focused on
opportunities to create shareholder value,” and it doesn’t
“comment on specific opportunities.”  Intel Corp.  climbed 2.7 percent to $19.835. The chipmaker
said it will spend between $6 billion and $8 billion on U.S.
factory upgrades, which would create 800 to 1,000 manufacturing
jobs and as many as 8,000 construction jobs, after predicting
fourth-quarter revenue that may top analysts’ estimates.  “The market had a really strong run into earnings season
and that tends to be problematic because investors are already
anticipating good earnings,” Stimpson said. “This time though
we’re seeing that as companies are reporting good earnings,
they’re continuing to climb.”  ‘Do It Yourself’  Home Depot Inc. increased 2.5 percent to $31.48.  Frank Blake , the chief executive officer of the nation’s largest home-
improvement retailer, said the company will focus on improving
sales in the U.S. as the economic recovery takes hold, rather
than expanding in China where “do-it-yourself” home
improvement is not as popular, Reuters reported.  Wells Fargo & Co. rose 11 percent to $26.11. The largest
U.S. home lender reported record third-quarter profit that beat
most analysts’ estimates as credit conditions improved, and said
it’s not planning to halt foreclosures.  EBay Inc. gained 9.3 percent to $28.07. The owner of the
second-most visited e-commerce site forecast fourth-quarter
sales and earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Chief
Executive Officer  John Donahoe  has cut listing fees to lure more
sellers and taken steps to make EBay’s main Marketplaces
commerce site easier to use.  “It’s going to be very specific going forward,” said  Greg Woodard , a strategist at Manning & Napier in Fairport, New York,
which manages about $35 billion. “Some of the macro headwinds
are really going to separate the winners from the losers in
terms of individual companies. The earnings have offset what
continues to be a lot of macro worries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 