-- Vietnam Inflation Accelerates to 19-Month High After Currency Devaluation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-23T05:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/vietnam-inflation-accelerates-to-19-month-high-after-currency-devaluation.html
Vietnam’s  inflation  accelerated to a
19-month high, a sign that an August currency devaluation may be
hurting efforts to restrain prices.  Consumer prices rose 9.66 percent in October from the same
month a year earlier, according to figures released by the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi today. That’s faster than an
8.92 percent increase the previous month. Prices rose 1.05
percent from September.  Vietnam has devalued its currency three times in the past
year as policy makers sought to cut the trade deficit. The
dong’s weakness may fan inflation, which has held above 8
percent for nine consecutive months, exceeding the government’s
target for this year.  “Inflation is on the rise again and we expect it to top 10
percent by year-end,”  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based
senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, said in
an Oct. 11 note. “Policy makers have ignored the fact that real
interest rates have turned negative as growth seems to be their
primary goal.”  Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung ’s government is targeting
economic growth of as much as 7.5 percent and inflation of about
7 percent next year. Gross domestic product may expand 6.7
percent in 2010, Dung told the National Assembly on Oct. 20.  Dong, Stocks  The State Bank of Vietnam weakened the currency’s reference
exchange rate by 2 percent in August, citing the need to curb
the trade shortfall.  The dong traded at 19,495 per dollar in the interbank
market as of the close in Hanoi yesterday, from 19,099 when the
central bank devalued the currency. The Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange’s  VN Index  rose for a second day, adding less than 0.1
percent to 445.21.  “The Vietnamese dong weakness will continue to push up
inflation,”  Alan Pham , the Ho Chi Minh City-based chief
economist for VinaSecurities, said in a monthly research note
received on Oct. 15. “The possibility of another devaluation in
the 2 to 3 percent range cannot be ruled out.”  Overall food prices rose 11.91 percent in October from a
year earlier, and climbed 1.32 percent from September.  -- Jason Folkmanis . With assistance from  Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen .
Editors:  Sunil Jagtiani ,  Stephanie Phang   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  