-- LVMH Says It Holds a 14.2% Stake in Hermes, Does Not Plan to Seek Control
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-23T17:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/lvmh-says-it-holds-a-14-2-stake-in-hermes-does-not-plan-to-seek-control.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ,
the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, said it intends to
raise its stake in  Hermes International SCA  to 17.1 percent
after buying 14.2 percent and doesn’t plan on taking control of
its rival.  LVMH, which declined to say if it held Hermes shares before
today, said the total cost of the purchase would be 1.45 billion
euros ($2 billion). An external spokesman for Paris-based LVMH,
who asked not to be identified, declined to give further
details. Investors in France must disclose shareholdings of five
percent and more.  “LVMH has no intention of launching a tender offer, taking
control of Hermes nor seeking board representation,” LVMH said
today in a statement. “The objective of LVMH is to be a long-
term shareholder of Hermes. LVMH fully supports the strategy
implemented by the founding family and the management team.”
Calls to Hermes were not immediately returned.  Hermes shares have climbed 77 percent in Paris since the
May 1 death of former Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Louis Dumas 
on speculation the company’s founding family may be more willing
to sell. His death caused no change in the Hermes family’s
attachment to the maker of Birkin bags and silk scarves, the
company said at the time. Most of Hermes stock is privately
held.  Full-Year Forecast  Sales of luxury goods may climb this year to the highest
level since 2007, led by demand in China and a rebound in the
U.S., according to Bain & Co. consultants. Hermes sales may
climb as much as 12 percent, the company said July 20. Hermes
had a profit margin of 15.1 percent last year while LVMH
reported profitability of 10.3 percent, according to Bloomberg
data.  “Although LVMH claims that it is not seeking control,
speculation will obviously mount that it will move towards
control over time,”  Matthew Jordan , head of research at Matrix
in London, said today.  LVMH could raise funds by selling the rest of its drinks
unit to  Diageo Plc , according to Jordan. That could raise about
10.5 billion pounds ($16.5 billion) for LVMH and give Diageo,
which owns 34 percent of the luxury goods-maker’s drinks unit,
full ownership of brands including Moet champagne and Hennessy
cognac, he said. A Diageo spokesman declined to comment.  Derivative Instruments  The 14.2 percent stake was equivalent to 15,016,000 shares,
according to LVMH. LVMH, which is run by CEO Bernard Arnault,
said it also holds derivative instruments over 3 million Hermes
shares and intends to convert them to bring its holding to
18,071,246 shares, or 17.1 percent.  The company would have paid an average of about 80 euros a
share at the stated value of 1.45 billion euros for the entire
transaction, according to Bloomberg calculations. The shares
closed at 176.20 euros a share in Paris trading yesterday.
Hermes shares trade at 51.8 times earnings. The LVMH spokesman
declined to comment on when the company would raise the holding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 