-- Typhoon Megi Hits China's Southern Coast, Leaves 11 Dead Crossing Taiwan
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2010-10-23T08:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-23/typhoon-megi-hits-china-s-southern-coast-leaves-11-dead-crossing-taiwan.html
Typhoon Megi, which left at least 11
people dead as it skirted Taiwan and killed 26 in the
Philippines, made landfall in Zhangpu city in China’s
southeastern province of Fujian, the official Xinhua News Agency
 reported , citing authorities.  The storm hit the coast with winds up to 140 kilometers (87
miles) per hour and is forecast to bring as much as 100
millimeters (3.9 inches) of rain to some areas in the next 12
hours, Xinhua said. Megi will weaken to a tropical storm with
winds of 102 kph soon after reaching China, the U.S. Navy Joint
Typhoon Warning Center  said  in its final advisory today.  The storm may worsen conditions in China’s southern
provinces, where water levels remain high following earlier
storms that damaged flood-control infrastructure, the water
resources ministry said this week. Floods and landslides have
killed more than 2,000 people in China this year.  More than 270,000 people were evacuated as the storm
approached, Xinhua said. A total of 79 flights to and from
Xiamen airport, Fujian province, were canceled as of 8.30 a.m.
local time. The Dadeng Bridge connecting Xiamen to Dadeng Island
was closed from 7 a.m., according to the report.  At least 11 people were killed in floods and landslides in
Taiwan, where Megi dumped as much as 1,195 millimeters of rain
in the northeast of the island since Oct. 21. Nine bodies were
found in houses covered by a landslide next to a Buddhist temple
in Yilan County, where 2,742 people were evacuated, Taiwan’s
National Fire Agency said on its  website .  Tourists Missing  A busload of 19 Chinese tourists, their driver and guide
were missing after landslides hit their vehicle in Yilan, the
agency said. Two people from a different bus with Chinese
tourists are also missing on the same highway.  The China National Tourism Administration said yesterday
that a mainland tour guide died as a result of the storm and a
tourist was injured.  A total of 1,652 households were still without power in
Taiwan at 9 a.m. today and agricultural losses have reached
about NT$46 million ($1.5 million), the fire agency said.  In Hong Kong, which braced for a possible direct hit, the
city’s observatory canceled all storm signals at 8:40 p.m. local
time last night.  Earlier this week, 26 people died in the Philippines as the
storm, which made landfall as a supertyphoon on Oct. 18, passed
over Luzon, the National Disaster Coordinating Council  said  in a
statement today. Megi is estimated to have caused about 8.3
billion Philippine pesos ($192 million) of damage to schools,
infrastructure, agriculture, and fisheries, the council said.  New Storms  The U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center is also tracking
two tropical depressions over the Pacific Ocean east of the
Philippines.  Tropical Depression 16W was about 1,500 kilometers east-
northeast of Manila at 8 a.m. Philippines time today, according
to an  advisory  today. It is forecast to become a tropical storm
tomorrow and a typhoon in five days as it heads north toward the
Japanese islands of Okinawa and Kyushu.  Tropical Depression 17W was  located  northeast of Saipan and
is forecast to move northwest, away from land.  In the northeastern Indian Ocean, Tropical Cyclone Giri
weakened as it made landfall on Myanmar’s west coast late
yesterday, the U.S. center  said . The storm crossed the coast
near the city of Sittwe and shortly after midnight was heading
inland carrying winds of 148 kph, the center said in its final
advisory. Giri is forecast to weaken throughout today.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 