-- Harrah's accepts $17.1 billion private equity bid
-- By Deena Beasley
-- Tue Dec 19, 2006 7:52pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/20/businesspro-harrahs-takeover-dc-idUSWEN138820061220

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - The board of the world's largest 
casino operator, Harrah's Entertainment Inc. HET.N, has 
accepted a $17.1 billion buyout bid from private equity groups 
Apollo Management and Texas Pacific Group TPG.UL. 

  The $90-per-share deal announced on Tuesday is still 
subject to shareholder approval and a regulatory process that 
could take a year or more.  It marks an end to more than two months of talks that 
followed a previous $81-a-share offer from Apollo and TPG, 
although Harrah's said it would seek higher bids over the next 
25 days.  "I don't expect further bids, but anything is possible," 
Chief Executive Gary Loveman told Reuters in an interview.  The private equity firms, which are paying a 35 percent 
premium to the price of Harrah's shares at the end of September 
just before their first offer was announced, will also assume 
$10.7 billion in debt, Harrah's said.  "It's a fair price for Harrah's shareholders. The 25 days 
allows them to say this is what we came up with on our own, now 
we are opening it up to others," said Robert LaFleur at 
Susquehanna Financial Group.  Shares of Las Vegas-based Harrah's, which were halted 
before the deal was announced, rose 12 cents to $82.30 on the 
New York Stock Exchange before trading was stopped.  The stock has not responded strongly to reports of higher 
bids due to concerns about the amount of time it will take to 
complete the deal due to casino licensing requirements, experts 
have said.  Across the market, many executives have cooperated with 
moves to take their companies private, lured by big payouts 
from the change of control and the prospect of escaping the 
pressure they face when companies are publicly traded.  Loveman said that Harrah's does not need to access the 
public capital markets, because of its robust cash flow and 
large size in the wake of its 2005 acquisition of Caesars 
Entertainment. "The time and effort it takes to comply with the 
public markets is not especially helpful to us," he said.  The casino sector has been particularly rife with deals as 
private equity firms seek out new areas to invest hundreds of 
billions of dollars in new funds.  Station Casinos Inc. ( STN.N ) announced plans on December 4 
for a $4.7 billion management-led buyout. Smaller casino 
operator Penn National Gaming Inc. ( PENN.O ) had also been 
considering a bid for Harrah's, according to sources.  "We don't think today's deal is the last involving private 
equity and gaming and see more of it and balance sheet recaps 
as big themes heading into 2007," Bear Stearns analyst Joe 
Greff said in a research note.  LaFleur said the new Harrah's owners were likely to sell 
off some non-core assets, such as the Rio casino off the Las 
Vegas Strip, which would be more valuable to operators like 
Penn or Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. ( PNK.N ).  Loveman said the announced deal does not trigger any asset 
sales and none are planned at this time.  He also said Harrah's plans to move forward with 
long-standing plans to redevelop its holdings on the Las Vegas 
Strip and in Atlantic City, but said there is no firm time 
frame for when it will announce final schemes.  Loveman's strategy for Harrah's has focused on leveraging 
the company's massive customer database, called Total Rewards, 
to cross-market its nationwide chain of around 39 casinos, 
which includes brands like Horseshoe, Harrah's and Caesars.  The company also expects to complete before year-end its 
acquisition of British casino operator London Clubs 
International Plc LCI.L and is developing projects in the 
Bahamas, Spain and Solvenia.  The two sides said they expect to close the deal within a 
year, and the buyers will begin paying shareholders' interest 
expenses if the closing is delayed past March 1, 2008.  "They've pretty much put their money where their mouth is 
and said they can get the deal done in 14 months, and they are 
willing to pay shareholders if it takes longer than that," 
LaFleur said.  A Harrah's spokesman said the $17.1 billion equity value of 
the deal was based on an update of the outstanding shares it 
had reported at the end of September, which initially yielded a 
$16.7 billion value.  The deal would rank in the top 10 private equity buyouts 
this year, which include the $21 billion buyout of HCA Inc. and 
a $20 billion deal for Equity Office Properties Trust EOP.N.  (Additional reporting by  Bill Rigby  in New York)