-- Time Warner Cable gets closer to going public
-- 
-- Wed Dec 20, 2006 6:38pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/20/businesspro-timewarnercable-adelphia-dc-idUSN2035195520061220

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Shares of Time Warner Cable could 
begin trading in two weeks, if a related bankruptcy plan for 
Adelphia Communications Corp. ADELQ.PK is approved this week, 
two analysts said on Wednesday. 

  Adelphia is using a 16 percent stake in Time Warner Cable 
to pay its creditors, as part of a 2005 deal for Adelphia's 
cable assets.  Once the shares are distributed, Time Warner is expected to 
register them with the New York Stock Exchange to pave the way 
for public trading,  "Trading on the NYSE could begin as early as January 5, 
2007," Spencer Wang, an analyst at Bear Stearns, wrote in a 
note on Monday.  Wall Street analysts said Judge Robert Gerber of the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York could 
rule on Adelphia's bankruptcy plan this week, completing a 
process that has dragged on since 2002.  The bankruptcy confirmation hearing ended on Tuesday, and 
Wang said it appeared that "a sufficient number of creditors 
have agreed to the plan."  Time Warner Inc. ( TWX.N ) and Comcast Corp. ( CMCSA.O ) agreed 
in April 2005 to buy the assets of Adelphia. The deal closed in 
this past July for around $17 billion.  But various disagreements between Adelphia's creditors 
about how proceeds from the asset sale should be split had 
slowed down the process.  On October 18, Time Warner Cable said that it had filed 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial 
public offering.  Wang said it is now less likely that Time Warner Cable 
becomes public via an initial public offering.  "Given the faster bankruptcy timetable, the mechanism for 
this flotation is unlikely to be the conventional IPO process," 
he wrote.  Wang and another analyst, who asked not to be identified, 
said that an IPO would subject Adelphia creditors to 
transaction costs and could be time-consuming with registration 
expenses.  Time Warner Cable is the second-largest U.S cable operator 
with more than 14 million subscribers.  Adelphia creditors are required to sell at least one-third 
of the common stock within three months of receiving them.  Cable stock prices have risen strongly this year due to 
strong subscriber growth on the back of attractively priced 
bundled offering of television, high speed Internet access and 
phone.  Comcast shares have risen by more than 64.5 percent since 
the start of the year, while Cablevision Systems Corp. ( CVC.N ) 
has climbed more than 20 percent.