-- Housebuilder Wimpey flags continuing U.S. concerns
-- 
-- Wed Dec 20, 2006 4:39am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/20/businesspro-wimpey-trading-dc-idUSL2047530920061220

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - British housebuilder George Wimpey 
WMPY.L flagged concerns on Wednesday that it may miss 
analysts' year profit forecasts if it decides to write off 
further land options as U.S. housing continues to struggle. 

  "Group profit before tax for 2006 is expected to be in line 
with our expectations, prior to U.S. option exit costs and land 
value provisions," the company said in a statement.  It said its latest review of its U.S. land values coupled 
with costs to exit land options would result in a 2.5 percent 
write down of its net assets. With more than 1.6 billion pounds 
($3.2 billion) of assets, analysts calculate the value of the 
write off to be around 43 million pounds after tax.  Shares in the group, which have risen around 40 percent in 
the last six months, fell 1.75 percent in early trading to 562 
pence to value the business at around 2.2 billion pounds.  The company has around three-quarters of its business in 
Britain with the remaining 25 percent in the United States.  Wimpey has seen a sharp deterioration in the housing market 
in some of its key U.S. territories, noting California, Florida 
and Arizona as particular problem areas. However, the downturn 
has so far been cushioned by a British market picking up pace 
once again.
  GREEN SHOOTS  Some housing experts have predicted a soft landing for the 
U.S. housing market with the green shoots of recovery expected 
to start to show in the new year.  "The market is beginning to look through the bad news," 
said one analyst who did not wish to be named.  "The key issue now is the spring selling season. We'd 
expect things to improve in spring and some confidence to come 
back and sales rates to start to improve," he added.  Chief Executive Peter Redfern said there was light at the 
end of the tunnel there. "We think we have weathered the 
heaviest impact of the U.S. ... We've seen the first signs of 
the market starting to stabilize."  "We would be very surprised if it (the U.S. house market) 
doesn't turn during 2007," he added.  Wimpey said its UK forward order book for 2007 stood at 763 
million pounds ($1.5 billion), a 10 percent increase by volume 
and 11 percent by value compared with the same time last year. 
Its U.S. forward order book was down 64 percent in volume and 
68 percent in value, with prices and margins significantly 
lower.  The firm had already written off around $100 million of 
land deals as a result of the U.S. slowdown and said it was 
shunning land buys in all parts of the country except Texas, 
and would have reduced its U.S. land-bank plots by more than 20 
percent by the end of December.