-- Juniper passed up as Ericsson picks Redback: analysts
-- By  Ritsuko Ando
-- Wed Dec 20, 2006 4:24pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/20/businesspro-redback-ericsson-juniper-dc-idUSN2039994320061220

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Juniper Networks Inc. JNPR.O appears 
to be left out in the cold after Ericsson ( ERICb.ST ), long 
rumored to be a potential suitor, announced it would buy 
smaller rival Redback Networks Inc. RBAK.O instead. 

  Ericsson said on Tuesday it will acquire Redback for $2.1 
billion, dashing speculation the Swedish mobile equipment maker 
could seek out Juniper, analysts said.  Both Redback and Juniper sell edge routing equipment that 
connect users to the Internet.  Juniper shares fell as much as 4.4 percent on Wednesday as 
investors worried a wave of mergers in the sector is creating 
stronger competitors, as well as telephone carrier clients with 
more bargaining power because they are also merging.  "A rapidly consolidating communications equipment sector 
has left it with limited options ... and increasingly 
formidable competition in its core markets," said Ittai Kidron, 
a CIBC World Markets analyst.  Kidron downgraded his rating on Juniper to sector performer 
from outperformer. Juniper's Nasdaq shares fell to as low as 
$18.40 before recuperating to $19.19, still down 2.08 percent.  The shares Tellabs Inc. ( TLAB.O ), another network equipment 
maker previously thought to be a potential Ericsson acquisition 
target, fell 2 percent to $10.18.  Kidron and others said that, of the few merger options left 
to Juniper, Motorola Inc. MOT.N could be a good fit, but the 
cell phone maker may be too busy integrating other deals.  Nokia ( NOK1V.HE ) and Siemens AG ( SIEGn.DE ) are also seen by 
analysts to be too focused on their planned merger to actively 
court Juniper, especially with a corruption probe at Siemens.  Juniper's bigger rivals, which analysts say can offer more 
comprehensive services and hold greater pricing power, include 
Cisco Systems Inc. ( CSCO.O ) and the newly merged Alcatel-Lucent 
ALU.PA( ALU.N ).  Analysts said the Ericsson-Redback deal may also hurt 
Juniper because Ericsson is a key business partner, as it 
resells Juniper's equipment.  "This deal could potentially weaken the Ericsson-Juniper 
partnership, which accounted for roughly 13 percent of 
Juniper's fiscal year 2005 revenues, we believe," Prudential 
analyst Inder Singh said in a report.  But most said the partnership was unlikely to be completely 
severed since Juniper also sells core routers, which direct 
data traffic within a network.  Juniper spokeswoman Susan Ursch said the company did not 
expect a change in its relationship with Ericsson and that a 
majority of the revenue it earned through the Ericsson 
partnership was in the core routers business.  JP Morgan analyst Ehud Gelblum said the main risk facing 
Juniper at the moment was an investigation into its stock 
options practices.  Juniper in October reported a 5 percent rise in third- 
quarter revenue to $573.6 million, but did not disclose full 
earnings results due to the options probe.