-- US FCC eases path for phone companies to offer TV
-- By  Peter Kaplan
-- Wed Dec 20, 2006 6:17pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/20/businesspro-fcc-tv-dc-idUSN2042125620061220

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Communications 
Commission approved a plan on Wednesday that would make it 
easier for companies such as AT&T Inc. ( T.N ) and Verizon 
Communications Inc. ( VZ.N ) to get into the subscription 
television business. 

  By a 3-2 vote, the FCC set time limits for local 
authorities to act on applications by new television providers 
and said requirements imposed on some new entrants, such as 
building a local swimming pool, were unreasonable.  Local jurisdictions would have 90 days to act on 
applications by new television providers that already have 
access to city land to run connections and 180 days for new 
entrants to cities and towns.  FCC Chairman Kevin Martin said helping new entrants provide 
video services would advance the agency's goal of getting high- 
speed Internet to all Americans and help curb rising prices for 
paid television service.  "Cable competition can make a difference and can impact 
cable bills," Martin told the open meeting of the FCC.  But the measure was opposed by the two Democrats on the 
commission, who said it trampled the authority of local 
officials. They added it would ultimately be struck down by the 
courts.  AT&T and Verizon have complained that the process to get 
licenses from local authorities is too cumbersome and time- 
consuming. They tried to get similar relief from Congress but 
lawmakers failed to pass legislation this year.  The telephone carriers see offering television as a 
necessary component as they bundle communications services to 
better compete against cable operators that now offer their own 
telephone and high-speed Internet services.  The FCC also issued its annual report on cable television 
prices on Wednesday, finding average rates increased 5.2 
percent to $43.04 a month during 2004, the most recent year for 
which figures were available. Since 1996, the report said, 
cable rates have ballooned 93 percent.  Martin ticked off a list of cases in which he said local 
authorities around the United States had bogged down potential 
competitors. In some cases, he said, they had taken years to 
act on franchise applications or made unrelated demands, such 
as filming a Christmas event.  "Such unreasonable requirements are especially troubling 
because competition is desperately needed in the video market," 
Martin said.  The FCC order provoked a quick rebuke from the National 
League of Cities. The group's executive director, Don Borut, 
said in a statement that it would "systematically block the 
ability of local governments to protect their citizens, local 
assets and revenues."  The head of the National Cable & Telecommunications 
Association also raised objections, saying the order does not 
provide a "level playing field" between existing cable 
companies and new competitors.  "There's no justification for treating the largest 
telecommunications companies on earth better than the other 
provider in this marketplace," said NCTA President Kyle 
McSlarrow.  States such as Texas and California have already passed 
laws permitting telephone companies to get statewide licenses 
on the condition they pay a portion of their video revenue to 
local authorities to cover the usage of public rights-of-way, 
as cable companies do.  The FCC said its action would not preempt state legislation 
aimed at speeding consideration of license applications.