-- Wyndham Worldwide profit falls, holds forecast
-- 
-- Thu May 1, 2008 8:16am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/05/01/businesspro-wyndhamworldwide-dc-idUSN0129642820080501

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wyndham Worldwide Corp ( WYN.N ), the 
world's No. 2 hotel group by rooms, said on Thursday 
first-quarter profit fell as growth in its economy hotel 
business was offset by a one-time charge related to the 
rebranding of its timeshare operations. 

  The U.S. No. 1 timeshare seller, which also operates hotel 
brands such as Ramada, Days Inn and Super 8, said it was 
confident it could weather a downturn in travel spending 
hurting upscale rivals Starwood and Marriott, and held its 
full-year profit forecast unchanged.  Wyndham, spun off from Cendant Corp in July 2006, reported 
quarterly net profit of $42 million, or 24 cents per share, 
compared with $86 million, or 45 cents per share, in the 
year-ago quarter.  Excluding a trademark writedown of $17 million and costs 
associated with the Cendant spin off, earnings were 35 cents 
per share. Wall Street was expecting 33 cents, on average, 
according to Reuters Estimates.  Revenue was flat at $1 billion, in line with analysts' 
estimates, as growth in its hotel and vacation rental business 
was offset by lower timeshare sales.  Its hotel revenue rose 12 percent to $170 million, helped 
by growth in its international business, and its vacation 
rental and exchange revenue rose 9 percent to $341 million.  The company's overall revenue per available room, the most 
common measure of growth in the industry, rose 2.7 percent in 
the quarter, compared with a 2.2 gain a year ago.  But its timeshare business, which it has now rebranded 
under the Wyndham name, saw revenue fall 8 percent to $504 
million, which the company said was due to more revenue being 
deferred due to accounting for incomplete timeshare buildings.  The softening U.S. economy has threatened to accelerate a 
slowdown in the once-booming hotel industry, which has been 
cooling as supply creeps up.  But Wyndham, which serves primarily leisure travelers 
through its large timeshare businesses and economy hotel 
chains, remains confident.  "Wyndham Worldwide's portfolio of resilient businesses and 
brands produced strong first-quarter results despite the 
challenging economic environment," Stephen Holmes, Wyndham's 
chief executive, said in a statement.  Earlier this month, leading U.S. hotel operators Marriott 
International Inc MAR.N and Starwood Hotels & Resorts 
Worldwide Inc ( HOT.N ) reported lower quarterly profit as the 
slowing U.S. economy took a toll on travel spending.  Looking ahead, Wyndham held its full-year earnings forecast 
steady in a range of $2.23 to $2.38 per share, in line with 
analysts' average forecast of $2.28.  For the second quarter, it forecast profit of 46 cents to 
48 cents per share, below the 50 cents expected by analysts. 
Wyndham said profit in the quarter would be cut by deferring 
revenue at its timeshare unit, but that revenue would be 
recognized in future quarters.  (Reporting by  Bill Rigby , editing by Mark Porter and John 
Wallace)