-- U.S. Spend-a-thon Risks Slide Into Greek Tragedy: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2009-12-14T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-13/u-s-spend-a-thon-risks-slide-into-greek-tragedy-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             A Republican takeover of the House
may be the only thing between the U.S. and the abyss.  
 The world economy shuddered last week as a rating company
downgrade of Greek debt set off fears of default. Investors
decided to beware of Greeks bearing bonds, and markets stumbled.  
 While the economic data are showing signs of a recovery,
there is a genuine risk that the book on this financial crisis
has yet to be completed. We may not even have reached the
climax.  
 Governments around the world have propped up their failing
financial institutions with borrowed money. We used to have
overleveraged banks; we replaced them with overleveraged
governments.  
 Panics start small and spread. If Greece goes down, almost
every Western government will be at risk.  
 The sad fact is that Greece is hardly exceptional when it
comes to fiscal insanity. If the current Greek budget outlook
proves to be accurate, then its deficit over this year and next
will average a whopping 10.9 percent of gross domestic product.
Small wonder that investors headed for the exits. A deficit that
high could easily turn into a fiasco.  
 As bad as that picture is, it’s worse in the U.S. Our
deficit this year, according to the latest estimate from the
Congressional Budget Office, will be 11.2 percent of gross
domestic product.  
 ‘Catastrophic Budget Failure’  
 Syracuse University economist Len Burman, the modest and
sober budget expert who was a top official in President Bill
Clinton’s Treasury Department, told the Washington Post that
according to a model he has developed to study the current
situation, a “catastrophic budget failure” might happen.  
 Burman added, “I try not to get too depressed, because if
I really thought it was going to play out the way this model
works, I would just move to a cabin in Montana and stockpile
gold and guns.”  
 The worst need not happen, of course. For the U.S., a clear
and reliable indication that our government takes the situation
seriously, and plans to address our terrible fiscal plight with
tough policy moves, might assuage markets.  
 Here is what the Democrats have done instead.  
 Health experts have for years been advocating the adoption
of so-called game changers, such as reducing physician
reimbursements, that could significantly reduce health-care
spending. Under current law, Medicare and Medicaid are on a
terrifying path to insolvency, having promised tens of trillions
more in benefits than we can afford. The plan was to use these
game changers to fix the government programs.  
 Game Unchanged  
 Instead, President Barack Obama and his Democratic
colleagues have decided to bundle the game changers with a
massive expansion of health spending. While they crow about the
budget neutrality of the emerging health bill, they have
essentially passed on the opportunity to fix the already broken
system.  
 A bill that contained only the game changers would have
been fiscally responsible. A bill that spends all the savings on
new initiatives moves poor Mr. Burman one step closer to a
bunker in Montana.  
 It is hard to imagine what other steps we might take in the
future to reduce health spending. Obamacare loads us onto a
runaway train.  
 Outside of health care, Democrats have been little more
responsible stewards than their Republican predecessors. Last
week, the House passed a budget that included a whopping 5,224
earmarks. The bill included funds for such high-priority
projects as the Aquatic Adventures Science Education Foundation
in San Diego, a water-taxi service for a Connecticut beach town
and new bike racks in Washington’s Georgetown neighborhood.  
 Take a Walk  
 World capital markets are looking for us to signal that we
are serious. In response, we give them new museum exhibits,
scenic running trails and decorative sidewalks.  
 While the total fiscal damage from the earmarks is
relatively slight in the scale of things -- last week’s binge
cost taxpayers $3.9 billion -- the spending spree signals a
clear lack of appreciation of this seriousness of the situation.  
 And the cumulative damage is eye-popping. When Nancy Pelosi
took over as speaker of the House in 2007, U.S. government
spending was projected by the CBO to be $2.9 trillion for 2009.
Instead, it was about $3.7 trillion. That bad news sticks, with
spending ratcheted up as far as the eye can see. First with a
Republican and now with a Democrat in the White House,
congressional Democrats have increased spending and shown no
inclination to stop, even as deficits have skyrocketed.  
 More to Come  
 Last week’s House budget vote suggests that the current
spending trend will continue. If so, there are two likely
endgames.  
 The first is a takeover of at least one branch of Congress
by Republicans. Divided government created a political dynamic
that delivered budget sanity when Clinton was president, and it
might do so again. Given the failure of both Republicans and
Democrats to govern sensibly as the dominant party, divided
government may be our only hope.  
 In the second scenario, Democrats continue to rule as they
currently are. Anyone who wants to understand better where that
will lead should call up the Greeks.  
 (Kevin Hassett, director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona in
the 2008 presidential election. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        