-- Wall Street Bonus Culture Ready to Rest in Peace: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2009-12-14T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-13/wall-street-bonus-culture-ready-to-rest-in-peace-david-pauly.html

          
          
             Condolences to Wall Street’s finest.
The huge cash bonuses they have longed for and savored are
history.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the profit king of the securities
business, has made sure of that. Goldman last week said its 30
top executives will get their traditional year-end bonuses in
stock instead of cash -- and the shares have serious
restrictions.  
 Recipients won’t be able to sell the stock for five years,
though it vests in three. And they might lose the shares if
Goldman determines later that the executives earned them by
taking heedless risks. Goldman  shareholders  now will also be
allowed to vote on the company’s pay, though their yes or no
won’t be binding on management.  
 Bonuses per se aren’t dead. Goldman and rivals Morgan
Stanley and  JPMorgan  Chase & Co. will dish out $29.7 billion in
2009 bonuses, analysts estimate. Some of that should be in cash,
and the stock handed out will, with luck, be worth a nice sum
years from now.  
 But the time-honored bonus culture featuring large cash
payments needed to end. Even a Goldman Sachs director admitted
that the day before the firm’s new bonus arrangement was
announced.  William George , who is also a professor at Harvard
Business School, said the practice “has got to move on,” and
that compensation needs to be closely tied to long-term
performance.  
 Reducing Risk  
 Instead of 60 percent of investment firm pay coming from
year-end handouts, more will be in salary. And there may be less
of that too, because of the pressure on banks from the
government and myriad critics to become sounder institutions by
raising capital and taking fewer risks. That will reduce profit
and the ability to pay.  
 The bonus era seemed over a year ago, when Wall Street
eliminated the payouts after those horrendous losses on
mortgage-related securities. Then this year, Goldman began
earmarking a percentage of its 2009  profit , which has been
large, for bonuses. For the first nine months of this year, the
amount was $16.7 billion.  
 There were outcries from Washington to Walla Walla from
folks who thought Goldman, as a recipient of government bailout
money, should have been more circumspect.  
 No Dice  
 The firm tried to justify the resurrection of bonuses by
claiming repeatedly that it hadn’t needed a rescue. That was
nonsense, in light of the facts.  
 Goldman got a $10 billion investment from the government
under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which it has repaid,
and has sold debt guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Perhaps more important, it also raised about $16 billion
by selling preferred and common shares.  
 Bonus-happy securities firms are under the gun elsewhere.
The U.K. last week said that banks there must pay a one-time tax
of 50 percent on discretionary bonuses exceeding 25,000 pounds
($40,500).  Nicolas Sarkozy , the president of France, said he too
would tax bonuses this year. French officials said the levy
would be on payments of more than 27,000 euros ($39,400).  
 Funny thing is, banks are hurrying to pay back government
investments to escape curbs on their pay imposed by politicians.
 Bank of America Corp.  sold $19.3 billion of new securities to
help repay $45 billion to the U.S.  
 The bank diluted its per-share earnings base, only to find
the day of huge bonuses gone.  
 ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        