-- Snowstorm Blankets U.S. East Coast, Disrupts Travel
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2010-12-27T12:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-25/blizzard-conditions-in-northeast-u-s-may-disrupt-post-christmas-travel.html
The U.S. East Coast faces a second
day of travel disruption after snowstorms blanketed cities from
New York to Boston, closing airports and halting trains with
waist-high drifts and blinding winds.  New York City may have as much as 18 inches to 20 inches (51
centimeters) on the ground as of 7 a.m., as the storm’s center
shifts north and east, commercial forecaster AccuWeather said.
Snowfall in the city eased by daybreak.  Almost 3,000 flights were canceled in the region.  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  and LaGuardia Airport were due to
reopen at 4 p.m. and 2 p.m. local time, respectively, the
Federal Aviation Administration said on its  website .  “The storm is going to trend north and east, and Boston is
going to get heavy snow this morning,” Robert Richards, a
meteorologist at State College, Pennsylvania-based AccuWeather
Inc., said by telephone. The blizzard left 10.4 inches of snow
at JFK airport yesterday, which is the most for a single day
since the late 1940s, he said.  The day after Christmas is one of the five busiest shopping
days of the year, and it may take retailers two weeks to capture
sales lost yesterday, according to Marshal Cohen, chief industry
analyst at NPD Group Inc., a research firm based in Port
Washington, New York.  Blizzard Warnings  The National Weather Service issued blizzard warnings for
New York, Boston and cities along the coast to Maine. Wind gusts
of as much as 60 miles (96 kilometers) per hour were expected in
New York, AccuWeather said.  Amtrak  resumed limited operations  between New York and
Boston after canceling service late yesterday. The Long Island
Rail Road said it plans to operate on a  holiday schedule today 
when it gets trains running again, according to a statement on
the Metropolitan Transportation Authority website.  NJ Transit, which transports about 170,000 commuters to and
from New York City daily, suspended bus service as of 8:30 p.m.
yesterday, according to a  statement . Rail service will run a
modified holiday schedule on all routes today except the
Atlantic City line, which will operate on a weekday schedule.  New York City will have 365 salt spreaders and 1,700
snowplows on the streets, and sanitation department employees
will work 12-hour shifts, New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said
yesterday at a press conference.  Power Outages  Consolidated Edison Inc.  reported there were 6,233
customers in Queens, New York, and 1,622 in Westchester County
without power.  Boston and its suburbs may receive as much as 18 inches
from the storm before it ends tomorrow, said Alan Dunham, a
National Weather Service meteorologist in Taunton,
Massachusetts. Part of central Massachusetts may receive as much
as 22 inches.  National Grid Plc, which provides electricity in New York
and Massachusetts, was reporting power outages at 15 sites
throughout New York and Massachusetts. The largest was in
Plymouth, Massachusetts, where 7,349 customers were without
power.  In Philadelphia, which may get as much as 12 inches of
snow, yesterday’s Eagles football game against the Minnesota
Vikings was rescheduled for 8 p.m. on Dec. 28, the Eagles said
on their  website .  Flights Scrubbed  Delta Air Lines Inc.  scrubbed about 850 flights yesterday,
about a sixth of its daily total.  United Continental Holdings
Inc. ’s Continental Airlines canceled 265 flights, mostly from
its hub at Newark, while United Airlines nixed about 110
departures for airports in the northeastern U.S.  US Airways Group Inc.  postponed 761 flights, Southwest
Airlines Co. about 450, and AMR Corp.’s American Airlines about
262. American canceled 171 flights for today out of the
northeast, according to spokeswoman  Mary Sanderson .  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  canceled half a dozen flights to and
from New York today,  Thomas Jachnow , a spokesman, said by
telephone.  British Airways Plc  also canceled additional flights
after scrubbing more than 10 flights to JFK and Newark
yesterday,  Cathy West , a spokeswoman, said.  “We do expect disruptions across our services to the
Eastern Seaboard today,” West said by telephone.  The storm also brought snow as far south as parts of
Jacksonville, Florida, AccuWeather said on its website.  The storm system began in the South over the Christmas
holiday. Four inches of snow fell in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
while 8 inches was reported in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.  Environment Canada  issued a blizzard warning yesterday for
northeastern New Brunswick and warned of heavy snow or rain in
the rest of the Maritime provinces today. Twelve inches of snow
may fall in New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island, and rain may
accompany the snow in Nova Scotia.  Winds may gust to 70 mph (113 kph) in eastern Nova Scotia
and 80 mph in western Newfoundland, the agency said.  Mayor Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  