-- Carlyle Is Said to Stay in Patni Bidding Contention as Advent Leaves Group
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-25T08:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-25/carlyle-is-said-to-stay-in-patni-bidding-contention-as-advent-leaves-group.html
Carlyle Group bid on its own to buy
control of  Patni Computer Systems Ltd.  and didn’t make an offer
with Advent International Corp., said a person with direct
knowledge of the transaction.  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest buyout firm, had
previously been working with Advent to acquire the 45.9 percent
stake held by Patni’s founding family as well as a stake held by
General Atlantic LLC, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Advent wanted to offer
a  lower price  for the Indian software company, so Carlyle
decided to go alone with its bid, the person said.  Former TPG Capital partner  Vivek Paul  is advising Carlyle
and may join Patni’s board if its bid wins, the person said.  Christopher Ullman , a Carlyle spokesman, declined to
comment.  Narendra Patni , chairman at the Indian computer-
services provider, didn’t respond to an e-mail and a call to his
Mumbai office after office hours. Patricia Hedley, a spokeswoman
for General Atlantic, and Louisa Feltes, an external spokeswoman
for Advent, didn’t respond to e-mails.  A controlling stake in Patni would allow the winning bidder
tap the recovering market for outsourced technology services, an
industry that Forrester Research Inc. estimates will grow 7.6
percent to $253 billion next year after rising 2.7 percent in
2010.  The sale would allow 68-year-old Patni and his family to
exit the company as demand for computer services helped the
 stock  more than double since its initial public offering six
years ago.  Apax, IGate  Patni shares jumped 2 percent yesterday in Mumbai to 490
rupees, taking the year-to-date gains to 14 percent.  Carlyle is competing with Apax Partners LLP and  IGate
Corp. , which are jointly bidding for the stake, three people
said on Dec 15. The management of Patni has been spending more
time with the Apax group, two other people said.  A final decision may come by early next week, they said.
IGate Chief Executive Officer  Phaneesh Murthy  and Benjamin
Harding, a London-based spokesman for Apax, didn’t respond to e-
mails seeking comment.  The Economic Times, citing people it didn’t identify,
reported yesterday that  IGate  is set to win the Patni stake
after Advent backed out.  General Atlantic held a 2.1 percent stake in Patni through
the company’s Mumbai-traded shares, as of Sept. 30, and a 15.4
percent stake through its holdings in its American depositary
receipts, according to data posted on the  Bombay Stock
Exchange ’s website.  Patni, founded in 1978, prepares customized software and
maintains computer systems for 280 customers in 38 countries.
The seven founders of  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s second-
largest software exporter, worked at Patni Computer before
starting their own company in 1981.  The company is currently India’s ninth-ranked software-
services provider by market value. It relies on customers in the
U.S. for the majority of its business and competes there with
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. , which announced record North
America sales in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  