-- China Increases Interest Rates to Curb Its Fastest Inflation in Two Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-25T17:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-25/china-raises-interest-rates-by-25-basis-points-in-bid-to-curb-inflation.html
China raised interest rates for the
second time since mid-October to counter the fastest inflation
in more than two years and more moves may follow.  The benchmark  one-year lending rate  will rise by 25 basis
points to 5.81 percent and the one-year deposit rate will climb
by the same amount to 2.75 percent, effective today, the
People’s Bank of China said in a one-sentence  statement  on its
website late yesterday.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News earlier this month
forecast one percentage point of increases by the end of 2011. Premier Wen Jiabao  is seeking to slow gains in property values
and consumer prices that are making it harder for families to
buy homes and pay for food. Bank lending and a wider-than-
forecast November trade surplus have pumped more cash into an 
economy already awash with money.  “This demonstrates how determined the government is to
control inflation,” said  Wang Qing , a Hong Kong-based economist
with Morgan Stanley. “Interest rates on medium and long-term
loans are adjusted by banks at the beginning of every year so by
raising rates now, this will have a much greater tightening
effect than it would have in January.”  Wang said he expects three more interest-rate adjustments
of 25 basis points each in the first half of next year.  Ken Peng , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong said yesterday
he forecasts increases totaling 100 basis points next year.  Tighter Policies  Today’s interest-rate increase is the first since Chinese
leaders on Dec. 3 announced a shift to a “prudent” monetary
policy from the “moderately loose” stance adopted to support
the economy amid the global financial crisis.  China reported 5.1 percent  inflation  for November, the
highest in 28 months. Also in November, exports reached a record
$153.3 billion and the  trade surplus  exceeded $20 billion for
the fifth time in sixth months, indicating a recovery in
international trade from the global financial crisis.  The latest rate increase is aimed at reining in inflation
expectations and narrowing the gap between gains in consumer
prices and savings rates,  Ba Shusong , a researcher at the State
Council’s Development Research Center, told state television
yesterday after the announcement.  The new benchmark  one-year deposit rate  of 2.75 percent and
the five-year rate of 4.55 percent compare with inflation of 5.1
percent in November.  Concern that the government would increase interest rates
to slow expansion in the world’s fastest-growing major economy
spurred an 11 percent selloff in the benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index  of stocks in November. The index jumped 2.9
percent on Dec. 13, the biggest gain in eight weeks, after the
central bank ordered lenders to set aside more money as reserves
to control liquidity rather than boosting borrowing costs.  ‘Prudent Move’  “A rate hike is not normally on the wish-list for Santa
Claus, but in China’s case this is a prudent move,” said  Brian Jackson , a senior strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong
Kong. “It is increasingly clear that using quantitative
measures such as the reserve requirement ratio to rein in
liquidity and credit hasn’t been enough and adjusting the price
of credit is needed to get price pressures under control.”  China is tightening after a record expansion of credit to
counter the effects of the world financial crisis. The broadest
measure of  money supply , M2, has surged by 55 percent over the
past two years and outstanding yuan-denominated loans have
climbed 60 percent to 47.4 trillion yuan.  Lags Asian Increases  The country is lagging behind counterparts across Asia that
took steps earlier to raise borrowing costs from global recession
lows. Malaysia boosted its benchmark rate three times, starting
in March, Taiwan began in June and South Korea in July. The PBOC
last lifted the benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates on
Oct. 19, the first increase since 2007.  The government is taking a “very prudent approach” to
boosting interest rates because of an unstable and rapidly
changing global environment, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  was cited as saying by the official China Daily on
Dec. 17. Yesterday’s announcement may indicate that policy
makers now regard curbing inflation a more pressing task as
price increases extend beyond seasonal fluctuations in food.  Residence-related costs, including charges for water,
electricity and rent, jumped  5.8 percent  last month from a year
earlier, the most in more than two years, and consumer goods
prices rose 5.9 percent, the biggest gain since August 2008,
according to statistics bureau data.  ‘Long-term Battle’  China raised gasoline and diesel prices by as much as 4
percent on Dec. 22 to reflect higher global costs of oil. Still,
the increase was less than half of the gain in crude prices over
the previous month and the nation’s planning agency said it
limited the rise because of the “rapid increase in overall
prices.”  The nation must prepare for a “long-term battle” against
price increases, Peng Sen, vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, told state television on Dec.
21. The root causes of inflation have yet to be resolved, he
said, citing domestic supply shortages, gains in global
commodity prices and excessive liquidity.  Inflation is likely to reach 3.3 percent for the whole of
this year, breaching the government’s target of 3 percent, Peng
said. The commission raised its expectation of average gains in
consumer prices next year to 4 percent, state television
reported on Dec. 14.  ‘Relatively High’ Inflation  Consumer price increases may accelerate to more than 6
percent in coming months,  Ben Simpfendorfer , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a Dec 11 note.
Inflation will remain  “relatively high”  in the first half of
next year, especially the first quarter, as the impact of rising
costs in October and November feeds through to the data, the
NDRC said on Dec. 11.  The government has been reluctant to raise interest rates,
preferring to increase the amount of deposits banks must set
aside as reserves to curb liquidity that’s fueling gains in food
and asset prices. The People’s Bank of China has increased the
 reserve ratio  six times this year, including three times since
November.  Policy makers are concerned that raising interest rates
could “encourage hot money inflows,”  Paul Cavey , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Macquarie Securities Ltd. said. “Raising
interest rates has far more implications” than ordering lenders
to set aside more of their deposits as reserves, as it may
affect the ability of local governments and companies to pay
their debts.  Hot Money  State Council researcher Ba Shusong told state television
yesterday that the government will step up regulation of capital
inflows, without specifying measures that will be taken.  The nation’s  foreign-exchange regulator  this month
published a list of companies involved in illegal currency deals
including the use of fake contracts as part of its crackdown on
hot money inflows, the official Xinhua news agency reported on
Dec. 10.  The Ministry of Commerce is stepping up supervision of
foreign investment in real estate to crack down on speculation
after a 48 percent jump in overseas fund inflows to the industry
in the first 11 months of the year, spokesman Yao Jian said on
Dec. 15.  Policy makers may also allow faster gains in the yuan to
help curb inflation from higher prices of imported commodities,
according to analysts’ forecasts. The currency, which has risen
2.85 percent since the central bank dropped its dollar peg in
June as the economy rebounded from the financial crisis, can
strengthen at a faster pace if gains are “controllable,”  Li Daokui , a central bank adviser, said in a Dec. 3 interview.  The yuan closed 0.2 percent higher against the dollar on
Dec. 24 at 6.6320.  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong and
 Fan Wenxin  in Shanghai. Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  Dick Schumacher .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  