-- Euro Falls for Third Week as Credit Rating Downgrades Fuel Debt Concerns
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-25/euro-falls-for-third-week-as-credit-rating-downgrades-fuel-debt-concerns.html
The euro fell for a third-straight
week against the dollar as a slew of credit-rating downgrades
fuelled concern some nations will be unable to pay their debts.  The common currency slipped against 14 of its 16 most
actively traded peers in the week as the region’s leaders
remained divided on how to tackle a crisis that has resulted in
Greece and Ireland turning to the European Union and
International Monetary Fund for bailouts. The Swiss franc
appreciated to a euro-era record as investors sought a haven
from the European debt crisis. The New Zealand dollar
strengthened as Finance Minister  Bill English  said economic
expansion will accelerate next year.  “The euro remains under pressure as the sovereign debt
crisis story continues to circulate,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “Portugal was downgraded
and French credit default swaps are at record highs, even though
the triple-A rating’s been reaffirmed. The vultures continue to
circle around.”  The euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.3109 as of 1:33 p.m.
yesterday in London. It touched $1.3055 on Dec. 23, the lowest
level since the start of the month. The shared currency fell 1.8
percent to 108.73 yen, from 110.77.  Fitch Ratings this week cut Portugal’s credit rating one
notch to A+ from AA- and said it may lower Greece’s to non-
investment grade within six weeks. Fitch also moved non-euro
area nation Hungary to BBB- from BBB and signaled it may further
downgrade the country’s debt.  ‘Wealth and Depth’  Moody’s Investors Service slashed Ireland’s credit rating
by five levels to Baa1 on Dec. 17, the day after it placed
Greece on review for a possible downgrade. It may also lower
Portugal one or two levels after warning on Dec. 21 that budget
cuts will worsen the country’s “sluggish” growth.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday affirmed France’s standing as
one of the world’s safest borrowers. The euro-area’s second-
largest economy deserves a AAA sovereign credit rating because
of the “wealth and depth” of its economy and the view that
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government will consolidate its
budget gap, S&P said. It put Belgium on negative watch last
week.  Divisions among euro-area policy makers were highlighted as
the European Central Bank said it has “serious concerns” that
Irish draft legislation to fix the banking system threatens the
ECB’s ability to run its liquidity operations. The bank
commented in a  position paper  dated Dec. 17.  ‘Deflation Risk’  The euro fell 10.5 percent against the currencies of 10
developed nations, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The yen gained 12.1 percent, the Swiss franc
rose 7 percent, and the dollar dropped 1.3 percent.  The Swiss central bank said it’s ready to “take the
measures necessary” to counter deflation threats after the
euro-region’s fiscal crisis pushed up the franc to a record
versus the euro for a sixth straight day on Dec. 22.  “Concerns about stability in the euro area have led to
renewed financial market tensions,” pushing up the franc, the
Zurich-based Swiss National Bank said in its  quarterly report 
published on its website yesterday. “Should these tensions be
exacerbated and put a strain on economic developments in the
euro area, this would also have a detrimental effect on the
Swiss economy. If a deflation risk emerges, the SNB would take
the measures necessary to ensure price stability.”  Consumer Confidence  The franc strengthened 1.3 percent this week, to 1.2608 per
euro and reached a record of 1.2439 on Dec. 22. It added 0.7
percent against the dollar to 0.9606.  The dollar slipped against 12 of its 16 most actively
traded peers amid burgeoning confidence about the global
economic recovery.  U.S. consumer confidence is expected to gain for a third
month when data is released next week. The Conference Board’s
 sentiment index  for U.S. consumers rose to 56.3, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before the New York-
based group’s report due Dec. 28.  An S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home values in 20 U.S. cities
fell 0.2 percent in October from the same month in 2009, the
first year-on-year decline since January, a report is predicted
to show the same day. The gauge probably declined 0.7 percent
from the prior month after adjusting for seasonal variations.  ‘Warning Shot’  The Japanese currency gained the most this week in a month
against the euro, jumping 1.8 percent to 108.77 yen. It climbed
1.3 percent to 82.9 yen per dollar.  Japan will likely increase its reserves set aside for
intervening in the currency market by 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) in the next fiscal year, Reuters reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people. The pool is currently 145 trillion
yen, according to the report.  “Japan announcing this is just a warning shot to markets
saying don’t bother next year pushing dollar-yen any lower,”
said  Geoffrey Yu , a London-based foreign exchange strategist at
UBS AG.  New Zealand’s dollar rallied from a decade low against its
Australian counterpart and rose versus the greenback on
prospects recent drops were too rapid and the economy will
rebound after an earthquake-spurred contraction.  The kiwi climbed against all of its 16 most-traded peers as
Finance Minister English said economic growth in 2011 will be
buoyed by the country hosting the Rugby World Cup finals and
strong export prices.  New Zealand’s dollar ended the week little changed at
NZ$1.3425 per Aussie. It depreciated to as much as NZ$1.3521 on
Dec. 22, the weakest since September 2000. The currency climbed
1.6 percent to 74.83 U.S. cents and traded at 62.03 yen from
61.83 yen on Dec. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 