-- North Korea Says U.S., South Korea Military Drills `Inviting Nuclear War'
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-25T03:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-25/north-korea-says-u-s-south-korea-military-drills-inviting-nuclear-war-.html
North Korea said the U.S. and South
Korea are “inviting a nuclear war” by conducting military
drills, even as a Seoul-based think tank predicted that  Kim Jong Il ’s regime may hold another atomic test next year.  South Korea’s Dec. 20 artillery drill on Yeonpyeong Island
near the disputed sea border was an intentional provocation, and
North Korea is closely watching “the reckless behavior of the
warmongers inviting a nuclear war,” the communist country’s
state-run Korean Central News Agency said today, citing
commentaries in the Rodong newspaper.  The comments follow a threat North Korea made yesterday to
wage a “sacred war” using nuclear weapons if attacked. North
Korea may conduct a third nuclear test next year as it needs to
refine its plutonium bomb, South Korea’s state-run Institute of
Foreign Affairs and National Security said in a report posted on
its  website  yesterday.  North Korea has repeatedly claimed that military maneuvers
by South Korea and the U.S. are preparations for a full-scale
invasion. The regime is “fully prepared to launch a sacred war
of justice of Korean style based on the nuclear deterrent,”
KCNA reported yesterday, citing  Kim Yong Chun , the minister of
its People’s Armed Forces.  Retaliation to any further attack by the north would
include airstrikes, South Korea’s Defense Minister  Kim Kwan Jin 
said Dec. 3.  South Korea held an artillery drill on Yeonpyeong Island on
Dec. 20, the first live-firing exercise on the island since last
month. Tensions on the Korean Peninsula have increased since
North Korea shelled the island on Nov. 23, killing two soldiers
and two civilians.  The south conducted another one-day exercise on Dec. 23
involving jet fighters, mobile artillery and about 800 troops in
an area between Seoul and the Demilitarized Zone that separates
the nation from its communist neighbor. Both drills ended
without retaliation from the north.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  