-- UN Halts Aid Distribution After Female Suicide Bomber Kills 46 in Pakistan
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 2010-12-27T11:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-25/pakistan-blast-kills-38-people-edhi-ambulance-service-spokesman-reports.html
A female suicide bomber carried out
a Christmas Day attack in northwest Pakistan that killed 46
people, a local official said, as the UN food agency caught up
in the blast closed centers that had fed 41,000 families.  The burqa-clad woman aged between 18 and 22 lobbed grenades
and detonated an explosive vest near a  World Food Programme 
distribution center after being stopped by security personnel,
Mustaqeem Khan, a government official in the tribal region of
Bajaur, said by phone today. At least 96 people were injured in
what Dawn  newspaper  said was Pakistan’s first suicide bombing
known to have been carried out by a  woman .  The device was detonated at about 8:30 a.m. local time on
Dec. 25 as officials were handing out food to victims of this
year’s floods, said Gull Rehman, a spokesman for the government
of the area. Khan said officials had collected body parts of the
female attacker, who had attempted to join a line of men queuing
for aid.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  condemned the attack and
said his government’s fight against militants will “continue
till their complete elimination,” according to an e-mailed
statement issued by the Information Ministry in the capital,
Islamabad. Operations at four WFP centers in the region will
likely restart this week once security improves, program
spokesman Amjad Jamal said by phone from Islamabad.  The death toll eclipsed the 43 people killed Dec. 6 in a
suicide bombing outside a government office in the northwest
tribal region of Mohmand. Four days later, 25 people died in a
similar attack in the town of Hangu.  ‘Outrageous Attack’  U.S. President  Barack Obama  condemned what he called the
“outrageous attack” in Bajaur.  “Killing innocent civilians outside a World Food Program
distribution point is an affront to the people of Pakistan, and
to all humanity,” Obama said in a written statement. “The
United States stands with the people of Pakistan in this
difficult time, and will strongly support Pakistan’s efforts to
ensure greater peace, security and justice for its people.”  UN Secretary General  Ban Ki-moon condemned  an “abhorrent
act of terrorism aimed at innocent people.”  Pakistan’s government blames Taliban militants based in the
country’s tribal region for terrorist attacks in the country.
The army last year began offensives in the Taliban stronghold of
South Waziristan, after a similar operation against guerrillas
in the Swat Valley.  Missile Strikes  At the same time, the U.S. has increased missile strikes
that target the Taliban along Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan.
Two such attacks launched from drone aircraft today killed 18
alleged militants in the region of North Waziristan, Associated
Press reported, citing Pakistani intelligence officials it
didn’t name.  Pakistan’s government is struggling to rehabilitate 17
million people who lost homes and livelihoods during floods in
August. The deluge threatened to cripple Pakistan’s economy with
a surge in unemployment, an increase in inflation and damage to
billions of dollars in infrastructure, Gilani said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anwar Shakir  at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  