-- Christmas Bombs in Nigeria's Jos Kill 32 in Attack Army Calls Terrorism
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2010-12-25T17:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-25/suspected-bomb-blasts-kill-at-least-20-in-nigeria-correct-.html
At least 32 people were killed in
suspected bomb blasts yesterday in the central Nigerian city of
Jos, where violence between Christians and Muslims has left
hundreds dead this year, Police said.  More than 50 people were injured in the explosions,
Abdulrahaman Akanno, Plateau state Commissioner of Police, told
journalists in Jos today.  The casualty figures were earlier given as 20 dead, and
more than 60 wounded, by Gregory Yenlong, a spokesman for
Plateau state, who spoke in a phone interview from Jos today.
The blasts took place at about 7 p.m. local time at three
different locations, he said.  “For the past two weeks there have been threats to disrupt
Christmas celebrations in Jos,” Yenlong said in a text message
today. “We know the people and the security agencies know them.
We are still investigating.”  The attackers placed the explosive devices “by the
roadsides where they expected a high concentration of people,”
Manasseh Panpe, Plateau Branch Secretary of the Red Cross, said
by phone today from Jos.  At the Jos University Teaching Hospital, one of the places
where the wounded were taken, “I saw 50 or so of them,” Panpe
said. “Some of them have their lower limbs completely
destroyed, and if they survive, their legs might not be useful
to them again,” he said.  Act of Terrorism  The Nigerian military will enhance its intelligence
operations to prevent further bombings in Africa’s most populous
nation, Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant General Azubuike
Ihejirika said today. The Jos bombing was an act of terrorism,
Ihejirika said in the southern town of Port Harcourt, during a
visit to sites of recent clashes between government forces and
militants in the Niger Delta region.  Twin car-bomb blasts in the capital, Abuja, on Oct.1, left
at least 12 people dead and several others wounded. The blasts
occurred close to the venue of celebrations marking Nigeria’s 50
years of independence from Britain.  At least 492 people were killed in an attack on a
predominantly Christian village by Muslim Fulani herders near
Jos on March 7, Civil Rights Congress, a local rights group,
said. Estimates for the number of people killed in sectarian
clashes that broke out in Jos in mid-January ranged from 326 by
the police to more than 400 by the Civil Rights Congress.  Nigeria vies with Angola as Africa’s biggest crude oil
producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 