-- Maguire Drops Plan to Consider Sale, Takes Charge
-- Daniel Taub
-- 2007-02-07T00:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-07/maguire-drops-plan-to-consider-sale-takes-charge-update3-.html

          
          
             Maguire Properties Inc. (MPG) , downtown  Los
Angeles 's largest office owner, dropped plans to consider a
possible sale even as the takeover of landlords Equity Office
Properties Trust and Mills Corp. has sparked bidding contests.  
 The Los Angeles-based company said it's no longer pursuing
``strategic alternatives,'' according to a statement today. No
reason was given for the decision. Maguire said it took a
fourth-quarter charge of $3.5 million for costs incurred to
consider options.  
 Maguire, the owner of downtown Los Angeles's 72-story U.S.
Bank Tower, the tallest building on the West Coast, has been the
subject of takeover speculation for months. The company before
today hadn't commented on reports on a possible purchase in REIT
Newshound and other publications. In the meantime, competition
for real estate investment trust takeovers has become heated.  
 ``Once a company goes through a process like that, it's
embedded in their people and engrained in their culture,'' said
John Guinee, a Baltimore-based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
who has a ``hold'' rating on Maguire and doesn't own the shares.
``Someone could call them up on Feb. 8 and offer them $50 a
share and, guess what, they're for sale.''  
 Maguire Properties  Chief Executive Officer Robert F. Maguire III wasn't available to comment this afternoon, company
spokeswoman Peggy Moretti said. She wouldn't comment on the
options Maguire Properties considered.  
 `Lot of Alternatives'  
 ``It's our obligation to always maximize value for our
shareholders, and we incurred a process that included a lot of
alternatives, and I can't get any more specific than that,''
Moretti said. ``We have what we believe is one of the most
attractive development pipelines in the country. We think our
shareholders are best served by literally growing out that
pipeline.''  
 Blackstone Group LP today raised its cash offer for Equity
Office to $39 billion to thwart rival Vornado Realty Trust, a
day before shareholders vote on what would be the largest-ever
leveraged buyout. Shopping-mall owner Mills said today it will
begin talks with Simon Property Group Inc. and Farallon Capital
Management LLC to consider their $1.56 billion offer after they
outbid Brookfield Asset Management Inc.  
 The Maguire announcement, issued in an earnings statement,
was made after the close of regular U.S. trading. Maguire shares
rose 28 cents to $43.50 as of 4:22 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. They have gained 29 percent in the
past year, compared with 34 percent for the Bloomberg REIT
Index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Taub in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        