-- EON Capital Offers to Buy Rashid Hussain, RHB Capital
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2007-02-07T13:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-07/eon-capital-offers-to-buy-rashid-hussain-rhb-capital-update1-.html

          
          
             EON Capital Bhd., a Malaysian bank
that earns a third of its revenue from auto-purchase financing,
offered to buy Rashid Hussain Bhd. and its banking unit  RHB
Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  to create the country's third-largest lender.  
 EON Capital is the second suitor for control of RHB Capital,
the nation's fourth-biggest lender. EON is competing with Kuwait
Finance House, whose 2.16 billion ringgit ($620 million) bid for
Utama Banking Group Bhd.'s 33 percent stake in Rashid was
accepted ``unanimously'' by Utama's board of directors today.  
 EON Capital today offered 1.80 ringgit a share to buy all
the shares of Rashid Hussain it doesn't already own, it said in
a release to the stock exchange in  Kuala Lumpur . It will also
buy other Rashid Hussain securities such as loan stocks and
warrants. It also offered to buy RHB Capital's assets and
liabilities for 8.75 billion ringgit in cash.  
 The offer values Rashid Hussain at a minimum of 1.3 billion
ringgit, excluding warrants and loan stocks, and is at a 7.1
percent premium over Rashid Hussain's last traded price of 1.68
ringgit. EON Capital didn't say how much it already owns of
Rashid Hussain. According to Bloomberg data, about 74 percent of
Rashid Hussain is owned by other shareholders, including Utama
Banking Group Bhd.  
 After it completes the takeover of Rashid Hussain, which
owns 65 percent of RHB Capital, EON Capital will offer to buy
the remaining shares it doesn't own in RHB Capital at 4.80
ringgit a share, or an 11 percent premium over the last traded
price of 4.32 ringgit.  
 `Stronger Footing'  
 ``The enlarged EON Capital Group would potentially be the
third-largest domestic banking group in  Malaysia  with total
assets of 145 billion ringgit,'' EON Capital said. ``As a larger
banking group, the group is expected to have a stronger footing
to face the impending globalization and liberalization of the
financial services industry.''  
 EON is 20 percent owned by DRB-Hicom Bhd., which is
controlled by Malaysian tycoon Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary. Rashid
Hussain owns 65 percent of RHB Capital, Malaysia's fourth-
biggest lender.  
 The entry of new shareholders may help Rashid cut its debt
and return to profit. Another Rashid shareholder, the Employees
Provident Fund, last month proposed that the company sell its
stake in RHB Capital to reduce borrowings. Rashid is considering
the plan, it said on Jan. 30.  
 Rashid Husain's borrowings stood at 3.74 billion ringgit as
of Sept. 30, 2006, the company said in November. It posted
losses in the second and third quarters of last year. The stake
sale may help Rashid avoid costlier refinancing or a rights
offer, analysts have said.  
 Plan Scrapped  
 In August, Rashid Hussain scrapped a planned $190 million
bond sale after shareholders, including the pension fund,
considered the proceeds won't be enough for a revival.  
 EON's shares were halted from trading pending this
announcement. They last traded down 2 percent at 7.25 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur today.  
 EON Capital plans to fund its takeover of Rashid Hussain
and RHB Capital with borrowings initially, and sell shares and
bonds later, it said. The takeover is expected to be completed
by the middle of this year, it said. MIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
is the principal adviser for the bid.  
 Rashid Hussain and RHB Capital said in separate releases
they had received the takeover offers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Phang in Kuala Lumpur at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        