-- NCC Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises 79% on Nordic Demand
-- Ross Larsen
-- 2007-02-07T16:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-07/ncc-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-79-on-nordic-demand-update4-.html

          
          
             NCC AB (NCCB) ,  Sweden 's second-largest
construction company, said fourth-quarter profit jumped 79
percent on surging demand for housing in its home market and
other Nordic nations.  
 Net income climbed to 589 million kronor ($84 million) from
329 million kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-based company
said today in a statement. Sales rose 14 percent to 17.9 billion
kronor. The company's board will propose dividend of 18 kronor a
share, which includes a 10 kronor special payment.  
 Chief Executive Alf Goeransson has sold the bulk of NCC's
operations outside the Nordic region to focus on a market that's
growing faster than the rest of the European Union. The company
reported falling profit and a 425 million-kronor writedown in
 Denmark  and said growth will be crimped by a shortage of skilled
labor in its home market.  
 ``The order intake was very strong and I think that was the
biggest positive,'' said Ari Jarvinen a Helsinki-based analyst
for Handelsbanken with a ``reduce'' rating on the stock.
``However the margins are not that strong. We also assumed that
the divestment of their Polish operations would mean a slightly
higher dividend.''  
 Shares of NCC fell 4 kronor, or 2 percent, to close at 203
kronor. That pares the company's gains in the last six months to
23 percent and gives a market value of 21.9 billion kronor.  
 Outgrowing Europe  
 Demand in the Nordic region will increase 3 percent this
year as businesses replace aging offices, and expansion in
 Germany  and the Baltic region will begin to yield results, NCC
said. The European Commission forecast growth of 1.7 percent in
the 12 countries sharing the common currency.  
 Orders increased 11 percent from a year earlier to 16.6
million kronor, with the biggest gain in Sweden and all units
showing growth except Denmark. The order backlog was 32.6 billion
as of Dec. 31, also an 11 percent increase from a year earlier.  
 Fourth-quarter earnings were equivalent to 5.43 kronor a
share, from 3.03 kronor a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by SME
Direkt had estimated net income of 503 million kronor on sales of
16.99 billion.  
 ``Construction operations in Sweden and  Finland  generated
record high earnings in 2006 due to the favorable housing market
and to improved margins in contracting operations,'' Chief
Executive Officer Alf Goeransson said in the statement. ``The
Nordic construction market will continue to grow in 2007.''  
 Denmark `Unsuccessful'  
 NCC's Denmark operation ``was unsuccessful in significant
parts of its project management,'' the CEO said in today's
statement. Operating profit there fell to 1 million kronor from
46 million kronor a year ago.  
 Goeransson said Aug. 23 the company had lost control at 10
building projects in the country where charges by external Danish
contractors spiraled just before completion. NCC fired the head
of the unit on Oct. 2 and named Torben Biilman as the new chief.  
 This is NCC's last set of results delivered under CEO
Goeransson, who is leaving to head Securitas AB, the world's
largest security company. Olle Ehrlen takes over as of Feb. 12.  
 The company's growth in the Nordic region will be impeded by
a limited supply of skilled labor that will probably worsen in
2007, NCC said today.  
 The builder on Jan. 2 agreed to sell its Polish road-
material unit for 1.05 billion kronor to  Austria 's Bauholding
Strabag SE.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in  Madrid  at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chris Jasper  at   cjasper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        