-- Venture capitalists invest less in first quarter
-- 
-- Sat Apr 19, 2008 2:38pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/19/businesspro-venturecapital-investments-d-idUSN1934676420080419

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Investments in start-ups fell 5 
percent to $7.1 billion during the first three months of 2008 
compared to the year-ago quarter, signaling that venture 
capitalists may be less willing to open their wallets during a 
U.S. economic downturn. 

  Venture capitalists invested $7.5 billion in last year's 
first quarter, according to data released on Saturday by the 
National Venture Capital Association, PriceWaterhouseCoopers 
and Thomson Reuters.  Despite the decline, the 2008 first quarter saw the 
fifth-highest level of investment for the period since 2001.  Venture capitalists invested in 922 deals in the latest 
quarter, compared to 861 deals in the year-ago period.  "We do not expect to see significant declines in investment 
levels in the coming year," said NVCA President Mark Heesen.  But he added that more venture capital dollars could go 
into late-stage companies if the market for initial public 
offerings remains weak.  Venture capitalists usually invest in companies at an early 
stage of development and profit by taking them public or 
selling them to a bigger company.  But with the ongoing stock market uncertainty, IPOs of 
VC-backed companies fell dramatically in the first quarter, 
with only five such companies going public compared to 18 in 
the year-ago quarter.  If the public markets remain daunting, venture capitalists 
may have to put more money to sustain mature companies that 
they cannot take public.  But industry experts remained confident that venture 
dollars would continue to go into a variety of investments.  "VCs have weathered numerous economic cycles and will 
continue to fund companies with innovative ideas and solid 
business models," said Tracy Lefteroff, global managing partner 
at PriceWaterhouseCoopers' venture capital practice.  The life sciences industry, which includes biotechnology 
and medical devices startups, got the most money during the 
quarter, with $2.3 billion into 220 deals.  Internet-specific companies, defined by the report's 
authors as companies whose business models depend on the 
Internet, got $1.3 billion during the quarter, up from $1.29 
billion in the year-ago period.  For six of the last seven quarters, venture capitalists 
have put at least $1 billion in Internet startups.  The "cleantech" sector, representing alternative energy, 
pollution, recycling and other green technologies, saw a 51 
percent jump in investments to $625 million from the year-ago 
quarter.  But cleantech investments fell 6 percent from the fourth 
quarter of 2007.  (Reporting by  Anupreeta Das , editing by Philip Barbara)