-- WRAPUP 4-Weak home building drags down U.S. economic growth
-- 
-- Fri Oct 27, 2006 5:40pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/10/27/economy-idUSN2729944220061027

 

  (Updates with closing market quotes, paragraphs 8-11) 

  By  Glenn Somerville WASHINGTON  Oct 27 (Reuters) - A slumping housing sector
helped slow U.S. economic growth in the third quarter to its
weakest pace in over three years, leading financial markets to
raise bets on interest-rate cuts next year.  Gross domestic product, which measures total economic
activity within U.S. borders, expanded at a 1.6 percent annual
rate during the third quarter, the Commerce Department reported
on Friday. This was down from 2.6 percent in the second quarter
for the slowest advance since the first quarter of 2003.  The Bush administration insisted the soft GDP data, coming
less than two weeks before the Nov. 7 congressional elections,
did not signal the economy was spiraling downward but only that
it was moving to a slower and steadier growth rate.  "I'm feeling good about making this economic ... transition
from an unsustainable rate to a more sustainable rate,"
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said during a relatively rare
meeting with print reporters in Treasury's pressroom.  Democrats expressed concern the economy was slowing at a
time when workers were already struggling to keep up with
inflation, a theme they have pressed on the campaign trail.  Democratic House Leader Nancy Pelosi, in line to become
Speaker if Democrats capture the U.S. House of Representatives,
said growth in earnings was not keeping up with rising costs of
health care, food and energy.  "By these measures, our economy is not nearly as strong as
it should be," Pelosi said.  The dollar sank to a one-month low against a basket of
major currencies on the signs of softness. The risk that
corporate profits might suffer in a slower economy also hurt
stocks.  The Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  lost 73.40 points
to end at 12,090.26 while the Nasdaq Composite Index  .IXIC 
finished down 28.48 points at 2,350.62.  But bond investors took heart at signs that slower growth
might ease price pressures and keep interest rates on hold.  Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury notes US10YT=RR gained
11/32 in price to 101-17/32 for a yield of 4.68 percent while
the 30-year bond was up 20/32 in price at 95-1/32, yielding
4.80 percent.  STILL SPENDING  Consumers showed no sign that weakening housing prices were
dampening their spirits. A survey from the University of
Michigan indicated consumers were even more optimistic as the
fourth quarter opened than previously thought.  A final October reading of the University of Michigan's
consumer sentiment index came in at 93.6, up from a preliminary
92.3 and September's final reading of 85.4, said sources who
saw the subscription-only report.  Economic growth in the third quarter was well below Wall
Street forecasts for a 2.2 percent increase and reflected a
range of influences that combined to slow the economy.  The report showed a striking 17.4 percent annual rate of
decrease in spending on new housing - the biggest decline in
15-1/2 years.  In addition, growth in business spending on inventories
slowed to only a $50.7 billion rate, subtracting 0.1 percentage
point from GDP growth, and the value of imported goods
accelerated sharply to a 7.8 percent annual rate of increase in
the third quarter, more than three times the second quarter's
1.4 percent increase.  Analysts noted the data was old and that growth appears set
to pick up modestly in the current fourth quarter.  "Housing took a toll on the economy but bear in mind this
was last quarter, and the current quarter is on a growth pace
that would double this number" because of consumer spending,
said economist Richard Yamarone of Argus Research Corp. in New
York.  The drag on growth from a rapidly softening housing sector
had been expected, since other reports have shown prices are
weakening for both new and existing homes.  COMPANIES INVESTING  By contrast, the GDP report showed business investment
remained healthy and consumers picked up their spending pace.  Nonresidential investment, which measures business
spending, rose at an 8.6 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, close to double the second quarter's 4.4 percent.
Consumer spending, which accounts for roughly two-thirds of
national economic activity, increased at a 3.1 percent rate, up
from 2.6 percent in the second quarter.  So-called core prices excluding food and energy items -- an
inflation measure the Federal Reserve watches -- climbed 2.4
percent on a year-over-year basis in the third quarter.  But there were signs that price rises might be easing. In
the third quarter, core prices advanced at a 2.3 percent rate
after rising 2.7 percent in the second quarter.







