-- Turkey's Gas Request Is Blocking Nabucco Pipeline, Hungary Says
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2008-10-01T16:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-10-01/turkey-s-gas-request-is-blocking-nabucco-pipeline-hungary-says.html

          
          
             Turkey 's desire for 15 percent of the
gas that would transit through the Nabucco  gas pipeline  to
Europe is preventing a governmental agreement on the link,
according to Hungary's ambassador for the project.  
 ``The Nabucco partners say it's impossible because it can
break the financial feasibility of the pipeline,'' Mihaly Bayer
said at the  National Press Club  in Washington today. ``We are
getting closer and closer to the point when the lack of an IGA,
an inter-governmental agreement, may hinder the commercial
part'' of the project.  
 Turkey's request is part of negotiations among the
countries along the route of the pipeline, which would start in
Turkey and run through four European Union member states:
Bulgaria, Romania,  Hungary  and Austria. Nabucco is supported by
the European Union and the U.S. because it will lessen Europe's
dependence on Russia, which supplies a quarter of the EU's gas.  
 The agreement among the governments would provide for
favorable tax treatment, guarantees against nationalization of
Nabucco and free access to the pipeline for the companies
involved, Bayer said.  
 The Nabucco venture, founded in 2004 and based in Vienna,
is led by Austria's  OMV AG. (OMV)  The project partners are Budapest-based Mol Nyrt, Germany's  RWE AG (RWE) , Bulgaria's  Bulgargaz EAD ,
Romania's Transgaz SA and Ankara-based Botas. Botas.  
 The pipeline would connect with others bringing gas from
the Caspian Sea region and the  Middle East . Azerbaijan will
probably be the main supplier. Other possible sources are
Turkmenistan,  Egypt  and Iraq, Bayer said.  
 Energy Hub  
 A spokesman for the Turkish Embassy in Washington said no
official was immediately available for comment. Turkey is
seeking to become an energy hub for Europe as it pursues
membership of the EU.  
 Turkey is concerned that it will face a shortage of gas by
2011 because it hasn't been able to contract enough supply to
meet demand, Bayer said. The Nabucco pipeline is scheduled to be
in operation by 2013.  
 The countries and companies involved are working on ways to
persuade Turkey to lift its demand and provide alternatives for
closing the potential supply gap, Bayer said.  
 ``We haven't been able to find a mutually acceptable
solution,'' Bayer said. ``I think it will have to be dealt with
on the political level.''  
 Bayer also said that while the August conflict between
Russia and Georgia, a transit country for a pipeline that would
feed into Nabucco, poses some problems for the project, it also
provided impetus for diversifying Europe's energy supply.  
 ``There is a much greater awareness in the European Union
of the necessity of diversification,'' Bayer said. ``We would
like to grab this opportunity, capitalize on that, and hope
that'' preparations will accelerate as a result, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at   mforsythe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        