-- Agricultural Bank of Greece Plans Capital Increase
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-24T17:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-26/greece-chooses-lazard-hsbc-deutsche-bank-to-advise-on-holdings-in-banks.html
Agricultural Bank of Greece SA , the
nation’s only bank to fail the European Union’s stress tests,
plans a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) capital increase.  “ATEbank will proceed, in concert with its main
shareholder, the Greek State, with a share capital increase to
boost and simultaneously improve the quality of its capital
base,” Chairman  Theodoros Pantalakis  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The sale will be accompanied by a
“comprehensive” restructuring plan, the bank said.  The lender, 77 percent owned by the state, said today its
nine-month net loss was 117.2 million euros, compared with a
year-earlier profit of 82.4 million euros, as it increased
charges for loan losses and had a trading loss. Deposits
declined 9.4 percent from a year earlier, reflecting economic
uncertainty and the impact of Greek government austerity
measures on disposable income, the bank said.  The lender’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, stood at 7.12 percent. The proceeds from the stock
offering will be used to boost capital, as well as repay 675
million euros of preferred shares held by the state.  Stress Test  ATEbank reported a shortfall of 242.6 million euros in
European-wide stress tests in July with the lender’s Tier 1
ratio dropping to 4.36 percent under the most stringent
scenario, less than the 6 percent threshold. The Athens-based
institution is one of seven EU banks that failed the tests. EU
regulators scrutinized 91 of the bloc’s banks to assess whether
they have enough capital to withstand a recession and sovereign-
debt crisis.  ATEbank is the latest Greek bank to announce plans to
replenish capital after the country almost defaulted on its debt
earlier this year. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
which represents central banks and regulators in 27 nations,
announced new rules in September that aimed to avert another
global banking crisis by forcing banks to bolster reserves.  ATEbank shares gained 2.8 percent in  Athens trading  to 73
cents before the earnings were announced. They are down 62
percent this year amid concern Greek banks may have to write
down their holdings of government bonds. A swelling budget
deficit led to soaring borrowing costs for Greece and a 110
billion-euro bailout by the EU and International Monetary Fund
in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  