-- Optimists Cut U.S. Forecasts as Jobs, Spending Outlook Dims
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-08-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-26/optimists-reduce-u-s-second-half-forecasts-as-jobs-spending-outlook-dims.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  prepared to deliver a speech on the outlook for the
U.S. economy as some of the most optimistic forecasters scaled
back their projections for growth in the second half.  
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in Stamford, Connecticut, now estimates a 2.3 percent rate of
expansion this quarter, down from a June forecast of 4.1
percent.  Joseph LaVorgna  at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
slashed his estimate to a 2 percent annual pace. As recently as
two weeks ago, he projected 4.6 percent.  
 “We have to be realistic and acknowledge that the economic
data have been weaker than we thought,” said New York-based
 LaVorgna , his firm’s chief U.S. economist. “We’re more
concerned about the near-term risk to growth than the longer-
term.”  
 After cutting the benchmark interest rate to near zero and
buying more than $1.7 trillion in housing debt and Treasury
securities, there may be little more policy makers can do to
spur growth other than bolster sentiment, Stanley and LaVorgna
said. Bernanke is set to address central bankers from around the
world at 10 a.m. Eastern time at a symposium in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming.  
 The Fed should “spur confidence and emphasize that the
medium-term outlook at this point is still good,” said Stanley,
a former economist at the Fed Bank of Richmond. By now, “I
thought we would’ve for sure turned the corner and there would
be no fears of a double dip,” he said. Stanley now puts the
odds of relapsing into a second recession at about 20 percent,
up from 10 percent in April.  
 Easing Options  
 Bernanke will spell out options for restarting large-scale
purchases of securities, a strategy known as quantitative
easing, said  Paul McCulley , a managing director at Pacific
Investment Management Co.  
 “What we’re looking at first and foremost is the
clarification on the forecast and two, some degree of clarity on
how they would put together contingency plans for actually
pulling the QE2 trigger,” McCulley said yesterday in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “We
have more confusion right now in the marketplace about the Fed’s
true intentions than we’ve had for quite some time.”  
 The Federal Open Market Committee on Aug. 10 decided to
maintain the central bank’s holdings of securities at $2.05
trillion to keep money from being drained out of the financial
system. The FOMC bank said it will reinvest principal payments
on its mortgage holdings into long-term Treasury securities.  
 ‘More Modest’  
 The panel also said that “the pace of economic recovery is
likely to be more modest in the near term than had been
anticipated.”  
 Alan Blinder , a former Fed vice chairman, said in a
telephone interview that it’s “relatively likely” that the
central bank will ease policy further.  
 “Things seem to be losing momentum,” said Blinder, a
Princeton University economist who put the odds of a relapse
into a recession at 25 percent to 30 percent. “The lending part
of the financial system doesn’t seem to be curing itself.”  
 Companies created 51,000 jobs on average from May through
July, down from 200,000 in the prior two months, according to
Labor Department data. Investment in capital equipment, one of
the few remaining bright spots, dropped last month and
businesses also reined in equipment and machinery orders,
indicating the slowdown in spending will persist.  
 “The labor market has definitely downshifted from where it
was earlier this year,” said Stanley, who previously forecast
monthly gains of 250,000 in company payrolls before the end of
the year. He said he foresees a gain of 60,000 in private
payrolls for August.  
 Housing Market  
 The housing market, which helped trigger the worst
recession since the 1930s, is showing signs of slumping again
after a government tax credit expired in April. Sales of new
homes dropped to a record low last month and purchases of
existing houses plunged 27 percent, the most in records going
back four decades, according to reports from the Commerce
Department and the National Association of Realtors.  
 Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in West
Chester, Pennsylvania, said he expects the Fed to take steps
over the next few months to shore up growth.  
 ‘Very Weak’  
 “The economy will, at best, be very weak, so weak that
unemployment will begin to rise again,” Zandi said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday with Margaret Brennan.
“That’ll be the signal for the Fed to resume quantitative
easing.”  
 Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York also say
the Fed needs to do more. Treasury-security purchases “will be
forthcoming later this year or early next year, as slow growth
and rising unemployment raise concerns about a potential double
dip,” the economists led by  Jan Hatzius  wrote in a note to
clients this week.  
 LaVorgna isn’t convinced policy makers can do more.  
 “The Fed should make themselves irrelevant by not doing
much,” he said. “This is largely a confidence game.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S Bernanke  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ben S Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ben S Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 26 (Bloomberg) -- Paul McCulley, managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co., discusses the outlook for Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's speech tomorrow at the Kansas City Fed's symposium on the economy at Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
     McCulley talks with Bloomberg's Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Eisenbeis, chief monetary economist with Cumberland Advisors Inc. and a former research director at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, talks about Fed monetary policy and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     The Ben S. Bernanke-led Fed, while saying U.S. growth would be slower than anticipated, announced on Aug. 10 it will buy Treasuries to set a $2.05 trillion floor on its balance sheet and keep interest rates from rising. Bernanke will have his first public chance to defend the decision and discuss his outlook when he speaks at the Fed’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming later today. Eisenbeis speaks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- David Wyss, global chief economist at Standard & Poor's, talks about the outlook for China's economy.
     Wyss also discusses economies in the U.S. and Europe, and North Korean leader Kim Jong Il's reported visit to China. Wyss speaks in Hong Kong with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
