-- `LeBron Arbitrage' Proves Losing Bet Even as Knicks Wins Give Hope to Fans
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/-lebron-arbitrage-proves-losing-bet-even-as-knicks-wins-give-hope-to-fans.html
Some New York Knicks season-ticket
holders may dream of lost chances for a million-dollar payday
when  LeBron James  brings his basketball talent and arena-filling
allure to Madison Square Garden tomorrow.  Offseason speculation that James, the National Basketball
Association’s reigning two-time Most Valuable Player, would sign
with New York allowed the Knicks to sell out season tickets for
the first time in nine years. Sellers flooded the secondary
ticket market after James instead chose to join fellow All-Stars
 Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  with the Miami Heat, who play the
Knicks in New York.  The Knicks, led by forward-center  Amar’e Stoudemire , had an
eight-game winning streak snapped last night with a 118-116 loss
to the Boston Celtics and have a 16-10 record, six seasons since
their last playoff berth. While the Knicks’ success has kept the
secondary ticket market from crashing, the speculators aren’t
profiting like they planned.  “It was not a question of whether you could sell them, it
was a question of how much above face you could sell them for --
every game,” said Rob Stolker, an independent venture
capitalist from Holmdel, New Jersey.  Stolker and two partners bought four Knicks season tickets
at $87.50 apiece for each of the 41 home games and three
exhibition games early this year and then doubled down on their
bet, grabbing another four at $74.00 each the week before James
announced his decision in July. Stolker said his group invested
$28,512 overall, and he expected each investor to lose a few
thousand dollars.  “We always knew there was a risk that the 28 grand would
turn into 20 grand,” Stolker, 40, said in a telephone
interview. “If he was there for 10 years and they ended up
winning a couple of championships, we thought we could turn this
into $1 million or $2 million.”  ‘LeBron Arbitrage’  Nick Ragone , a 40-year-old executive at a public relations
firm in New York, now shares a pair of Knicks season tickets
with three friends.  “One of the Einsteins in my group figured, ‘Lets play a
little LeBron arbitrage, buy low and hopefully sell really
high,’” Ragone, a Knicks’ fan who has used his share of the
tickets to take his 6-year-old son to games, said in a telephone
interview.  Harvey Wexelman, now in his eighth year as a season-ticket
holder, upgraded to two $250-a-game seats from $100 seats in
anticipation of James’s arrival. Wexelman uses the majority of
the tickets to promote his Manhattan insurance brokerage.  “We all just dreamed about the possibilities of the ‘What
if,’” Wexelman, 37, said in a telephone interview. “I’d
finally make back all the money I spent on season tickets all
these years, and it would have been unbelievable for business.”  South-Beach Bound  On July 8, the dream ended. James held an hour-long
television show called “The Decision,” and revealed his plan
to “take my talents to South Beach and join the Miami Heat.”
He spurned the Cleveland Cavaliers, where he played for seven
seasons, as well as New York, which had made trades and cut
payroll for two seasons to try get enough space under the
league’s salary cap to lure the six-time All-Star.  Steven Kritzman, a sales manager for the music website
 Pandora.com  in New York, also bought into that speculation,
grabbing four $74 Knicks seats in early June.  After watching James’s “Decision,” Kritzman sent a text
message to a friend in Miami whose family has courtside Heat
tickets, saying: “Your seats just quadrupled in value.”  Playoff Gamble  Kritzman, 39, said he gambled on the possibility that a
James-led run to the NBA Finals may yield at least $25,000 from
just the conference and league championships, where seats might
sell for up to $1,000 apiece.  Instead, he’s broken even. Kritzman said he spends about 15
minutes daily managing the tickets on reseller  StubHub  and the
Knicks’  TicketExchange . His most profitable sale was tomorrow’s
game, which went for four times the $74 face value.  EBay Inc .’s StubHub has seen a 34 percent increase in
Knicks’ ticket-sales volume this season, according to  Glenn Lehrman , a spokesman for the company. Through 11 home games, the
average price was $67, $9 lower than the same point a year ago.  Lehrman, in an e-mail, attributed the price decrease to
“the combination of summertime LeBron speculators who have
flooded the secondary market, along with a watered-down early
season schedule.” Going into last night’s game, the Knicks’
opponents had a combined 192-269 record. Miami is 19-8 after a
101-95 win against the Cavaliers last night.  Knicks Sellouts  The Knicks sold out nine of their first 11 games this
season at the 19,763-seat Madison Square Garden after filling
the building 26 times in 2009-10, according to the team. More
than 4,000 new season tickets were sold this season.  After starting 3-8, New York has won 13 of its past 15
games behind Stoudemire, an All-Star and free-agent signing this
year whose nine straight games scoring at least 30 points is a
Knicks record.  At times during the recent run its “sounded like the
Garden again,” said former Knicks coach  Jeff Van Gundy . New
York went to the playoffs 14 straight seasons between 1987-88
and 2000-01, twice reaching the Finals.  “They’ve done more with less than any NBA team this
year,” Van Gundy, now an ESPN analyst, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s showing just how good a general manager  Donnie Walsh  is and what a good coach  Mike D’Antoni  is.”  While the team has yet to bring much prosperity to season-
ticket holders, the future might get brighter. The Knicks remain
in talks to trade for Denver Nuggets’ All-Star forward  Carmelo Anthony  or may sign him during the offseason.  For now, the investment is paying off in an opportunity to
watch winning Knicks basketball for the first time in a decade.  “Every time we went to a game, we’d leave at halftime and
go to dinner somewhere in the city,” Wexelman said. “Now I
stay for the games.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 