-- `Mad Soybean' Disease May Cut Some Brazil Output by 60%, Government Says
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2010-12-16T17:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/-mad-soybean-disease-may-cut-some-brazil-output-by-60-government-says.html
Soybean farmers in Brazil, the
world’s second-largest producer of the oilseed, are facing a new
crop disease that threatens to curb yields in some areas by as
much as 60 percent, a government researcher said.  The crop disease, known as soja louca in Portuguese or mad
soybean, has been detected in small parts of Mato Grosso state,
which accounts for 30 percent of the nation’s output, said
Mauricio Meyer, a plant-disease specialist at the government’s
agricultural research agency known as  Embrapa . It has also been
reported in Maranhao, Para and Tocantins states, he said.  Mad soybean causes plants to produce fewer beans and
interrupts the maturation of the pods, cutting yields on
infected crops by 40 percent to 60 percent, Meyer said. The
government is surveying farmers in a bid to slow the spread of
the disease, he said.  “This anomaly is not similar to anything that I have ever
seen,” Meyer said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Goiania, Brazil. “It is spreading slowly, but steadily.”  Previous Crops  Farmers failed to notice the crop disease in previous years
because it didn’t cause major losses, said Luiz Nery Ribas, a
technical manager for Mato Grosso’s soybean farmers  association .  “When mad soybean started to hurt their wallets, they
reached out for help,” Ribas said today in a telephone
interview from Cuiaba, Brazil. The farmer’s association is
trying to estimate the size of the affected area and overall
crop losses.  Embrapa has almost ruled out a fungus or bacteria as the
cause and said a parasite is more likely, Meyer said. It also
appears to be more prevalent in areas where average temperatures
are higher than in other soybean-producing regions, he said.  Soybean futures for March delivery fell 1.75 cents, or 0.1
percent, to $13.06 a bushel at 10:40 a.m. on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The U.S. is the world’s largest soybean producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 