-- L’Oreal Could Spend 20 Billion Euros on Acquisitions, Exane Says
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-12-16T11:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/l-oreal-could-spend-26-billion-on-takeovers-to-thwart-nestle-exane-says.html
L’Oreal SA,  the world’s largest
cosmetics company, has capacity to spend as much as 20 billion
euros ($26 billion) on acquisitions to help it avoid being taken
over by Nestle SA, analysts at Exane BNP Paribas said.  Fragrance makers Estee Lauder Cos. and  Elizabeth Arden Inc. 
are among the possible targets for Paris-based L’Oreal, analysts
 Eamonn Ferry ,  James Bushnell  and  Jeff Stent  wrote in a research
note dated yesterday. L’Oreal will have net cash of about 2.7
billion euros by the end of 2012, and owns 9 percent of Sanofi-
Aventis SA that it should sell, the analysts said. The  stake  is
worth about 5.8 billion euros at current market values.  Nestle  owns about 30 percent of L’Oreal and probably wants
to buy the French cosmetics company, the analysts said. Nestle
Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said in October that the
Swiss food company is “sticking to the status quo” on L’Oreal.
The French government and Bettencourt family, which owns about
31 percent of the cosmetics maker, would probably prevent a
takeover by Nestle, the Exane analysts said.  L’Oreal is more likely to make acquisitions than repurchase
shares with its cash, because a buyback would increase Nestle’s
stake, the analysts wrote.  “Big deals have previously not been part of L’Oreal’s M&A
DNA, but the chances of one now have increased,” they said.  Stephanie Carson-Parker , a spokeswoman for L’Oreal,
declined to comment on the report.  Elizabeth Arden has a market value of $646 million, while
 Estee Lauder  has a capitalization of $15.8 billion.  L’Oreal  rose  8 cents to 85.88 euros at 11:48 a.m. in Paris
trading, valuing the company at 51.4 billion euros. Exane has a
“neutral” recommendation on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 