-- ‘Tron’ Robots Glow in Pinball Universe; Shady Lobbyist: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-16T03:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/-tron-robots-glow-in-bridges-s-pinball-world-shady-lobbyist-rick-warner.html
“ Tron: Legacy ” takes place in a
futuristic world where glowing gladiators fight to the death
before roaring stadium crowds, and humanoid robots race sleek
motorcycles that zoom through the air like spaceships.  This 3-D sequel to 1982’s “Tron” is a head-spinning
special-effects extravaganza masking a trite story about a
father-son reunion and the hazards of letting computers run the
world.  Comparisons to a video game are understandable since the
protagonist, Kevin Flynn, is a brilliant video-game designer
whose alternate utopian universe is being sabotaged by a rogue
program, Clu, he created in his own image.  Flynn and Clu are both portrayed by  Jeff Bridges , who gets
a youthful makeover as Clu through digital wizardry. Flynn is
the older, wiser, bearded version, while Clu is the evil, clean-
shaven, 30-something spinoff who looks like Bridges in the
original movie.  Director Joseph Kosinski, a TV commercial whiz making his
feature debut, uses all the technological innovations that have
revolutionized movies since the first “Tron.” But the flashing
lights and frenetic movement make you feel like you’re trapped
inside a pinball machine.  Trapped in Cyberspace  The plot -- Flynn’s son, Sam, who hasn’t seen his dad since
he disappeared 20 years ago, enters the cyberspace where pop is
trapped -- is almost beside the point. Why bother with human
interaction when you can dazzle viewers with a digitally altered
face that required Bridges to wear a helmet camera during
filming?  What seems fresh at first grows tiresome through
repetition. Yes, it’s cool seeing an avatar powered by a huge
programming disk on its back. After a while, though, you yearn
for the computer creature to do something interesting.  Bridges does a Zen-like turn as the elder Flynn, while his
Clu is predictably robotic. Garrett Hedlund is forgettable as
Sam,  Michael Sheen  channels  David Bowie  as the gaudy opportunist
Castor and Olivia Wilde plays Quorra, a fierce warrior who is
Flynn’s most trusted aide.  Wilde looks sensational in her black neon suit and Louise
Brooks hairdo. And in “Tron: Legacy,” looks are just about
everything.  ‘Tron: Legacy,” from Walt Disney Pictures, opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Casino Jack’  Truth is stranger than fiction -- and often more
interesting.  Consider “ Casino Jack ,” starring  Kevin Spacey  as
disgraced lobbyist  Jack Abramoff . It’s opening seven months
after “Casino Jack and the United States of Money,” a
documentary about the same lobbyist whose brazen influence-
peddling and corruption landed him in prison and helped lead to
the downfall of former House Majority Leader  Tom DeLay .  While they cover mostly the same territory, including
Abramoff’s rip-off of casino-operating Indian tribes and his
shady involvement in a gambling cruise line,  Alex Gibney ’s
documentary provided more context about how a sleazebag like
Abramoff was able to gain so much clout in Washington.  The Spacey movie is a black comedy that milks laughs from
Abramoff’s slurs against ethnic groups and his imitations of
politicians and movie stars.  Barry Pepper  plays his excitable
business partner, Michael Scanlon, and  Jon Lovitz  goes over the
top as a mob-connected associate.  Pizza Guy  Spacey is physically miscast as Abramoff, a former wrestler
who brags that he “works out every day.” Spacey’s doughy
physique and receding hairline don’t project the menace and
power of the real Abramoff, who worked at a Baltimore pizzeria
for six months following his release from prison in June.  There’s a sad footnote to the movie: Director George
Hickenlooper died Oct. 30 of an accidental drug overdose at the
age of 47.  “Casino Jack,” from Art Takes Over, opens tomorrow in New
York and Los Angeles. Rating: **  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 