-- Mafia Victim Families Fight Increasing Violence, Brutality in Video Games
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-12-17T13:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/mafia-victim-families-complain-as-violent-video-games-increase.html
The  Mafia  killed Sonia Alfano’s
father, Sicilian journalist Beppe, on Jan. 8, 1993. Now she’s
fighting against video games that she says trivialize violence
and murder.  A member of the European Parliament, Alfano opposes games
such as “ Mafia II ” by  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. ,
whose investors include billionaire  Carl Icahn . The sequel to
2007’s “Mafia” for personal computers,  Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox
360 and Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3 lets players take on the role
of  Vito Scaletta , who rises through the organization’s ranks,
going from petty robberies to mob hits, gunfights and combat.  “It really, really hurts,” Alfano, who’s also the
president of Italy’s  association for the families of Mafia
victims , said in an interview. “We can’t allow this to happen,
our wounds are still too fresh.” She asked the European
Commission last week to consider banning the games.  About 26 percent of titles sold in the U.S., the biggest
market for video games, in the 10 months ended October carried
an M rating for mature content, up from 16 percent a year
earlier, according to  Anita Frazier , an analyst at industry
tracker NPD Group Inc. That amounts to $5.54 billion in sales.  Titles including Mafia II were among the strongest
contributors to the 32 percent increase in net revenue in the
fourth quarter ended Oct. 31, Take-Two said yesterday.  Language, Violence Warning  Before the results were released,  Mike Hickey , an analyst
at Janco Partners Inc. in Greenwood Village, Colorado, wrote in
a note that Take-Two may sell about 1.27 million copies of Mafia
II in its fiscal year, bringing in $55 million and making it the
New York-based company’s fourth best-seller in terms of revenue.
Take-Two’s shares have risen 19 percent in 2010, outperforming
the 12 percent gain in the Russell 3000 Technology Index.  Mafia II’s  M warning  comes from its gore, violence and
strong language. In Europe,  the Pan European Game Information 
rates it 18+ and warns against violence and bad language. The
game has the greatest number of instances of the “f-word”
among video games with 397 in the 75,000-word script and 15-hour
single-player story, according to  Guinness World Records Gamer ’s
Edition 2011.  “‘Mafia II’ tells a compelling story about organized crime
in America -- a subject that for decades has been featured in
award-winning movies, television shows and novels such as ‘The
Godfather’ and ‘ The Sopranos ,’” said  Alan Lewis , Take-Two’s
vice president for corporate communications and public affairs.
“We fully and completely stand behind our creative teams and
products, including ‘Mafia II.’”  ‘The Godfather’  Italian-American organizations  opposed the release  of Mafia
II in August, said  Andre DiMino , chief media officer of New
Jersey-based Italian-American group, UNICO.  Electronic Arts Inc. , the second-largest U.S. video-game
company, has published titles based on “The Godfather” novel
by  Mario Puzo  that was made into a film by  Francis Ford Coppola .  “Movies and games reflect the allure and repulsion that
people feel toward violence,” said  Janet Murray , a professor of
Digital Media at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta.
“Games raise special anxieties because they are active and
participatory.”  The Sicilian Mafia, or Cosa Nostra, is the most tightly
knit and best known. It has existed since the middle of the 19th
century, historians say. There were on average 116 Mafia and
organized-crime killings a year in Italy between 2004 and 2008.  Gaming companies are becoming more sensitive to opposition
in Europe to violent games. Microsoft introduced a Pan-European
website called  Play Smart, Play Safe  this month that helps
families determine what video and online games to buy.  Wide Range  “We have to deliver a platform that can offer the widest
range of entertainment experiences possible,”  Andrew House ,
head of Sony Corp.’s game unit in Europe, said in an Oct. 15
interview. Sony creates a “good balance” between games for
mature users while delivering others like “Gran Turismo 5,” a
car racing simulator play, for a broader audience, he said.  While violent content is generally rated by the likes of
the  Entertainment Software Rating Board , themes in games are
more difficult to monitor, said William Lugo, a professor of
sociology at the Eastern Connecticut State University in
Willimantic.  “The only message within video games that is highly
regulated is violence,” he said. “The harder and more complex
messages, such as those having to do with race, politics, or in
this case the Mafia, are outside the realm of responsibility of
game companies.”  The video-game industry may become more socially
responsible as it matures, Lugo said, a development the Mafia
victims’ association’s Alfano would welcome.  “These games transform the Mafia, a reality of death and
destruction, into a thrilling and hands-on virtual pastime,”
she said. “Even if momentarily, players identify with brutal
killers and for us who have experienced violence firsthand, it’s
appalling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 