-- AIG’s Chartis Sells $450 Million in Catastrophe Bonds
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-16T21:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/aig-doubles-catastrophe-bond-protection-with-450-million-sale.html
American International Group Inc. ’s
property-casualty unit is doubling the protection it receives
through catastrophe bonds with the issuance of $450 million in
securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One portion provides $325 million of coverage and pays
7.25 percentage points more than three-month Treasury bills,
according to the data. The other slice, at $125 million, yields
6 percentage points above the benchmark. Both mature in 2014 and
protect against U.S. hurricanes and earthquakes for New York-
based AIG’s Chartis division.  Insurers including AIG are turning to capital markets as an
alternative to reinsurance to guard against the costliest
disasters. The  Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index  gained about
3.4 percent this year as the strongest hurricanes in the
Atlantic season missed the U.S. The securities pay higher-than-
benchmark yields to investors who risk losing their principal in
the event of a disaster that meets predefined conditions.  “We expect the focus of the catastrophe bond market will
remain on the peak U.S. perils,” insurance broker  Marsh &
McLennan Cos.  said in a report last month. “Relative to the
extreme conditions prevalent during the credit crisis of late
2008 and 20098, capital market conditions continue to improve.  Since 1995, about 30 percent of all Atlantic hurricanes
have hit the U.S., according to  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
commercial forecaster Weather Underground Inc. This season,
there were 12 hurricanes, a tie with 1969 for second-most,
according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. Given the recent trend, the U.S. should have
been hit by at least four, Masters said.  Property Coverage  Chartis obtained $425 million in protection through
catastrophe bonds in May. Swiss Reinsurance Co., Allianz SE and
AIG are among sellers of about $4.4 billion in catastrophe bonds
this year, an increase of one-third from the full-year 2009
total, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Marie Ali , a spokeswoman
for Chartis, declined to comment.  AIG advanced 91 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $52.10 at 4:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company
has jumped about 74 percent this year as Chief Executive Officer
Robert Benmosche sold units and struck a deal with the Treasury
Department to help gain independence for the bailed-out insurer.  AIG may be more exposed to U.S. disasters after disposing
of overseas life insurance units to repay loans in its $182.3
billion government rescue. The company this year sold American
Life Insurance Co. to MetLife Inc. and divested a majority stake
in and  AIA Group Ltd.  in a public offering. The life and
retirement businesses produced more than a third of AIG’s
insurance revenue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  