-- Ally IPO to Come Sooner Than Officials Expected, Geithner Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-12-16T19:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ally-financial-s-share-sale-will-come-sooner-than-estimated-geithner-says.html
Ally Financial Inc., the auto lender
formerly known as GMAC Inc., will sell shares to the public
sooner than government officials expected, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said.  “We’re working very hard with the management and board of
GMAC to achieve that outcome,” Geithner said today, referring
to an initial public offering, in testimony to the Congressional
Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program in
Washington. “I don’t know how quickly but it’s going to be much
sooner than we thought six months ago.”  An IPO would allow the government to begin withdrawing its
support of Ally as officials look to exit bailouts undertaken
during the financial crisis. General Motors Co. said today it
paid $2.1 billion to repurchase preferred shares owned by
taxpayers.  “We are going to move as quickly as we can to replace the
government’s investments with private capital, take those firms
public, figure out a way to exit as quickly as we can,”
Geithner said today.  Ally, the primary lender to dealers at GM as well as
Chrysler Group LLC, has benefited from three bailouts totaling
$17.2 billion.  Michael Carpenter , chief executive officer of
Detroit-based Ally, has said an IPO could happen as early as
next year.  Ally’s Profits  Ally has posted three straight quarters of profit including
a $269 million gain for the third quarter as consumers and
dealers borrowed more for car and truck purchases. The company
has also shown an ability to sell debt with declining interest
rates this year, improving its access to funding sources, said
 Kirk Ludtke , a senior vice president at the Stamford,
Connecticut-based brokerage firm CRT Capital Group LLC.  “Ally has performed well and the capital markets have
mended themselves probably faster than the Treasury expected,”
Ludtke said today in an interview. “They’ve demonstrated that
they can access the capital markets in size and at attractive
borrowing rates.”  Ally sold $2 billion of notes at 8.3 percent in February,
Bloomberg data show. It then sold blocks of debt at rates of 8
percent and 7.5 percent before completing a $1 billion sale at
6.25 percent last month. During the same period, yields on high-
yield bonds dropped 1.21 percentage points, according Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s High Yield Master II index.  Ally was the in-house finance arm of GM before the
automaker sold a 51 percent stake to an investor group led by
Cerberus Capital Management LP in 2006 for $7.4 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 