-- Aluminum Inventories Are Growing Off London Metal Exchange, Trafigura Says
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2010-12-16T08:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/aluminum-inventories-are-growing-off-london-metal-exchange-trafigura-says.html
Aluminum traders may be storing more
metal outside warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange
“so it’s not as apparent as it could be” before the
introduction of an exchange-traded fund in the metal, according
to  Simon Collins , head of refined metals at Trafigura Beheer BV
in Lucerne, Switzerland.  Aluminum was considered the most likely industrial metal
used to back an exchange-traded product, partly because more of
it is produced than other non-ferrous metals combined, a
Bloomberg survey in October showed. Global inventories of the
metal are at least 10 million metric tons, with about 4.3
million tons in LME-monitored warehouses, Collins said.  “You have more and more inventory, and more financing
costs for that inventory, effectively because of the delay in
the ETF,” Collins said. “The market is in structural surplus,
which means people have been accumulating stocks, primarily off
warrant.”  Exchange-traded products backed by copper, nickel and tin
were started Dec. 10 on the London Stock Exchange, beating
aluminum. United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, said the possible launch of aluminum exchange-traded
funds in 2011 may lock up 2 million to 3 million tons of the
metal for “several years,” according to a statement filed to
the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  Stockpiles  in warehouses monitored by the LME have dropped
334,975 tons this year, or 7.2 percent, to 4.3 million tons as
of Dec. 15, according to data from the exchange. Global
inventories are probably closer to 10 million or 12 million
tons, with the surplus this year at 1.3 million tons, according
to Trafigura estimates. Aluminum prices have jumped 4 percent
this year.  “There’s a reluctance for people to deliver material to
the exchange,” Collins said. Premiums for aluminum, or the
extra fee charged over the LME price, are “historically high,
so delivering into the exchange means you lose that premium,”
he said.  The premium to borrow aluminum for next-day delivery, also
known as the tom-next spread, jumped to as high as $20 on Dec.
13, and was at a discount of 40 cents yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  