-- Anonymous E-mails, iPad Cases Get Britons Online at Christmas
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/anonymous-e-mails-ipad-cases-get-britons-online-at-christmas.html
Don’t know what size of slippers to
buy your aunt for Christmas?  Marks & Spencer Group Plc  will try
to find out.  To tap rising Internet holiday spending, the U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer started a  “size detective”  service last
month, offering to send an anonymous e-mail to a customer’s
friend or relative to ask their shoe size or waistline.  As more Britons shop online, retailers are coming up with
novel ways to gain customers. Best Buy U.K. offers discounts on
some products only for Internet customers, while all purchases
on  Liberty Plc’s  website on Dec. 10 were delivered free.
According to Deloitte LLP, shoppers who use more than one method
to purchase such as the Web, catalogs, stores or call centers
spend 82 percent more per transaction than store-only shoppers.  “Multichannel and those with the better transactional
websites might well differentiate the winners and losers this
Christmas,”  Ian Geddes , U.K. head of retail at Deloitte, said
in an interview. Using more than one means of shopping “makes
customers more comfortable and they will spend a bit more
because they feel they’ve done enough investigating.”  Snow and freezing temperatures this month are accentuating
the shift toward online shopping as fewer Britons venture out.
The number of visitors to U.K. non-food stores fell 14.5 percent
in the first week of December from a year earlier, according to
researcher Synovate. A new cold snap will “severely disrupt”
store sales on the last shopping weekend before Christmas, the
Planalytics forecasting service said by e-mail.  Mahnolo Blahnik Scarf  Liberty , the iconic London department-store, had “flat”
sales during the week of snow in early December, Managing
Director Ed Burstell said in a phone interview. To counter that,
the retailer dropped its usual 5.95-pound ($9) delivery charge
for a day on all purchases made through its website.  An exclusive 150-pound silk scarf from designer Mahnolo
Blahnik and cases for  Apple Inc . iPads and iPhones in the
traditional Liberty floral prints have been “incredibly
successful” online, Burstell said. “You have to create some
excitement,” both in store and on the Web, he said.  Marks & Spencer’s e-mail service is part of the  “Christmas
Helper,”  also offering food and fashion advice, and the “gift
genius” search tool to help customers choose seasonal presents.
The “size detective” has had more than 150,000 hits since it
was introduced last month, spokesman Daniel Himsworth said.  Marks’  website  became fully mobile-enabled in May, allowing
shoppers to log into their accounts and choose from more than
24,000 products using a smartphone. This will be the first
Christmas that customers will be able to use the service, which
the company said has had more than 10 million page views.  House of Fraser Concierge  House of Fraser Plc , the closely held department-store
chain, has offered next-day in-store collection for online
orders at its 61 outlets since October. At the collection
points, customers can browse iPads, sit on sofas and use fitting
rooms in “a unique concierge-style environment,” based on a
hotel reception area,  Robin Terrell , executive director of
multichannel and international, said in a phone interview.  About a quarter of all House of Fraser’s online orders are
now collected from a store, Terrell said. The retailer almost
doubled the amount of items available on the Internet to 150,000
this year, including 850 brands.  Online sales at House of Fraser have grown about 130
percent in the year to date, and last month were worth more than
the retailer’s biggest store, Terrell said. Last year, Web
 revenue  was equivalent to about the 20th biggest House of Fraser
outlet, he said.  Electronic Discounts  “In this market you have to keep moving forward or you go
backwards,” Terrell said, adding that multi-channel shoppers
spend twice as much as store-only consumers. Last week, House of
Fraser introduced a  mobile-enabled site  which he said has drawn
a “ton of traffic,” particularly from iPhones.  According to Deloitte, consumer electronics products are
the most likely to be bought or researched online. About two-
thirds of purchases are influenced by the Internet, compared
with 37 percent for home products and 26 percent for clothing.  Best Buy U.K. introduced its  transactional website  last
month and is offering web-only discounts such as a 19 inch Sony
HD-ready television for 189.99 pounds. That’s helped lift the
Internet to be at least 10 percent of overall sales, said  Andrew Brem , director for services and multichannel at Best Buy Europe.  The retailer, owned jointly by  Best Buy Co.,  the world’s
largest electronics retailer, and  Carphone Warehouse Group Plc ,
has added video-guided selling on its website, giving advice
such as which television fits best into customers’ room space.  “Online is absolutely soaring this Christmas,” Brem said.
“Our most valuable shoppers are those that interact with us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 