-- Anwar Ibrahim Suspended From Malaysian Parliament, Prompting Mass Walkout
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-12-16T08:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/anwar-ibrahim-suspended-from-malaysian-parliament-prompting-mass-walkout.html
Malaysian opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  was suspended from parliament for six months for making
a false statement, prompting a mass walkout by coalition
colleagues today.  The Parliamentary Rights and Privileges Committee
recommended banning him from the house of representatives after
concluding he made a false statement in parliament, linking the
government’s “1Malaysia” national unity concept with a similar
campaign carried out by Israel.  Opposition members shouted protests as  Nazri Aziz , a
minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, read a motion in
parliament, which was passed without debate. Three fellow
members of Anwar’s People’s Justice Party, including his deputy
 Azmin Ali,  were also barred for six months after being cited for
contempt. There was ‘ ‘pandemonium”  in parliament ahead of the
vote, the Star newspaper reported today online.  “We might challenge the suspension in court,” Anwar later
told reporters in Kuala Lumpur after the decision.  Anwar, 63, was punished for claiming Prime Minister  Najib Razak ’s government got the idea for its “1Malaysia” campaign
from media consultancy  Apco Worldwide , which he said was also
behind the One Israel concept. The government denied this.  Najib has used the “1Malaysia” slogan to help campaign
for greater unity among the country’s various races and
religions.  “If they want to challenge the suspension in court, let
them go ahead,” said Khairy Jamaluddin, who heads the youth
wing of the United Malays National Organisation, the biggest
party in Malaysia’s ruling National Front coalition. He was
speaking to reporters in parliament.  “This decision makes Najib’s administration look foolish,”
said  Bridget Welsh , an associate professor of political science
at Singapore Management University. “In short, this will
increase public support for the opposition, and damage Najib’s
administration,” she said in e-mail to Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Manirajan Ramasamy  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 