-- ANZ Bank Sued by Private Equity Lawyer for Unfair Loan Currency Conversion
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-12-16T01:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/anz-sued-by-clearwater-capital-lawyer-over-unfair-home-loan-conversion.html
Jason Edwards , the chief lawyer at
 Clearwater Capital Partners LLC,  sued  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd.  claiming his multicurrency loan was unfairly
converted, boosting his interest payments.  Edwards’s loan value rose 47 percent to $4.2 million after
the bank converted his U.S. currency and Japanese yen debt to
the Australian dollar in November 2008 and May 2009, according
to the lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court. A closed
hearing is scheduled today.  The U.S. dollar and Japanese yen were the worst performers
among 16 major currencies against the Aussie in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. dollar declined against
the Australian currency by 22 percent in 2009, while the yen
fell by 24 percent.  “ANZ chose to convert my loans without my authority, with
devastating consequences for me” and a windfall to the bank,
Edwards, the Singapore-based general counsel of New York-based
 Clearwater , which invests in Asian distressed assets, said in
court papers.  ANZ, based in Melbourne, said in a counter-suit that it was
within its rights to convert the currency according to the loan
contract and had informed Edwards.  Kevin Foley, a Sydney-based ANZ spokesman, said in an e-
mail the bank would defend the case.  Michael Palmer  of Harry
Elias Partnership LLP is representing ANZ. Edwards’s lawyer
 Suresh Nair  from Straits Law Practice LLC declined to comment.  Edwards, an Australian, obtained the loan in 2006 to
refinance his Queensland property, according to court documents.
The interest on Australian dollar loans was higher than the rate
on U.S. dollar- or yen-denominated debt, according to the suit.  “My interest liability has skyrocketed and I have taken on
substantial foreign exchange liabilities,” Edwards said in the
court papers.  The case is Jason Glenn Edwards v Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., S489/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  