-- Apple to Open Digital Store for Mac Computer Apps
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2010-12-16T21:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/apple-aims-to-do-for-computer-software-what-it-did-for-mobile-music-apps.html
Apple Inc.  will open a digital
storefront next month that will try to do for computer software
what it did for music and mobile applications.  The Mac App Store will open Jan. 6, the Cupertino,
California-based company said in a statement today. The aim is
to let Mac owners purchase programs for their desktops and
laptops with a single click, as they can buy songs on iTunes and
games in the App Store for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch.  The digital method is a challenge to  Microsoft Corp.  and
 Adobe Systems Inc. , which rely on networks of corporate
consultants, retailers and online merchants to distribute their
programs, often in the form of CDs costing more than $20.  “You’re not going to be able to sell a $39 shrink-wrapped
box if people can get a competing product just by dragging a
mouse, using a credit card that’s already on file and paying
$5.99,” said Jason Izatt, a developer who makes a mileage-
tracking iPhone application called Milebug.  The Mac App Store will be available in 90 countries and
will feature paid and free applications in education, games and
design, Apple said in the  statement . Apple said at an
Oct. 20 event that there were about 50 million Macs in use.  ‘Easy and Fun’  “The App Store revolutionized mobile apps,”  Steve Jobs ,
Apple’s chief executive officer, said in the statement. “We
hope to do the same for PC apps with the Mac App Store by making
finding and buying PC apps easy and fun.”  Developers will set the price of the applications and get
70 percent of the revenue, the company said. The store will be
available as a software update for users of the Mac OS X Snow
Leopard operating system, Apple said.  While most programs are available for download somewhere on
the Internet, there’s no single storefront for consumers to find
what they want. Saulius Dailide, co-founder of 10-person
Pixelmator, said he plans to sell his company’s image editing
program for $59. He said he expects London-based Pixelmator’s
sales to double or triple because of the Mac store.  “All these years our biggest concern was reaching our
customers,” Dailide said. “Even though many people agree that
we have a great product, not many of our potential customers
have heard of us.”  Scrapping Packaged Product  Omni Group, a maker of productivity software with about 40
employees, has told retail partners that it’s putting an end to
its packaged product, said Ken Case, the Seattle-based company’s
co-founder. An Apple-branded download site will help ease
concerns about viruses when buying software online, he said.  “It’s something I warn my mother about if she’s shopping
around on the Internet,” Case said.  Apple rose 89 cents to $321.25 at 4:29 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  shares  have risen 52 percent
this year.  Apple, with final approval on what software can be sold in
the store, also may face scrutiny about what’s allowed. Last
year, U.S. regulators inquired about the company’s rejection of
a voice-service application made by Google Inc. for the iPhone.
The company has released a list of guidelines for developers.  Carl Howe , an analyst at the consulting and research firm
Yankee Group, said the store may threaten the bundling
strategies of big sellers of PC software. Consumers will be able
to buy programs individually rather than as a package, similar
to purchasing a song on iTunes rather than an entire album.  Mac Versions  Many developers of iPhone and iPad apps probably will write
versions for the Mac App Store, said  Tim Bajarin , founder of the
technology consulting firm Creative Strategies Inc.  Aaron Patzer , general manager of Intuit Inc.’s Personal
Finance Group, said the company is working on an iPad version of
its Quicken program and may then create one for the Mac store.  Howe said many consumers will prefer Apple’s process for
finding and buying software, which eliminates steps such as
unwrapping a box, putting the disc in a drive, running a setup
program and picking a place for the application on the
computer’s hard drive.  Adobe declined to comment about whether it will make
software available in the store.  “Adobe’s millions of customers can already download our
Mac software from the Adobe Store,” said Jodi Sorensen, a
spokeswoman.  Microsoft  is “working to understand the impact of the new
app store to the Office for Mac business,” said Amanda
Lefebvre, a spokeswoman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  