-- Arbitrage in Naphtha Rises as Margins Hit Three-Year High: Energy Markets
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-12-16T16:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/arbitrage-in-naphtha-rises-as-margins-hit-three-year-high-energy-markets.html
European  profit  from processing
crude into naphtha tripled to a three-year high as rising Asian
petrochemical demand lures shipments to China and Japan.  Naphtha’s premium to Brent crude jumped to $3.30 a barrel
on Nov. 29 from $1.05 a month earlier, reaching the widest level
since Dec. 17, 2007, data from London-based broker PVM Oil
Associates Ltd. show. Shipments to Asia may reach 475,000 metric
tons in December, according to the median estimate of eight
traders surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with 500,000 tons for
November and up from none in October.  China’s requirement for the material used in everything
from Barbie dolls to car parts will rise 28 percent to 1.22
million barrels a day this year compared with overall oil demand
growth of 11 percent, the International Energy Agency said in a
report on Dec. 10. Naphtha traded at  $832 a ton in Europe 
yesterday,  $22 less  than in Asia. Companies from Vitol Group,
the world’s largest independent oil trader, to Norway’s Statoil
ASA hired tankers to take advantage of the arbitrage.  “China is the driving force in chemicals at the moment,”
said  Harald Gruber , head of chemicals research at Silvia Quandt
& Cie., a Frankfurt-based private investment bank. “The
momentum is strong in automobiles, electronics and
construction.”  Oil and chemical imports increased as Chinese  manufacturing 
accelerated for a fourth month in November. The Purchasing
Managers’ Index rose to 55.2 from 54.7, the country’s logistics
federation said Dec. 1.  Daimler AG  said sales of Mercedes-Benz
cars, the world’s second-largest luxury vehicle brand, more than
doubled in the first eleven months of this year in the nation.  Japanese Imports  Japan’s imports rose 25 percent to 1.56 million tons in
October compared with a month earlier, trade ministry data show.  China increased purchases in November and December by more
than 200,000 tons as refiners made less naphtha, preferring to
maximize diesel production amid a fuel shortage in the country,
according to data from ICIS, the chemical news service owned by
London-based Reed Elsevier Plc.  Electricity rationing aimed at meeting energy conservation
goals under a five-year plan that ends this month prompted
factories to use private diesel-powered generators, driving up
fuel demand.  Crude-processing volume rose 10 percent to 36.65 million
tons last month, or a daily record of 8.96 million barrels,
according to China Mainland Marketing Research Co., which
compiles data for the National Bureau of Statistics.  Power Rationing  “Demand for chemical products is expected to remain strong
in the fourth quarter, driven by high seasonal demand and extra
demand from China, due to power rationing,” according to a Dec.
8 report from Bualuang Securities Pcl, a unit of Bangkok Bank
Pcl, Thailand’s biggest lender.  Making the fuel is also profitable in Asia. Naphtha in
 Japan  rallied to a premium of $156.80 a ton versus Brent crude
at the end of trading in Asia today, compared with $135.28 on
Nov. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe has surplus naphtha as refiners raise crude
processing rates to produce heating oil for the winter,
according to  Jim Weinrauch , an industry consultant at Naphtha
Information Services Pte in Singapore.  The excess has so far been absorbed by exports in November
and December and arbitrage exports may continue in the coming
months because of a reduction in shipments from Saudi Arabia.  Saudi Shortfall  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s biggest state-owned oil
company, may reduce naphtha exports to Asia next year because of
refinery maintenance, said buyers who were notified of the
company’s plans during supply talks.  The company, known as Saudi Aramco, could cut shipments 10
to 20 percent in the first half of 2011, said four buyers who
participated in contract discussions held earlier this month,
requesting anonymity as the talks were confidential. Asia buys
about 4 million tons through term contracts from Aramco every
six months, according to estimates from two of the people.  Vitol hired a tanker called New Confidence to ship the fuel
to Japan from Milazzo in northern Sicily at a cost of $1.375
million, according to reports from shipbrokers including New
Delhi-based Interocean Shipping.  Statoil chartered the Torm Venture to load a cargo from
Banias in Syria, while Vilma Oil SL hired the Orfeas to deliver
a consignment to Japan, the reports showed.  No one at Vitol was available to comment when Bloomberg
called the company’s London office. Vilma Oil did not respond to
an e-mail request for comment following a call to the company’s
office in Madrid. Statoil, based in Stavanger, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment after
requesting questions via e-mail.  The European front-month  naphtha crack , or premium to Brent
crude, widened for a third day to $1.70 a barrel as of 4:18 p.m.
London time, according to PVM data on Bloomberg.  The following table shows the monthly naphtha volume
shipped to Asia from Europe, based on a Bloomberg survey of
traders. 