-- ArcelorMittal Sees Baffinland Bid Superior to Nunavut
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-12-16T22:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/arcelormittal-nunavut-bid-isn-t-superior-under-baffinland-deal.html
ArcelorMittal , the largest producer
of steel, said its offer for  Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.  is
superior to a raised bid by rival Nunavut Iron Ore Acquisition
Inc. under a takeover accord with shareholders and directors.  “We are aware of Nunavut’s revised hostile offer, which is
a partial bid and does not constitute a superior offer under the
terms of the support agreement,”  Giles Read , a spokesman for
ArcelorMittal, said by e-mail today. “We continue to believe
ArcelorMittal is the best strategic partner for Baffinland.”  Nunavut today raised its offer to C$1.35 ($1.34) a share
for 50.1 percent of Toronto-based Baffinland, compared with
ArcelorMittal’s Nov. 8 price of C$1.10 a share for the whole
company. Nunavut previously made an offer of 80 cents.  Baffinland’s largest shareholder, Resource Capital Funds,
and its directors and officers have agreed to sell their 24.9
percent stake exclusively to ArcelorMittal unless they receive a
“superior proposal” under the terms of a lockup accord. The
steel producer also has the right to match any such bid.  Baffinland is reviewing Nunavut’s revised offer and will
respond in “due course,”  Daniella Dimitrov , vice chairman of
the company, said in a telephone interview today.  Baffinland shareholders “are the ones that need to
decide,”  Bruce Walter , Nunavut’s chairman, said in a telephone
interview today. “The market is telling us that they’re voting
in our favor.”  Demand From China  Baffinland rose 4 cents, or 3.2 percent, to C$1.28 at 3:59
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  The shares  have more
than doubled this year.  ArcelorMittal  was little changed in
Euronext Amsterdam trading.  ArcelorMittal, based in Luxembourg, aims to boost self-
sufficiency in raw materials as prices for iron ore and coking
coal surged on demand from China, the largest producer of steel.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , Vale SA and Rio Tinto Group, the three
biggest exporters of the ore, also switched to quarterly supply
contracts instead of annual fixed-price accords.  Nunavut is not a “real player,” for Baffinland, former
Baffinland Chief Executive Officer  Gordon McCreary  said in a
telephone interview today. The bid is “giving us time to get
the real job done.” He is searching for an offer to counter
ArcelorMittal’s, which he considers inadequate.  McCreary resigned from Baffinland after the board gave its
support to the steelmaker in November. A Chinese state-owned
enterprise is interested in acquiring Baffinland, he said.  Iron-Ore Production  ArcelorMittal said in September it planned to spend $4
billion to increase iron-ore production to 100 million metric
tons a year by 2015. The company, which is currently able to
produce about 60 million tons of ore, has added mining assets in
Brazil, Russia and Liberia since Mittal Steel Co. bought Arcelor
SA in 2006 in the steel industry’s biggest takeover.  Baffinland’s Mary River project contains reserves of 365
million tons of iron ore, ArcelorMittal said in a November
statement. Prices for iron ore, a key steelmaking ingredient,
almost doubled in the April quarter and gained more than 20
percent in the June-to-September period.  Surging demand for steel in China and India is helping to
boost prices. The outlook has bolstered demand for acquisitions
of iron-ore suppliers.  Nunavut’s increased offer is a 131 percent premium, based
on the Bloomberg 20-day volume  weighted average price  through to
Sept. 21, the day before the first offer for the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 