-- Aristocrat's Son Starts Soccer-Player Investment Opposed by U.K. Leagues
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-12-16T17:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/aristocrat-s-son-starts-soccer-player-investment-opposed-by-u-k-leagues.html
The son of an Italian aristocrat is
buying up shares in the transfer rights of soccer players,
venturing where some investors are wary to go.  Indoo Sella di Monteluce, 29, has started up Global Eleven
Ltd. with Wil, Switzerland-based  Kentaro AG , whose sports
interests include managing soccer players, according to a
statement sent to Bloomberg News by the project’s London-based
financial adviser Iveagh Ltd. They plan to raise $100 million to
expand the project, Iveagh said.  Sella di Monteluce plans to support younger players and
share in future transfer fees and endorsement earnings, Iveagh
spokesman Paul Wynne said. The fund will help “young
footballers to realize their dreams of playing for the world’s
best football clubs,” according to the statement.  While soccer’s player-trade market is worth more than $1
billion, buying shares in rights to players is prohibited in the
main English leagues. Hero Investments LLP, raising money for a
soccer fund, decided against investing in rights, Hero fund
manager Nicholas Hely-Henderson said.  “We prefer to stay clear of that,” Hely-Henderson said.
“Third-party ownership is a very sensitive issue.”  The Global Eleven fund buys up a percentage of players’
rights and receives a corresponding share of any transfer fees
and endorsement contracts once they are traded. Fund investors
would share in that income.  ‘Hit-and-Miss’  Such plans are “a bit of a hit-and-miss investment but can
be spectacular,” said Richard Law, who advises London club
Arsenal on transfers.  England’s Premier League banned third-party ownership of
players after Carlos Tevez’s 2007 move to Manchester United from
West Ham was held up in a dispute because Media Sports
Investment Group Inc. and Just Sports Inc. owned part of the
Argentine striker’s transfer rights.  Sella di Monteluce, son of the Count and Countess Sella di
Monteluce, bought a share in the rights of at least four South
American players through his contacts with Kentaro and other
player agencies, Wynne said, without identifying them. Sella di
Monteluce, who is based in London, wasn’t immediately available
for comment, Wynne said.  Soccer ruling body FIFA ’s policy is that investment in
soccer players is only illegitimate if it influences transfers.
Investors get around that in Brazil by maintaining they are
passive investors in players, according to Law, the Arsenal
adviser.  8.3 Percent Return  Clubs in Europe’s five biggest leagues, the U.K., Spain,
Italy, Germany and France, cut spending on player trades by 29
percent to 1.32 billion euros ($1.75 billion) in the offseason
amid an economic decline, according to a research by Barcelona-
based Prime Time Sport.  Lisbon-based First Portuguese Group SGPS set up a $10
million fund to invest in Porto’s squad in 2004, getting a boost
when team coach  Jose Mourinho  led it to the Champions League
title in the same year.  Within five months the fund swelled 38 percent in value as
players such as  Ricardo Carvalho  followed Mourinho to Chelsea.
It posted an average annual return of 8.3 percent before closing
in 2008, Bloomberg data show. Its worst-performing year was a
7.8 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 