-- Harvard Health Expert Paul Farmer Named University Professor, Highest Rank
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2010-12-16T18:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/harvard-health-expert-paul-farmer-named-university-professor-highest-rank.html
Harvard University promoted  Paul Farmer , the anthropologist and public-health authority, to the
highest faculty rank, providing him freedom to cross boundaries
between academic specialties.  Farmer, 51, gains the title “university professor,”
Harvard, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said today in a
statement. He has been a professor of social medicine at Harvard
Medical School in Boston.  He joins 20 men and two women who earlier rose to
Harvard’s top title for faculty members. The others include
 Lawrence Summers , Harvard’s former president and now U.S.
President Barack Obama’s top economic adviser, and the poetry
critic Helen Vendler. Farmer helped found Partners in Health, a
Boston-based international humanitarian organization that works
with communities to combat disease.  “Paul Farmer is best known to the public as a pioneering
humanitarian,”  Drew Faust , Harvard’s president, said today in
the statement. “But among scholars he is equally well-known for
his research and writing, which have crossed boundaries between
the social sciences and biomedical research and married theory
and practice to forge a new approach to global health.”  Harvard had almost 1,000 tenured faculty members in 2009,
when the faculty and staff totaled almost 13,700, according to
the university’s website.  Farmer earned an M.D. and a Ph.D. in anthropology from
Harvard. The institution established university professorships
in 1935 to recognize individuals who work on “the frontiers of
knowledge, and in such a way as to cross the conventional
boundaries of the specialties,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 