-- Ashmore, AstraZeneca, F&C, Punch Taverns: U.K., Irish Equity Preview
-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 2010-12-17T07:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ashmore-f-c-international-power-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  retreated 1.06, or less than
0.1 percent, to 5,881.12. Futures on the index rose 0.1 percent
to 5,887.5 as of 7:32 a.m. in London. The  FTSE All-Share Index 
also fell less than 0.1 percent yesterday, while Ireland’s  ISEQ
Index  rose 0.3 percent.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  (ALBK ID) and Bank of Ireland Plc
(BKIR ID): Ireland’s credit rating was cut five levels by
Moody’s Investors Service after the government last month was
forced to ask for external aid. Allied Irish lost 2.4 percent to
46 cents. Bank of Ireland dropped 5.1 percent to 37 cents.  Ashmore Group Plc  (ASHM LN): Ashmore Investment Management
Ltd. won U.S. regulatory approval to offer five mutual funds
that invest in emerging-market assets, the London-based company,
which is part of Ashmore Group Plc, said. The shares fell 1.4
percent to 346.7 pence.  AstraZeneca Plc  (AZN LN): The drugmaker failed to win U.S.
approval for Brilinta, a new blood thinner to rival Plavix, the
world’s second-best selling drug. The shares rose 0.1 percent to
3,153 pence.  F&C Asset Management Plc  (FCAM LN): The company that
oversees the U.K.’s oldest investment fund said it received a
request from Sherborne Investors GP to hold a general meeting of
the company’s shareholders to consider the removal of F&C’s
chairman and another director. A notice will be sent by Jan. 6,
F&C said. The stock declined 0.5 percent to 74.4 pence.       Hunting Plc  (HTG LN): The company said trading operations
remain “on track” to deliver results in line with current
market expectations. The shares dropped 1.4 percent to 710
pence.  International Power Plc  (IPR LN): Shareholders approved a
tie-up with GDF Suez SA, creating the world’s second-biggest
power producer with plants from Brazil to Australia. The shares
rose 0.7 percent to 426.5 pence.       Punch Taverns Plc  (PUB LN): The pub operator said it’s on
track to meet its forecasts for the full year after “improved
trading momentum” in the fourth quarter continued and as it
conducted a “comprehensive” review of its business. The shares
lost 1 percent to 66.65 pence.  Travis Perkins Plc  (TPK LN): The U.K.’s biggest building
merchant confirmed that Gavin Slark, former chief executive
officer of BSS Group, and Roddy Murray, former finance director
of BSS, have decided to leave now that the acquisition is
complete. The stock advanced 1.4 percent to 1,010 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 