-- Asian Stocks Fall for a Second Day as Bridgestone, Singapore Airlines Drop
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-12-16T11:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/asian-stocks-fall-for-second-day-led-by-commodity-shares-sapporo-climbs.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a second
straight day, driving the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to its first
back-to-back drop in three weeks, after brokerages cut ratings
on Bridgestone Corp. and Singapore Airlines Ltd.  Bridgestone, the world’s biggest tiremaker by sales,
decreased 1.6 percent in Tokyo, and Singapore Airlines, the
world’s No. 2 carrier by market value, lost 1.3 percent.  Mitsui
& Co. , a Japanese trading company, dropped 1.2 percent as copper
prices slid and the U.S. government sued a subsidiary in
relation to the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.3 percent to 133.59 as
of 8:22 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than three stocks declining for
every two that advanced. The gauge climbed to a 2 1/2-year high
this week as U.S. economic reports boosted confidence in a
global recovery, easing concerns that Europe’s debt crisis and
China’s measures to slow inflation will hurt growth.  “The market is consolidating ahead of the yearend
holidays,” said  Geoff Howie , a market strategist at MF Global
Singapore Ltd., part of the world’s largest broker of exchange-
traded futures and options. “Economic numbers coming out of the
U.S. are encouraging, but investors are still worried about jobs.
A blowout in Europe is not going to help keep the U.S. recovery
on track.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  closed little changed,
while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1.3 percent and
China’s Shanghai Composite Index sank 0.5 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index fell 0.4 percent, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index gained 0.3 percent.  Jakarta Index Tumbles  Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index dropped 2.4 percent,
the second-biggest decline among benchmark equity indexes in the
Asia-Pacific region, as lenders dropped after a central-bank
official said loan growth this year may be at the lower end of a
target.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.1
percent. The index slipped 0.5 percent yesterday. Industrial
production increased more than forecast in November and consumer
prices slowed, according to reports yesterday from the Federal
Reserve and Labor Department, indicating the recovery is gaining
momentum without generating inflation.  In Europe, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday after
the close of stock trading in Tokyo, Seoul and Sydney that it’s
reviewing Spain’s debt rating for a possible downgrade.  “Spain is the linchpin for 2011,”  Russ Koesterich , head
of investment strategy for scientific active equities at
BlackRock Inc. in San Francisco, told Bloomberg Television.
“Spain is much larger than Greece, Ireland or Portugal, and if
Spain starts to run into real fiscal challenges, the existing
mechanisms in Europe aren’t big enough to deal with that.”  Esprit, Samsung, Sony  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , the Hong Kong clothier that counts
Europe as its biggest market, dropped 2.6 percent to HK$37.85.
Samsung Electronics Co., which is the world’s No. 2 maker of
mobile phones and gets more than a fifth of sales in Europe,
fell 0.6 percent to 911,000 won in Seoul. Sony Corp., the maker
of Bravia televisions and PlayStation video-game consoles,
slipped 0.8 percent to 2,976 yen in Tokyo.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 11 percent through
yesterday in 2010, compared with gains of 11 percent by the S&P
500 and 8.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 14.7 times estimated earnings on
average at yesterday’s close, versus 14.5 times for the S&P 500
and 12.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  Consumer-discretionary companies, including Bridgestone,
led declines today among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  Bridgestone  sank 1.6 percent to 1,616 yen after
Morgan Stanley cut its investment recommendation to “equal-
weight” from “overweight.”  Airlines Decline  Singapore Airlines dropped 1.3 percent to S$15.26. The
company said its overall load factor fell to 70.1 percent in
November from 72.3 percent a year earlier, prompting UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. to cut its rating to “hold” from “buy.”  Airlines worldwide may post a 40 percent decline in
combined profits next year on slower economic growth, higher
fuel costs and austerity measures in Europe, the International
Air Transport Association said this week.  Qantas Airways Ltd. ,
Australia’s biggest carrier, dropped 2.6 percent to A$2.65.
China Eastern Airlines Co., the nation’s second-biggest carrier,
slipped 4.3 percent to HK$3.60 in Hong Kong.  Mitsui & Co. fell 1.2 percent to 1,342 yen after copper
futures slid for a third day. Separately, the U.S. government
filed a lawsuit yesterday against units of BP Plc and four other
companies, including a subsidiary of Mitsui, in relation to the
explosion in April of an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico.  Japanese Banks Gain  Among stocks that rose today, Japan’s top-two banks by
market value climbed after Nomura Holdings Inc., the country’s
biggest brokerage, reiterated its “buy” ratings on their
shares.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.  increased 1.4
percent to 435 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. climbed
2.2 percent to 2,856 yen.  Dena Co., a maker of game software for mobile handsets,
jumped 9.9 percent to 2,975 yen, the  biggest gain  in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, and the company’s highest closing price
since it went public in 2005. Dena said Samsung Electronics will
offer Dena’s platform on handsets worldwide using the Android
operating system.  In Jakarta,  PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia , the nation’s second-
biggest financial institution by assets, fell 3.7 percent to
10,350 rupiah. PT Bank Danamon Indonesia, controlled by
Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte and Deutsche Bank AG, dropped
5.7 percent to 5,750 rupiah.  Banks’ lending may increase “near” 22 percent this year,
the low end of the 22 percent to 24 percent target of Bank
Indonesia, bank Deputy Governor  Muliaman Hadad  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 