-- Asia Ex-Japan Hedge Funds Have Most Flows on Emerging-Markets Asset Demand
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2010-12-16T01:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/asia-ex-japan-hedge-funds-had-largest-asset-flows-in-november.html
Asia ex-Japan hedge funds attracted
the largest monthly net flows for the first time in 2010,
reflecting increased demand for emerging-markets assets,
 Eurekahedge Pte  said.  Hedge funds investing in Asia outside of Japan attracted
$860 million in capital last month, rounding off a fourth
consecutive month of net subscriptions, the Singapore-based data
provider said in an e-mailed  report . Assets for Asian hedge
funds crossed $125 billion for the first time since December,
2008, the report said.  Asian hedge funds are attracting investors as demand for
securities in the region increases on prospects for economic
growth and their outperformance, Eurekahedge said. The
Eurekahedge Asia ex-Japan Index has gained 9.4 percent this year
through November, beating the 7.7 percent gain by the global
hedge-fund index.  “The consistently impressive returns posted by Asia ex-
Japan funds in recent times have raised their managers’ profiles
among the investors,” Eurekahedge said. “We remain bullish on
the asset raising prospects of the region’s hedge funds going
forward.”  The International Monetary Fund predicts Asia’s developing
economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010, compared with growth
of 2.7 percent in advanced countries.  North America, Europe  North American hedge funds also attracted capital in
November, the 10th straight month of net positive asset flows,
the report said. The funds lured $660 million through net
subscriptions last month. By contrast, European managers posted
the largest net outflows of $1.05 billion as Europe’s sovereign
debt woes dominated on the continent, Eurekahedge said.  The total assets under management for the industry stand at
$1.64 trillion, Eurekahedge said.  In terms of performance, the  measure  tracking Japan-focused
funds gained 2.6 percent, the best performer among seven
regional indexes, as the benchmark Topix index climbed 6.2
percent during the month. The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index,
which tracks more than 2,500 funds worldwide, added 0.4 percent.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  