-- Massachusetts Escapes Soaring Rates for Build America Bonds: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-16T16:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/massachusetts-escapes-soaring-rates-for-build-america-bonds-muni-credit.html
Massachusetts , the state with the
third-highest personal income in the U.S., cut its offering
yields on a $576 million Build America Bond even while average
rates on the taxable securities jumped the most on record.  The state’s 30-year debt was priced to yield 1.15
percentage point above  30-year Treasuries , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That so-called spread was cut 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage points, from the initial offer,
according to a person with direct knowledge of yesterday’s sale.  Build America Bonds, made possible by a 35 percent federal
interest-cost subsidy that expires Dec. 31, have taken their
biggest jump this month --  44 basis points , according to a Wells
Fargo index dating to Aug. 26, 2009. The Massachusetts debt,
secured by motor-vehicle fuel and registration fees, attracted
investors on the reliability of the backing, said  Alan Schankel ,
managing director of Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a broker in
Philadelphia.  “The revenue stream is rock-solid,” Schankel said.
Investors “would rather a rock-solid revenue stream than even a
GO, and the state itself is Aa1.” Massachusetts’s general-
obligation debt has the second-highest rating from Moody’s
Investors Service.  Demand for the bonds was stronger because large, top-rated
deals are scarce, said a person familiar with the sale.  “We structured a very strong credit in the CTF bonds, and
spent a lot of time talking to investors,” state Treasurer
 Timothy P. Cahill  said. “In a very choppy market with a lot of
volatility, I think we priced extremely well.”  20-Year Bonds  Massachusetts’s 20-year bonds were priced to yield 5.63
percent, or 105 basis points above 30-year Treasuries.  Pennsylvania  yesterday sold 20-year Build Americas backed
by the commonwealth’s full faith and credit pledge, rather than
specific revenue, for yields of 5.86 percent, or 130 basis
points above benchmark Treasuries.  Both states are rated Aa1 and AA by Moody’s and Standard &
Poor’s, respectively.  “Some investors see the headline news, hear about
Harrisburg and associate it with general-obligation borrowing,”
said  Paul Brennan , a senior vice president in Chicago for Nuveen
Asset Management, referring to Pennsylvania’s financially
distressed capital. “They extrapolate it across all GO
borrowers.”  Extra Yield  The  extra yield above Treasuries  that investors demand to
buy Build America Bonds fell to 191 basis points yesterday after
reaching a four-month  high of 199 on Dec. 7 , according to the
Wells Fargo index. States and municipalities are scheduled to
sell about $4.96 billion in the taxable securities this week,
Bloomberg data show. That would be the third most since the
program began in April 2009.  Massachusetts may have benefited from the approaching
expiration of the Build America program, he said.  “The potential scarcity factor is there,” Brennan said.
“There is great interest in the index-eligible BAB issues.
People want to stay focused on liquid names.”  Yields on 30-year Treasuries gained about 7  basis points  to
4.59 percent yesterday, the highest since April 28, according to
Bloomberg data. The bonds reached 4.61 percent in early trading
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  