-- WikiLeaks Founder Assange Granted Bail by U.K. Judge
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-12-16T17:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/assange-ruling-allowing-bail-upheld-by-london-court-over-swedish-objection.html
WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  was
granted bail on appeal and could be free as soon as this evening
while he fights extradition to Sweden for questioning in a rape
investigation.  The ruling today by the High Court in London turned back a
challenge by U.K. prosecutors, who sought to overturn a Dec. 14
decision to free Assange. Assange, 39, is wanted for questioning
over claims of sexual misconduct in Sweden. He has been in jail
since Dec. 7, when he turned himself in to U.K. police after
Swedish authorities issued a European arrest warrant.  The bail ruling “is common in extradition cases involving
foreign nationals,” said  Michael O’Kane , a fraud and regulatory
lawyer with Peters & Peters in London, who isn’t involved in the
case. “The publicity attaching to this case is also likely to
have helped Mr. Assange, as it would make fleeing the U.K.
extremely difficult.”  WikiLeaks has drawn condemnation for posting thousands of
classified U.S. diplomatic communications and military
documents, including a video of a July 2007 helicopter attack in
Iraq that killed a Reuters television cameraman and his driver.
U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said Nov. 29 that the Justice
Department is investigating the leaks.  Curfew, Tag  Assange may be released from the courthouse today, his
lawyer  Mark Stephens  said after the hearing. He must post bail
of 200,000 pounds ($312,000), turn in his passport, wear an
electronic tag and have an overnight curfew at a friend’s home.
At least nine of Assange’s friends and supporters agreed to
offer a total of 75,000 pounds of additional guarantees for the
bail, bringing the total commitment to 275,000 pounds.  Stephens said the appeal was evidence of the “continuing
vendetta on the part of the Swedes against Assange,” in
comments after the hearing. Stephens regularly represents media
organizations, including Bloomberg News.  A spokesman for the  Crown Prosecution Service  couldn’t say
if Sweden had directed the U.K. to appeal the earlier bail
decision, saying it would violate a “solicitor-client
relationship.” The decision can’t be appealed further, he said.  “Some decisions are taken on direct instruction and some
are taken by us on their behalf because we’re the ones present
in court when the decision has to be made,” said the spokesman,
who declined to be identified, citing agency policy. “We are
the agent for the Swedish government.”  Cyber Attacks  London police said they are investigating cyber attacks on
companies by a group called Anonymous. The vigilante group has
orchestrated so-called denial-of-service attacks on websites of
companies that halted financial services for WikiLeaks,
including MasterCard Inc.,  Visa Inc. , and EBay Inc.’s PayPal.  The arrest warrant was sought by Swedish prosecutor
 Marianne Ny , who started her investigation on Sept. 1 after a
Stockholm-based prosecutor dropped the rape charge and reduced
the molestation charges. A lawyer for the two alleged victims
appealed that decision.  “The next step is that a British court will rule on if he
can be extradited to Sweden or not,” Ny’s office said in a
statement. “That process will start in January at the
earliest.”  The Swedish warrant covers one count of unlawful coercion,
two counts of sexual molestation and one count of rape.  Duncan MacDonald, a defense lawyer with  JD Spicer & Co.  in
London, said bail should have been upheld because Sweden hasn’t
charged Assange and the type of international warrant used to
apprehend him can be used too often by authorities.  ‘Quite Draconian’  “The problem with the European arrest warrant is that it
is quite Draconian,” MacDonald, who isn’t involved in the case,
said in an interview. “The courts in this country aren’t
interested in whether there is any evidence against the
individual in the state that’s making the request.”  Stephens has said his client has tried repeatedly to meet
with the Swedish prosecutor when he was in Sweden and that she
hasn’t directly provided evidence against him, such as text
messages between the two alleged victims.  Stephens said the Swedish case may be politically motivated
due to the WikiLeaks disclosures. Created in 2006, WikiLeaks
receives confidential material and posts it online “so readers
and historians alike can see evidence of the truth,” according
to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 