-- AT&T May Authorize Stock Buyback, Raise Dividend
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-16T21:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/at-t-may-buy-back-stock-raise-dividend-amid-excess-cash-flow-generation.html
AT&T Inc. , the largest U.S. phone
company, will probably boost its dividend and announce a share-
buyback plan tomorrow as customer gains and demand for wireless
data services help its cash flow, analysts’ estimates show.  AT&T may raise its quarterly dividend to 43 cents from 42
cents, said Credit Suisse Group AG’s  Jonathan Chaplin  and Piper
Jaffray & Co.’s  Chris Larsen , echoing estimates based on  data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The new payout would represent a 6.5
percent yield on the carrier’s average stock price this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  has attracted
6.1 million wireless customers this year with devices such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone, while reducing the average rate at which
users leave.  Last quarter , the carrier increased revenue by $847
million from a year earlier to $31.6 billion.  “AT&T has free cash to spend and one thing you can
certainly do to cause investor returns is to repurchase
shares,” New York-based Chaplin, who  rates  AT&T shares
“outperform,” said in an interview. “AT&T has the ability to
do it.”  The Dallas-based carrier’s board is likely to authorize a
repurchase of as much as $12 billion, Chaplin said. New York-
based Larsen said the repurchase is probably $8 billion to $10
billion, or 300 million to 400 million shares.  “After fully investing in its business, the company still
has excess cash flow,” Larsen, who rates the stock
“overweight,” said in a Dec. 7 note to clients.  McCall Butler , a spokeswoman for AT&T, declined to comment.  Throwing Off Cash  AT&T last authorized a repurchase in December 2007, setting
out to buy back about 400 million shares by the end of 2009. It
bought 164.2 million shares in 2008 for $6.1 billion and 133,000
in 2009 for about $3 million, according to company statements.  AT&T generated $11.6 billion of free cash flow in the first
three quarters, down 16 percent from a year earlier.  “The business continues to throw off cash,” Chief
Financial Officer  Rick Lindner  said in a Dec. 7 interview in New
York. “That gives us flexibility to use excess  cash , rather
than pay down debt, for other things and share repurchase is
something we’d certainly consider.”  AT&T rose 10 cents to $29.23 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have added 4.3 percent
this year.  The company is upgrading its so-called third-generation
wireless network and testing a fourth-generation network it
expects to introduce by mid-2011, boosting capital expenditures
by 18 percent to $13.7 billion this year through September.  The Bloomberg dividend data is based on seven criteria
including a company’s guidance, dividend history and regression
analysis.  “We have always believed strongly in the dividend,”
Lindner said. “It’s normal for us in our business to provide a
good portion of our return via our dividend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  