-- House Democrats Set Vote on Estate Tax, Tax-Cut Extension Bill for Today
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   P e t e r   C o h n
-- 2010-12-16T20:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/tax-cut-extension-vote-in-house-hinges-on-estate-tax-dispute.html
U.S. House plans to vote on
President  Barack Obama ’s $858 billion agreement to extend Bush-
era tax cuts were delayed today because of a procedural dispute
over the rules for debate.  Many House Democrats opposed a debate structure offered by
the Rules Committee that would have required lawmakers who want
to increase the estate-tax rate in the bill to simultaneously
approve the entire tax-cut measure.  Lawmakers objected because it “would not give them a clean
yes or no vote on the Senate bill,” said Vermont Democrat  Peter Welch , who opposes the legislation. He predicted the measure
would pass once the procedural dispute is resolved.  Income taxes will increase across-the-board on Jan. 1 if
Congress does not pass a bill for Obama to sign.  House Democrats scheduled a caucus today to discuss how to
proceed. Oregon Representative  Peter DeFazio  said he and other
Democrats want broader changes to the bill, such as a $250 cost-
of-living payment to Social Security recipients, in addition to
the proposed estate-tax amendment.  “If you’re going to have a fight that you’re going to lose,
have it about something that really reflects Democratic values,”
said Kentucky Democrat  John Yarmuth .  The $858 billion tax-cut plan extends through 2012 all
Bush-era tax reductions on income, capital gains and dividends.
It continues expanded unemployment insurance benefits through
2011, cuts payroll taxes by 2 percentage points during 2011 and
lets businesses write off 100 percent of capital investments
between Sept. 9, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2011. Obama agreed on the
plan with Republicans on Dec. 6.  Estate Tax  Provided a rule is approved, Democrats would debate the
tax-cut measure and a proposal to amend it with a higher estate
tax that Senate Republicans say they will refuse to accept. The
Senate passed its version of the measure yesterday, 81-19.  Republicans said any significant changes made by the House
would be rejected in the Senate and would risk scuttling the
entire agreement.  “We’re perfectly aware” that passage of the estate-tax
amendment would send the measure back to the Senate, Rules
Committee Chairwoman  Louise Slaughter  of New York said
yesterday. Asked whether the higher estate tax would pass,
Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, an
assistant to House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , said, “I know that
there’s strong support for it.”  ‘A Done Deal’  Others said they doubted there would be enough support for
the estate-tax proposal, and the House will likely clear the
Senate-passed measure and send it to Obama for his signature.  “This has been a done deal for a while,” said House
Agriculture Committee Chairman  Collin Peterson , a Minnesota
Democrat. He called the speculation over the estate-tax proposal
“just a lot of gnashing of teeth” as he left a meeting of
House Democrats today.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said today he will vote for the estate-
tax provision though “I don’t expect it to pass.” He predicted
it and will be defeated by House Republicans and some Democrats.  Representative  Jesse Jackson Jr ., an Illinois Democrat,
said many Democrats realize that Obama reached the best deal he
could with Republicans. “We’re raising the question of ‘at what
cost?’” if the bill were to be defeated, he said.  Capital Gains  The Senate-passed measure sets the top estate-tax rate at
35 percent and gives families a $5 million tax-free allowance
per individual, or $10 million per couple.  House Democrats threatened last week to refuse to bring the
tax plan to the floor if it remained unchanged, and they focused
much of their ire on the estate tax provision. Many House
Democrats also wanted to limit the income tax cut extension to
the first $250,000 of family income.  House Democratic leaders have sought to find a way to allow
members to demonstrate their opposition without actually
amending the bill.  The Democrats’ estate-tax proposal would set the top rate
at 45 percent with a $3.5 million per person tax-free allowance.
The House passed such a rate in December; that proposal died in
the Senate.  Blue Dogs  The House vote on the estate tax last year was 225-200,
with 26 Democrats opposed. The 54 members of the fiscally
conservative Blue Dogs have pressed this week for approval of
the Obama-Republican compromise. Democrats control the House
255-179, with one seat vacant. Republicans will take over the
majority in January.  Barring congressional action, the estate tax in January
will have a top rate of 55 percent that applies after a $1
million tax-free allowance.  The legislation extends dozens of expired and expiring tax
breaks, including the research and development tax credit and a
college tuition tax credit that was created in last year’s
economic stimulus law.  The Senate passed the tax-cut plan with broad support from
Democrats and Republicans, and some rank-and-file House
Democrats say it is unlikely to be changed.  If the tax cuts expire, payroll withholding would increase
in January, taking more money out of workers’ paychecks and
causing administrative challenges for the Internal Revenue
Service. The new Congress would take up the tax issue, and the
outcome would be controlled by a Republican-led House and a
Senate with 47 Republicans, up from 42 now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cohn  in Washington at 
 pcohn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  