-- Tax-Cut Battle Previews Splits in Divided Congress as Tea Party Ascends
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/tax-cut-battle-previews-splits-in-congress-as-tea-party-ascends.html
Republican and Democratic leaders
are getting an early taste of the political challenges they’ll
face next year, as lawmakers in both parties resist the push to
pass legislation to prevent taxes from increasing for most
Americans next year.  The compromise measure hammered out between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican congressional leaders passed the
Senate yesterday, 81-19, and will come up in the House today.  The core of the Senate opposition came from fiscally
conservative Republicans, such as  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma and  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina, and Democrats who oppose extending tax
breaks for the wealthy, including  Patrick Leahy  of Vermont and
 Tom Harkin  of Iowa. In the House, that same sort of mismatched
group is complicating passage prospects.  More broadly, the obstacles facing the legislation exposed
internal tensions in both parties, highlighting the difficulties
their leaders will face building coalitions in a new Congress in
which Democrats control the Senate while Republicans lead the
House. In the House, Republicans gained the majority in part
because of new members swept into office in November’s elections
on a wave of support from fiscally conservative Tea Party
activists.  “Republicans will have to manage a Tea Party caucus that
feels free to fight against leadership,” said  Brian Darling ,
director of Senate relations at the Heritage Foundation, a
Washington-based group that promotes limited government. “And
the Tea Party wants action more than just talk.”  Democratic Discontent  Among Democrats, who also lost six Senate seats in
November’s elections, discontent with Obama has grown as the
economic recovery from the worst recession since the Great
Depression has proved slower than the administration forecast.  “Unless the president can deliver more jobs, then the
frustration among House Democrats will be a problem as Obama
forges deals with the other side of the aisle,” said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history at Princeton University in New
Jersey.  Some House Democrats said the tax-cut deal marks a shift in
their relationship with the White House.  Representative  Anthony Weiner  of New York cautioned that
Obama can’t take support from Democrats for granted by “poking
fingers in the eyes of the left” in a nod to independent
voters. “Obviously, we’re going to resent that,” he said.  $858 Billion  The Senate bill, estimated to cost $858 billion, extends
through 2012 all of the tax cuts on income, capital gains and
dividends that were enacted in 2001 and 2003 and are scheduled
to expire at the end of the month. It also extends expanded
unemployment insurance benefits through 2011 and cuts payroll
taxes by 2 percentage points during 2011.  The measure also sets a $5 million per-person exemption
from the estate tax and a 35 percent top rate through 2012, down
from the $1 million exemption and 55 percent top rate that would
take effect if no law passes this year.  House Republicans are under pressure from such Tea Party
favorites as radio host  Rush Limbaugh  and former Alaska Governor
 Sarah Palin  to oppose the bill, in part because it doesn’t make
the expiring tax cuts permanent.  The Tea Party Patriots, an activist group, circulated a
petition this week saying the deal violated the movement’s
principles of reducing  government spending .  “We’re going to find out who is listening to the election
and who wasn’t,” said Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah
Republican who is aligned with Tea Party groups and opposes the
bill. “True fiscal conservatives have to vote against this.”  At least a dozen House Republicans have said they will vote
against the bill, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota, who in July formed the Tea Party Caucus in Congress.  Estate Tax Dispute  Large numbers of House Democrats are expected to defect
from backing the legislation, in part because they view the
estate tax provisions as too generous. The agreement Obama made
on that tax with Republicans -- who have pushed to do away with
it altogether -- was “the straw that broke the camel’s back”
for many House Democrats, Representative  Joe Courtney  of
Connecticut said last week.  Getting to the majority needed to pass the bill in the 435-
seat House has become a “very complicated kabuki play” for
leaders of both parties, said Representative  Jim McDermott , a
Washington state Democrat.  Democrats control the outgoing House 255 to 179, with one
seat vacant.  Lobbying Effort  An effort to pin down support for the legislation continued
on both sides of the political aisle yesterday. Obama and
administration aides called House Democrats to lobby them, said
White House press Secretary  Robert Gibbs .  House Republican leaders touted endorsements of the bill by
fiscally conservative groups including Americans for Tax Reform
and FreedomWorks.  The deal Obama and Republicans reached last week is “a
much bigger victory than people see” for the Republicans, said
 Grover Norquist , head of the Washington-based Americans for Tax
Reform in an e-mail circulated by Republican members of the
House Ways and Means committee.  As yesterday’s Senate vote approached, some lawmakers had
resigned themselves to vote for a package that they dislike.  “It was a painful vote,” Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of
Tennessee said of his support for the measure. “It wasn’t a no-
brainer, I can tell you that.”  Bolstered Republicans  Some Republicans cautioned that they would be less willing
to compromise next year, when their ranks are bolstered by their
election gains.  “It’s going to be a shift in the conference,” said
Representative  Jeff Flake , an Arizona Republican who plans to
vote against the tax-cut package. The new Republican lawmakers
will “maybe reflect a little closer what the voters feel out
there on spending,” he said.  Corker said he hoped to “relitigate” the spending issue
when a vote will be required by mid-year to raise the federal
debt ceiling.  “There will be numbers of people like me that will have no
desire whatsoever to vote for debt ceiling increase without
stringent measures being put in place” to cut spending, he said
in an interview.  That vote also will test the ability of the parties to
cooperate, said McDermott. Incoming House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican, “will be over looking for three votes, or
five votes, or 25 votes” from Democrats, depending on how many
of the new Republican representatives say, “I will never vote
for that,” said McDermott.  Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat and
outgoing chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
said he expects members “on the extremes” of both parties to
be unhappy in the next Congress.  Any progress, though, “is going to have to be bipartisan”
because of the ability of either party to “veto legislation”
due to a Republican-controlled House and a Democratic-controlled
Senate, he said.  “Compromise means compromise,” said Waxman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
   jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  