-- Basel Would Have Left Banks With $797 Billion Capital Shortfall
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-16T16:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/basel-regulators-give-details-of-bank-capital-liquidity-rules.html
Basel bank regulators said rules on
capital requirements would have forced financial institutions to
raise 602 billion euros ($797 billion) of capital had they been
in place at the end of last year.  Lenders would also have had a 2.89 trillion-euro shortfall
in the funds needed to guard against a run on deposits had the
planned Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s rules been in
place at the start of 2010, the panel said in a statement on its
website today. The committee agreed in July to phase in the
capital and liquidity rules by 2019 in a bid to mitigate their
effect on banks emerging from the credit crisis.  Regulators are overhauling bank liquidity and capital
requirements because existing rules, known as Basel II, failed
to protect lenders from insolvency during the financial crisis.
The main elements of the overhaul were approved by leaders of
the Group of 20 countries last month.  The shortfall projected by the Basel committee is a “vivid
demonstration of the sheer impact of the new liquidity
standards,” said Etay Katz, regulatory partner at law firm
Allen & Overy LLP in London. “There is a considerable concern
about finding an effective way of bridging such a shortfall --
bar drastic changes to business plans and business disposal
programs which may be unfeasible or imprudent.”  Lenders would have had a 2.89 trillion-euro liquidity
shortfall against a net stable funding ratio at the end of 2009,
the Basel committee said. That ratio, slated to be put in place
in 2018, aims to limit the mismatch between the duration of
loans and deposits to ensure banks don’t face funding shortages.  Liquidity Coverage  Lenders at the end of 2009 would also have had a shortfall
of 1.73 trillion euros in the assets required to meet a separate
 liquidity coverage ratio , which gauges banks’ ability to survive
a 30-day credit crunch. That ratio is scheduled to be effective
from 2015.  The two shortfalls aren’t “additive,” the Basel committee
said. “Decreasing the shortfall in one standard may result in a
similar decrease in the shortfall of the other.”  Banks that fail the minimum liquidity requirements could
meet them by lengthening the term of their funding or
restructuring business models, the Basel committee said.  “Funding is gradually becoming the key concern,” said
 Arturo de Frias , head of banks research at Evolution Securities
Ltd. The Basel figures showed that “only” 67 percent of banks
analysed had 85 percent of the stable funding needed to meet the
net stable funding ratio, he said.  Anywhere Close  “If the funding markets remain this difficult, many banks
will not get anywhere close to their 100 percent NSFR minimum in
2011,” De Frias said.  The Basel committee has said that it will collect data on
both liquidity standards before they are introduced, and amend
them if needed.  “We will use the observation period for the liquidity
ratios to ensure that we have gotten their design and
calibration right,”  Nout Wellink , committee chairman, said. The
panel will ensure that “there are no unintended consequences,
either at the banking sector or broader system level.”  The Basel committee said the 602 billion euros in extra
capital would have been needed for banks to cope with a
requirement to hold core reserves equivalent to 7 percent of
their assets, with these assets weighted according to their
riskiness. The figure was based on data from 263 banks.  Transition Period  “The transition period provides banks with ample time to
move to the new standards in a manner consistent with a sound
economic recovery,”  Wellink , said.  Banks that don’t meet the requirement when they enter into
force will face restrictions on paying dividends, regulators
have said.  The Basel committee said that it surveyed 94 international
banks with more than 3 billion euros in Tier 1 capital, a
broader measure of lenders’ reserves. It said that these would
have needed an additional 577 billion euros of core capital to
satisfy the new rules. This sample of banks had net income of
209 billion euros in 2009, the Basel committee said.  The other 169 banks surveyed would have needed 25 billion
euros, the Basel committee said.  The 577 billion euro figure should not be taken as an
accurate assessment of how a bank will cope with the capital
rules, de Frias, said.  ‘Capital Hole’  “Assuming a 60 percent profit retention, the capital hole
would have been plugged in five years,” de Frias said. The
amounts were also “probably irrelevant” given plans being
developed by regulators to impose extra requirements on
systemically important lenders.  Meeting the capital rules “will cost banks a lot of money,
but there’s no alternative,”  Konrad Becker , a banking analyst
at  Merck Finck & Co . in Munich, said by telephone today. “The
question is how to do: with retained earnings, selling assets,
capital increases or lower dividends.”  “The actual  impact ” of the capital requirements “by the
time they are implemented will likely be lower as the banking
sector adjusts to a changing economic and regulatory
environment,” the committee said in its impact report.  The results “do not consider banks’ profitability or make
any assumptions about banks’ behavioral responses,” the report
said.  No ‘Extreme Danger’  “I don’t see an extreme danger for economic growth and the
long transition period to 2019 should reduce such risks,”
Becker said. “The new standards are doable and sensible. Making
the banking system more stable and safe doesn’t come without
costs. You can’t do the one without the other.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts led by  Jon Peace  wrote in a
report to clients today before the Basel report was published
that they expect banks will meet the demands of the new rules by
retaining earnings rather than selling shares.  “We do not predict a flood of equity issuance to comply
with Basel III,” the Nomura analysts said.  Banks based in the 27-nation European Union would have
needed 263 billion euros of additional core capital to meet the
7 percent threshold agreed by Basel regulators, the  Committee of
European Banking Supervisors , which collected data from its
lenders for the Basel impact study,  said . The CEBS figures are
based on data from 246 banks based in the EU.  Italian banks alone would have needed 40 billion euros as
of June, the Bank of Italy said in a statement today.  Regulatory Overhaul  The Basel committee today published a so-called rules  text 
clarifying the details of the regulatory overhaul. As well as
revised rules on capital and liquidity, the plans also include a
limit on banks’ borrowings.  “There are few surprises here, but some important
details,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said about the Basel
rules text.  Changes to one of the two liquidity ratios planned by Basel
regulators would “benefit Nordic and other retail banks” by
accepting that covered bonds are more liquid than previously
thought, the Credit Suisse analysts wrote in an e-mailed
statement.  The Basel group also published proposals for national
authorities on countercyclical capital buffers, aimed at
bolstering capital during credit booms.  Under the plan, banks would hold extra capital during
credit booms with the aim both of mitigating them and of
ensuring than banks are well capitalized for any ensuing market
crash.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
countries including Brazil, China, India, Germany the U.K. and
the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Anthony Aarons
at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 