-- Basel Regulators Publish Proposed Bank Liquidity, Capital Rules: Full Text
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 0 3 4 2 0 7 ]   J o n e s   H a y d e n   [ ]
-- 2010-12-16T10:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/basel-regulators-publish-proposed-bank-liquidity-capital-rules-full-text.html
Following is the text of a statement
released today by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on
capital and liquidity requirements:  Basel III rules text and results of the quantitative impact
study issued by the Basel Committee  16 December 2010  The Basel Committee issued today the Basel III rules text, which
presents the details of global regulatory standards on bank
capital adequacy and liquidity agreed by the Governors and Heads
of Supervision, and endorsed by the G20 Leaders at their
November Seoul summit. The Committee also published the results
of its comprehensive quantitative impact study (QIS).  Mr Nout Wellink, Chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision and President of the Netherlands Bank, described the
Basel III Framework as “a landmark achievement that will help
protect financial stability and promote sustainable economic
growth. The higher levels of capital, combined with a global
liquidity framework, will significantly reduce the probability
and severity of banking crises in the future.” He added that
“with these reforms, the Basel Committee has delivered on the
banking reform agenda for internationally active banks set out
by the G20 Leaders at their Pittsburgh summit in September
2009”.  The rules text presents the details of the Basel III Framework,
which covers both microprudential and macroprudential elements.
The Framework sets out higher and better-quality capital, better
risk coverage, the introduction of a leverage ratio as a
backstop to the risk-based requirement, measures to promote the
build up of capital that can be drawn down in periods of stress,
and the introduction of two global liquidity standards.  Transition and implementation  The Committee has put in place processes to ensure the rigorous
and consistent global implementation of the Basel III Framework.
The standards will be phased in gradually so that the banking
sector can move to the higher capital and liquidity standards
while supporting lending to the economy.  With respect to the leverage ratio, the Committee will use the
transition period to assess whether its proposed design and
calibration is appropriate over a full credit cycle and for
different types of business models. Based on the results of a
parallel run period, any adjustments would be carried out in the
first half of 2017 with a view to migrating to a Pillar 1
treatment on 1 January 2018 based on appropriate review and
calibration.  Both the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable
Funding Ratio (NSFR) will be subject to an observation period
and will include a review clause to address any unintended
consequences.  QIS results  The Committee today released the  Results of the comprehensive
quantitative impact study . The Committee conducted a
comprehensive QIS exercise to assess the impact of capital
adequacy standards announced in July 2009 and the Basel III
capital and liquidity proposals published in December 2009. A
total of 263 banks from 23 Committee member jurisdictions
participated in the QIS exercise. This included 94 Group 1 banks
(ie those that have Tier 1 capital in excess of €3 billion, are
well diversified and are internationally active) and 169 Group 2
banks (ie all other banks).  The QIS did not take into account any transitional arrangements
such as the phase-in of deductions and grandfathering
arrangements. Instead, the estimates presented assume full
implementation of the final Basel III package, based on data as
of year-end 2009. No assumptions were made about banks’
profitability or behavioural responses, such as changes in bank
capital or balance sheet composition, since then or in the
future. For that reason the QIS results are not comparable to
industry estimates, which tend to be based on forecasts and
consider management actions to mitigate the impact and which
incorporate analysts’ estimates where information is not
publicly available.  Including the effect of all changes to the definition of capital
and risk-weighted assets, as well as assuming full
implementation as of 31 December 2009, the average common equity
Tier 1 capital ratio (CET1) of Group 1 banks was 5.7%, as
compared with the new minimum requirement of 4.5%. For Group 2
banks, the average CET1 ratio stood at 7.8%. In order for all
Group 1 banks in the sample to meet the new 4.5% CET1 ratio, the
additional capital needed is estimated to be €165 billion. For
Group 2 banks, the amount is €8 billion.  Relative to a 7% CET1 level, which includes both the 4.5%
minimum requirement and the 2.5% capital conservation buffer,
the Committee estimated that Group 1 banks in aggregate would
have had a shortfall of €577 billion at the end of 2009. As a
point of reference, for this sample of banks the sum of profits
after tax and prior to distributions in 2009 was €209 billion.
Group 2 banks with CET1 ratios less than 7% would have required
an additional €25 billion; the sum of these banks’ profits after
tax and prior to distributions in 2009 was €20 billion. Since
the end of 2009, banks have continued to raise their common
equity capital levels through combinations of equity issuance
and profit retention.  The Committee also assessed the estimated impact of the
liquidity standards. Assuming banks were to make no changes to
their liquidity risk profile or funding structure, as of end-
2009:  The average LCR for Group 1 banks was 83%; the average for
Group 2 banks was 98%.  The average NSFR for Group 1 banks was 93%; the average for
Group 2 banks was 103%.  Banks have until 2015 to meet the LCR standard and until 2018 to
meet the NSFR standard, which will reflect any revisions
following each standard’s observation period. Banks that are
below the 100% required minimum thresholds can meet these
standards by, for example, lengthening the term of their funding
or restructuring business models which are most vulnerable to
liquidity risk in periods of stress. It should be noted that the
shortfalls in the LCR and the NSFR are not additive, as
decreasing the shortfall in one standard may also result in a
decrease in the shortfall in the other standard.  Mr Wellink noted that “the Basel III capital and liquidity
standards will gradually raise the level of high-quality capital
in the banking system, increase liquidity buffers and reduce
unstable funding structures. The transition period provides
banks with ample time to move to the new standards in a manner
consistent with a sound economic recovery, while raising the
safeguards in the system against economic or financial shocks”.
He added that in the case of the liquidity standards, “we will
use the observation period for the liquidity ratios to ensure
that we have their design and calibration right and that there
are no unintended consequences, at either the banking sector or
the broader system level”.  The Basel Committee and the Financial Stability Board (FSB) are
also issuing an updated report of the Macroeconomic Assessment
Group which analyses the economic impact of the Basel III
reforms over the transition period. The updated report and a
separate press release will be issued in the coming days.  The Committee also issued today  Guidance for national
authorities operating the countercyclical capital buffer  as a
supplement to the requirements set out in the Basel III rules
text. The primary aim of the countercyclical capital buffer
regime is to achieve the broader macroprudential goal of
protecting the banking sector from periods of excess aggregate
credit growth that have often been associated with the build-up
of system-wide risk. In addition to providing guidance for
national authorities, this document should help banks understand
and anticipate the buffer decisions in the jurisdictions to
which they have credit exposures.  The Committee is conducting further work on systemic banks and
contingent capital in close coordination with the FSB. In the
coming days, the Committee will also issue a consultation paper
on the capitalisation of bank exposures to central
counterparties. 