-- Berlin’s Lost Art Resurfaces at Flea Market, New York Auctions
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-12-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/berlin-s-lost-treasures-resurface-at-local-flea-market-sotheby-s-new-york.html
Paintings lost from  Berlin museums 
in World War II and its chaotic aftermath have resurfaced
decades later as far afield as Istanbul and Moscow, and as close
to home as a local flea market.  About 600 19th-century paintings vanished from the
Nationalgalerie’s collection during the war. Some were plundered
from storage in flak towers; others were loaned to German
embassies around the world, from where they were looted or sold.
Still others were taken by Soviet and U.S. troops, surfacing in
recent years in private collections.  Eighteen are on show at the  Alte Nationalgalerie  in a small
exhibition called “Verlust und Wiederkehr” (Loss and Return)
through March 6, 2011. Michael Eissenhauer, the head of Berlin’s
state museums, said at the opening that the “curve of returns
is steepening” and that he expects more recoveries in the years
ahead.  The British painter William Cole’s “Dog and Gray Horse”
(1860) came home in October, flecked with dirt and cracked. Its
circuitous journey is typical: In 1942, it was among several
artworks loaned by the Nazi-era Foreign Ministry to the exiled
Iraqi prime minister for his Berlin villa.  When he left Berlin, he took the loaned works with him and
sold them to buy a house in southeast Germany. A descendant of
the Dresden owner later found the picture on the  Lost Art 
database, and negotiated compensation for its return to Berlin.  Cellars, Salt Mines  As Allied bombs rained on the city in World War II,
curators hid artworks in cellars and flak towers, and eventually
shipped them out of the city to salt mines and caves.  The Nazi regime’s obsession with bureaucracy means hundreds
of lists document the paintings and their whereabouts. Yet
curator Birgit Verwiebe said the artworks were so often in
transit, it’s difficult to follow their routes.  One of the finest paintings to be retrieved is Wilhelm
Ahlborn’s “View of Florence” (1832). Two monks, dressed in
white, pray beneath a tree in the foreground; behind them, the
city shimmers in a pale soft light. The picture was loaned,
along with 68 others, to  Adolf Hitler ’s Reichskanzlei or
chancellery, where it hung in the dictator’s private apartment.  Stashed in the Reichskanzlei’s cellar for safekeeping in
the war, it survived the bombing that destroyed the building yet
vanished, only to reappear at a Berlin auction house in 2009. A
private collector notified the Nationalgalerie, which negotiated
with the consignor for its return.  Divided City  Julius Huebner’s painting “Ruth und Naemi” (Ruth and
Naomi) and Christian Bokelmann’s portrait of the poet Klaus
Groth, stored in two different flak towers during the war,
surfaced at a Berlin flea market in 2005. Both were restored to
the museums in the same year.  The Berlin Wall divided the city’s art collections and made
it difficult to compile lists of the vanished works, Eissenhauer
said. Since then, databases such as Lost Art and the  Art Loss
Register  have eased the identification of missing paintings for
the art trade, he said.  Sotheby’s  in New York, for example, pulled a Ferdinand
Waldmueller landscape from a 1999 auction after Art Loss
Register said it belonged to Berlin before the war. It returned
to the Nationalgalerie in 2000.  The Berlin museums’ policy is to offer a “finders’ fee”
of about 10 percent of the painting’s value, according to
Dorothea Kathmann, a legal expert at the foundation that runs
the museums.  Cards displayed next to the paintings explain how they were
recovered. Details are often sketchy. People who return works
are often reluctant to reveal how the works were acquired, and
don’t want to be identified by name.  An empty frame, which probably once contained a landscape
by Carl Blechen, is displayed to symbolize the works that are
still missing. In some cases, the Berlin museums’ researchers
know exactly where they are.  Nine paintings by Karl Friedrich Schinkel and four works by
Hans von Marees, for instance, are still in the  Pushkin Museum
of Fine Arts  in Moscow. There is no plan to send them back to
Berlin.  ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 