-- BG Group India Unit May Bid for Gas Networks Outside Home State
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-12-16T04:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/bg-group-india-unit-may-bid-for-gas-networks-outside-home-state.html
Gujarat Gas Co.,  a unit of U.K.’s BG
Group Plc that operates in the western Indian state of Gujarat,
plans to bid for networks to sell compressed natural gas for
automobiles and homes in other regions of the country.  “While the company plans to extend its network within
Gujarat it is also assessing opportunities in some areas outside
the state, which have been opened for bidding and where
synergies exist,” according to an e-mail from the  company  in
response to queries.  India’s Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board expects
companies including Reliance Industries Ltd., the nation’s
largest company by market value,  GAIL India Ltd. , the country’s
biggest gas distributor, and Gujarat Gas to invest 1 trillion
rupees ($21 billion) in the next five years to build pipeline
networks connecting cities. The regulator invited bids for eight
areas across the country in July and plans to hold monthly
auctions, it said.  “With most industrial area under the city gas distribution
network there are very few geographic expansion opportunities
available in the state,”  Maulik Patel , an analyst at Equirus
Securities Pvt., said in a Dec. 9 report.  Shares  of the company have risen 70 percent this year,
outperforming the 13 percent gain in Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index. The shares fell 0.6 percent to 401.15 rupees at
10:04 a.m. in Mumbai.  Gujarat Gas, which has a network of about 3,500 kilometers
(2,100 miles), invests 1.5 billion rupees annually to expand and
upgrade its distribution system, according to the e-mail.  The company added 7 gas stations this year, taking the
total to 36. It plans to maintain a similar growth rate for the
next two to three years, Gujarat Gas said.  India’s gas output rose 28.4 percent in 2009, the world’s
biggest increase, according to BP Plc’s 2010 Statistical Review
of World Energy. China’s production climbed 6.1 percent in the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  