-- BP, Shell Sell Assets at Record $49 Billion Pace as China Inflates Prices
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-12-16T10:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/big-oil-sells-assets-at-record-49-billion-pace-as-china-inflates-prices.html
The world’s largest oil companies
sold assets at a record pace this year, finding buyers at higher
prices as China and other emerging economies vie for reserves.  BP Plc, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips led 95
sales in 2010 valued at $49.5 billion, the most in at least 12
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The pace of disposals
has picked up through the year -- deals in the fourth quarter
topped $20 billion -- signaling momentum may carry into 2011.  BP has agreed to $21 billion of sales in less than six
months to help cover the cost of the Macondo oil spill. Even
without the troubled London-based explorer, deals would have
topped 2007’s $16 billion tally. Explorers are using funds from
asset sales to meet the rising costs of production projects
including deepwater drilling and liquefied natural gas plants.  “There’s a bit of a sellers’ market, they’re getting
premium prices,” said  Lucy Haskins , an oil industry analyst at
Barclays Capital in London. “It’s a wave of new buying interest
from emerging markets.”  China’s state-controlled oil companies were the biggest
buyers. Cnooc Ltd. and Bridas Corp.’s $7.06 billion purchase of
BP’s 60 percent interest in Argentina’s Pan American Energy was
the largest acquisition of an energy asset from a major. Last
week, Occidental Petroleum Corp. agreed to sell its fields in
Argentina to Sinopec Group for $2.45 billion.  BP Disposals  BP’s disposals helped shore up confidence as spill costs
rose and legal battles loomed, with shares up more than 50
percent since the end of June. The stock dropped the most since
August today after the Obama administration filed a suit saying
the company and four others violated environmental laws.  The sales also showed buyers paying a premium to secure
supplies. The average price per barrel of BP reserves sold in
Argentina, Venezuela, Vietnam, Colombia, Canada and Egypt is
about $11 a barrel of oil equivalent, Evolution Securities said
in a Dec. 6 note. That compares with a valuation of less than $8
a barrel based on  BP’s market capitalization .  “BP has got quite good prices,” said  Colin McLean , chief
executive officer of SVM Asset Management Ltd. in Edinburgh, who
oversees about $900 million, including Shell shares. “That has
attracted some others to test the market. We’ll see more M&A
activity.”  The cost of developing new fields is rising as companies
depend on deepwater drilling, oil-sands mines and LNG projects
to replace spent fields.  Chevron Corp.,  the second-largest U.S. oil company, said
last week it will boost capital spending 20 percent to $26
billion next year, led by deepwater projects in the Gulf of
Mexico and Nigeria and an LNG project in Australia.  Supply Economy  China is keen to buy fields to supply an economy where
energy demand will jump 75 percent by 2035, accounting for more
than a third of the increase in the world’s need for fuel,
according to the  International Energy Agency . That’s drawn
Asia’s other oil importers into the fray.  Rising oil prices are adding pressure to secure supplies.
 Crude futures  in New York trading rose above $90 last week, the
highest this year.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest energy explorer,
this month submitted a binding bid for Exxon Mobil Corp.’s stake
in Angola’s Block 31. The government has ordered it to make at
least one big acquisition before March 31.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl , Thailand’s biggest
explorer, last month agreed to buy a 40 percent stake in Statoil
ASA’s oil sands project in Canada for $2.28 billion in the
biggest acquisition by a Thai company.  BP’s Dudley  BP may be the largest seller of fields for a second year in
2011. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  promised to sell as
much as $30 billion in assets after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
forced the company to set aside $40 billion to cover cleanup and
litigation costs.  Dudley said last month he’ll continue to “identify further
assets that may be strategically more valuable to others than to
BP.” The next disposals may include fields in Alaska and in the
North Sea, regions where BP pioneered exploration in the 1960s.
The company is also selling a gas-processing business in Canada
that may fetch $2 billion, people with knowledge of the
company’s plans said.  Shell CEO  Peter Voser  has already met a target of selling
as much as $8 billion in assets this year and next. Last week,
The Hague-based company agreed to the $1.8 billion sale of gas
fields in Texas to Occidental Petroleum Corp.  Shell ‘Overachieving’  “They’re overachieving” by selling more than promised and
moving ahead of schedule, said  Gudmund Halle Isfeldt , an analyst
at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo, who covers BP, Shell and other European
oil companies. “The best option would be to use the proceeds
and redeploy at least 80 percent in upstream.”  Shell is spending on high-technology projects. Together
with PetroChina Co. it bought Arrow Energy Ltd. this year to
develop an LNG project in Queensland using gas from coal seams.
Shell expects its $19 billion Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in
Qatar to be fully operational in early 2012.  ConocoPhillips  is also investing in LNG in Australia, while
BP earlier this year bought licenses for deepwater exploration
off the coast of Brazil from Devon Energy Corp.  “The mantra is that these guys are carrying a bit of
weight,” said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at ING Wholesale
Banking. “They can slim down, and there’s a market for it at
the minute because others need access to resources. Some of the
mature assets aren’t worth the majors’ time when they really
need to focus on exploration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  