-- Blackstone Said to Near Agreement on Restructuring of Equity Office Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-12-16T22:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/blackstone-said-to-near-agreement-on-restructuring-of-equity-office-debt.html
Blackstone Group LP may reach an
agreement by the end of the year to restructure $4.94 billion of
debt remaining from its 2007 purchase of  Sam Zell ’s Equity
Office Properties Trust, according to two people familiar with
the discussions.  Maturities on the debt, which was packaged and sold through
a commercial-mortgage bond offering, would be extended by two
years and interest payments to bondholders would rise more than
1 percent, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private.  Property owners are seeking to modify the terms on debt
taken out during the boom years, in part because real estate
values have plummeted  42.7 percent  since peaking in October
2007. Blackstone sent the EOP debt to a special loan servicer in
May to start negotiations on reworking payments.  “Loan modifications are not a panacea,” said  Alan Todd , a
real estate debt analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “But if the
borrower brings something to the table as well, and financing
markets continue to normalize, there is a good chance extensions
could be beneficial to investors.”  Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The Blackstone properties were generating enough cash to
pay the mortgages when the company sent the loans to be
renegotiated, Bloomberg data showed.  Dismantling Equity Office  The New York-based firm took control of more than 540
Equity Office buildings from New York to Los Angeles near the
peak of the U.S. commercial property market. It began to
dismantle the holdings immediately, arranging at least $21
billion of sales within a month as it raised cash to reduce loan
balances taken on for the buyout.  Investors such as New York developer  Harry Macklowe  who
bought some of the holdings lost money on the acquisitions as
values plunged and the credit crisis prevented refinancing.  Macklowe turned seven Manhattan office buildings over to
lender Deutsche Bank AG because he couldn’t get new mortgages to
replace the $7 billion in short-term loans used to buy the
properties.  The same month Blackstone bought EOP, Maguire Properties
Inc. agreed to pay about $2.88 billion for Zell’s Southern
California buildings. In November of 2009, Bank of America sued
Maguire, the largest office landlord in downtown Los Angeles,
seeking to foreclose on one of the buildings after the company
missed payments, according to the complaint.  Morgan Stanley bought seven office buildings and a
development parcel in San Francisco from Blackstone for more
than $2.43 billion in April 2007. In 2009, Morgan Stanley agreed
to turn over five of those office buildings to the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  