-- Blake Edwards, Versatile, Volatile Movie Director, Dies at 88
-- B y   K a t h r y n   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-16T18:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/blake-edwards-versatile-volatile-movie-director-dies-of-pneumonia-at-88.html
Blake Edwards , the versatile and
volatile Hollywood figure who wrote, directed or produced eight
“Pink Panther” movies and films such as “Breakfast at
Tiffany’s,” “Days of Wine and Roses,” “10” and
“Victor/Victoria,” has died. He was 88.  He died yesterday of complications from pneumonia at St.
John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, California, the Associated
Press reported, citing publicist Gene Schwam.  The writer-director received an honorary Oscar in 2004 from
the  Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences , in a gesture
that many Hollywood figures considered overdue. Edwards directed
almost 50 movies and wrote or co-authored 38 screenplays, yet
received a lone nomination, for his adapted screenplay for
“ Victor/Victoria ” (1982). That movie garnered a Golden Globe
award for his wife, singer-actress  Julie Andrews .  Edwards feuded with studio bosses at Paramount, MGM and
other studios over the handling of some films. In the early
1970s, he moved with Andrews to Europe for six years. An early
script for the film “ S.O.B. ” (1981), a biting satire about
Hollywood, was written during that period.  His fortunes revived when he reunited with actor  Peter Sellers  to make three “Pink Panther” sequels from 1975 to
1978. A year later, Edwards returned to Hollywood with “ 10 ”
(1979), the bittersweet sex-comedy that made  Bo Derek  a star.  Raised in Hollywood  William Blake Crump was born on July 26, 1922, in Tulsa,
Oklahoma, to Lillian and  Donald Crump , according to his
biography in Contemporary Theatre, Film, and Television.  He was 3 or 4 when his mother married Jack McEdward, an
assistant film director in Los Angeles. McEdward was the son of
J. Gordon Edwards, who directed films in the silent era for the
Fox Film Corp. Blake Edwards later used his grandfather’s
surname.  Edwards attended Beverly Hills High School, then took his
 first acting role  in “Ten Gentlemen from West Point,” the 1942
film released by Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corp. He acted in
the same studio’s 1944 film, “In the Meantime, Darling,”
directed by  Otto Preminger .  After a stint in the U.S. Coast Guard, Edwards co-wrote and
produced his first film, the low-budget Western “ Panhandle ”
(1948), and played the part of a gunslinger. He abandoned acting
to write radio scripts and movie screenplays. He made his
directorial debut with “Bring Your Smile Along” (1955), one of
two films he wrote and directed for Columbia Pictures.  He moved to Universal, where he earned a reputation for
deft directing of stars such as  Tony Curtis  in “Mister Cory”
(1957) and  Debbie Reynolds  in “This Happy Feeling” (1958). He
directed  Cary Grant  in the military service hit, “ Operation
Petticoat ” (1959).  Tried Television  Edwards tried his hand at television, creating the “ Peter
Gunn ” detective series in 1958. He asked arranger  Henry Mancini 
to write music for the show, and the resulting soundtrack soared
to No. 1 on the Billboard chart.  He married actress Patricia Walker in 1953. The marriage,
which produced two children, ended in divorce in 1967. He and
Andrews were wed in 1969 and adopted two Vietnamese children in
the mid-1970s.  Andrews made eight films with Blake, beginning with
“ Darling Lili ” (1970), a box-office flop that caused a row
with Paramount for cost overruns. Edwards blamed the studio --
and new corporate owner Gulf & Western Industries -- for
insisting on filming many exterior shots in weather-plagued
Ireland.  “That film was a product of people’s taking over a motion-
picture company without having any credentials at all,” Edwards
told Playboy magazine in 1982.  MGM Battle  Edwards said he was devastated by his treatment at the
hands of MGM President  James Aubrey  when he directed “Wild
Rovers” (1971), starring  William Holden  and  Ryan O’Neal .
Aubrey, a former CBS executive, edited 40 minutes from the
director’s cut and changed the ending.  Depressed and angry, Edwards bought back a screenplay that
Aubrey said he hated. The script eventually became “10.”  Edwards told Playboy that he reunited with the actor Peter
Sellers to make more sequels to “ Pink Panther ” (1963) when
they were both down on their luck in 1975. Instead of a salary,
the two said they each wanted only their expenses and 10 percent
of the gross. “Therein lies the secret of my wealth,” Edwards
said.  Edwards quarreled with MGM/UA Entertainment Co. in 1983
over the marketing of “Victor/Victoria,” “Trail of the Pink
Panther” and “Curse of the Pink Panther.” He accused the
studio of damaging the “Pink Panther” franchise, while MGM/UA
leveled charges of extravagant spending.  Autobiographical Films  Edwards walked off the set of “ City Heat ” (1984), a film
he was directing for Warner Bros., because he couldn’t satisfy
the two stars,  Clint Eastwood  and  Burt Reynolds , with his script
rewrites.  Over the next decade, his films became more
autobiographical. He shared writing credits with his analyst,
Milton Wexler, for “The Man Who Loved Women” (1983) and
“ That’s Life! ” (1986), about a man in mid-life crisis.  Edwards was slowed by chronic fatigue syndrome and
troublesome knees. He used canes to walk onstage to accept an
award from a video retailers’ association in 2004. Edwards had
not directed a feature film since the poorly received 1993 “Son
of the Pink Panther.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathryn Harris  at  kathrynh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  