-- Bob Feller, Hurler of Feared Fastball for Cleveland Indians, Dies at 92
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2010-12-16T13:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/bob-feller-hurler-of-feared-fastball-for-cleveland-indians-dies-at-92.html
Bob Feller , the Iowa farm boy turned
Cleveland Indians pitcher whose fastball spun heads in the 1930s
and 1940s and remains part of Major League Baseball lore, has
died. He was 92.  Feller was diagnosed with leukemia in August and more
recently was hospitalized with pneumonia before being moved to a
Cleveland-area hospice, where he died last night, the Indians
said on their website.  Nicknamed Rapid Robert and Bullet Bob, Feller was known
first and foremost for how  hard he threw , and only then for his
hard-breaking curveball that finished off some batters. During
World War II he served in the Navy, having signed up two days
after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.  “Bob was one of the first major leaguers to enlist
following Pearl Harbor and served our country for nearly four
years during the prime of his career,” MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in an e-mailed statement. “Bob Feller was a great
pitcher, but he was first and foremost a great American.”  A primitive test in 1941, pitting Feller’s fastball against
a speeding motorcycle, reached the very rough conclusion that he
threw at 104 mph, which today would challenge the fastest
pitches recorded on radar guns. Another test five years later,
using photoelectric cells, concluded Feller’s fastball flew at
98.6 mph as it crossed the plate.  “Bob Feller’s blazing fastball set the standard against
which all of his successors have been judged,” according to the
National Baseball Hall of Fame, which  inducted  him in 1962.  266 Wins  His military service during World War II cost him almost
four full seasons and a strong chance to reach the milestone of
300 career wins. He ended up with 266 wins and 162 losses during
18 seasons, all of them with the  Indians  of the American League.
He threw three no-hit games, plus 12 one-hitters.  Feller led the major leagues in strikeouts seven times,
amassing 2,581 in total, good for 26th on the all-time list,
even pitching at a time when batters did all they could to make
contact.  “It was kind of a stigma to strike out,” he told the
Cleveland Plain-Dealer in 2006. “They’d get two strikes and
they’d choke up on their bats and try to put the ball in play.
They’re swinging very hard now to hit home runs, because the
money’s in the home runs. Now they swing just as hard on the
third strike as on the first one.”  World Series Win  The Indians won the World Series once during his long
tenure, beating the Boston Braves in  1948 , with Feller losing
both games he started in the series. The franchise retired his
uniform No. 19 in 1957.  “It’s the ultimate American success story,” Indians
spokesman Bob DiBiasio said. “Consider how a five-ounce
baseball provided an Iowa farm boy the opportunity to travel the
world as he became perhaps the greatest ambassador baseball has
ever known.”  Robert William Andrew Feller was born on Nov. 3, 1918, in
 Van Meter , Iowa, about 20 miles west of Des Moines, to William
Feller, a farmer, and his wife Lena. A sister followed several
years later.  Feller’s father had loved playing baseball in his youth but
turned his full attention to the family farm after the death of
his own father. He made sure his son had every chance to excel
at the sport. He built a baseball field on a section of the farm
and then named and outfitted a team, the Oakviews, to play other
local clubs. Admission was 25 cents.  $75 a Month  Feller became a standout pitcher and, in 1935, drew a visit
from Indians scout  Cy Slapnicka , who signed him on the spot for
$75 a month -- plus, as a bonus, one dollar and a baseball
signed by Indians players.  Feller skipped the minor leagues and made his first start
for the Indians in August 1936, at 17, against the St. Louis
Browns. He struck out 15 batters, one shy of what was then the
American League record. Three weeks later he tied the major-
league mark of 17 strikeouts in a victory over the Philadelphia
Athletics. After the season he returned to Van Meter for several
months, to finish high school.  “Bob Feller on the mound was an engine of pure, brute
force,” baseball historian Donald Honig wrote in his 2009
 memoir . “There was no guile in this boy. He simply swung into
his energetic windup and, with a high-kicking delivery ending
with an airborne right leg, fired off a fastball that some
people said -- heretically -- was the equal of  Walter
Johnson ’s.”  In three seasons starting in 1939, Feller won 24, 27 and 25
games. The first of his 27 wins in 1940 was a no-hitter against
the Chicago White Sox, the only one ever pitched on an opening
day. His other no-hitters came in 1946 and 1951.  “Bob has been such an integral part of our fabric,”
Indians owner Larry Dolan said in a statement. “He is
Cleveland, Ohio.”  Navy Gunner  He had 107 career wins when, at 23, he enlisted in 1941. As
crew chief of an anti-aircraft gun on the  USS Alabama , Feller
earned five campaign ribbons and eight battle stars during World
War II. He returned to baseball at the end of the 1945 season.  The years of military service did little to dull his
skills. In his first two full seasons after the war, he posted
26 and 20 wins.  In his final years in uniform and several years after, he
helped draft a pension plan for an association that was a
forerunner to today’s baseball players’ union.  Feller married Virginia Winther in 1943, and they had three
sons. That marriage ended in divorce. He married Anne Gilliland,
a neighbor in the Cleveland suburb of  Gates Mills , in 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  