-- Borse Dubai Sells Nasdaq OMX Shares to Complete $1.1 Billion Refinancing
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-16T15:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/borse-dubai-sells-nasdaq-omx-shares-to-complete-1-1-billion-refinancing.html
Borse Dubai Ltd., the company that
controls Dubai’s two stock exchanges and has a stake in London
Stock Exchange, sold shares in Nasdaq OMX Group Inc to help pay
$1.1 billion of a $2.45 billion term-loan ahead of schedule.  The company raised $497 million from the sale of 22.78
million shares to  Nasdaq OMX  and $175 million from the sale of 8
million Nasdaq OMX shares to  Nomura Holdings Inc , the Dubai
government’s media office said in an e-mailed statement today.
Nomura will sell the shares to Investor AB after receiving
regulatory approval. Borse Dubai also raised $428 million from a
three-year loan, arranged by Nomura and Emirates NBD PJSC, the
United Arab Emirates biggest bank by assets.  Borse Dubai with the support of its parent Investment
Corporation of Dubai, one of the emirate’s three state-owned
holding companies, also “reached an understanding” with its
lenders to extend the maturity of the remaining $1.35 billion
facility by a further three years, according to the statement.
The $2.45 billion loan was to mature in February 2011.  Dubai roiled emerging market stocks last year after saying
it would delay repayments on $24.9 billion of loans as the
emirate’s property market slumped. The emirate and its state-
owned companies ran up about $112 billion of debt, according to
Barclays Plc estimates, forcing it to restructure some
borrowings. Dubai World’s more than 70 creditor banks agreed in
October to new debt terms.  “Borse Dubai remains a committed, long-term shareholder of
Nasdaq OMX and by entering into these transactions it has been
able to achieve its financing objectives while retaining
substantial economic interest in Nasdaq OMX,”  Mohammed Ibrahim Al Shaibani , Investment Corporation’s chief executive officer,
said in the statement. “Borse Dubai remains the single largest
shareholder of Nasdaq OMX.”  The Nasdaq OMX said in a separate statement it agreed to
repurchase from Borse Dubai about 22.78 million shares for
$21.82 a share.  Borse Dubai, formed in 2007, controls Dubai Financial
Market PJSC and Nasdaq Dubai, and holds about 20 percent of
London Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  