-- Bowie Prays, Kate Moss Strips, Blondie Smolders in Rock Photos: Interview
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-12-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/bowie-prays-kate-moss-strips-blondie-smolders-in-rock-photos-interview.html
Mick Rock  smiles as he flips through
his photographs. Pointing to one of  Kate Moss , he says “Wow.”  The model wore only black stockings and a belt that once
belonged to  Lou Reed  for Rock’s portrait. The next one shows
 Lady Gaga , in a low-cut dress, letting  Bono  pose with her at a
New York party.  “I love this one,” Rock says in a London interview,
studying his portrait of  David Bowie , stripped to the waist and
praying like a monk in a bare room in Aberdeen, Scotland.  Rock, dressed in black, is flopped in a chair, drinking
strong coffee to fight jetlag after only five hours’ sleep. He
apologizes for being late after photographing  Bryan Ferry : “I
haven’t shot him in over 30 years and he still looks good.”  Rock has spent four decades capturing some of the most
memorable images in pop. They include the black-eyed Reed on the
cover of “Transformer,” a crazed  Iggy Pop  on “Raw Power” --
shot within a day of each other at London’s Kings Cross Cinema
in 1972 -- and the top-lit portrait on “Queen II” (repeated
for the band’s “Bohemian Rhapsody” video.)  He’s running through pictures on his iPhone -- some never
published (Bowie in his underpants), some from exhibitions of
his work recently held in  New York  and currently in London
( Ronnie Spector  flashing her knickers onstage) and some in his
book “Exposed” ( Rod Stewart  and  Mick Jagger  confronted by
police officers after a loud party).  “I’ve shot a lot of stuff,” Rock says before the London
gallery private view, pointing to photos of  Bob Marley  and
 Madonna . “People know me primarily for certain images, like
they know the Rolling Stones for ‘Satisfaction’ -- they must
say, ‘We did a couple of songs after that.’”  Glam Rockers  Rock has been called “the laureate of glam rock” and
“the man who shot the seventies.”  “Like I stopped taking pictures about 1980, but it wasn’t
true,” he says. Rock flicks through his book: Karen O of the
Yeah Yeah Yeahs grins,  Dave Grohl  pokes his tongue out, the
Killers go wild,  Daniel Merriweather  looks serious,  Debbie Harry 
of Blondie smolders,  Snoop Dogg  smirks.  New York-based Rock, born in 1948, got into photography by
accident as a Cambridge University arts student. Rock smiles as
he recalls being “a bit psychedelically inebriated” at a party
where he tried to use a camera, only to discover that there was
no film in it. Within months, he was taking photos of bands, met
 Pink Floyd’s  founder  Syd Barrett , and was blown away by the
group’s concerts.  Syd the Painter  “It was an unusual show by the standards of the time,”
says Rock. “There, in the middle of it all, lurked young Syd.
He looked like a rock star but he was still primarily a
painter.” Rock took the last photos of Barrett in 1971 before
the star became a recluse. “My pictures were his favorites.”  Rock moved to the U.S. and has taken cover shots for albums
by the Ramones,  Joan Jett  and  Carly Simon . He likes pictures
that put the subject in a new light. Rock’s shots of Reed
include the moody New Yorker buying, cuddling and walking a cute
dachshund: “Big bad Lou with his little puppy dog.”  Another shot shows  Andy Warhol  getting pied: “ A guy
splodged him with a pie at a party,” Rock says. “I had the
cameras in the other room and Andy said, ‘Don’t worry, Mick.’ He
recreated it for me and plonked the pie back on his head.”  Rock is especially fond of a studio shoot with Bowie in
2002, used on the book cover, where the singer mimics Irving
Penn’s portrait of  Pablo Picasso , with just one eye glinting.  Asked to offer advice for budding photographers, Rock
jests: “Don’t!” He pauses, then says “the key thing is to
follow your obsession.” Apart from his music images he has many
of cats, trees and old churches.  He advises taking lots of images, which is easier than ever
with digital. “I probably shot about 400 pictures of Bryan
today,” he says. “They could be good or could be bad; in my
case, it’s more fun.”  “Exposed: The Faces of Rock ‘n’ Roll” by Mick Rock is
from Chronicle Books in the U.S. and the U.K. (256 pages, $40,
24.95 pounds). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  “Mick Rock: Rock Music” presented by Raj Prem Fine Art
Photography in association with  Zippo  is at Idea Generation
Gallery, 11 Chance Street, London E2 7JB, until Jan. 16, 2011.  Information:  http://www.mickrock.com/ , +44-20-7749-6850,
 http://www.ideageneration.co.uk .  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or Mark_Beech on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 