-- Brazil Says Credit Measures May Precede Conventional Action to Slow Growth
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-12-16T12:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/brazil-credit-measures-may-precede-conventional-policy-action-bank-says.html
Brazil’s decision this month to
raise banks’ reserve requirements to slow credit growth may
“precede” conventional monetary policy action, the central
bank said.  The central bank, in the  minutes  of the Dec. 7-8 meeting,
said the “macro prudential” measures are a “fast and
powerful” tool to contain localized demand pressures and will
have an impact on prices that jumped by the most in five years
last month. Policy makers said they must remain “especially
vigilant” to prevent short-term inflationary pressures, pushed
by higher food prices, from extending over time.  Policy makers voted unanimously to keep the  Selic  rate at
10.75 percent for a third straight meeting last week, matching
the forecast of 48 of 51 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Three
economists forecast at least a quarter-point increase.  The minutes show that the central bank is likely to raise
borrowing costs 50 basis points at its Jan. 18-19 meeting to
11.25 percent, said  Marcelo Carvalho , head of Latin American
research at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil in Sao Paulo. The meeting
will be chaired by  Alexandre Tombini , who the Senate confirmed
yesterday as President-elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s choice to succeed
 Henrique Meirelles  as bank president.  “They are paving the way for upcoming hikes,” said
Carvalho in a phone interview. “The timing is left open, but
all the conditions are set for Tombini to hike in January.”  Yields Rise  Yields on interest-rate future contracts due before July
2011 rose, as traders increased bets on rate increases next
year. The yield on the contract due in April 2011, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 1 basis points to 10.93 percent
at 7 a.m. New York time. The real strengthened 0.3 percent to
1.7037 per U.S. dollar.  In holding rates steady this month for the third-straight
meeting, policy makers including Tombini said they needed “more
time” to gauge the economic impact from recent measures to slow
credit growth. Policy makers on Dec. 3 boosted reserve and
capital requirements for lenders to remove about 61 billion
reais ($36 billion) from the economy.  Not a ‘Perfect Substitute’  The bank, in its minutes today, said the measures aren’t a
“perfect substitute” for raising interest rates, since they
are part of an effort to reverse stimulus measures adopted
during the global financial crisis.  Recent economic data signaling the expansion of Latin
America’s biggest economy is easing may provide more space to
Tombini to decide the timing of an expected rate increase.  Retail sales  rose 0.4 percent in October from September,
less than the 1.1 percent median forecast by 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, the national statistics agency said Dec.
14. The  IGP-M price  index, the nation’s broadest gauge of
inflation, rose 0.83 percent in the first preview of December,
less than the 0.95 percent median forecast.  The bank said that higher food prices had affected
inflation “strongly” and “negatively,” since its October
meeting. Gas prices, which the bank previously saw remaining
unchanged this year, are now expected to rise 1.6 percent.  Policy makers said they no longer see the weak global
economy helping to contain price pressures.  “The likelihood of seeing some disinflationary influence
from abroad has fallen, although substantial uncertainty
persists over the behavior of asset and commodity prices in the
context of substantial volatility in international financial
markets,” the minutes said.  “The minutes take a more realistic view of inflation,
recognizing the recent worsening,” Carvalho said.  Consumer Prices  Brazil’s consumer prices, as measured by the  benchmark IPCA 
index, rose 0.86 percent in November, the biggest jump in five
years. The annual inflation rate was 5.63 percent in November,
the highest level since February 2009. The central bank targets
annual inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage
points.  Inflation expectations for 2011 have been rising since
August. Consumer prices will climb 5.21 percent next year,
according to the median forecast in a Dec. 10 central bank
survey, up from an August forecast of 4.80 percent.  Third quarter  gross domestic product  grew 0.5 percent from
the previous quarter and 6.7 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net   Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  