-- Builders Probably Began Work on More U.S. Houses Following October Plunge
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/builders-probably-began-work-on-more-u-s-houses-in-november.html
Builders in the U.S. probably began
work on more homes in November for the first time in three
months, showing the industry is struggling to recover,
economists said before a report today.  Housing starts climbed 6 percent to a 550,000 annual rate,
according to the  median  estimate of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Work slumped in October to the slowest pace
since April 2009’s record low. Building  permits , a proxy of
future construction, may have also increased.  Companies like  Toll Brothers Inc.  anticipate the industry
that triggered the worst recession since the 1930s will regain
its footing in coming months after the end of a tax credit
caused demand to slump. While low  borrowing costs  and prices may
help entice buyers, mounting foreclosures and  unemployment  near
10 percent mean housing will take years to fully rebound.  “We’re coming up from the bottom but there’s no great
momentum,” said  Jennifer Lee , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “The story of foreclosures and high
unemployment hasn’t changed, which is worrying. Demand for
housing is still pretty lackluster.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from 520,000 to 595,000.
Starts dropped to a 519,000 pace in October.  Building permits rose to a 560,000 annual pace from
552,000, according to the survey median.  Other reports today may show  claims  for jobless benefits
climbed last week, and the nation’s  current-account  deficit last
quarter was the biggest in more than a year as imports
increased.  Credit’s Influence  Americans have pulled back on house purchases following the
expiration of a tax incentive of as much as $8,000, which
required that contracts be signed by April 30 and closed by
Sept. 30. Sales of  new  and existing properties fell in October.
Figures for November are due next week.  Today’s report may be a reminder why Federal Reserve policy
makers, who met Dec. 14 for the final time this year, say
housing is lagging while the economy rebounds. They cited
declines in home values as one of the constraints on consumer
spending.  “The housing sector continues to be depressed,” Fed
officials said in a statement after the gathering, at which they
reiterated a plan to expand record monetary stimulus and said
economic growth is “insufficient to bring down unemployment.”  Home Prices  Home values are poised to drop by more than $1.7 trillion
in 2010, according to Zillow Inc., a closely held provider of
home price data. This year’s estimated decline, more than the
$1.05 trillion drop in 2009, brings the loss since the June 2006
home-price peak to $9 trillion, Seattle-based Zillow said on
Dec. 9.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo’s
 confidence  index was unchanged in December from a month earlier,
a report showed yesterday, indicating developers remained
pessimistic.  Concern over the housing outlook has caused builder shares
to underperform the broader market. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding  index  has fallen 4.5 percent this
year, while the  S&P 500  index climbed 11 percent.  Even so, the housing market will avoid a double-dip after
reaching a bottom last year, and the industry will gain momentum
in 2012, according to Douglas Yearley, chief executive officer
of Toll Brothers, the largest U.S. luxury-home builder.  “The recovery is here to stay,” Yearley said in a Dec. 7
interview in New York. “I think 2011 will be an improving year,
but I think 2012 will be a big year for us.”  While the number of visitors to its sales offices isn’t up,
Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll is seeing more “quality”
visitors, a sign buyers are less skittish about the market and
more serious about purchasing, he said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  