-- Cargill Pursues Growth in Australia After Buying AWB Assets on Food Demand
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-16T07:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/cargill-pursues-growth-in-australia-after-buying-awb-assets-on-food-demand.html
Cargill Inc. will probably
pursue further expansion in Australia, a manager said,
after the company bought the grains business of the former
 AWB Ltd. , the nation’s top wheat exporter, to tap soaring
food demand in Asia.  “Cargill will continue to look for opportunities in
Australia because we are about growth and Australia is an
attractive location for us and we have been here for many
years already,” Cargill Australia General Manager Robert
Green said in Melbourne today. The company would first
focus on integrating yesterday’s announced purchase of the
AWB commodity management business from  Agrium Inc. , he said.  Sumitomo Corp., Viterra Inc. and Cargill are growing
in Australia, the fourth-largest wheat exporter, as global
demand rises for farm commodities and after the government
two years ago ended AWB’s monopoly on shipments of the
grain. Indonesia, Vietnam, Japan and South Korea were the
largest buyers of the country’s wheat in 2009-2010,
according to trade statistics.  “With the growth in Asian demand brought about by
population increases and per capita income growth, it means
there is a strong demand for Australian wheat,” Green said
in a phone interview. Shipments benefit from a freight
advantage and the type of varieties grown, while the
country also offered a seasonal contrast to the northern
hemisphere, he said.  Wheat for March delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
fell 0.2 percent to $7.6350 a bushel at 6:18 p.m. Melbourne
time, trimming this year’s advance to 41 percent.  Cotton, Beef  AWB was Australia’s largest shipper of bulk wheat in
2009, with Cargill, the largest closely held company in the
U.S., ranked third, according to industry estimates
published in a report for the Australian government.  Cargill Australia also trades cotton, crushes more
than 600,000 tons of oilseeds a year and exports beef, 
according to its  website . The company has operated in
Australia since 1967.  Australian wheat volumes this season and the
percentage cut to feed grade because of rain are still
uncertain, Green said.  “A lot of farmers are only just starting to get back
near their fields now,” he said. “It’s still too early to
know exactly what the final mixture of the crop will be.”  The acquisition of the AWB commodity management
business includes grain marketing and pool operations, an
international trading business, distribution and storage
assets and a half-share in a Melbourne port terminal.  Australia is forecast to be the fourth-largest wheat
shipper in 2010-2011 after the U.S., France and Canada,
according to the International Grains Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  