-- Carlyle Gets $500 Million Abu Dhabi Investment as Fund Prepares for Offer
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-12-16T12:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/carlyle-gets-500-million-abu-dhabi-investment-as-fund-prepares-for-offer.html
Carlyle Group received a $500
million investment from Mubadala Development Co., part of the
Abu Dhabi government, as the world’s second-biggest private
equity firm prepares for an initial public offering.  Mubadala will receive convertible subordinated notes and
additional equity in the firm, Carlyle said in an e-mailed
statement today without giving further details. The private-
equity firm sold a 7.5 percent stake to Mubadala in 2007 after
shelving plans for an IPO amid the credit crisis.  Leveraged buyout firms are still struggling to raise money
to expand and fund acquisitions even as the pace of their
takeovers more than doubled to $238 billion this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Washington-based firm,
founded in 1987 by  William Conway ,  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello , plans to file papers for an IPO late next year,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  “Our partnership with Mubadala continues to strengthen as
we collaborate on investment opportunities and share sector and
regional economic insights,” Rubenstein said in the statement.
The firm will use the money partly to expand its range of
investment products. Officials at Mubadala and Carlyle declined
to give further details.  Mubadala follows state-controlled investors including  China
Investment Corp.  in purchasing stakes in private equity firms.
CIC, which manages the nation’s $200 billion sovereign wealth
fund, paid $3 billion for a 9.4 percent stake in Blackstone
Group LP, manager of the world’s largest buyout fund, at the
time of the company’s IPO in June 2007. CIC bought a 2.3 percent
stake in London-based  Apax Partners LLP  in February.  Mubadala Collaboration  “Since the initial investment in 2007, our two firms
collaborated across a number of industry sectors,”  Khaldoon Al Mubarak , Mubadala chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “We’re confident in Carlyle’s ongoing success as a
global alternative asset manager.”  Carlyle has 76 active funds targeting private equity, debt
or real estate. Carlyle’s largest fund, a $13.7 billion pool
raised in 2007 that focuses on North American LBOs, had a 10
percent loss on its investments as of March 31, according to
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , one of the
firm’s largest backers. That fund’s predecessor, raised in 2005,
has generated a 10 percent gain so far, Calpers data show. In
Europe, Carlyle’s 5.4 billion-euro ($7.1 billion) buyout fund,
raised in 2007, has logged a 40 percent loss so far, according
to Calpers.  Mubadala’s investments include an $8 billion joint venture
with General Electric Co. in emerging markets, a stake in
Advanced Micro Devices Inc., the second-largest maker of
personal-computer processors, and a 17 percent share in Dutch
luxury sports carmaker Spyker Cars NV.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  advised Mubadala, while Citigroup
Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. worked with Carlyle Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  