-- Cash Squeeze Forces Banks to Pay Double Government Fund Rate: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-17T05:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/cash-squeeze-forces-banks-to-pay-double-government-fund-rate-china-credit.html
China’s banks are paying double the
interest rate for government funds than they were a year ago
after higher  reserve requirements  led to a shortage of cash in
the financial system and faster inflation damped deposit growth.  The finance ministry received a rate of 5.4 percent for 30
billion yuan ($4.5 billion) of six-month money offered at a
monthly auction yesterday. Comparable rates at auctions in
December 2009 and January 2010 were 2.35 percent and 2.92
percent, official figures show.  Demand for government cash is building after the People’s
Bank of China ordered lenders this month to set aside more
deposits as reserves for the sixth time in 2010 as part of a
plan to tame the fastest inflation in two years. China’s efforts
to ensure the stability of its economy led Standard & Poor’s to
raise China’s credit rating yesterday, putting it at least five
levels above Brazil, India and Russia.  “Banks, especially those that have lent aggressively, are
hungry for deposits as they need to meet the required 75 percent
loan-to-deposit ratio before year-end,” said Shi Lei, head of
fixed-income research in Shenzhen at Ping An Securities Co., a
unit of China’s second-largest insurer. “The situation has been
aggravated by a recent cash shortage in the interbank market
after recent reserve-ratio increases.”  The seven-day repurchase  rate , a gauge of interbank funding
costs, surged 45 basis points today to 3.72 percent, the highest
level since October 2008, according to daily fixings published
by the National Interbank Funding Center in Shanghai. This
week’s increase of 1.23 percentage points is the biggest since
October 2007. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Auction Rate  Yesterday’s auction rate was the highest in central bank
data going back to December 2006 and 47 basis points higher than
the 4.93 percent interest paid on similar-term deposits of
government funds in November. Consumer prices rose 5.1 percent
from a year earlier last month, the biggest gain since July 2008
and 2.9 percentage points higher than six-month deposit rates
banks can offer to households.  Yuan  deposits  at Chinese banks increased 1.1 percent during
the last two months, down from a 3.7 percent pace of expansion
reported for the August-September period, official figures show.
 Loan  growth was steady at 2.5 percent. Year-on-year growth in
China’s M2  money supply  averaged 21 percent in the last 11
months, down from 27 percent in 2009.  Real Rates  “Individuals don’t want to save money at banks because
real interest rates remain negative as inflation quickens,”
said  Chen Jianheng , a fixed-income analyst at China
International Capital Corp. in Beijing. “So growth in total
deposits has been slower than that in total loans.”  Outstanding local-currency loans at the end of November
were 47.4 trillion yuan, 60 percent more than two years ago, and
money supply has risen by 55 percent over the same period,
according to central bank figures.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission has asked
commercial banks to manage loan risks “more prudently and
stringently,” according to a text-messaged statement sent
yesterday from the regulator.  Contingent liabilities in the banking system were
acknowledged as risk to China’s creditworthiness in S&P’s rating
announcement yesterday. These were outweighed by the nation’s
“substantial” foreign-exchange reserves and strong fiscal
position, the company said.  China’s long-term rating was raised one level to AA-, the
fourth-highest ranking, and Hong Kong’s was boosted to AAA.
Brazil and India have BBB- ratings, the lowest of 10 investment
grades. Russia is one step higher at BBB.  Rating Boosts  S&P’s decision follows a similar move by Moody’s Investors
Service last month and mimics a trend across emerging markets,
with nations from Indonesia to Brazil to Turkey winning upgrades
or positive outlooks.  “The rating hike will increase the attractiveness of China
as an investment destination,” said  Ken Peng , a Beijing-based
economist at Citigroup Inc. “The rating may be raised further,
but it will take a while,” Peng said, citing concern over
stimulus-linked lending that could swell banks’ bad loans.  Economic growth in China last quarter was the fastest among
the four nations and its $2.65 trillion foreign-exchange
reserves are more than double those of the other three.  The cost of insuring the Chinese government’s dollar-
denominated debt for five years rose 1.6 basis points after
yesterday’s ratings upgrade to 69.9, according to CMA prices.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government or
company fails to adhere to debt agreements.  China’s Bonds  China’s yuan-denominated government bonds dropped today,
pushing the 10-year debt  yield  up from a six-week low. The rate
on the 3.29 percent note due in September 2020 rose two basis
points to 3.86 percent, according to prices from the National
Interbank Funding Center.  One-year interest-rate  swaps  were little changed at 3.13
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan,
which was little changed at 6.6614 per dollar in Shanghai, has
strengthened 2.4 percent versus the greenback since a two-year
peg ended on June 19. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
reflect bets for a 2.3 percent advance in the coming year.  -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan ,  Dennis Fitzgerald   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  