-- CFTC Delays Consideration of Proposal Aimed at Restricting Oil Speculation
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-16T21:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/cftc-delays-consideration-of-proposal-aimed-at-restricting-oil-speculation.html
The top U.S. commodities regulator
delayed consideration of a plan to curb speculation in raw
materials including oil, gold and wheat as part of the most
sweeping rewrite of Wall Street rules since the 1930s.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission postponed an
expected vote today on publishing a two-part proposal to
restrict the number of contracts one firm can hold for a 60-day
public comment period. The plan, if approved, would limit
traders to 25 percent of deliverable supply in the contract
nearest to expiration, followed by an all-month ceiling of 10
percent of open interest up to the first 25,000 contracts and
2.5 percent thereafter.  The Dodd-Frank Act gave the CFTC until January to rein in
speculation in the energy and metals markets and until April for
agricultural commodities. Yesterday, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler 
told lawmakers that the commission wouldn’t meet next month’s
deadline because it doesn’t yet have sufficient data.  “It’s just appropriate to let this one ripen a little bit
more,” Gensler said after the meeting. Commissioners raised
concerns and it would be helpful to have additional time to
consider the issue, he said.  Earlier, Commissioner  Jill Sommers  said it was “bad policy
to promulgate regulations that are not enforceable.” The
commission lacks the data needed to enforce the caps, she said.  Commodity Speculation  Regulators and lawmakers are attempting to curb commodity
speculation amid concern that investors contributed to oil
reaching the record high of $147.27 a barrel in 2008. The CFTC
received hundreds of public comments on position limits and held
at least 75 meetings on the subject since July, according to its
 website .  The law is named for its primary authors, Senate Banking
Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, and
House Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts
Democrat. It aims to stem systemic risk by requiring most
interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed by
clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution
facilities.  The financial overhaul expanded the CFTC’s authority to the
over-the-counter derivatives market for the first time since
swaps were introduced 30 years ago. Before the law passed,
traders could buy futures on regulated exchanges, or they could
privately negotiate for unregulated, look-alike contracts.  Avoiding Limits  That situation allowed traders to sidestep limits by buying
derivatives, contracts whose value is linked to commodities,
stocks, bonds, loans, and currencies or to specific events such
as changes in interest rates. Some firms use them to lock in
prices for goods they buy or sell, while speculators may use
them to bet on the markets.  Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview that the commission needs some measure as a
“stopgap” until the data is collected and the rules are
finalized. It could set an interim level where they could tell
traders above that threshold to reduce their position, he said.  Chilton said he had “problems” with the plan put before
the commission. He didn’t elaborate.  “It’s something we’re going to have to take up again
soon,” he said.  Look-Alike Derivatives  The proposal limits positions on both exchanges and in
look-alike derivatives. Such contracts played a role in the 2006
collapse of Amaranth Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that lost $6.6
billion on natural gas bets. Amaranth amassed a large position
in unregulated swaps after being ordered to reduce its holdings
on the regulated exchange.  In October, the CFTC published a proposal to begin
gathering data on the over-the-counter market. The public
comment period ended Dec. 2, and the agency is considering a
final rule so that regulators can begin collecting the
information necessary to impose limits, Gensler said.  “Without specific swaps data, we have no ability to claim
we are applying enforceable limits without understanding the
full size of the market,” Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 