-- CFTC Weighs New Swap Trading Facilities Under Dodd-Frank Regulatory Law
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2010-12-16T18:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/cftc-weighs-new-swap-trading-facilities-under-dodd-frank-law.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission proposed allowing new trading platforms in the $583
trillion swaps market to rely on prices quoted by a limited
number of market participants.  The CFTC voted 4-1 today to seek comment on a rule that
would allow swap-execution facilities to have order book
systems, such as electronic trading systems, or request-for-
quote systems open to multiple market participants. The agency
will weigh comments before commissioners vote on the final rule.  The proposal will promote competition among different types
of trading platforms, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said before the
vote. Republican Commissioner  Jill Sommers  opposed the proposal,
calling it an “overly narrow reading” of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation law enacted in July,
seeks to increase transparency in the swaps market after largely
unregulated trades contributed to the credit crisis in 2008. The
law directed the CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission
to define new swap-execution facilities as an alternative to
exchanges for trading in interest-rate, credit and other swaps.  The CFTC proposal for request-for-quote systems would
require that buyers or sellers of swaps seek a price quote from
five or more participants in the market. Block trades, swaps
involving non-financial end-users and swaps not made available
for trading could be executed by voice or other forms of
transaction.  Swap-execution facilities may also provide real-time
electronic quotes and let firms complete transactions on their
platforms.  Earlier Proposal  A proposal that had been slated for CFTC consideration on
Dec. 9 would have required swap-execution facilities to have a
centralized limit order book available to all participants or
quote pricing systems visible to all market participants.  Gensler delayed the Dec. 9 vote to give commissioners and
staff further time to discuss how to define swap-execution
facilities. Sommers and fellow Republican Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  opposed the earlier plan, saying it would limit overall
trading on the facilities.  Wall Street firms and swap dealers have said Congress
didn’t give regulators power to require that pricing data be
available to all market participants. The International Swaps
and Derivatives Association said in an Oct. 1 letter to the CFTC
and SEC that Dodd-Frank didn’t mandate that swap-execution
facilities have the same “competitive” and “open” bidding
systems as exchanges.  30-40 Systems  “This supports the conclusion that a SEF need not require
participants to make bids and offers available to all other
participants,” ISDA wrote. The CFTC estimates that 30 to 40
systems will seek to register as swap-execution facilities.  Tradeweb LLC, the bond- and derivatives-trading network
whose owners include Wall Street’s largest banks, said it is
prepared to register as a swap-execution facility.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, intends
to register as a swap-execution facility,  Ben Macdonald , global
head of fixed income at Bloomberg LP, said in a Nov. 17 comment
letter to the CFTC.  The CFTC also unanimously proposed rules today on risk-
management practices, recordkeeping and treatment of funds in
swaps clearinghouses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  