-- Record Quake Boosts Insurer Disaster Costs 90% to $38 Billion
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-16T17:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/chile-earthquake-xynthia-boost-insurer-disaster-costs-90-to-38-billion.html
The record Chilean earthquake and
winter storm Xynthia in Europe led catastrophes that caused
insurance industry costs from natural disasters to surge 90
percent this year, according to  Aon Corp.   Insured losses from natural disasters climbed to $38
billion from $20 billion a year earlier, according to a  report 
today from Aon Benfield, a unit of the world’s largest insurance
broker. Economic losses, which included uninsured costs of an
earthquake in Haiti and flooding in Pakistan, totaled $252
billion, a fourfold increase from last year.  “Nature was very active in 2010,” Chicago-based Aon said
in the report. “Major earthquakes in Haiti, Chile and Indonesia
caused thousands of fatalities and widespread damage. Vast
floods persisted for many months across portions of Asia. Severe
weather outbreaks in the United States and Australia spawned
tornadoes, damaging winds and destructive hail.”  The reinsurance industry, led by Munich Re, Swiss
Reinsurance Co. and  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
provided “ample” protection for the Chile quake that cost
insurers $8.5 billion, the year’s most expensive disaster for
the industry, Aon Benfield Analytics Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Mildenhall , said in a statement. Reinsurer capital is at
a record level, and supply of the funds to backstop insurers may
outstrip demand, lowering rates next year, he said.  February’s winter storm Xynthia, which struck France,
Portugal, Spain, Belgium and Germany, was the second-most
expensive natural disaster for insurers, costing $3.65 billion,
Aon said.  New Zealand, Haiti  Industry losses from the New Zealand earthquake in
September were $3.05 billion, the third-most expensive disaster
of the year, according to the report.  PartnerRe Ltd.  said this
week that industry losses from the quake could climb to $5.5
billion on the higher-than-expected number of claims.  The January earthquake in Haiti was the most destructive
event this year, claiming about 230,000 lives and damaging or
destroying 350,000 structures, Aon said. About 1 percent of the
$8 billion in economic losses were insured.  Flooding in Pakistan in July and August damaged or
destroyed 1.7 million buildings, killed about 2,000 people, and
caused an estimated $30 billion in economic losses, Aon said.  The U.S. sustained $2 billion in insured losses from storms
in the Great Plains and another $1.5 billion from flooding in
the Nashville, Tennessee, area in April and May, Aon said. The
U.S. escaped major storm damage in an Atlantic season that
produced the second-most number of hurricanes in the last 25
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  