-- China to Raise Export Taxes of Some Rare Earths to 25% as Demand Increases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-16T08:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/china-will-increase-export-taxes-on-some-rare-earths-to-25-for-next-year.html
China, which supplies more than 90
percent of the world’s rare earth minerals, will raise the
export taxes for some elements to 25 percent next year, the
Ministry of Finance  said .  The move is an increase from the 15 percent temporary
export tax on neodymium, used in batteries for hybrid cars
including Toyota Motor Corp.’s Prius. Lanthanum, also used in
hybrids, and cerium, used for polishing semiconductors, were not
taxed in 2010, and will be taxed at 25 percent in 2011, the
ministry said yesterday, without giving a reason.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements including
neodymium, cerium and lanthanum. The price of neodymium oxide,
also used in magnets in BlackBerrys, has surged more than four-
fold to $88.5 a kilogram from $19.12 in 2009 because of rising
demand and reduced supply from China, according to Sydney-based
 Lynas Corp. , which is building a A$550 million ($542 million)
rare earths mine in Western Australia.  “The move is aimed at regulating the rare earth trade,”
 Peng Bo , an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. said by phone from
Shenzhen. “The government simply wants the same tax standard to
apply to all key rare earth elements of which it wants to
control shipments.”  Quotas Slashed  Demand growth for neodymium and dysprosium may be around 15
to 20 percent per annum, Damien Krebs, metallurgy manager of
Australia’s Greenland Minerals and Energy Ltd. said in an
interview on Nov. 10. Neodymium is also used in mini hard drives
in laptops and headphones in Apple’s iPod.  Prices of cerium oxide climbed sevenfold in the six months
to October, London-based Metal-Pages Ltd., which tracks rare-
earth prices, said Oct. 23.  “A 25 percent increase in export taxes won’t affect the
business” as it can pass the material costs onto products, said
Toshinori Hata, a spokeswoman for Hitachi Metals Ltd., Japan’s
largest maker of rare earth magnets.  China slashed export quotas for rare earths by 72 percent
in the second half of this year, sparking a surge in prices and
highlighting global dependence on Chinese shipments. Government
agencies are still working on next year’s export quota, commerce
ministry spokesman  Yao Jian  said yesterday.  In a study of 14 rare-earth elements, the U.S. Energy
Department found that supplies of dysprosium, which is used to
make wind turbines and electric cars, may fall short of demand,
 David Sandalow , assistant secretary for policy and international
affairs said on Dec. 15 in Washington.  China’s export tax for dysprosium will be kept at 25
percent next year, and the same with terbium, according to the
statement of China’s finance ministry.  It takes seven to 10 years to obtain permission to open a
new mine in the U.S., the longest among the top-25 mining
countries, the Energy Department said in a report on Dec. 15.
The department plans to begin research into critical materials
and to work with Japan and nations in Europe to lower the risk
of supply disruptions.  -- Xiao Yu  and  Feiwen Rong . With assistance from  Masumi Suga  in
Tokyo,  Jim Snyder  and  Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington. Editors:
 Alan Soughley ,  Keith Gosman   To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ; 