-- China's Stocks Drop for Second Day on Rate Increase Concerns; Banks Slide
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-16T09:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/china-s-stocks-fluctuate-as-consumer-staples-coal-shares-gain-banks-drop.html
China’s stocks fell for a second day,
led by banks and metal producers, on concern the government’s
efforts to tame inflation by slowing lending and raising
interest rates will reduce earnings.  China Construction Bank Corp. and  Bank of China Ltd.  paced
losses for lenders after the Oriental Morning Post reported
regulators in Shanghai ordered halts on lending to companies for
purchases of fixed assets.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  slid 2.5 percent
as metal prices slumped. Kweichow Moutai led gains for liquor
makers after it announced it would raise prices by 20 percent.  “There’s uncertainty as further monetary policy changes
depend on the new loan target for next year,” said  Wan Dingshan ,
fund manager at Bosera Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $29 billion. “It’s more likely we will see
another interest-rate hike next year as pressure from inflation
may keep at a very high level.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 13.3 points, or 0.5 percent, to
2,898.14 at the 3 p.m. close. The  CSI 300 Index  declined 0.5
percent to 3,230.67. After the market close, Standard & Poor’s
raised China’s debt rating, citing its “substantial” foreign-
exchange reserves and strong fiscal position.  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 12 percent this year for
the worst performer in Asia. The index has fallen 8.3 percent
since rallying to an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8, after
the government boosted interest rates in October and raised bank
reserve requirements twice in November and once again last week.
With inflation accelerating to the fastest pace in 28 months in
November, economists including  Liu Li-Gang  at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd, predict more rate increases before
the end of this year.  Asset Bubble  The central bank may raise rates this month on concern
negative real interest rates may spur bank deposit holders to
search for higher yields, possibly fueling an asset bubble, Liu,
a Hong Kong-based economist at ANZ, said in a report dated today.  A gauge of financial stocks in the CSI 300 fell for a third
day, losing 0.9 percent.  Bank of China  slid 0.6 percent to 3.28
yuan. China Construction Bank lost 0.6 percent to 4.74 yuan.  China Banking Regulatory Commission’s Shanghai branch
ordered halts on lending to companies for the purchases of fixed
assets until the end of the year, the Oriental Morning Post said.  China is likely to set a target of at least 7 trillion yuan
of new loans for 2011, two people briefed on the matter said
this week. While a quota of more than 7 trillion yuan would be
less than the previous two years, it would exceed estimates made
by UBS AG and Bank of America Corp. in the past month.  A gauge of material producers retreated 1.1 percent, the
most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups, on concern
tightening policies will curb demand. Jiangxi Copper lost 2.5
percent to 39.83 yuan, while Yunnan Copper Industry Co. dropped
2.1 percent to 24.91 yuan.  Copper Prices  Copper declined for a third day as stockpiles expanded and
renewed concern that Europe’s debt crisis may hamper the global
economic recovery hurt the outlook for demand.  China’s consumer prices  climbed 5.1 percent in November
from a year earlier, the fastest since July 2008, the statistics
bureau said on Dec. 11. The central bank boosted borrowing costs
in October for the first time since December 2007, increasing
the one-year  deposit rate  to 2.5 percent and the  lending rate  to
5.56 percent.  China may increase rates up to six times by the end of next
year as inflation becomes more entrenched in the economy,
according to Mizuho Research Institute Ltd.  “A rate hike will be inevitable,” said  Takamoto Suzuki , a
senior economist at the unit of Japan’s third-largest bank. “It
wouldn’t be surprising if the central bank lifts interest rates
by about 1.5 percentage points by the end of next year.”  The central bank has relied on reserve-requirement ratios
to help control liquidity, and with  levels  near 20 percent
there’s little room for increases, said Tokyo-based Suzuki.  Consumer Staples  Kweichow Moutai led gains for consumer staples companies,
surging 3.1 percent to 206.98. Wuliangye Yibin Co. increased 1.6
percent to 38.60 yuan.  Moutai will increase prices by 20 percent on average
starting Jan. 1 because of increased costs of raw material and
demand, the company said in an exchange filing yesterday.  “China’s economic fundamentals are still positive and
attractive for global investors,” said Bosera’s Wan.  China’s long-term rating increased to AA-, the fourth-
highest ranking, from A+, and its outlook is stable, S&P said in
a statement today.  The nation’s financial strengths outweigh “sizable”
contingent liabilities in the banking system that could
materialize if an extended economic slowdown unfolds, the
ratings company said. The nation has both the fastest-growing
major economy and the world’s biggest currency reserves,
standing at $2.65 trillion.  -- Irene Shen . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  