-- China May Bar Officials From Evicting People From Homes to be Demolished
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-16T03:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/china-may-bar-local-governnments-from-forcing-people-out-of-their-homes.html
China may bar  local governments  from
forcing people out of homes set to be demolished as part of its
urbanization plan, according to revised draft rules on the
cabinet’s website.  Local governments should use the court system instead of
measures such as shutting energy and water supplies to seize the
properties, according to the document released yesterday.
Homeowners should also be compensated based on market rates
through cash or another property, according to the draft rules,
which are open for public feedback for a second time.  Disputes from the demolition of homes have led to protests
from property owners and the latest draft should be revised to
include land collectively owned by farmers in villages, said
Sheng Hong, head of Unirule Institute of Economics, a private
think tank in Beijing. The initial draft in January drew
feedback from 65,601 people within two months, the government
said yesterday.  “The rule is only targeting state-owned land, while the
majority of the land disputes occur on village land,” Sheng
said in a phone interview today. “Properties on all Chinese
land should be protected.”  Three people set themselves on fire in the eastern Jiangxi
province three months ago after the local government pressured
them to sell their homes, the official Xinhua news agency said
today. The incident led to the dismissal of eight officials, the
report said.  Property Prices  China issued the first  draft  in January as it considered
rules that would ensure compensation is paid to people before
they can be evicted from their homes to make way for
construction.  The country’s  property prices  rose for an 18th month in
November, climbing 7.7 percent from a year earlier, even as the
government increased efforts to control inflation and cool asset
bubbles. China this year suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes,
while the central bank raised bank reserve requirements last
week for the third time in five weeks after increasing interest
rates for the first time in three years in October.  The latest public consultation period for the proposed
eviction regulations ends on Dec. 30.  -- Stephanie Wong . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  