-- Chongqing Rural Falls on Debut After $1.5 Billion IPO
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-12-16T06:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/chongqing-rural-bank-gains-on-debut-following-1-5-billion-hong-kong-ipo.html
Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank Co. 
fell on the first day of trading in Hong Kong, after raising
HK$11.5 billion ($1.48 billion) in the city’s fifth-largest
initial public offering this year.  The  shares  reversed earlier gains, declining 3.2 percent to
HK$5.08 at the morning close after advancing as much as 4.6
percent from the IPO price of HK$5.25.  “Chongqing Bank’s non-performing loan ratio is higher than
other listed Chinese banks, and that’s a concern to investors,”
said  Louis Wong , a director at Phillip Securities HK Ltd. Its
ratio of non-performing assets stood at 2.99 percent as of June
30, the highest among publicly traded peers.  The bank braved an 8 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  from a Nov. 8 peak that forced companies including
Huaneng Renewables Corp. to cancel or delay public offerings.
The Chinese government stepped up measures over the past two
months to drain liquidity and contain  inflation , and said on Dec.
3 the country will shift to a “prudent” monetary policy next
year from a “moderately loose” stance.  Huaneng Renewables, a unit of China’s biggest electricity
producer, on Dec. 13 scrapped its first-time share sale because
of unexpected and excessive market volatility. The company was
seeking as much as $1.3 billion.  Chongqing Bank is the first Chinese lender since
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  to go public in Hong Kong. It’s
the ninth and smallest Chinese bank to list in the city.  Selling Pressure  “Some investors could have switched their investment to
Agricultural Bank of China from Chongqing Bank,” said  Linus Yip ,
chief strategist at First Shanghai Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“Once the share price falls below the IPO price, it will take
three to four days to ease the technical selling pressure.”  Agricultural Bank climbed 2 percent to HK$4.09 at the lunch
break in Hong Kong.  Fubon Life Insurance Co., Chow Tai Fook Nominee Ltd., Nexus
Capital Investing Ltd. and Value Partners Ltd. are among
institutional investors that bought stock in Chongqing Bank’s
offering.  Chongqing Bank was established in June 2008 after the
government merged rural cooperatives in the region. Based in
Chongqing, China’s most populous city, it had 62,000 corporate
and 17.5 million retail customers, according to the prospectus.  Chongqing ’s economic growth averaged 18.2 percent on a
nominal basis over the past three years, compared with the
national rate of 13.2 percent, according to government figures
cited in the prospectus.  The bank, with 1,763 outlets in Chongqing, had 262 billion
yuan ($39 billion) of assets as of June 30. It forecasts profit
of at least 2.85 billion yuan this year, an increase of 51
percent from 2009.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  