-- Ally Financial's Bond Fees Help Citigroup Cushion a Slide in Underwriting
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n ,   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-16T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/citigroup-s-fees-from-ally-bonds-cushion-underwriting-slide.html
Citigroup Inc. , dropping in the
ranks of U.S. debt underwriters, has kept its hold on one of the
most lucrative clients: the auto lender  Ally Financial Inc .,
this year’s biggest issuer of junk bonds.  Ally has sold $6.65 billion of bonds in the U.S. this year,
the most by any company with a credit rating below BBB- from
Standard & Poor’s, data compiled by Bloomberg show. New York-
based Citigroup gets credit for 24 percent of the sales, ahead
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s 17 percent, the data show.  A sales rebound at  General Motors Co . and Chrysler Group
LLC this year boosted demand for auto loans and dealer
financing, driving Ally to the bond markets for funding. Since
underwriting fees on junk-bond sales average three times those
for investment-grade deals, the business has cushioned
Citigroup’s 23 percent drop in bond-underwriting revenue this
year to $1.61 billion.  “There are some clients you want to hold on to,” said
Rajesh Narayanan, a Louisiana State University finance professor
who does  research  on debt underwriting. “You may not underwrite
a whole lot of deals, but you may underwrite a few very large
deals and make good money off of them.”  Ally, the biggest U.S. new-auto lender, doesn’t disclose
the fees it pays to underwriters. Among U.S. junk-bond issuers
who disclose them, the average underwriting fee this year is
1.64 percent, compared with 0.5 percent for investment-grade
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loyalty Reward  Ally, based in Detroit, gave underwriting business to
Citigroup this year partly because the bank kept providing
financing during the credit crisis when other lenders backed
away, people with knowledge of the matter said. They declined to
be named because details of the relationship are private.  "We have had a longstanding constructive relationship with
Citi, including in support of the auto industry,"  Gina Proia , an
Ally spokeswoman, said.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ,
53, was in turn propped up by a $45 billion taxpayer-funded
bailout in 2008, government guarantees on $301 billion of risky
assets and almost $95 billion of debt sales backed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., benefited from $17.2
billion of its own government aid in 2008 and 2009, after the
U.S. Treasury Department  declared  the auto lender’s survival was
crucial to the health of the auto industry. Ally, now 56 percent
owned by the U.S. government, lends money to buyers of GM and
Chrysler cars and trucks and finances dealer inventories.  ‘Very Focused’  “We’ve remained very focused on supporting the global auto
industry through the most difficult capital-market periods,”
said  Wayne Beckmann , Citigroup’s co-head of corporate and
investment banking for industrial companies. “Now that we’ve
come back to a more normal environment, the strength of the
capabilities on our side as well as the relationships have
helped us enable these companies to access the markets.”  GM, which emerged from bankruptcy in 2009 backed by $50
billion of government aid, sold 1.99 million vehicles in the
U.S. this year through November, 7 percent more than a year
earlier. The rebound at GM culminated in last month’s $18
billion initial public stock offering, underwritten by a team of
nine banks led by Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
including Citigroup.  Chrysler, which got a $12.5 billion bailout, has sold
984,509 vehicles in the U.S. this year, up 17 percent.  Ford Motor   Citigroup also was the biggest underwriter to Ford Motor
Credit, which provides financing to Ford Motor Co. customers.
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford sold 1.74 million cars in the U.S.
this year through November, up 21 percent. Ford Credit is this
year’s fourth-biggest issuer of junk debt, with $4.5 billion of
sales through Dec. 13, according to Bloomberg data. Citigroup
was credited with $9.4 million of fees from Ford Credit sales,
ahead of the $8.3 million pocketed by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,
the unit’s second-ranked underwriter, according to Bloomberg
data.  Overall, U.S. auto sales have increased 11 percent through
November, on pace for the biggest gain in at least 26 years,
ending a four-year losing streak for the industry and the worst
slowdown since World War II. The bond markets opened for
companies that financed the sales, as the Federal Reserve kept
the  target overnight lending rate  at zero to 0.25 percent.  “The rates are low and the spreads are tight so it’s a
great environment,” said  Mirko Mikelic , who manages $14 billion
in fixed income at Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids,
Michigan.  Foreign Companies  Foreign automakers took advantage as well, and Citigroup
ranked among the top three underwriters for the finance arms of
 Toyota Motor Corp ., Honda Motor Co.,  Nissan Motor  Co.,
 Volkswagen AG  and  Hyundai Motor Co . Toyota Motor Credit sold
$3.88 billion of bonds in the U.S. this year, its most since
2005, according to Bloomberg data. Volkswagen International
Finance sold $1.75 billion, the most ever.  Hyundai Capital America, which sold $500 million in its
first U.S. bond sale, gave equal underwriting credit to
Citigroup, Barclays Plc,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and JPMorgan,
according to Bloomberg data.  “The banking group chosen to lead the recent bond deal was
based on past and current relationship considerations with HCA
and Hyundai Motor,” Sukjoon Won, CEO of Irvine, California-
based Hyundai Capital America, said in a statement e-mailed by
company spokeswoman Fiona Bae.  Citigroup, which exited the Treasury’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program earlier this month when the government sold its
last 2.4 billion shares in the bank, has slipped to fifth among
underwriters of all U.S. bonds, with an 8.1 percent market share
through Dec. 15, according to Bloomberg data. It’s Citigroup’s
worst showing since at least 1999, when Bloomberg started
keeping track. Last year, Citigroup ranked second with a 12
percent share.  Underwriter Rankings  JPMorgan is the top-ranked U.S. bond underwriter, with a 13
percent market share, followed by Barclays Plc with 12 percent,
Bank of America Corp. with 10 percent and Deutsche Bank AG with
8.3 percent.  Prior to 2006, when it was still known as GMAC, Ally was
GM’s finance arm. That’s when the automaker sold a 51 percent
stake in the unit for $7.4 billion to a Cerberus Capital
Management LP-led investor group that included Citigroup.  In December 2008, GMAC received emergency approval to
become a bank holding company, so it could gain access to
Federal Reserve funding usually reserved for banks. Ally has
since cut its dependence on  short-term borrowings  to about $5.91
billion as of Sept. 30 from $33.8 billion at the end of 2007 by
reducing its assets, doubling deposits and selling debt for
terms longer than a year.  Bond Yields  The markets were increasingly receptive, based on the
trajectory of Ally’s bond rates during the year. In February
Ally sold $2 billion of notes at 8.3 percent, Bloomberg data
show. In March it sold $1.9 billion at 8 percent. In August,
Ally sold $1.75 billion at 7.5 percent, and last month the
company sold $1 billion at 6.25 percent. During the same period,
yields on high-yield bonds dropped 1.21 percentage points,
according Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s High Yield Master II
index.  Ally also raised at least $12 billion this year by selling
bonds backed by consumer loans and leases and dealer
receivables, the company said in a  regulatory filing  in
November.  Citigroup’s lead investment banker on Ally is Jeff Cady, a
former specialist in asset-backed securities, the people with
knowledge of the matter said. The bank is the fifth-biggest
underwriter of auto asset-backed securities, with $3.9 billion
of deals this year through September, up 88 percent from the
same period of 2009, according to the newsletter  Asset-Backed
Alert .  Cady’s Experience  Former GMAC CEO  Alvaro “Al” de Molina , 53, and Treasurer
 Jeff Brown , 37, awarded investment-banking business to Citigroup
partly because of Cady’s understanding of how to finance auto
loans and leases, one of the people said. Cady could discuss an
array of options, including corporate bond sales and asset-
backed securities, they said.  Michael Carpenter , 63, a former
head of Citigroup’s investment bank, kept Citigroup as its
primary underwriter after de Molina left last year.  Ally hired Citigroup and Goldman Sachs as its two lead
advisers in exploring how to repay bailout funds and reviewing
options for its money-losing mortgage unit, Residential Capital
LLC, a person briefed on the matter said in March.  Citigroup’s equity stake, which it received as part of the
2006 Cerberus-led buyout, hasn’t been a factor in awarding
Ally’s investment-banking business, though the bank’s role as a
strategic adviser has played a part, people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Ally plans to issue about $7 billion of corporate debt
annually for the next few years, the people said.  “The potential for future business is huge,” said
Narayanan, the Louisiana State professor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ; 