-- Clearwire Cash Shortfall May Prompt Retail Retreat
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-16T21:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/clearwire-cash-need-may-add-pressure-to-retreat-as-sprint-rival.html
Clearwire Corp.  may have to retreat
from selling wireless service under its own brand if it wants to
receive more funding from  Sprint Nextel Corp. , the third-largest
U.S. wireless operator that owns 54 percent of  Clearwire .  Sprint, which has helped finance the company in the past,
hasn’t provided additional capital since Clearwire said last
month it would run out of cash next year if it couldn’t raise
more funds. Sprint said this week it has no plans to acquire
Clearwire and is undecided about buying any of the company’s
high-yield bond offering.  Sprint resells  Clearwire ’s wireless service under its brand
and may want the company to stop offering a similar service with
its Clear label, said  Sid Parakh , an analyst at McAdams Wright
Ragen. The carrier will likely withhold additional funds until
Clearwire agrees to pull back, he said.  “Sprint was saying, ‘Why am I funding a competitor?’,”
said Parakh, based in Seattle. Unless the differences are
resolved, “it’s hard to see a lot more money coming in.”  Parakh, who owns Sprint shares and doesn’t cover the
company, said he’s speculating about Sprint’s motives and hasn’t
heard directly. He advises investors to hold shares of  Clearwire 
and doesn’t own any.  The conflict may point to a broader battle for power over
Clearwire, which is building a so-called fourth-generation
wireless network, said  Steve Clement , an analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities Inc.  “What’s at issue is that Sprint’s putting money into a
venture in which they don’t have control, and I think they’re
looking for ways to have more control,” said Portland, Oregon-
based Clement, who doesn’t own shares in either company and
 rates  them both “sector perform.”  Clearwire’s Tumble  Cristi Allen , a Sprint spokeswoman, declined to comment
beyond the company’s Dec. 13 statement on Clearwire’s debt
offering and acquisition.  Mike DiGioia , a spokesman for
Clearwire, declined to comment on speculation that Sprint wants
the company to scale back its retail effort.  “Clearwire maintains a close relationship with Sprint and
our other strategic investors,” said DiGioia in an e-mailed
statement. “The recent funding announcement demonstrates our
strength as an independent company and the opportunity afforded
us by the current market conditions.”  Clearwire rose 1 cent to $5.35 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has declined 21 percent
this year. Sprint fell 6 cents to $4.17 in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading  and is up 14 percent this year.  Money and Power  Clearwire’s long-term borrowing has doubled in the last
year while its peers have cut this debt, according to Bloomberg
data. The Kirkland, Washington-based company’s long-term debt
rose to $2.8 billion as of Sept. 30, as the average for 12 peers
in the telecommunications service industry fell to $1.44 billion
over the last four quarters, from $1.45 billion.  Clearwire  reported cash and short-term investments  of $1.38
billion as of Sept. 30, down from $3.8 billion at the end of
2009. The company said last month it would run out of cash by
the middle of next year if it couldn’t raise additional funds.  Clearwire is reducing sales and marketing spending, laying
off employees and delaying its Clear-branded smartphone as part
of a plan to save $100 million to $200 million this year,
according to a statement last month. The company is also raising
$1.33 billion through its high-yield bond offering. That won’t
alleviate all of Clearwire’s funding needs, said Clement, who
estimates that the company needs between $2 billion and $2.5
billion to continue to operate.  Sprint’s Own 4G?  Sprint  has $4.67 billion in cash on its balance sheet and
easier access to capital than Clearwire, leading analysts such
as Clement to expect Sprint to help with its partner’s cash
crunch. Sprint has tied itself to Clearwire at least for the
next few years as larger rivals, such as Verizon Wireless, have
readied their own 4G networks, the analyst said.  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, could potentially
roll out its own 4G service, which provides wireless Internet
speeds about four-to-five times faster than older, 3G networks,
he said. That may take until 2014 to complete.  “That’s the 4G horse they have to ride,” said Clement.  Clearwire was financed as a 4G  company  using WiMax
technology in 2008 with a $3.2 billion investment from a group
of companies including Sprint, Google Inc., Time Warner Cable
Inc., Comcast Corp., Intel Corp. and Bright House Networks LLC.
Several of those investors also contributed to a $1.56 billion
funding round last year, when Clearwire was short on cash.  These shareholders and Clearwire’s  management  may not want
to see Sprint, which already has the authority to appoint seven
of 13 board members, gain more control, said Jamie Townsend,
managing partner of Town Hall Research in Oyster Bay, New York.  “Sprint has a very large vested interest in seeing
Clearwire succeed,” said Townsend, who doesn’t own shares of
either company and advises investors to avoid both stocks.
“They’ve been caught a little bit between a rock and a hard
place in terms of resolving their own issues with Clearwire
while getting them what they need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 