-- Clement Says Statscan Probe of Economic Releases Led by Accounting Firm
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-16T20:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/clement-says-statscan-probe-of-economic-releases-led-by-accounting-firm.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said the government may hire an accounting firm to
handle an outside investigation of the early release of economic
data by Statistics Canada.  There is no evidence so far that anyone profited from
Statistics Canada’s early releases, Clement told reporters in
Ottawa today. The agency must resolve questions about the
disclosures to protect its credibility, he said.  Clement ordered the probe Dec. 9, two days after Statistics
Canada said it had allowed distributors to get information as
much as “59 seconds” ahead of the official release. The agency
stopped the practice on Nov. 25 after being alerted to it by
Bloomberg News.  The agency, which has a policy of providing equal access to
all users, said it’s reviewing computer access logs as part of
its own investigation. The agency didn’t say how long it had
been providing the data early to distributors.  Statistics Canada has agreements with 10 distributors who
are licensed to disseminate its data, including Bloomberg L.P.,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  In a statement to Bloomberg Dec. 3, Statistics Canada
spokesman Peter Frayne said officials have conducted a
“preliminary examination” of access logs from November. That
investigation showed three distributors, including Bloomberg,
had access to the data “seconds” before the release time. The
agency has declined to name the two other distributors, citing
its policy on client protection, or say for how long the
practice had been going on.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 