-- CME Gets U.K. Approval for London Derivatives Clearinghouse, Company Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-12-16T17:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/cme-gets-u-k-approval-for-london-derivatives-clearinghouse-company-says.html
CME Group Inc. , the world’s largest
futures exchange, received U.K. regulatory approval for its
London-based clearinghouse to handle private derivatives
transactions, a development that will make it easier for
European customers to use the company’s services.  The Financial Services Authority recognized CME Clearing
Europe today, the Chicago-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. Its initial focus will be over-the-counter trades of
commodity derivatives, with financial derivatives to follow, CME
said. The company’s ClearPort OTC clearing system is based in
the U.S. and falls under Commodity Futures Trading Commission
regulation.  “Through this new London-based subsidiary, we will provide
locally relevant clearing services to meet the needs of our
European customers,”  Andrew Lamb , CME Clearing Europe chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  CME Group already clears over-the-counter trades on crude
oil and natural gas derivatives in the U.S. The exchange began
clearing rate swaps in October and has offered clearing for
credit-default swaps for a year.  London clearing transactions for financial assets may
include credit-default swaps and interest-rate swaps.  Competitor  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  already processes
European-based credit-default swap trades in London as well as
deals on European energy commodities such as Brent crude oil
futures.  CME Clearing Europe has also applied to the CFTC for status
as a derivatives clearing organization in the U.S., the company
said.  CME Group shares climbed $1.60, or 0.5 percent, to $320 as
of 11:44 a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  