-- Cold War Patriot Defense Helps Oil Consultant Beat U.S. Bribe Prosecution
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/cold-war-patriot-defense-helps-oil-consultant-beat-u-s-bribe-prosecution.html
Jim Giffen , an oil consultant and
merchant bank owner, spent the last years of the Cold War
brokering business deals between the U.S. and Soviet Union while
serving as a secret communication conduit for their governments.  He later worked as a go-between for oil-rich Kazakhstan and
energy companies including  Chevron Corp.  and the former  Mobil
Oil Corp.,  negotiating payments for exploration rights. And for
that, he was indicted.  U.S. prosecutors in 2003 accused him of funneling $78
million in bribes to leaders of the former Soviet republic.
Seven years later, instead of a prison term for money laundering
and bribery, he received no punishment, pleading guilty to a
misdemeanor tax charge. Rather than reprimand him, the federal
judge overseeing his case thanked him Nov. 19 for “his
service” to America during, and after, the Cold War.  “Listen to the judge’s words,” Giffen, 69, said in an
interview from his midtown Manhattan office two weeks later.
“He knows damn well what those words mean.” The owner of The
Mercator Corp. merchant bank and former adviser to the president
of Kazakhstan said the judge’s pronouncement was vindication.  Giffen’s 2003 arrest came at the start of an upswing in
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prosecutions by the Justice
Department. The “highly unusual” comments by U.S. District
Judge  William Pauley  marked an “embarrassing” conclusion to
the case for FCPA prosecutors, said Michael Koehler, a Butler
University law professor in Indianapolis.  Judge’s Praise  “It’s not often that a judge at sentencing says a case
should never have been brought,” said Koehler, author of the
FCPA Professor blog.  Giffen was arrested for passing bribes to Kazakhstan
President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  and another government leader on
behalf of American oil companies. At the time, the case was the
largest ever brought under the now 33-year-old anti-bribery law.  Giffen denied wrongdoing and said some of his still-
classified activities were done at the behest of the U.S.
government. For years, the case stalled as prosecutors declined
to turn over documents that Giffen said would exonerate him.  Giffen was sentenced last month in Manhattan federal court
for a misdemeanor stemming from his failure to disclose a
foreign bank account on his 1996 tax return. Pauley sentenced
him to time served -- the one night he spent in jail right after
his arrest -- while praising him for advancing U.S. “strategic
interests.”  ‘Secret Communications’  Pauley said Giffen served as “a conduit for secret
communications to the Soviet Union and its leadership during the
Cold War” and later became a “trusted adviser to Kazakhstan’s
president” while advancing U.S. interests.  “How does Mr. Giffen reclaim his good name?” the judge
asked during the hearing. “This court begins that process by
acknowledging his service.”  Aside from Giffen’s plea, his bank admitted violating the
FCPA by giving two snowmobiles worth a total of $16,000 to a
Kazakh official. Pauley fined Mercator, which has 10 employees,
$32,000.  Today, Giffen said he’s saddened, though not bitter, about
a case that threatened to jail him for 20 years and forced an
end to his three decades advising Kazakh, American and former
Soviet leaders.  “Was I disappointed when all this stopped? Yes,” a gray-
haired Giffen said from his 20th-floor midtown office.
Photographs of a younger, heavier, darker-haired Giffen with
President  Ronald Reagan  and Soviet President  Mikhail Gorbachev 
hang on his wall. “Would I do it again? Absolutely. What we
were doing was important.”  70 Charged  The U.S. has charged more than 70 people with FCPA-related
crimes since his 2003 arrest, most in the last three years,
according to the law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP. Prosecutors
have prevailed in almost every case that went to trial. In the
longest sentence to date, businessman Charles Jumet was ordered
to prison for more than 7 years for conspiring to make illegal
payments to Panamanian government officials for contracts.  Giffen is the rare FCPA defendant who was mostly successful
in waging a defense.  By the time he was charged, the California native had
become an influential actor in Kazakhstan, the world’s ninth-
largest country, which has “enormous fossil fuel reserves,”
according the Central Intelligence Agency’s Web site. The
republic ranks 105 out of 178 countries on the  Corruption
Perception Index  of Berlin-based Transparency International.  Early U.S.-U.S.S.R Deals  Giffen’s arrest followed a career begun in 1969, when he
brokered some of the earliest business deals between the U.S.
and U.S.S.R. He became wealthy in the process, as he shifted his
focus to Kazakhstan, Pauley said in court.  By 1995, four years after Kazakhstan emerged from the
collapse of the Soviet Union, Giffen had been named adviser to
its oil industry and counselor to Nazarbayev, or “The Boss,”
as Giffen called him. He helped Kazakh leaders negotiate deals
with companies including  Chevron  and  Mobil Oil  for access to the
Tengiz, Kashagan and Karachaganak fields, among the world’s
largest. Exxon purchased Mobil in 1999, forming Exxon Mobil
Corp.  Giffen was indicted for money laundering and bribery,
accused by prosecutors of funneling bribes while working as a
middleman between Kazakhstan and oil companies in violation of
the FCPA. The U.S. identified Nazarbayev in 2004 as a bribe
recipient, which Kazakhstan denied. Neither he nor oil companies
were charged.  Executive Jailed  A former Mobil executive, J. Bryan Williams, was jailed in
2003 after admitting he evaded taxes on a $7 million payment,
which prosecutors said included a kickback for helping the
company buy a share of a Kazakhstan oil field.  Giffen said he “can only speculate” on why the U.S.
brought what he calls a “selective” prosecution. He said he
believed the U.S. joined a Swiss probe of secret Kazakh bank
accounts only after Nazarbayev reproached then-U.S. Secretary of
State  Madeleine Albright  in April 2000 for criticizing
Kazakhstan’s sale of fighter jets to North Korea.  Previously, the U.S. had ignored the investigation, Giffen
said, tracing it to an internal Kazakh feud between Nazarbayev
and critics of his authoritarian government.  Investigators uncovered millions of dollars in Swiss
accounts owned by Kazakh leaders, which prosecutors later
characterized as payoffs flowing through Mercator. The U.S.
subsequently blocked Kazakhstan from gaining access to those
funds.  “You have to ask the question, ‘In whose interest was the
investigation in the first place?’” Giffen said.  Manhattan Prosecutor  Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , whose office brought the case, declined to
comment.  Steve LeVine, author of the 2005 book “ The Oil and the
Glory ,” an account of oil politics in Central Asia, said the
U.S. case began with a probe in Belgium that spilled into
Switzerland and uncovered the accounts. LeVine said Giffen’s
lawyers never answered key allegations, like why Giffen used a
convoluted series of transactions to fund the Swiss accounts.  “In court at least, they never disputed the facts of the
case,” LeVine said.  Giffen’s attorney,  William Schwartz , said he would have
shown at a trial that the accounts were lawful. Nazarbayev
wanted a small portion of the oil companies’ contractual
payments to be kept away from what he considered a wasteful
parliament and used for Kazakh reform efforts and expenses,
according to court documents submitted by the defense.  Maintain Secrecy  To maintain secrecy, Nazarbayev agreed with Swiss bankers
who proposed that a percentage of revenue be routed to accounts
owned by foreign companies like Mercator but controlled by
Kazakh officials. Mercator in turn made expenditures that Kazakh
officials ordered, according to the documents.  “There were no bribes,” said Schwartz, of  Cooley LLP  in
New York. Giffen agreed, saying he “was on the record over
there as the agent and trustee over Kazakh government
accounts.”  Another piece of Giffen’s defense was his “public
authority” claim, in which he argued that intelligence agencies
knew what he was doing and condoned it so that Giffen could mine
Kazakh leaders for information he’d forward to the U.S.  Schwartz said the judge barred Giffen from discussing in
public secrets he passed. In court papers, Schwartz said that,
by building economic ties with Soviet and Kazakh leaders during
and after the Cold War, Giffen became a resource for
intelligence agencies seeking information or contacts.  ‘High-Level Corruption’  According to court documents, one tip came in June 1996
when Giffen reported on “high-level corruption in the oil
industry” while another involved the Swiss bank accounts. A
summary of another document said U.S. officials viewed Giffen as
“a problematic” and unreliable resource.  “I never had, in 30 years, one U.S. government person tell
me what I was doing was wrong,” Giffen said. “Not once.”  Many proceedings in his case occurred in sealed courtrooms,
with prosecutors arguing that Giffen himself had no right to
view classified documents. After the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New York in 2006 allowed Giffen’s lawyers to seek records about
his role in Central Asia, prosecutors complained that
intelligence agencies weren’t providing documents they sought.  Schwartz said he doesn’t know what was in some reports that
eventually made their way to Judge Pauley.  “One person had access,” Schwartz said. “That was the
judge, and he made his feelings known.”  Constant Consultation  Giffen said he spent the past 7 1/2 years in constant
consultation with his lawyers while continuing to draft
occasional reports for the Kazakh government, which hadn’t fully
cut ties with him. Giffen slashed Mercator’s staff as his legal
fees mounted.  “They were supportive of me totally until around 2004 or
2005,” Giffen said of the Kazakhstan government. At that point,
Kazakh officials launched an effort to recover the funds frozen
in Switzerland, culminating in a 2007 agreement to use the money
for charity, he said.  Meruyert Saudabay, a spokeswoman at the Kazakh embassy in
Washington, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Giffen’s office is still decorated with photographs of
Nazarbayev and the flags of the U.S. and Kazakhstan. He said he
would like to return there to help the country develop its
industry and build infrastructure. Had he still been there,
Giffen said he would have demanded efficiency for projects now
mired in bureaucracy.  He pointed to Kashagan, the world’s fifth largest field,
which is due to start production in 2012 after years of
postponements, as costs topped $100 billion from an initial
$30 billion.  “I’m going to go back and have a chat with the folks
there,” Giffen said. “Do they have problems? Yes. Do they have
a stake in having those problems solved? Yes.”   The case is U.S. v. Giffen, 03-CR-00404, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 