-- Commerzbank Rises to Top for Equity Deals as Dresdner Purchase Pays Off
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/commerzbank-rises-to-top-for-equity-deals-as-dresdner-pays-off.html
Commerzbank AG  rose to the top of
German equity underwriting this year as the purchase of Dresdner
Bank bolstered its ties with small- and medium-sized companies.  Commerzbank oversaw 13 equity transactions with a combined
market value of 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion), including
initial public offerings and rights issues, to place first in
the market with bigger competitor Deutsche Bank AG by the number
of deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The figures
exclude self-led equity sales.  Germany’s second-largest bank acquired unprofitable
Dresdner last year from  Allianz SE  for 5.1 billion euros, adding
retail clients and expanding in the Mittelstand that serves
medium-sized companies. Since then, Commerzbank’s market share
almost doubled to 8.7 percent, the Frankfurt-based company’s
best performance since at least 1999.  “Commerzbank’s strategy to link corporate banking and
investment banking businesses is working,” said  Philipp Haessler , an analyst at Equinet AG in Frankfurt. “The bank is
benefiting from its leading market position in the German small
and mid-caps market and its strengthened market position in the
equities business following the Dresdner takeover.”  Germany’s Mittelstand -- companies with fewer than 500
employees and annual sales of less than 50 million euros --
accounts for more than 70 percent of the country’s workers and
contributes about half of gross domestic product, according to
the Bonn-based Institute for Mittelstand Research, or IfM.  Stronger Position  Dresdner traditionally had a larger share of the German
market than Commerzbank. In the nine years prior to the
takeover, Commerzbank held an average 2.2 percent and Dresdner
had 7.3 percent. In 2009, Commerzbank accounted for 4.9 percent.  Equity capital markets is “now a very important part of
our corporate finance business, not only revenue-wise but also
strategically,” said  Ute Gerbaulet , global head of
Commerzbank’s ECM unit. “We have increased the headcount and
strengthened our franchise through the integration of
Dresdner.”  Deals led by Commerzbank this year include an IPO by Tom
Tailor Holding AG, secondary share sales by  Pfeiffer Vacuum
Technology AG , Deutsche Bank,  Phoenix Solar AG  and
 HeidelbergCement AG , and rights offerings for  Heidelberger
Druckmaschinen AG ,  Kuka AG  and  DIC Asset AG , Bloomberg data
show.  “The number of transactions is more important to us than a
one-off,” Gerbaulet said. “There is an improving window on the
IPO side. We expect 10 to 15 German IPOs next year, assuming
that the market remains stable.”  Societe Generale SA also expects as many as 15 IPOs in the
country next year, said  Ralf Darpe , the bank’s head of global
capital markets for Germany, Austria and Switzerland.  Deutsche Bank  In Germany, 21 IPOs have been announced this year, of which
16 have been priced, according to Bloomberg data. That compares
with three initial offerings that were priced in 2009.  Deutsche Bank’s 2010 market share in equity underwriting
fell to 16 percent from 19 percent in 2009, while the volume of
deals rose 38 percent to 3.34 billion euros, Bloomberg data
show. Bank of America Corp. and  HSBC Holdings Plc  each had a
market share of more than 10 percent, with banks underwriting a
total of 21 billion euros of equity transactions in Germany.  The benchmark DAX Index climbed 18 percent this year as
corporate profits increased, the Federal Reserve unveiled a $600
billion bond purchase program to assist the U.S. economy, and
the European Union agreed to bail out Greece and Ireland. The
broader HDAX Index, which includes medium-sized companies,
advanced 19 percent.  “We also anticipate a large number of capital increases, a
much larger volume than IPOs in current markets,” Gerbaulet
said. “I expect an increasing number of companies to come to
the market with acquisitions and growth stories rather than
restructuring.”  ‘Next Step’  Commerzbank aims to grow its equity business outside
Germany where the firm ranks outside the top 20 for equity
offerings in Europe, the Middle East and Africa with a market
share of less than 1 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “We would of course like to strengthen and develop our
pan-European business,” Gerbaulet said. “This will be the next
step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 