-- Contango on European ICE Gasoil Futures May Draw Traders to Storage Bets
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2010-12-16T16:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/contango-on-european-ice-gasoil-futures-may-draw-traders-to-storage-bets.html
A widening European gasoil futures
contango may prompt traders to fill storage tanks with excess
supply at a time when winter demand typically peaks.  Front-month January gasoil futures on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange fell 25 cents to $768 a metric ton at 4:36 p.m.
local time, $4.50 cheaper than the February contract. The
spread has nearly doubled since Nov. 29. It will be profitable
for traders to store the heating fuel and sell it later at a
higher price if it rises to at least $7, a Bloomberg survey of
five traders and brokers involved in the business showed.  European consumers, particularly those in Germany, the
continent’s largest heating oil market, stocked up on gasoil
this year well before cold winter weather set in. Refineries
have ramped up production of the oil-product, creating a glut of
the fuel at a time when demand is usually highest. Temperatures
in Berlin will fall to as low as minus 13 degrees Celsius (8.6
Fahrenheit) on Dec. 19, Customweather Inc. data on Bloomberg
show. The average low for this time of year is 0 Celsius.  “It makes sense for European refiners to put supplies into
storage,” and sell in the future, said Roy Jordan, a London-
based research consultant at Facts Global Energy.  It costs about $6 a ton per month to rent storage tanks,
and another $2 a ton per month to finance the storage, one of
the people in the survey said. A market is in contango when
supplies for nearby delivery trade at a lower price than
shipments for later months.  Gasoil stockpiles in Europe’s Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp
trading hub fell to 2.91 million tons in the week to today, data
from PJK International BV, an industry consultant based in the
Netherlands, showed. Inventories are still near their highest
level in more than a year.  Cold Spell  Sales of gasoil in Germany fell to 1.92 million tons in
November, down 6 percent from October, the country’s petroleum
association Mineraloelwirtschaftsverband said yesterday.  “The market is, for now, quite comfortable despite the
cold spell,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Switzerland-
based consultant Petromatrix GmbH, said by phone yesterday.
“European consumers have been filling up the tanks before the
start of the winter.”  A widening of the spread between January and February
delivery gasoil to $10 could spur a resurgence of bookings to
store the fuel on tankers, the survey showed.  “It is winter, the time for heating oil demand and the
contango on ICE gasoil is widening, not narrowing,” Jakob said.
“With a heavy schedule of new-build tankers being prime
candidates for floating storage we will have to watch for the
floating storage economics to redevelop if the front contango on
ICE Gasoil starts to spill into the following months,” he said.  Floating Storage  Last year, the volume of middle distillates stored at sea
peaked at 90.27 million barrels in November, with more than 70
percent stored off the coasts of northwest Europe and the
Mediterranean, according to data from London-based shipbroker
ICAP Shipping.  Gasoil’s crack , a measure of refining profit, rose to
$11.13 a barrel, up 21 cents from yesterday. Brent crude for
January fell 0.4 percent to $91.88 a barrel.  The prospect of continuing cold weather and rising demand
later this winter “is going to create an opportunity for that
crack spread to widen, and therefore you wish to take advantage
of that probability by putting gasoil into storage,” Jordan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  