-- Corn Imports by China May Advance Fivefold to Record Next Year, Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-16T16:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/corn-imports-by-china-may-rise-to-record-next-year-u-s-trade-group-says.html
China may boost corn imports to a
record next year as the U.S., the world’s biggest grain exporter,
potentially faces increased competition from rival supplier
Argentina, the U.S. Grains Council said.  Corn  purchases  may grow fivefold from 1.5 million metric
tons this year “to upward of” 7.4 million tons in the 2011
calendar year,  Thomas Dorr , president of the industry group,
said in an interview in Beijing. The group in July forecast
imports of 5.8 million tons.  The world’s biggest grain user may overtake Japan as the
largest corn importer within five years, buying as much as 25
million tons by 2015, driving prices higher as rising incomes
fuel demand for pork and chicken, Rabobank Groep NV said last
week. Chinese officials are “aggressively” trying to add
Argentina to their alternative suppliers as domestic reserves
dwindle, boosting competition for U.S. exporters, Dorr said.  China “sends the appropriate market signal to the world
that there is new demand for corn,” Dorr said yesterday.
“Whether the Chinese ultimately take 5 or 7 million or 10
million tons of corn, whether they take from us or they take it
from Argentina, we don’t know,” he said.  Corn has jumped 42 percent this year, climbing to a 27-
month high of $6.175 a bushel on Nov. 9 after the U.S.
government forecast smaller-than-expected supply. The contract
for March delivery traded at $5.8650 a bushel in Chicago today.  On China’s Dalian Commodity Exchange, corn gained 24
percent this year on tightening supplies. The September-delivery
contract ended at 2,323 yuan ($349) a ton.  Increasing Output  China’s corn  output  may be 172.5 million tons this year, a
5.2 percent gain from 2009, the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center said today, raising its forecast by 3.5
million tons from a month ago.  The Asian nation had been a net exporter of the grain in
recent years, including last year, when shipments outpaced
imports by 125,000 tons, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  “A new era of China importing corn is here,” Hanver Li,
chairman of Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said in July,
according to a U.S. Grains Council statement.  China is more likely to use imported corn in the marketing
year that began Oct. 1 because the government hasn’t bought a
temporary reserve to cover possible shortages, state-affiliated
researcher Cngrain.com said in a report posted on its website on
Dec. 13. The government doesn’t disclose state reserve levels.  Argentine Supplies  The government may not let corn imports gain “in the scope
that has emerged in the soybean industry,” Dorr said. China’s
soybean  imports  surged fivefold in the 10 years ended Oct. 31,
and it now imports about 80 percent of its consumption,
according to USDA data.  Imports of 7.4 million tons, or about 291 million bushels,
of corn would represent an increase of almost 15 percent in
demand for U.S. corn exports if China bought entire amount from
the U.S., Dorr said. Under the terms of its World Trade
Organization membership, China agreed it would allow imports of
as much as 7.4 million tons of corn at the lowest tariff rate.  China is working to begin imports from Argentina, Dorr said,
citing discussions with Chinese officials, who have “made very
clear” they are trying to complete a so-called Pest Risk
Assessment that will enable the country to commence buying from
the world’s second-biggest exporter.  Argentina expects to reach an agreement on corn sales to
China in the first half of 2011, Minister of Agriculture Julian
Dominguez said Dec. 1.  -- William Bi . Editors:  Matthew Oakley ,  James Poole   To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  