-- Cuomo Drops Effort Over Marsh Executives’ Convictions
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-17T01:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/cuomo-drops-appeal-to-restore-marsh-mclennan-executives-convictions.html
New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  withdrew his appeal of a judge’s decision to throw out the
convictions of two former  Marsh & McLennan Cos.  executives he
found guilty of restraint of trade in 2008.  State Supreme Court Justice  James Yates  in Manhattan threw
out the convictions of  William Gilman  and  Edward McNenney ,
former Marsh managing directors, in a July 2 decision. The pair
was accused of fixing prices to steer business to insurers that
paid Marsh hidden fees from November 1998 to September 2004.  Cuomo filed papers Dec. 14 withdrawing his July 12 appeal
in a state appeals court in New York City.  “This result was almost inevitable,”  Robert J. Cleary ,
who represents Gilman, said today in a phone interview.
“Numerous documents that were not provided to us should have
been and would have been invaluable, as Yates stated, to our
efforts to challenge the prosecution case.”  The attorney general’s office probed anti-competitive sales
practices in the insurance industry for six years. The case was
begun under Cuomo’s predecessor,  Eliot Spitzer , and was tried
under Cuomo.  “Given the six-year history of this litigation and while
we may disagree with some of the court’s findings, this office
did what was clearly appropriate under all the circumstances,”
 Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for Cuomo, said in an e-mail.  Scott Devereaux , a lawyer who represents McNenney, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Christine Walton , a
Marsh spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to a call and
e-mail.  New Evidence  Failures by prosecutors, including “newly discovered
contradictory evidence, undermines the court’s confidence in the
verdict,” Yates wrote in his decision.  Yates found the two men guilty in February 2008 of a single
count of restraint of trade under New York’s antitrust statutes
after a 10-month trial.  Of 37 counts in the indictment, 36 were dismissed before
the trial or resulted in acquittals, Cleary said.  The state alleged that McNenney, Gilman and six other Marsh
Global Broking Inc. brokers took part in a conspiracy to
fraudulently obtain millions of dollars for Marsh and its
accomplice companies by rigging the market for excess casualty
insurance, according to a redacted copy of the 25-page decision.  Gilman, formerly Marsh’s executive marketing director and
managing director, and McNenney, the former global placement
director and managing director, worked in the Excess Casualty
Unit of Marsh Global Broking, a Marsh Inc. unit.  Greenberg Ouster  Marsh, based in New York, the world’s second-biggest
insurance broker, lost almost half its market value, ousted
former Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Greenberg and settled a
related civil lawsuit filed by Spitzer in 2005, paying
$850 million to resolve accusations that it rigged bids and took
kickbacks from insurers.  Gilman and McNenney, who asked Yates to throw out their
convictions, claim that in May 2009, during a trial of three
other defendants, they discovered the attorney general’s office
failed to produce evidence in their favor.  The exculpatory material included 700,000 pages of
documents from Liberty International Insurance Co. that
allegedly belies the prosecution’s theory that Liberty and other
insurance companies joined a conspiracy to fix prices, rig bids
and allocate customers, Yates said in the decision.  The defense said cooperators got hidden promises of
leniency beyond those in their written agreements, according to
the ruling.  ‘Off-Record’ Offer  Todd Murphy , a Marsh Global Broking coordinator, said at
the trial in September 2007 that his only expectation from
Cuomo’s office for his testimony was related to his sentence,
according to the judge. In June 2008, Murphy twice testified
that Cuomo’s office made an “off the record” offer to reduce
the charges for people who cooperated.  Yates said that while such an inducement was a serious
claim, Cuomo’s office denied any side deal with Murphy and said
the claim was too vague to be credited.  The convictions rested on testimony from six witnesses who
all had “very favorable cooperation agreements,” the judge
said. Before, during and after the trial, those witness also
gave sworn testimony “discrediting, even contradicting, their
trial testimony,” Yates said.  In October 2009, Yates acquitted the three other former
Marsh executives on charges of bid-rigging and price-fixing
after an 11-month trial. Former managing directors  Joseph Peiser 
and  Kathleen Drake  and former Senior Vice President  Greg Doherty 
were found not guilty of scheming to defraud and of antitrust
violations under the general business law.  Charges Dismissed  In November 2009, the judge dismissed charges against
former Marsh executives  William McBurnie  and  Thomas Green  and
former Zurich Financial Services AG executive Geri Mandel at the
request of Cuomo, who after the earlier acquittal said the
prosecution was costing too much.  In January, Yates allowed ex-Marsh employees  Robert Stearns 
and  Kathryn Winter  and a former Zurich Financial employee,  James Spiegel , to withdraw pleas of guilty to felony charges of
participating in a scheme to defraud. The judge agreed to reduce
the charges to misdemeanors and said he would dismiss the
charges if the three abided by plea agreements.  Yates also dismissed charges against six people who pleaded
guilty to misdemeanor charges related to alleged bid-rigging.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Doherty,
04800-2005, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 