-- Current-Account Gap in U.S. Widened in Third Quarter on Imports
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-16T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/current-account-gap-in-u-s-widened-in-third-quarter-on-rise-in-imports.html
The current-account deficit in the
U.S. widened to $127.2 billion in the third quarter, reflecting
an increase in imports.  The  gap , the broadest measure of international trade because
it includes income payments and government transfers, was the
biggest in almost two years, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington. Economists forecast the shortfall
would widen to $126 billion, according to the median  estimate  in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The figures, along with trillion-dollar government  budget 
gaps, are a reminder of America’s dependence on attracting
foreign capital to fund the so-called twin deficits and prevent
interest rates from climbing. Evidence the economy is gaining
momentum after a slowdown earlier in the year will continue to
make U.S. assets attractive to foreign investors looking for
safety and liquidity.  “As the economic environment starts to improve, as the
smoke starts to clear, you do expect to see foreign investments
start to pick up,” Jay Bryson, senior global economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina, said before
the report. “It’s a vote of confidence that foreigners are
willing to invest here.”  The median forecast was based on a survey of 37 projections.
Estimates ranged from $115 billion to $132 billion. The Commerce
Department revised the second-quarter gap to $123.2 billion from
a previous estimate of $123.3 billion.  Share of GDP  The gap represented 3.5 percent of gross domestic product
last quarter, compared with 3.4 percent in the second quarter.
It’s still off from the 6.5 percent record reached in late 2005.  Another report today showed  housing starts  climbed 3.9
percent to a 555,000 annual rate, in line with the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Building permits, a
sign of future construction, fell 4 percent to a 530,000 pace.  The current-account imbalance has widened since reaching a
decade-low $84.4 billion in the second quarter of 2009 as the
economy emerges from the worst recession since the 1930s.  The  trade deficit , which accounted for most of the current-
account gap, climbed to $134.4 billion in the third quarter from
$133.1 billion in the second. The figures aren’t adjusted for
inflation.  The trade gap narrowed more than forecast in October as
exports rose to a two-year high, according to a government report
released last week. While foreign demand may continue to be
strong, recent increases in retail sales signal imports may pick
up in coming months, preventing the deficit from narrowing much
more.  Income Surplus  Foreign earnings on U.S. assets, including wages and
compensation, increased by $3.62 billion to $124.5 billion in the
third quarter, today’s report showed. U.S. income on overseas
assets rose by $1.66 billion to $165.5 billion.  That left a $41.1 billion  surplus  on income payments, down
from $43 billion the second three months of the year. U.S.
investments overseas yield more than do the Treasury securities
that foreign investors prefer to buy, helping maintain the income
surplus, said Jay Bryson, senior global economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina.  U.S. government payments to foreigners and other private
transfers abroad exceeded official inflows from overseas by $33.9
billion in the third quarter, compared with $33.2 billion in the
previous three months.  Rising Exports  Overseas demand helped manufacturers cope with the slowdown
in U.S. growth in the second quarter and is now being
complemented by rising consumer spending in the U.S. Retail sales
rose 0.8 percent in November after a 1.7 percent jump a month
earlier, the biggest back-to-back increase since February and
March.  St. Paul, Minnesota-based  3M Co ., the maker of Scotch tape
and films to brighten television screens, is expanding in
emerging markets, which make up one-third of its sales and may
climb to as much as 45 percent by 2015, according to company
estimates.  “These opportunities continue to grow,”  George W. Buckley ,
chief executive officer, said in a Dec. 7 conference call.
Overseas sales will benefit from “India and Latin America,
gathering momentum in sort of China-like style.”  The divergence between growth in overseas emerging markets
and the U.S. underscores the risk to the value of American
financial instruments.  Asset Demand  Global demand for U.S. assets slowed at the start of the
fourth quarter as investors sought to take advantage of gains in
faster-growing economies overseas. Net buying of long-term
equities, notes and bonds totaled $27.6 billion in October, down
from $77.2 billion in September, the Treasury Department said
yesterday. Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners purchased a net $7.5 billion compared with a net
buying of $80.1 billion the previous month.  Trade with China remains a sticking point for U.S. some
lawmakers, who have accused the Asian nation of keeping the value
of the yuan low to boost exports, and have pressed China to curb
its purchase of dollars and let its currency rise. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  met with China’s Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  on Dec. 14 and discussed the economic outlook, currency
issues and ways to lower trade barriers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  