-- Danisco Rises Most in Seven Months on Beating Estimates, Raising Forecasts
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-16T14:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/danisco-rises-most-in-seven-months-on-beating-estimates-raising-forecasts.html
Danisco A/S , the world’s largest
maker of food ingredients, rose the most in seven months in
Copenhagen trading after profit beat estimates and it raised
full-year forecasts, helped by its enzyme and sweeteners units.  The stock rose as much as 6.2 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since May 6. Net income in the three months through October
rose 59 percent to 369 million kroner ($65.6 million), the
Copenhagen-based company said today. That beat the average
estimate of 281 million kroner in a Bloomberg  survey  of eight
analysts.  Danisco’s Genencor unit, which contributes a third of its
sales, competes with market leader  Novozymes A/S  in providing
enzymes for products including biofuel and household detergents.
Danisco will invest in improving efficiency and gradually adding
capacity at Genencor’s factories in China, Finland and the U.S.
as they’re running close to their limits, Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Knutzen  said in a phone interview today.  “It’s impressive to see Genencor approaching the growth
and profitability levels of big brother Novozymes,”  Morten Imsgard , an analyst with Aabenraa, Denmark-based Sydbank A/S,
said by phone. “Genencor is narrowing the technological gap to
Novozymes after having invested in developing new products.”  Danisco lifted its full-year sales forecast to 15.3 billion
kroner from 15 billion kroner and raised its net income forecast
by 8.3 percent to 1.3 billion kroner.  Genencor Growth  Genencor’s earnings before interest and tax jumped 79
percent in the quarter to 254 million kroner, lifting its
adjusted Ebit margin to 18.4 percent, the highest since Danisco
started providing quarterly figures for the division in 2007.
The unit’s sales rose 20 percent, pacing an overall gain of 18
percent in Danisco’s  revenue .  Novozymes, based in Bagsvaerd, Denmark, recorded an Ebit
margin of 23.4 percent and sales growth of 19 percent in its
most recent quarter, the three months that ended Sept. 30.  Knutzen wouldn’t say if he thinks Danisco took market share
from Novozymes in the quarter. “But I’ll go on the record as
saying we definitely didn’t lose market share,” the CEO said.  Economies of Scale  “Even as Genencor is reaching economies of scale, the unit
will still lag Novozymes in profitability going forward as
there’s some distance in size from the market leader to the
runner-up,” said Sydbank’s Imsgard, who has an “overweight”
 rating  on Danisco shares.  Danisco fell  as much as  4.1 percent today prior to the
report. The shares added 25.9 kroner, or 5.4 percent, to 506.5
kroner as of 2:55 p.m. in the Danish capital.  Novozymes shares 
fell 1.4 percent to 764.5 kroner.  Danisco’s sweeteners unit recorded Ebit of 28 million
kroner in the quarter, a fourfold increase from a year earlier.
The company has cut jobs and written down the value of the unit
after it suffered from increased competition from China and a
decline in prices for the sweetener xylitol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 