-- DAX Benchmark Advances; Deutsche Boerse Shares Rise as Kloeckner Declines
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-16T17:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/dax-benchmark-fluctuates-deutsche-boerse-rises-kloeckner-shares-decline.html
German stocks ended a two-day loss
after better-than-expected U.S. economic data and as European
leaders started a two-day meeting aimed at dealing with the
sovereign debt crisis.  Deutsche Boerse AG led rising shares, adding 2.7 percent.
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG  retreated 2.8 percent as UBS AG
downgraded the stock.  Kloeckner & Co. SE  fell 3.5 percent as the
German metals trader said it will issue convertible bonds.  The  benchmark DAX Index  increased 0.1 percent to 7,024.40
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, having earlier dropped as
much as 0.4 percent. The gauge has climbed 18 percent this year
as corporate profits rose, the Federal Reserve unveiled a $600
billion bond purchase program to assist the U.S. economy’s
recovery and the European Union bailed out Greece and Ireland.
The broader HDAX Index also rose 0.1 percent, to 3,560.80.  “We’re waiting for the outcome of the European summit but
one day is too short to solve the problem,” said  Robert Halver ,
head of research at  Baader Bank AG  in Frankfurt. “Next year, we
will have to fix the problem. I am still confident about
economic growth.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  balked at boosting or
making more flexible use of the EU’s 750 billion-euro ($1
trillion) emergency fund, as EU leaders neared an accord on the
tool to contain future debt shocks.  Strife in Europe  Strife among Merkel, the European Central Bank, Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker and the German domestic
opposition intensified on the eve of the Brussels summit,
marring confidence in Europe’s handling of the fiscal woes that
forced Greece and Ireland to fall back on financial handouts.  In the U.S., reports showed that manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region expanded in December at the fastest pace
since April 2005, while the number of workers filing first-time
claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly declined last week
and builders began work on more homes in November for the first
time in three months.  Earlier today, Standard & Poor’s said that Germany’s
economic recovery will broaden next year as Europe’s largest
economy benefits from faster growth in consumer demand and
business investment.  Household spending will increase 2 percent in 2011,
compared with 0.5 percent this year, S&P Chief European
Economist  Jean-Michel Six  said in an e-mailed report. Business
investment growth will accelerate to 10.5 percent from 10
percent in 2010, he said.  Deutsche Boerse  Deutsche Boerse, the operator of the Frankfurt exchange
climbed 2.7 percent to 52.06 euros.  Metro AG , Germany’s largest
retailer, rallied 1.4 percent to 55.2 euros.  Salzgitter AG  lost 1.7 percent to 57.07 euros. Germany’s
second-biggest steelmaker said Wolfgang Leese has asked to step
down as chief executive officer earlier than originally planned.
Heinz Joerg Fuhrmann has been named as the company’s new CEO,
effective on Feb. 1, 2011.  Fraport AG  rallied 1.3 percent to 47.56 euros, the first
advance in three days. The operator of Frankfurt airport is
among the 2011 “best picks” for companies with a small or
medium size capitalization.  HeidelbergCement AG increased for a fourth day, rising 1.4
percent to 47.60 euros. AlphaValue, which set a price estimate
of 56.2 euros for the stock, reiterated a “buy” rating on the
cement maker.  Kabel Deutschland fell 2.8 percent to 36.85 euros, the
biggest decline since May, as UBS cut its recommendation on
Germany’s largest cable-television operator to “neutral” from
“buy.”  Kloeckner slid 3.5 percent to 20.57 euros as the company’s
board resolved to issue 185 million euros in unsubordinated,
unsecured convertible bonds to fund acquisitions and for general
corporate purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 