-- Defending Korea Line Seen Contrary to Law by Kissinger Remains U.S. Policy
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-12-17T10:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/defending-korea-line-seen-contrary-to-law-by-kissinger-remains-u-s-policy.html
The sea  border  that has become the
main battleground between North and South Korea 57 years after
it was imposed by a U.S. general has been called legally
indefensible by American officials for more than three decades.  Then-Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger  wrote in a 1975
classified  cable  that the unilaterally drawn Northern Limit Line
was “clearly contrary to international law.” Two years before,
the American ambassador said in another cable that many nations
would view South Korea and its U.S. ally as “ in the wrong ” if
clashes occurred in disputed areas along the boundary.  The  border  was drawn by Army General Mark Clark and his
aides in 1953 to stop South Korea from disrupting the fragile
 armistice  he oversaw at the end of the Korean War, according to
Narushige Michishita, an associate professor at the National
Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. Now, the U.S.
must stand by the line to contain North Korea, said  Michael J. Green , a security adviser to President  George W. Bush .  Moving the boundary further from North Korea’s coast would
make it easier for the regime “to smuggle out military
equipment and drugs, and smuggle in things that are part of
their  nuke program ,” said Green, who now heads the Japan
Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. “Nothing good comes from it.”  Green said the border was a “gray area” used to justify
confrontations such as last month’s shelling of South Korea’s
Yeonpyeong Island. The South is committed to defending the
boundary, and in November last year fired on North Korean ships
that crossed the line. South Korea blamed the North for
torpedoing one of its warships, the Cheonan, near the disputed
waters in March.  ‘Uncontrolled Escalation’  The standoff sets the stage for further clashes that might
draw the U.S., which is committed by treaty to defend the South.
The stakes have been raised as  Kim Jong Il ’s regime has tested
nuclear weapons and deployed hundreds of missiles and artillery
pieces within reach of Seoul.  North Korea today warned the South to cancel an artillery
drill on Yeonpyeong that may start as soon as tomorrow, and
said its retaliation will be “deadlier” than last time,
according to the official  Korean Central News Agency . North
Korea said it had urged South Korea before the Nov. 23 shelling
not to go ahead with drills.  South Korea’s military pledged on Dec. 9 to “totally
crush” the North in the event of a repeat of the barrage, which
killed four people. About 20 U.S. military personnel will take
part in the exercise, a South Korean Defense Ministry official
said, declining to be identified because of government policy.  “The situation is near a point where South Korea is going
to strike out at North Korea, where we could see an uncontrolled
escalation,” Army General  Burwell B. Bell III , commander of U.S.
forces in Korea from 2006 through 2008, said in an interview.  ‘Test Alliance’  Bell said North Korean leaders want a treaty guaranteeing
survival as an independent state and “will test the alliance
between South Korea and the U.S. whenever they need
concessions.” He agreed with Green that it wouldn’t be wise to
renegotiate the border “in the hopes that North Korea will
become benevolent.”  State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley referred questions
about the current American view of the line’s justification to
the U.S. military in South Korea. Colonel Jonathan Withington, a
spokesman for the U.S.-led  United Nations Command  in Seoul, said
the NLL should not be renegotiated.  ‘Military Control’  “The Northern Limit Line is a military control measure in
place to prevent armed conflict,” Withington, also a spokesman
for the  U.S. forces in South Korea , said in an e-mailed response
when asked about North Korean incursions. “Any hostile acts,
such as the North Korea sinking of the Cheonan and the attack on
Yeonpyeong Island, which are both south of the NLL, are clearly
serious violations of the armistice agreement.”  The line snakes around the Ongjin peninsula, creating a
buffer for five island groups that South Korea kept under the
armistice that ended the 1950-1953 Korean War, in which U.S.-led
forces fought under a UN mandate against North Korean and
Chinese troops. The agreement doesn’t mention a sea border,
which isn’t on UN maps drawn up at the time.  The 3-nautical mile (3.5-statute mile) territorial limit
used to devise the line was standard then. Today almost all
countries,  including  both Koreas, use a 12-mile rule, and the
islands are within 12 miles of the North Korean mainland. The
furthest is about 100 miles (160 kilometers) from the closest
major South Korean port at Incheon.  “If it ever went to arbitration, the decision would likely
move the line further south,” said Mark J. Valencia, a maritime
lawyer and senior research fellow with the National Bureau of
Asian Research, who has written extensively on the dispute.  ‘Lighted Fuse’  In June 1953, a month before the war ended, South Korean
President Syngman Rhee -- described by Clark in his 1954 memoir
“ From the Danube to the Yalu ” as “a lighted fuse sputtering
towards the powder barrel” -- said he wouldn’t cooperate with a
truce, Central Intelligence Agency memos  show . While the South
wanted to fight on, Clark was under orders to find what
President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  called an “honorable peace” as
support for the war at home faded.  “There was concern over President Rhee and what he might
do,” said  Larry Niksch , a former Asian affairs specialist at
the U.S. Congress’s research arm. “There was a lot of concern
he might try to open hostilities again.”  So Clark and his aides drew the line to restrain Rhee and
prevent clashes, said Michishita, author of the 2010  book 
“North Korea’s Military-Diplomatic Campaigns, 1966-2008.”
“North Korea was not notified of the line,” he said.  Tested Border  North Korea, after spending two decades rebuilding its
forces, sent vessels across the border 43 times between October
and November 1973, sparking confrontations, according to the
South Korean Navy’s  website . At a meeting with the UN Command,
the North’s claim that it was operating within its own waters
because the NLL was invalid was rejected.  Kissinger and other U.S. diplomats privately raised
questions about the legality of the sea border and South Korea’s
policing of it in cables that have been declassified and are
available to the  public .  “The ROK and the U.S. might appear in the eyes of a
significant number of other countries to be in the wrong” if an
incident occurred in disputed areas, U.S. Ambassador Francis
Underhill wrote in a Dec. 18, 1973,  cable  to Washington, using
the acronym for Republic of Korea.  South Korea “is wrong in assuming we will join in attempt
to impose NLL” on North Korea,  said  a Dec. 22, 1973, “Joint
State-Defense Message” to the U.S. Embassy in Seoul.  ‘Unilaterally Established’  The line “was unilaterally established and not accepted by
NK,” Kissinger wrote in a confidential February 1975 cable.
“Insofar as it purports unilaterally to divide international
waters, it is clearly contrary to international law.”  Kissinger’s office did not respond to an e-mail and phone
call seeking comment.  In the most recent confrontation, North Korea justified its
Nov. 23 artillery bombardment as retaliation for South Korea
firing shells into sea that the North claims as its own.  “Yeonpyeong is located deep inside the territorial
waters” of North Korea, KCNA said in a Nov. 24 dispatch.  Two days later, President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. stood
“shoulder to shoulder” with the South and condemned the
“unprovoked” attack. The U.S. has about 28,500 troops in South
Korea, which is still technically at war with the North.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said last week the
islands will be turned into fortresses and reversed predecessor
Roh Moo Hyun’s plan to reduce troop numbers there.  “South of the NLL is water under our jurisdiction,” Kim
Min Seok, a  Ministry of National Defense  spokesman in Seoul,
said last week. A 2009 statement on the ministry website says
the line “is the practical maritime border that our military
has protected for years. We will protect it without fail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  