-- Delta Boosts First-Class Seats 13% for Business Fliers
-- B y   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-12-16T21:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/delta-plans-to-boost-first-class-seating-by-13-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc . plans to
increase first-class seating on its domestic fleet by 13 percent
within three years to help win more of the business travelers
who pay the highest fares.  The changes, to be finished by mid-2013, will add more than
1,200 new seats in response to customers’ interest in larger
premium cabins, Delta said today in a statement. The Atlanta-
based airline is shrinking galley space to make room.  “You put the investment where the returns are, and they’ve
been successful in building demand for their business-class
product at premium prices,” said  Robert W. Mann , owner of
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New York.  Filling the most-expensive seats at the front of airplane
cabins has been pivotal to U.S. airlines’ efforts to return to
profit in 2010 while business travel rebounds following the
recession. Corporate customers are prized because they typically
pay the highest prices and take to the air more often.  “The ratio of a business-class fare to the average economy
fare is probably 6- or 7-to-1,” Mann said in a telephone
interview.  A round-trip first-class ticket for a flight departing
tomorrow from New York’s Kennedy airport to Los Angeles would be
$3,370, according to Delta’s website, and the cheapest coach
fare would be $498.  Seats, Facilities  Delta’s move is part of $2 billion in previously announced
spending that includes installing lie-flat seats for overseas
flights and overhauling facilities such as a terminal at Kennedy
airport. First-class capacity is already the most among U.S.
carriers, Delta said.  The latest upgrades will put two to six new first-class
seats on  Boeing Co.  MD-88, MD-90 and 767-300 jets during 2011,
and four first-class seats will be added to Boeing 757-200s by
June 2013. Delta said it finished installing nine first-class
seats earlier this year on some  Bombardier Inc . CRJ-700 regional
jets. With those planes, the changes cover 350 aircraft.  New seats will be “a significant advantage for our
business customers,” Executive Vice President  Glen Hauenstein 
said in the statement.  Economy seating also will increase, and legroom in first-
and coach-class cabins will remain unchanged, according to
Delta, the world’s second-largest carrier behind  United
Continental Holdings Inc.   Delta  declined 7 cents to $12.57 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 10
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  