-- Deutsche Telekom Extends CEO’s Contract Until 2016
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-12-16T16:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/deutsche-telekom-extends-ceo-rene-obermann-s-contract-until-october-2016.html
Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s
largest telephone company, extended Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann’s  contract by five years so he can see through a growth
program that runs until 2015.  “We will use high-speed networks and innovative products
to tap new growth areas for the group, offsetting the decline in
the tightly regulated areas,” Obermann said in a statement
today. “The next few years are all about pushing ahead with the
transformation of Deutsche Telekom.”  Obermann’s contract was extended today by the supervisory
board until the end of October 2016. The CEO, 47, said in March
that the  sales mix  will change “significantly” in the years to
2015. The company aims to make money from increasing data
traffic on smartphones and other devices that can surf the Web,
to make up for a decline in sales from fixed line services.  The company’s  “Strategy 2.0”  plan calls for businesses
that in 2009 accounted for less than a quarter of sales to
contribute nearly half of revenue by 2015.  “This is clearly a vote of confidence,”  Heike Pauls , a
Commerzbank AG analyst, said via phone. “It’s good that they
ensure continuity in management in light of their longer-term
targets, which by the way I think are quite ambitious. I’m
rather skeptical that they can reach them.”  Since Obermann was appointed CEO on Nov. 13, 2006, Deutsche
Telekom shares have lost 27 percent. Germany’s benchmark DAX
index rose 10 percent in the same period. Today, the stock rose
0.2 percent to 9.84 euros in Frankfurt trading.  U.S. Subsidies  Obermann “combines an understanding of the market with
determination and the will to strike a balance between different
interests,” Deutsche Telekom supervisory board Chairman  Ulrich Lehner  said in today’s statement.  Deutsche Telekom said last month that third-quarter
operating profit and sales dropped as the company had higher
costs to win U.S. clients.  Obermann has increased subsidies for mobile phones in the
U.S. to lure customers from rival networks. The T-Mobile USA
unit was late in offering smartphones and in rolling out a
faster network, losing customers to Verizon Wireless and AT&T
Inc., which offers Apple’s iPhone.  In Germany, Deutsche Telekom has offered Apple Inc.’s
iPhone to attract customers. The company was the sole operator
for the iPhone in Germany until local rivals started selling the
device.  Obermann’s new contract is subject to new regulations on
management board remuneration that were approved at the
shareholders meeting in May 2010, the company said.  Investigation  The Bonn prosecutor’s office said today it has so far found
nothing incriminating against Obermann in an investigation into
alleged bribery in Hungary and Macedonia. The prosecutors
declined to comment on a report by Rheinische Post that the
probe will be closed soon.  The case, which is also being investigated by U.S.
securities regulators and the U.S. Department of Justice,
concerns Deutsche Telekom units in Hungary and Macedonia. The
prosecutors are investigating whether bribes were used to
prevent Macedonia from opening the nation’s telecommunications
to competition and raided the private homes of Obermann and
other people in late August.  There are claims Obermann told the CEO of the Makedonski
Telekom unit he would only approve dividend payments if the
nation’s telecom market remained closed,  Manfred Balz , Deutsche
Telekom’s management board member for legal affairs, told
reporters in September.  Balz said at the time that the allegations against Obermann
are false and that he expected the probe against him to be
closed “swiftly.”  Obermann is one of eight suspects in the investigation.
Deutsche Telekom spokesman  Mark Nierwetberg  declined to comment
on the probe via phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Ragnhild Kjetland  in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  