-- Dollar Falls as European Leaders Discuss Solving the Region's Debt Crisis
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-16T22:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/dollar-falls-after-u-s-housing-starts-jobless-data-show-slow-u-s-growth.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts as European Union leaders met for a two-day
summit in Brussels amid divisions about broader steps to address
the region’s debt crisis.  The U.S. currency dropped against the euro as EU leaders
agreed to create a permanent crisis-management mechanism that
takes effect in 2013. The greenback fell against the yen as
Treasuries yields dropped the most in a month, damping demand
for U.S. assets.  “The dollar selloff comes in conjunction with a drop in
U.S. Treasury yields,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “It was
a grinding away from long dollar positions.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.3244 at 5:06 p.m. in New
York, from $1.3214 yesterday. The dollar weakened 0.4 percent to
83.91 yen from 84.24 yen. The euro slipped 0.2 percent to 111.16
yen.  The 10-year Treasury note yield slid as much as 11 basis
points to 3.42 percent in the biggest intraday drop since Nov.
16. The yield earlier touched 3.56 percent, the highest level
since May 13 after reports signal stronger U.S. economic growth.  EU Summit  European Union divisions widened about how to prevent
sovereign debt problems from engulfing Portugal and Spain.
Germany, the biggest contributor to Europe’s bailouts of Greece
and Ireland, pushed through an accord to set up a system that
would allow financial aid “if indispensable to safeguard” the
euro area and might force bondholders to bear some of the costs
of future rescues.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  balked at boosting or
making more flexible use of the EU’s 750 billion-euro ($1
trillion) emergency fund, as leaders neared an accord on the
tool to contain future debt shocks and the European Central Bank
armed itself with more capital.  “Based on the statements that have been made, the more
radical changes will not be discussed, such as the euro-bond
proposal,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York. “It is clear that not everyone is on
board for big changes.”  Moody’s Investors Service placed Greece’s Ba1 local and
foreign currency government bond ratings on review for possible
downgrade.  The International Monetary Fund today approved a three-
year, 22.5 billion-euro ($29.8 billion) loan facility for
Ireland, the Washington-based fund said in a statement.  Crisis Timeline  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after a new government in Greece said the budget deficit was
twice as big as the previous administration disclosed. The
region’s nations assembled a rescue fund in May, which Greece
and Ireland have tapped.  The Frankfurt-based European Central Bank will boost its
capital by 5 billion euros to 10.76 billion euros, starting Dec.
29, it said in a statement today.  “The capital increase was deemed appropriate in view of
increased volatility in foreign exchange rates, interest rates
and gold prices as well as credit risk,” the ECB said.  “Imagine the ECB as a private sector fund and how much
capital they have versus how many assets,” said  Marc Chandler ,
global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “Most hedge funds are not leveraged more than
10 to 1 and their leverage is now 160 times.”  Regional Growth  The Philadelphia Fed reported its general economic index, a
gauge of regional manufacturing, increased to 24.3 this month,
from 22.5 in November. The median forecast of 59 economists was
for a drop to 15. A reading greater than zero signals expansion
in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware.  First-time claims for unemployment insurance fell to
420,000 during the week ended Dec. 11, from a revised 423,000 in
the prior period, the Labor Department reported. Housing starts
advanced 3.9 percent to a 555,000 annual rate in November after
a drop of 11.1 percent in the prior month and a decrease of 2.1
percent in September, the Commerce Department reported.  “The Philly Fed was stronger than the market expected,”
said  Amelia Bourdeau , a currency strategist in Stamford,
Connecticut, at UBS AG. “The prices-paid component jumped,
meaning higher inflation.”  Brazil Taxes  Brazil will cut taxes and provide incentives to stimulate
the domestic corporate debt market and supply longer-term credit
for infrastructure investments needed to host the 2014 World Cup
and 2016 Olympics. The tax on foreign capital inflows will be
reduced to 2 percent from 6 percent for foreign-based private
equity investors who want to finance Brazil’s infrastructure
drive.  Brazil’s currency rose against most of its most traded
counterparts and strengthened as much as 0.5 percent to 1.7109
per dollar.  The New Zealand dollar touched a 10-year low against its
Australian counterpart. The kiwi dropped for a seventh day
against the Aussie, the longest losing streak in 18 months,
after industry reports showed the confidence of consumers and
businesses in the smaller nation waned.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to NZ$1.3388 versus
Australia’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  