-- DIC Said to Agree With Creditors on Restructuring $2.6 Billion of Debt
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-12-16T14:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/dubai-dic-said-to-agree-new-debt-terms-on-2-6-billion-debt-replaces-ceo.html
Dubai International Capital LLC, an
investment company owned by the emirate’s ruler, reached an
agreement with its main creditors on altering the terms on $2.6
billion of debt, a person familiar with the matter said.  Lenders will get 2 percent interest on the loans while
extending maturities to six years under the new terms agreed
with a group of seven banks negotiating the deal, two people
familiar with the matter said, declining to be identified
because the talks are private. Dubai International’s Chief
Executive Officer  Anand Krishnan  will also be replaced by Chief
Investment Officer  David Smoot , the people said.  Dubai International “continues to make significant progress
in its discussion with lenders regarding the restructuring of
its liabilities and looks forward to updating the market
shortly,” a company spokeswoman said in an e-mail today.  Dubai International, owned by the ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum , holds stakes in companies including U.K.-
based medical imaging company Alliance Medical Ltd., budget
chain Travelodge Hotels Ltd. and industrial packaging company
Mauser AG. Dubai International sought a two-month extension, the
third such delay, on a $1.25 billion loan maturing in November
to enable it to agree on new terms with its 26 lenders, two
people with knowledge of the discussions said Nov. 29.  A group of banks led by  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Emirates NBD
PJSC  is negotiating with Dubai International on behalf of the
lenders. The other members of the group are Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Mashreqbank PSC  and Noor Islamic Bank PJSC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  