-- Nothing Dull With Normal That Wasn't in 2010: Josh Tyrangiel
-- B y   J o s h   T y r a n g i e l
-- 2010-12-16T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/dull-is-the-last-thing-you-would-call-2010-commentary-by-josh-tyrangiel.html
“Dull year for the industry.”  There you have it, the most interesting sentence in the
American Federation of Labor’s roundup of 1910. Even those who
fetishize stability would concede that it’s a death march of a
volume, a 420-page trade-by-trade  chronicle  of a year in which
little seems to have happened.  At least the authors of the five-word summary above --
members of the AFL’s knife-sharpening union -- could say they
spent 1910 crafting a decent pun.  A century later the idea of a dull work-year is quaint
verging on incomprehensible.  Global trade connects the fate of every industry and
laborer, no matter how small or seemingly self-sufficient, to
the decisions of bureaucrats in China, shipbuilders in Korea,
and bankers everywhere. It’s hard to have a quiet year in the
shop when the shop has no borders.  Even the structure of a year seems enlarged and more
complex. The depth of our interconnectedness, the constancy of
media, means that themes and moods tend to hang around past
their season.  By the admittedly squishy metrics of pessimism and
disruption, 2010 feels as if it started a long time ago.  Maybe that’s because we’re still breathing the fumes
of 2008. Lehman Brothers’ collapse 27 months ago brought on more
than just a teetering economy: It created a cloud that has
settled over many Western economies and, in 2010, wrought a kind
of seasonal affective disorder on their citizens.  Fact Disconnect  In a Bloomberg poll conducted in October, two out of three
likely voters in the Nov. 2 midterms said that taxes had gone
up, the economy had shrunk, and the billions lent to banks as
part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program would never be
recovered. A September poll showed that 77 percent of global
investors expected the European monetary union would crumble and
at least one struggling government would default, all despite a
$1 trillion euro zone backstop.  What’s revealing about these responses is the chasm
between feelings and facts.  Congress and the Obama Administration have cut taxes by
$240 billion since 2009. Growth continued without interruption
in 2010 in the U.S. and most major economies. The Treasury
expects to turn a $16 billion profit on the TARP rescue. Greece
and Ireland may have stared into the white light of fiscal
death, but they were yanked back to earth by their neighbors and
are now trying to rehabilitate (with wounded fury, but -- so far
at least -- without default).  By the end of the third quarter, U.S. nonfinancial
corporations were sitting on a record $436 billion in cash.
Through Dec. 14, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  was up
11 percent for the year. And Wall Street was racking up its
fourth-largest profit ever, a projected $19 billion for the
year, according to the New York State Comptroller’s office.  Jobs, Houses  So if things aren’t nearly as bad as they seem, why do
they seem so bad? Jobs and houses have a lot to do with it.  In the U.S., 17 percent of the workforce either couldn’t
find employment or was surviving on part-time jobs. Their
collective frustration and scrimping are contagious. Despite
interest rates so low they would shock previous generations, the
 housing market  has all the bustle of a Pompeii bazaar; there
were 202,000 new homes on the market at the end of October, the
fewest since June 1968.  Mix in an unrelenting  foreclosure  crisis, in which the
centuries-old concept of title was thrown into doubt by faulty
record-keeping, and it’s easy to understand why so many people
feel like they’ve lost a degree of control over their lives:
They have.  How Quaint  The notion that trusted institutions can restore our sense
of security is as quaint as that 1910 yearbook. Governments
can’t stop leaks -- of oil or information -- let alone regulate
behavior. Passage of the Dodd-Frank financial bill in July may
have constrained investment banks by putting limits on
proprietary trading, but as  Michael Lewis  wrote for this news
service: “What’s really striking is how little ability the
outside world retains to find out what is going on inside these
places -- even after we have learned that what we don’t know
about them can kill us.”  The Tea Party, which resists meaning as ferociously as it
resists  Ben Bernanke , makes sense when seen as an exercise in
fist-shaking. Two years after hope and change, it fumed at such
economic abstractions as quantitative easing and bending the
curve and asked a simple question: Why can’t we have our country
back?  Long Gone  Here’s the thing: That America has been gone for years.
Cheap labor and plentiful resources combined with ease of travel
and communication have given emerging markets more than just a
place at the table.  In 2010, the U.S. added 937,000 jobs; Foxconn, the Taiwan-
based maker of nearly every consumer electronic product you’ve
ever wanted, added 300,000.  Fueled by gold, copper and coal, the most robust currency
of the year against the dollar was the Mongolian tugrik.  In India, competition for deals has become so intense that
billionaire  Ravi Ruia  is branching out to Africa -- buying coal
mines in Mozambique and part of a Kenyan oil refinery.  Competition is one of the pleasures of business and one of
the foundations of America. That right hasn’t been rescinded --
it’s been extended to people around the world. In a way, we’ve
won. Now the game starts again.  Capitalism lives off of change. The new challenge is to
shake off the trauma of a decade that started with the ultimate
loss of control and get to work on winning the new century.  From Here to Infinity  There’s a lesson to be found in the two most-talked-about
companies of the year.  On May 26, Apple blew past Microsoft to become the second-
most-valuable company in the world (it’s currently No. 3)
largely by selling beautiful devices that let you control a
universe with a swipe.  Google, which began the decade offering a pathway to
infinity, now fights to keep its employees from defecting to
Facebook, which chops infinity into an endless series of cul-de-
sacs. Apple and Facebook figured out something about the
consumer psyche -- then they innovated to fill the need with
astonishing results.  Bloomberg Businessweek’s year-end issue published this week
takes some inspiration from that approach.  It tries to take all the contradictions and complexity of
2010 and make sense of them. Grouping the year into chapters
entitled Normal, Jobs, Spills, Stuck, Currency, and Gaga, we try
to show all the ways in which diverse stories link up, sometimes
in linear fashion, sometimes with unexpected leaps -- such as
the price of gasoline, measured in bacon.  Like 2010, the magazine we think is full of surprises. One
thing’s for sure: It ain’t dull.  ( Josh Tyrangiel  is editor of Bloomberg Businessweek. A
version of this column appears in the Dec. 20 issue available on
newsstands today. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Tyrangiel at   jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  