-- LME Copper Stockpiles to Climb on China Re-Routing, Sucden's Goldwyn Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-12-16T06:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/lme-copper-stockpiles-to-climb-on-china-re-routing-sucden-s-goldwyn-says.html
Copper  stockpiles in London Metal
Exchange warehouses may gain as traders in China re-route metal
previously intended for imports because of ample local supplies
and slow seasonal demand, according to Sucden Financial Ltd.  “The re-routing will probably continue until Chinese New
Year,” said  Jeremy Goldwyn , who oversees business development
in Asia for London-based Sucden and has been in the metals
business for more than 20 years. The week-long Chinese holiday,
when many plants suspend output, runs from Feb. 2.  Inventories of copper tallied by the London Metal Exchange
rose for a third day yesterday by 7,050 metric tons, the largest
single-day tonnage increase since January, to 357,950 tons,
according to exchange data. Of that amount, 84 percent entered
LME warehouses in South Korea, the location nearest to China.  Copper prices in London, the global benchmark, are in so-
called backwardation, where near-term supplies cost more than
longer-dated contracts, a pattern that suggests short-term
scarcity. In China, by contrast, prices of the metal in world’s
biggest user cost more in the future that the spot market.  It makes sense for domestic traders to re-route cargoes of
“the metal to LME warehouses since there appears to be demand
elsewhere,” Ni Yaoxiang, chief analyst at Sinolink Futures Co.,
said from Shanghai. The London market “is pricing in a
shortage,” Ni said.  London Surge  Three-month copper in London advanced 8.1 percent this
month, compared with a 7.3 percent increase in corresponding
Shanghai futures, which include 17 percent value-added tax and
import fees. LME copper dropped 0.7 percent to $9,035 a ton at
11:35 a.m. Singapore time, and Shanghai copper declined 1
percent to 67,230 yuan ($10,092) a ton.  The re-routing away from China was possible “especially if
LME copper is in backwardation,” Goldwyn said from Shenzhen,
Guangdong. Cash copper on the LME traded at a $45 premium to
three-month futures yesterday, compared with a discount of more
than $38 in March. The market has been backwardated since Nov. 8.  Copper inventories  in Shanghai Futures Exchange warehouses
have risen 33 percent from a 13-month low at the end of
September to 115,964 tons last week. Stockpiles in Shanghai
bonded warehouses, where traders store shipments before duties
are paid, are about three times that level, said Goldwyn.  “You lose money bringing in copper now given the slow
seasonal consumption period in China and the negative
arbitrage,” said  Zhao Kai , an analyst at Jinrui Futures Co.
Arbitrage traders try to profit by buying assets in one market
and selling them in another, exploiting differences in prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  