-- Tea Party's Love for Constitution May Kill It: Michael Waldman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 2010-12-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/tea-party-love-of-constitution-may-kill-it-commentary-by-michael-waldman.html
These days, conservatives proudly
proclaim their love for the  Constitution . Yet many seem unsure
whether to revere it or repeal it, plank by plank.  Such constitutional nihilism extends well beyond the drive
to strike down the U.S. health-care law, a jarring move by those
long opposed to judicial activism. It reflects a deep discomfort
with the country’s growth toward a thriving, coast-to-coast
democracy.  To be sure, these activists insist they only want to show
they revere our founding document. Earlier in the year, 80
groups issued the “ Mount Vernon Statement .”  “The federal government today ignores the limits of the
Constitution, which is increasingly dismissed as obsolete and
irrelevant,” it said.  Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Republican from
Minnesota and head of the Tea Party caucus in Congress, recently
said she would start another caucus, for “Constitutional
Conservatives.” One expects them to show up on C-SPAN in
powdered wigs.  But as for the actual Constitution, as we have lived it for
two centuries, some are itching to pull out their quill pens and
start furiously crossing things out.  Some advocates want to rewrite the 14th Amendment, a
landmark of the Constitution -- indeed, of human freedom. The
 amendment  guaranteed equal protection of the law and due process
to former slaves. Under its provisions, if you were born in the
U.S. you had the rights of a citizen. The amendment was enacted
by the Radical Republicans, which meant something very different
back in 1868.  Punishing Children  Now Senators  John Kyl  and  Lindsey Graham  have suggested
rewriting this core part of the national charter. Children born
here are not in fact citizens, they argue, if their parents
crossed the U.S. border illegally.  In addition to punishing innocents for what their parents
have done, this would rewrite a central provision of the
Constitution for the sake of a temporary solution to a barely
existent problem. To punish a few “anchor babies,” they would
redo the handiwork of the great Civil War amendments.  Other conservatives decry the 16th Amendment, which
authorized the income tax. Until  Glenn Beck  floated the idea of
its repeal last year, it was known mostly to high school
students studying for an SAT subject test.  After a Gilded Age Supreme Court declared it
unconstitutional to tax income from property and other sources,
it proved necessary to enact a constitutional change to fund the
federal government. This was a breakthrough in the drive for a
strong country. As Supreme Court Justice  Oliver Wendell Holmes 
said at the time, “Taxes are the price we pay for
civilization.”  Attacking 17th Amendment  Most baffling of all, many Tea Party backers want to
overturn the 17th Amendment, which created direct public
election of U.S. Senators in 1912. This was a key political
reform of the Progressive Era, and a major step forward for
democracy.  For the country’s first century, state legislatures chose
senators. The process grew deeply corrupt. By the late-19th
century, lawmakers were notoriously, flagrantly for sale. It was
said that  John D. Rockefeller ’s Standard Oil Co. did everything
to the Pennsylvania legislature but refine it. Turn-of-the-
century state officials routinely picked senators who were
little more than front men for newly flush corporations.  Those who want to end direct election of senators say the
step would return power to the states. Certainly, it would give
state legislators more power -- and the lobbyists and party
bosses who make governing such a treat in so many capitols. The
thought of Albany or Sacramento choosing senators doesn’t
exactly inspire confidence. Lobbyist power would make us pine
for the good old days of earmarks.  Rights Giveback  More fundamental, why would voters want to give away the
power to choose their own representatives? The original Tea
Party called for “no taxation without representation.” This
Tea Party seems to pine for “taxation with no representation.”  As they target past amendments, self-designated
constitutional conservatives have one of their own.
Representative  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican in line to
become House majority leader next month, is among the backers of
a so-called Repeal Amendment, which would give two-thirds of the
states the power to nullify federal laws.  As legal journalists Dahlia Lithwick and Jeff Shesol wrote
Dec. 3 in  Slate , “American history reveals precisely what
happens when state or regional interests are allowed to trump
national ones,” noting that this would threaten civil rights
and environmental laws, as well as moves that benefit one region
(such as repairing New Orleans after Katrina).  Back in Time  This amendment, if passed, would mark the dismantling of
the strong national government that has helped make the U.S. the
most powerful nation in world history. It would turn back the
clock not to before the New Deal, but to before the Civil War.  Strikingly, these constitutional forays would repeal some
of the greatest advances in democracy. A movement born as a
populist squall seems oddly uncomfortable with the very
mechanisms that give ordinary citizens the loudest voice.  It is genuinely heartening that people care about the
Constitution. The rhetoric, at least, denotes a craving for a
meaningful national identity, a yearning for core values that we
should all applaud. But may I suggest to our overheated fellow
Americans: Don’t stop at reading the Constitution. Try the
 Declaration of Independence  too: “All men are created equal.”  ( Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President
Bill Clinton, is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at New York University School of Law and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman.comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  