-- ECB Boosts Capital Base by $6.6 Billion to Protect It From Losses on Bonds
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-12-16T14:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ecb-boosts-capital-base-by-6-6-billion-to-protect-it-from-losses-on-bonds.html
The European Central Bank will
almost double its capital base to help protect it from losses as
the institution buys bonds of governments from  Portugal  to
 Ireland  to fight the sovereign-debt crisis.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will boost its capital by
5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) to 10.76 billion euros, it said
in a statement today. The change will take effect from Dec. 29.  The capital increase suggests the ECB is concerned that its
program to buy bonds of strained governments, which now totals
72 billion euros, may saddle its balance sheet with losses.
Policy makers have increased pressure on governments to do more
to end Europe’s debt crisis on concern the ECB is shouldering
too much of the burden.  “It’s clearly recognition that the ECB is getting
concerned,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. Still, “it’s a small amount and
clearly not enough to offset the risk the central bank has taken
on its balance sheet,”  The euro was little changed after the announcement and
traded at $1.3241 as of 2:34 p.m. in London.  The money will come predominantly from the 16 national
central banks which use the euro, and will be transferred in
three equal annual tranches, the ECB said. The series of
transactions will be completed by the end of 2012.  ‘Increased Volatility’  “The capital increase was deemed appropriate in view of
increased volatility in foreign-exchange rates, interest rates
and gold prices as well as credit risk,” the ECB said. The
increase “is also motivated by the need to provide an adequate
capital base in a financial system that has grown
considerably.”  The bond purchases could exceed the ECB’s level of reserves
by the end of this year and a capital increase is “hardly
surprising,”  David Owen , chief economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to investors
yesterday. He said there is a risk the central bank may post a
small loss this year, compared with a profit of 2.3 billion
euros in 2009 and 1.8 billion euros the previous year.  Non-euro-area central banks will have to make “only minor
adjustments” to their capital shares, the ECB said. The bank
reduced the percentage of capital which central banks outside
the currency region are required to pay as a contribution to ECB
operating costs from 7 percent to 3.75 percent.  ECB Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  raised the issue
of capital increases for national central banks last week.  “We are clearly seeing that risks are increasing in the
system for European central banks because we are having to take
on a whole range of extra risks,” Nowotny, who is also governor
of Austria’s central bank, said on Dec. 10. “So in the whole
European system we’ll have to get a better capital base for
central banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  