-- Egypt's Central Bank Keeps Rates Unchanged at Lowest Levels in Four Years
-- B y   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-12-16T17:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/egypt-central-bank-keeps-interest-rates-unchanged-as-key-inflation-slows.html
Egypt’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rates unchanged at a four-year low as
headline inflation in the most populous Arab country slowed.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the overnight deposit
rate at 8.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at 9.75
percent, the Cairo-based central bank said in a statement on its
 website  today.  Headline inflation in urban areas, the rate that the
central bank monitors, eased to 10.2 percent in November from 11
percent in the previous month. Core  inflation , which excludes
the prices of fruits and vegetables as well as regulated prices,
accelerated to 8.58 percent from 7.75 percent over the same
period last year as the costs of items such as rice, sugar and
poultry increased.  “Despite sporadic increases in non-food prices, underlying
inflation pressures arising from the ongoing economic recovery
remain contained,” the central bank said in a second statement
on its website today.  Economists at Beltone and investment banks  EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE , CI Capital and Pharos Holding predicted the central
bank’s decision.  The  central bank  has kept its benchmark interest rates on
hold since November 2009 after lowering them six times in a row
to support economic growth in the face of the global financial
crisis. In its Nov. 4 statement, it noted that uncertainty about
the recovery of the global economy may weigh on domestic
investment and external demand.  Economic growth accelerated to 5.6 percent in the third
quarter from 5.4 percent in the previous three months. The
government said it expects an expansion of more than 6 percent
in the fiscal year through June, compared with 5.1 percent in
the previous 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Beirut via the Cairo newsroom at   asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 