-- Greenlight's Einhorn Says St. Joe Acquisition Would Be `Very Tough' to Do
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2010-12-16T16:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/einhorn-says-st-joe-buyout-would-be-very-tough-update1-.html
A takeover of  St. Joe Co. , the
largest private landholder in northern Florida, is unlikely
because the company’s financial condition would make financing a
leveraged acquisition “very tough,” said hedge fund manager
 David Einhorn , who is short the shares.  Einhorn responded on Bloomberg Television to speculation
that holders of the Watersound, Florida-based company may be
discussing a buyout. The president of Greenlight Capital Inc.
also said there are still bargains in the U.S. stock market and
that European authorities risk credibility with too many
government bailouts.  St. Joe shares  tumbled  as much as 30 percent since Einhorn
said Oct. 13 that the company sold its best properties and was
spending too much money on residential development while
generating almost no sales. Einhorn, best known for betting
against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., said that while he hasn’t
spoken to the company’s biggest shareholder,  Bruce Berkowitz  of
Fairholme Capital Management, a takeover wouldn’t make sense.  “This will be a hard thing to take private on a reasonable
basis because there’s no cash flow,” Einhorn said in an
interview today with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television. “The
company has negative profits with no means of generating ongoing
cash to service debt. There is not a lot of bank lending to
develop the land that St. Joe has in its cycle.”  No Comment  James McCusker, who represents St. Joe at public relations
firm ICR Inc., said in an e-mail that the company declined to
discuss Einhorn’s remarks, saying "it’s their policy not to
comment on rumors."  The stock has risen 15 percent over the last three days,
climbing to $20.13 as of 10:41 a.m. in New York, from its Dec.
13 close of $17.57.  James McCusker , a spokesman for St. Joe,
wasn’t available to comment. New York Stock Exchange spokesman
 Christiaan Brakman  sent an e-mail saying that in response to an
inquiry from the NYSE, the exchange on which the stock is
listed, St. Joe “stated that its policy is not to comment on
unusual market activity or rumors.”  On Nov. 2, St. Joe reported a third-quarter loss of $13.1
million, or 14 cents a share, compared with a loss of $14.4
million, or 16 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 35
percent to $27.1 million. Florida ranks No. 3 in the nation for
foreclosure filings, behind Nevada and Arizona, said RealtyTrac
Inc., an Irvine, California-based real estate data seller.  Apple  The hedge fund manager also spoke about investment
opportunities, including  Apple Inc. , the maker of iPads and
iPods. Cupertino, California-based Apple trades at a valuation
that is comparable to the market average when adjusted for the
company’s cash holdings, a price that would prevent it from
falling if one of its products didn’t sell, said Einhorn.  “Ordinarily when you have a brand of this quality with a
product this quality and enthusiasm, usually your choice is, do
you pay 60 times earnings, 80 times earnings?” Einhorn, who
bought the shares about six months ago for around $240 said in
an interview today with Betty Liu on Bloomberg’s “In the
Loop.” With Apple, “Even now, when you net out the cash, you
are paying a market multiple for obviously what is one of the
better growth brand opportunities.”  Apple stock trades at 15.7 times its cash flow, about half
its valuation three years ago. Chief Executive Officer Steve
Jobs said in October that the company plans to hold on to money
for “strategic opportunities” rather than using it on a stock
buyback or dividend. Apple has $25.6 billion in cash and short-
term investments. Including longer-term holdings, the company
has about $51 billion.  European Equities  Einhorn also said he has a “fair number” of European
equities and added that he hedged for currency fluctuations,
owning the shares effectively in dollars.  He said banks and governments that are on the verge of
insolvency in Europe are being treated too generously. EU
leaders begin a two-day summit in Brussels today to agree on a
crisis-management mechanism that takes effect in 2013. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index has gained 5.5 percent since a $113 billion
bailout package was approved for Ireland.  “One of the lessons of the authorities that they seem to
have drawn from the Lehman failure is not to allow anything that
is very big to fail, and that includes European governments,”
he said. “You have entities that look like they are insolvent,
look like they would default, and the authorities have decided
nothing is allowed to fail.”  European Union government debt reached 77.5 percent of GDP
this year from 58.5 percent in 2007, according to data from the
IMF. The ratio will reach 82 percent in 2012, data from the
International Monetary Fund show.  “What is interesting is if people realize they will be
bailed out no matter what because the system is not going to
allow it, they have no incentive to make concessions,” Einhorn
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 