-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop for Second Day as Banks Slide, Crude Oil Falls
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-16T14:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/emerging-market-stocks-decline-on-concern-inflation-to-spur-rate-increases.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for
a second day as banks dropped amid concern loan growth will slow
and as falling oil prices dragged down energy producers.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  retreated 0.5 percent to
1,115.17 at 8:13 a.m. in New York. Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite
Index sank the most among 21 major emerging markets, falling 2.4
percent. Russia’s ruble weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar,
the first drop in four days.  Indonesian bank shares including PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia
sank as a central bank deputy governor said loan growth will
probably hit the lower end of its 2010 target.  Bank of China
Ltd.  sank in Hong Kong trading as the Oriental Morning Post said
regulators in Shanghai ordered halts on lending to companies for
purchases of fixed assets. Policy makers are under pressure to
slow lending after inflation in Indonesia and China topped
economists’ estimates last month.  “Inflation is going to remain as the dominant theme for
the first half of the year” in 2011,  Peter Redward , head of
emerging-Asia research at Barclays Plc in Singapore, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  The MSCI emerging-market index has retreated 3.5 percent
from its 2010 high on Nov. 5 amid growing concern that countries
from China to Brazil will tighten monetary policy as inflation
accelerates. Financial companies have led the slump, with the
MSCI Emerging Markets Financials Index losing 8.6 percent during
the period.  The Jakarta Composite index declined the most since Nov. 30
today and Bank Rakyat, the nation’s second-biggest lender by
assets, retreated 3.7 percent.  Norilsk Nickel  Bank lending may increase “near” 22 percent this year,
the low end of Bank Indonesia’s 22 percent to 24 percent target,
Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad said yesterday. Indonesia’s
consumer prices rose 6.33 percent last month from a year
earlier.  Bank of China shares declined 1 percent and China
Construction Bank Corp. lost 0.7 percent. The China Banking
Regulatory Commission’s Shanghai branch ordered halts on lending
to companies for the purchases of fixed assets until the end of
the year, the Oriental Morning Post reported.  China is likely to set a target of at least 7 trillion yuan
of new loans for 2011, two people briefed on the matter said
this week. While a quota of more than 7 trillion yuan would be
less than the previous two years, it would exceed estimates made
by UBS AG and Bank of America Corp. in the past month.  Russia’s Micex Index of shares retreated 0.2 percent. Oil
declined 0.5 percent in New York trading while copper sank 1.5
percent in London.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel shares slipped 0.4 percent. United
Co. Rusal, holder of a 25 percent stake in Norilsk Nickel,
snubbed a $12 billion offer from the mining company to buy back
the shares, rejecting a second proposal in two months to sell
out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 