-- Tencent Starts English Messaging to Rival Microsoft, Plans Social Network
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-12-16T05:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/tencent-starts-instant-messaging-services-in-english-japanese-french.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. , China’s
biggest Internet company by market value, began offering its
instant message service to overseas users, challenging  Microsoft
Corp.  and  Yahoo! Inc .  The QQ International messaging service is now available in
English, Japanese and French languages, Tencent said in a
statement today. The Shenzhen, south China-based company also
plans to set up a social networking site in English early next
year, the statement said.  The move builds on Chairman Ma Huateng’s plan to expand
Tencent’s business overseas after dominating the Chinese market
with more than 600 million active accounts at home. Tencent, and
its largest shareholder South Africa’s  Naspers Ltd. , have made
investments in Internet portals, e-mail and instant messaging
services in India, Russia and Thailand in the past two years.  “It seems to be another step in Tencent looking to expand
in markets beyond China,” said  Justin Weiss , an analyst at JI
Asia in Tokyo. “Technologically it’s not much of a leap so the
more difficult issue would be gaining market share and catching
on with local consumers in these overseas markets where there
may already be a popular local alternative. That’s why it can
often make sense for an Internet company to partner with a local
operator.”  QQ Vs MSN  Tencent has dominated the instant-messaging market in
China, where QQ accounted for 77 percent of users at the end of
last year compared with 4.2 percent for  Microsoft ’s MSN service,
according to research firm Analysys International.  Tencent shares  fell  1.5 percent to HK$175.50 at the mid-day
trading break in Hong Kong today, giving the company a market
capitalization of HK$322 billion ($41 billion).  Most of Tencent’s international expansion so far has been
through investing in ventures with Naspers, which holds 35
percent of Tencent’s shares. Naspers has been the largest holder
in Tencent since 2001, predating the Chinese company’s initial
share sale in Hong Kong in 2004.  In 2008, Tencent bought a stake in a Naspers subsidiary in
India. This year, Tencent bought 10 percent of  Mail.ru Group
Ltd. , the Russian e-mail company that’s a part owner of Facebook
Inc., for $300 million, as well as 49.9 percent of Sanook, a
Naspers unit in Thailand.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
service, is valued at $43.1 billion by SharePost Inc., an
exchange for closely held companies. The company has in excess
of 500 million users.  Founded in 1998 by billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Ma Huateng , Chief Technology Officer  Zhang Zhidong  and fellow 1993
graduates of Shenzhen University’s computer science program,
Tencent is also the world’s biggest online games company by
market value.  The new international QQ service will offer “a bridge to
any non-Chinese user to connect with the existing 600 million
active Chinese language accounts,” Tencent said in the
statement. It will include free apps to explore China job
opportunities, news, language learning tools, travel deals, and
videos, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  