-- Tencent Faces Hurdle After Beating Microsoft in China
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-12-17T09:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/tencent-expansion-faces-hurdles-after-trumping-microsoft-yahoo-in-china.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd.  overcame
 Microsoft Corp.  and  Yahoo! Inc . to conquer China’s instant-
messaging market. Analysts doubt it can replicate that success
with foreigners.  The expansion of Tencent’s flagship QQ messaging service to
English, Japanese and French speakers -- announced yesterday --
won’t be as successful as the Chinese version, analysts
including  Jiong Shao  said. There are 637 million user accounts
for QQ, more than Facebook Inc.’s subscribers globally.  “They are going to have a lot more challenges to succeed
overseas,” said Shao, who has an “ underperform ” rating on
Tencent as head of Hong Kong and China research at Macquarie
Group Ltd. “Their competitive position is really only in
China.”  Tencent , led by billionaire Chairman  Ma Huateng , invested
more than $300 million expanding in Russia and Thailand as sales
of online games and QQ’s user additions in China slowed. The
move to offer foreign-language versions of QQ and an English
social-networking site reflect the Shenzhen, south China-based
company’s concerns about growth at home, Shao said.  The  shares   fell  0.2 percent to HK$173.50 in Hong Kong
trading today, the lowest level in two weeks. China’s biggest
Internet company has gained 3 percent this year after  tripling 
in 2009, giving it a market value of HK$318.4 billion ($41
billion).  “Let’s be honest: what are the chances of QQ being
successful against all the other services that are available?”
said  Paul Wuh , head of Internet research at  Samsung Securities
Co . in Hong Kong. “Not very good.”  Targeting Expats  The foreign-language services are targeted at expatriates
in China, and overseas users with acquaintances in the country,
said Claire Jin, a product manager for the international version
of QQ at Tencent.  “At this stage, we still want to be very China-focused,”
said Jin. She declined to comment on the prospects of the
service in overseas markets.  Charles Shen, a Beijing-based spokesman at Microsoft,
declined to comment. Lisa Tam, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at
Yahoo, didn’t reply to two phone calls seeking comment.  The company also plans to set up a social networking site
in English early next year, Tencent’s statement yesterday said.  The new international QQ service will offer “a bridge to
any non-Chinese user to connect with the existing 600 million
active Chinese language accounts,” Tencent said. It will
include free applications to explore job opportunities in China,
news, language tools, travel deals and videos, it said.  Overseas Acquisitions  The move builds on Ma’s plan to expand overseas after
dominating the Chinese market. QQ accounted for 77 percent of
the nation’s instant-messaging users at the end of last year
compared with 4.2 percent for  Microsoft ’s MSN service, according
to research firm Analysys International.  In China, Tencent’s QQ beat rivals such as MSN by being
first to allow users to send files alongside their messages, and
by focusing on younger users, according to  Duncan Clark ,
chairman of BDA China, a Beijing-based technology consultancy.  While revenue at Tencent increased 61 percent to 14.1
billion yuan ($2.1 billion) during the first nine months, that’s
slower than the 73 percent surge during the same period last
year. Growth of the company’s Internet-services division is
expected to slow, Tencent said in August.  Tencent and its largest shareholder, South Africa’s  Naspers
Ltd. , have invested in Internet portals, e-mail and instant-
messaging services in India, Russia and Thailand in the past two
years.  Naspers Ties  Most of Tencent’s international expansion has been through
investing in ventures with  Naspers , which owns about 35 percent
of Tencent. Naspers has been the largest holder in Tencent since
2001, predating the Chinese company’s initial share sale in Hong
Kong in 2004.  In 2008, Tencent bought a stake in a Naspers subsidiary in
India. This year, Tencent bought 10 percent of  Mail.ru Group
Ltd. , the Russian e-mail company that’s a part owner of Facebook
Inc., for $300 million, and 49.9 percent of Sanook, a Naspers
unit in Thailand.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
service and valued at $43.1 billion by SharePost Inc., has in
excess of 500 million users.  Founded in 1998 by Ma, Chief Technology Officer  Zhang Zhidong , and fellow 1993 graduates of Shenzhen University’s
computer science program, Tencent has evolved into the world’s
biggest online games company by market value. That’s been helped
by the popularity of games such as “CrossFire” in China, which
had 420 million users of Internet as of the end of June. The
U.S. had 245.4 million users as of the end of 2009, according to
the International Telecommunication Union.  Even so, expanding overseas isn’t easy, said  Tucker Grinnan , head of Asia telecommunications research at  HSBC
Holdings Plc  in Hong Kong.  “If you look at companies that had tried to go
aggressively overseas, it’s been more problematic,” he said.  -- Mark Lee  and  Edmond Lococo . Editors:  Anand Krishnamoorthy ,
 Young-Sam Cho .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  