-- England Seeks Lead in Ashes After Dismissing Australia for 268
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-16T21:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/england-wins-toss-will-bowl-first-in-third-ashes-cricket-test.html
England will resume at 29-0 on day
two of the third Ashes cricket Test after vindicating  Andrew Strauss ’s decision to bowl first in Perth by dismissing
Australia for 268.  Recalled fast bowler  Chris Tremlett , playing his first Test
since 2007, took 3-63 yesterday at the WACA Ground and  James Anderson  claimed 3-61 after returning to the U.K. for the birth
of his second child in between matches.  The touring team took the initiative after Strauss gave
his bowlers first use of a green-tinged pitch and the England
openers consolidated the advantage by batting through the 12
overs until stumps. A victory would give England an unbeatable
2-0 lead in the best-of-five contest.  “It was a great last half an hour there, the guys fought
hard there to fight off the new ball, which is key,” Tremlett
told reporters. “We will look to bat time and get a healthy
lead and enough to go out there and bowl them out again.”  England bowled Australia out for 245 in its first innings
in the second match in Adelaide before completing an innings and
71-run victory to go 1-0 up. As Ashes holders, the English would
retain the trophy by tying the series.  Spin bowler  Graeme Swann  and seamer Steven Finn chipped in
with two wickets each yesterday.  Mitchell Johnson  top-scored for
Australia with 62, with  Michael Hussey  and  Brad Haddin  also
making half-centuries.  Australia’s lower order lifted the score past 250 after the
home team had slumped to 69-5 shortly after the lunch break.  Lower-Order Runs  Haddin counterattacked with half-century partnerships with
Hussey and Johnson and last-wicket pair  Peter Siddle  and  Ben Hilfenhaus  added 35 runs off 33 balls.  Hussey, Australia’s leading run scorer in the series,
scored 61 before edging Swann behind to  Matt Prior  to end his
68-run stand with Haddin. The wicketkeeper-batsman shared 52
runs with Johnson for the seventh wicket before getting out for
53 when driving at an Anderson delivery outside off stump.
Anderson then clean bowled Ryan Harris for 3.  Johnson, dropped for the second Test after going wicket-
less in the series opener, struck nine boundaries in his innings,
which ended when he pulled a Finn delivery straight to Anderson
fielding at square leg to make it 233-9. Swann wrapped up the
innings by having Hilfenhaus caught by  Alastair Cook  at short
leg.  Cook, who scored 450 in the opening two matches, will
resume day two on 17, with Strauss on 12.  Tremlett Strikes  Hussey praised Tremlett’s performance.  “He hit the seam a lot. In the first session, he got it to
seam both ways, which is quite a challenge to play,” Hussey
said. “He seemed very well-controlled in his emotions out there,
very clear in his game plan and determined to do well.”  The 6-foot-7 (2 meter) Tremlett earlier capitalized on his
recall in place of the injured  Stuart Broad  by bowling opener
 Phillip Hughes  for 2 in his first over. Hughes had replaced the
injured  Simon Katich  atop Australia’s batting order.  Ricky Ponting  counterattacked with three boundaries before
edging an Anderson delivery to  Paul Collingwood , who leapt into
the air to take a one-handed diving catch and remove the
Australian captain for 12. Ponting had said it was time for him
to lead the way for his team with the bat.  Tremlett made it 28-3 when he got  Michael Clarke  to edge
behind to give wicketkeeper Prior his 100th catch in Tests.  Shane Watson  made 13 before Finn trapped him leg-before-
wicket with a delivery that struck the batsman’s toe, and
Tremlett’s third wicket saw Steven Smith edge to slip to leave
Australia at 69-5.  ‘Frustration’  Tremlett said he’d had “a little bit of frustration” at
being out of the England Test side for three years.  “I always had the aspirations to play for England again,
so it’s great for me to get the chance,” Tremlett said. “I was
desperate to play in any Test, but this wicket has bounced and I
hope it’s proved to be the right selection. It was the most
special game I’ve played in, an amazing atmosphere.”  The Surrey bowler’s inclusion was the only change to the
England lineup from the first two matches, while Australia opted
for the four-man pace attack of Johnson, Harris, Hilfenhaus and
Siddle. They’ll be supported by all-rounders Watson and Smith,
with specialist spinner Michael Beer left out.  The Australians, who entered the match on a five-Test
winless run, have won the past five Ashes Tests at the WACA,
where England has one victory in 11 previous attempts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  