-- Hero Buys Honda's $1.9 Billion Stake in India Motorbike Maker on Exports
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-12-16T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/hero-group-to-buy-honda-s-26-stake-in-their-hero-honda-venture-in-india.html
Hero Group plans to boost overseas
sales at India’s biggest motorcycle maker and develop own-brand
models after agreeing to buy  Honda Motor Co. ’s $1.9 billion
stake in the company.  “We have to go out and look for new markets,”  Pawan Kant Munjal , the son of Hero Group’s chairman and the chief executive
officer of motorcycle maker  Hero Honda Motors Ltd. , said
yesterday at a press conference in New Delhi. “Over the years,
we hope to build volume, which will help our profit margins.”  Scrapping the Honda tie-up will free Hero Group from
restraints in the partnership, enabling it to begin sales in
more overseas markets as it seeks to reverse Hero Honda’s
biggest profit drop in three years. The motorcycle maker will
also add new products and use its existing sales network to fend
off rising competition from Honda’s own unit in India, the
world’s second-largest two-wheeler market.  “The question is how fast and far they can grow their
research and development facilities,” said  Juergen Maier , a
fund manager at Raiffeisen Capital Management in Vienna, who
helps manages about $1.3 billion of assets, including Hero Honda
shares. For Tokyo-based Honda, “it won’t be easy for them to
grow their market share as the market is still dominated by Hero
Honda and Bajaj.”  Phased Purchase  Hero Group, controlled by the Munjal family, will buy
Honda’s 26 percent stake in a “phased manner,” the companies
said in a statement yesterday, without saying how much it will
pay. The purchase will be financed through debt, Sunil Munjal, a
Hero Honda board member and Pawan Munjal’s brother, said at the
press conference. No advisers worked on the deal, he said.  Hero Group, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Brijmohan Lall Munjal , already owns 26 percent of the motorcycle-maker,
which has a market value of $7.4 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  group , which grew from a maker of
bicycle parts, also has interests in call-centers and auto
components.  Hero Honda , based in New Delhi, gained 3.7 percent to
1,681.7 rupees at close of trading in Mumbai yesterday before
the deal was announced. The market is closed today for a
religious holiday.  Honda, the world’s largest motorcycle maker, will continue
to license models to Hero Honda as it expands its own unit in
India. Hero Honda will add new models under a new brand name, it
said.  In-house Models  The introduction of models developed in-house will help
curb the amount Hero Honda pays for using Honda technology.
These royalty payments will fall from January, Pawan Munjal
said. Hero Honda paid 2.6 percent of sales as royalty to the
Japanese company in the fiscal year ended in March, according to
its annual report.  “Very soon all the current products we have in our
portfolio will have no royalty,” Pawan Munjal said. The company
is also pushing ahead with plans to build a fourth factory and
may make an announcement soon, he said.  Honda decided to exit the venture as India has “completely
changed” from when Hero Honda was formed in 1984, Fumihiko Ike,
Honda’s managing director and chief operating officer for
regional operations, Asia and Oceania, said at the press
conference.  “The main objective of setting up this company 26 years
ago was to explore the Indian market,” he said. “No one could
imagine that it would change so drastically.”  The move will allow Honda to focus on its own India unit,
set up in 2001, which is growing more quickly than Hero Honda.
 Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. ’s local sales surged 44
percent to 1.03 million units in the eight months ended in
November, outpacing a 13 percent gain to 3.36 million for Hero
Honda, according to the Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers. The overall two-wheeler market grew 28 percent to
7.68 million.  Slumping Market Share  Hero Honda has lost market share on competition from Honda
and Bajaj Auto Ltd., India’s second-biggest motorcycle-maker.
The motorcycle-maker had 43 percent of the market in the three
months ended in September compared with 56 percent in the three
months ended in March, 2009, Mumbai-based First Global
Securities Ltd. said in a Dec. 10 note.  Hero Honda also posted its biggest drop in quarterly profit
in three years in the three months ended in September as rising
raw-material costs eroded gains from higher sales. Net income
fell 15 percent to 5.06 billion rupees ($111 million).  Honda said in March it will invest about $99 million to
build a second motorcycle plant in India with a capacity to make
600,000 units a year and start production in the second half of
2011. The company, Japan’s second-biggest automaker, also has a
venture that sells City and Accord cars in India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  