-- Etisalat Said to Cut Stake Purchase in Kuwait's Zain to About 40% From 46%
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-16T10:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/etisalat-said-to-cut-stake-purchase-in-kuwait-s-zain-to-about-40-from-46-.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. 
may buy about 40 percent of Kuwait’s  Zain , less than earlier
planned, according to two people with knowledge of the talks.  The size of the purchase was reduced after a  Zain
shareholder  decided not to sell shares, one of the people said,
declining to be identified because the discussions are private.
Etisalat, as Emirates Telecommunications is known, had initially
planned to buy 46 percent of Zain.  For Etisalat, the United Arab Emirates’s biggest phone
carrier, the purchase would extend its reach in the Middle East,
where Zain operates in countries from Kuwait and Iraq to
Bahrain. Etisalat offers phone services in 18 countries in the
Middle East, Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million
customers, according to its website. The seven emirates
comprising the UAE make up about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  Zain said it doesn’t comment on its shareholders’
decisions. Etisalat spokesman  Ahmed bin Ali  declined to comment.  Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said in September that it offered
1.7 Kuwaiti dinars a share for a controlling stake in Zain,
valuing the deal at about $12 billion. The shares would
represent 51 percent of Zain’s issued share capital and voting
rights, Etisalat had said Nov. 3 after signing a preliminary
accord with Al-Khair National for Stocks and Real Estate Co.,
owned by the Kharafi Group, which is leading the sale.  Kuwait’s commercial court will rule on Dec. 22 in a lawsuit
filed by Al-Fawares Holding Co., a shareholder in Zain, seeking
to stop due diligence for the stake sale. The Zain board
approved the due diligence request by Al-Khair in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  