-- European Leaders Create 2013 Debt Mechanism Amid Debate on Immediate Steps
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-12-17T13:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/eu-agrees-to-create-post-2013-crisis-tool-as-bloc-spars-over-current-steps.html
European Union leaders agreed to
amend the bloc’s treaties to create a permanent debt-crisis
mechanism in 2013 as they struggled to bridge divisions over
immediate steps to stabilize bond markets.  A day after the European Central Bank armed itself with
more capital to resist the crisis, the EU started to discuss
measures such as offering shorter-term credits or using the
bloc’s main rescue fund to buy bonds of distressed countries.  “My vision is of a Europe that grows ever closer together -
- at different speeds in some cases, to be sure,” German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters after an EU summit in
Brussels today.  For now, Germany ruled out topping up the current 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) emergency fund or rushing aid to
Portugal or Spain, reinforcing skepticism in markets about
Europe’s search for the right formula to quell the fiscal
contagion that threatens the euro.  The future setup “is to some extent window-dressing as it
does not solve the current crisis,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “European leaders failed
to address the issue of debt sustainability and possible
insolvency problems prior to 2013.”  The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.3254 at 2:45 p.m. in
Brussels, while bonds of Portugal, Spain, Greece and Ireland
slipped. Moody’s Investors Service followed up warnings that it
may cut the credit ratings of Spain and Greece by announcing
today that it downgraded Ireland by five notches to Baa1 from
Aa2, with a negative outlook.  Talks Under Way  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
deliberations are under way over more flexible use of the main
440 billion-euro component of the fund instead of waiting until
the last minute to arrange all-or-nothing lifelines like the 85
billion-euro package granted to Ireland on Nov. 28.  Asked whether shorter-term credits or bond purchasing are
up for debate, Juncker said measures being considered are
“exactly those that you mentioned.”  Such steps would ease strains on the ECB, which has bought
 72 billion euros  of weaker countries’ debt since May to
stabilize markets. Yesterday, the ECB shored up its capital base
to guard against losses from the purchases, voting to almost
double its capital to 10.76 billion euros.  “Let’s be candid,” International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in an interview on
“ Charlie Rose ” on PBS. “The European Union needs a little
more time, until maybe the beginning of next year, to be able to
produce a comprehensive package.”  No ‘Speculation’  Driven by a German public outcry against propping up
fiscally reckless countries, Merkel opposed putting more money
on the table or further entwining Europe’s economies through
joint bond sales. Merkel didn’t rule out more flexible use of
the current fund, declining to enter into “speculation.”  In a departure from German insistence that each country
determine its own fate, Merkel said today that maintaining
national fiscal discipline won’t alone put the 16-nation euro
region on a sounder footing.  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  indicated that
closer coordination of business tax rates might come back onto
the agenda as Europe tries to forge a more unified economy and
fix flaws in the euro’s makeup.  In a jab at Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporate tax rate,
Sarkozy said “I don’t think you can have the lowest corporate
taxes in the euro zone and then transfer your debt.” Spanish
Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said the tax
discussion is an “important novelty” that will play out over
years.  ‘Needs to Mature’  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  put calls for
joint euro-area borrowing in the same category, noting the
German opposition “but that the proposal needs to mature. It
will be studied more deeply.”  On the summit’s main business, Germany won an EU commitment
for a treaty amendment to set up a crisis-resolution system in
2013 that would allow financial aid “if indispensable” to
underpin the euro and might force bondholders to bear some of
the costs of future rescues.  German insistence on cutting bond values when countries get
into trouble in the future triggered the latest phase in the
debt crisis, culminating in Ireland’s support package and
triggering concern that Portugal and Spain will be next.  While costs for bondholders aren’t mentioned in the two-
sentence amendment agreed on last night, the leaders endorsed a
Nov. 28 decision by finance ministers that writedowns may take
place on a “case by case” basis in accord with IMF practices.  ‘Useful Clarification’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  called the pledge not to
mandate bond writeoffs a “useful clarification.”  Merkel needed the amendment to prevent German high-court
challenges to the future aid mechanism, which the EU wants to
get up and running when the current rescue package lapses in
mid-2013.  The compromise text reads: “The Member States whose
currency is the euro may establish a stability mechanism to be
activated if indispensable to safeguard the stability of the
euro area as a whole. The granting of any required financial
assistance under the mechanism will be made subject to strict
conditionality.”  Merkel didn’t get everything she wanted. Germany originally
pushed to allow financial aid only as a “last resort,”
language that might have ruled out contingency credit lines or
given the IMF the lead in sorting out Europe’s economic woes.  Last overhauled a year ago, the treaty is the EU’s
equivalent of a constitution, binding on EU institutions in
Brussels and on national governments’ handling of European
affairs. All 27 countries, including the 11 outside the euro
region, must ratify the amendment.  European finance ministers plan to work out details of the
future system by March so it can take effect in the middle of
2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  