-- EU Reviewing Drug Class That Includes Actelion's Tracleer, Pfizer's Thelin
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2010-12-16T18:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/eu-reviewing-drug-class-that-includes-actelion-s-tracleer-pfizer-s-thelin.html
Europe’s drug regulator is reviewing
a class of medicines that includes  Actelion Ltd.’s  Tracleer and
Gilead Sciences Inc.’s Letairis after Pfizer Inc. pulled a
treatment from the market because it was linked to potentially
life-threatening liver damage.  The drugs are used to treat pulmonary arterial
hypertension, a potentially fatal condition that causes high
blood pressure in the artery moving blood from the heart to the
lungs. Pfizer’s Thelin may have led to two cases of fatal liver
injury, the European Medicines Agency said in an e-mailed
 statement  today.  Thelin, Tracleer and Letairis, which is sold outside the
U.S. as Volibris, are known as endothelin receptor antagonists.
The drugs’ toxicity to the liver may vary in intensity and
frequency, the agency said. GlaxoSmithKline Plc markets Volibris
outside the U.S.  The agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
will begin to review whether the drugs “remain a valuable
option in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension,” according
to the statement. Strict recommendations about dosing and
monitoring have to be followed, the agency said.  Roland Haefeli , a spokesman for Actelion in Allschwil,
Switzerland, declined to comment. A spokesman for Foster City,
California-based Gilead referred questions to London-based
Glaxo. Glaxo didn’t immediately respond to a voice message left
at the press office.  Pfizer’s Statement  No new patients should be prescribed Thelin and those
receiving it should be transferred to other therapies, Pfizer,
based in New York, said in a Dec. 10 statement. The company
halted trials of the medicine.  Thelin was sold in the EU, Canada and Australia. It’s not
approved in the U.S. The drug generated $44.4 million in the
first three quarters of 2010, said Pfizer spokesman Curtis
Allen.  Pulmonary hypertension  is an incurable condition where
there is increased pressure in the arteries of the lungs,
causing shortness of breath, according to the National
Institutes of Health.  Actelion got about 85 percent of its  revenue  last year from
Tracleer, which has dominated the market for pulmonary arterial
hypertension since it won approval in 2001. The drug generated
1.51 billion Swiss francs ($1.56 billion) in sales in 2009.  Other treatments for pulmonary hypertension include oxygen,
Pfizer’s Revatio, calcium channel blockers, which relax the
muscles in the wall of the blood vessels, and diuretics, which
lower the amount of water in the body, reducing the amount of
work the heart has to do, according to the Mayo Clinic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Hallam  in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 