-- EU to Create Post-2013 Crisis Tool, Spars Over Near-Term Moves
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-12-16T19:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/eu-to-create-post-2013-crisis-tool-spars-over-near-term-moves.html
European Union leaders agreed to
amend the bloc’s treaties to create a permanent crisis-
management mechanism in 2013, while divisions flared over steps
to prevent concern over debts from engulfing Portugal and Spain.  Germany, the biggest contributor to Europe’s bailouts of
Greece and Ireland, pushed through an accord to set up a system
that would allow financial aid “if indispensable to safeguard”
the euro area and might force bondholders to bear some of the
costs of future rescues.  Consensus on the mechanism to take effect in a little more
than two years should lead to “a certain calming of the
markets,” Austrian Chancellor  Werner Faymann  told reporters at
an EU summit in Brussels today.  Most European bond markets fell today, as Germany’s refusal
to boost the current 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) emergency
fund stirred concern that Europe hasn’t found the right formula
for battling the debt crisis that threatens the euro.  Driven by a German public outcry against propping up
fiscally reckless countries, Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ruled out
putting more money on the table, retooling the support facility
enacted after the Greece rescue to enable it to buy troubled
governments’ bonds or further entwining Europe’s economies
through joint bond sales.  “Let’s be candid,” International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in an interview scheduled
to air tonight on “Charlie Rose” on PBS. “The European Union
needs a little more time, until maybe the beginning of next
year, to be able to produce a comprehensive package.”  Spanish Auction  Spain and Greece were in investors’ sights today. A Spanish
bond auction raised 2.4 billion euros, less than the target. The
extra yield that investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds
over German counterparts rose 3 basis points to 245 basis
points, a day after Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut
its credit rating.  Moody’s today warned it’s considering a “multi-notch”
downgrade of Greece, which is rated below investment grade after
dragging Europe into the sovereign debt crisis and obtaining a
110 billion-euro aid package in May. Greece’s 10-year spread
slipped 2 basis points to 881 before the Moody’s announcement.  “There is a situation of European gridlock again with
Germany blocking actions to make progress,” said  Nick Kounis ,
chief euro-region economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam and a
former U.K. Treasury official. “There is a high risk of the
crisis re-escalating and maybe now it’s the quiet before the
storm in markets.”  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  will hold an interim press
conference later tonight. The summit is slated to end around 1
p.m. tomorrow.  Irish Bailout  German insistence on cutting bond values when countries get
into trouble in the future triggered the latest phase in the
debt crisis, culminating in an 85 billion-euro support package
for Ireland on Nov. 28.  While costs for bondholders aren’t mentioned in the two-
sentence amendment, the leaders plan to endorse a Nov. 28
decision by finance ministers that writedowns may take place on
a “case by case” basis in accord with IMF Fund practices.  Merkel needed the amendment to prevent German high-court
challenges to the future aid mechanism, which the EU wants to
get up and running when the current rescue package lapses in
mid-2013.  The compromise text reads: “The Member States whose
currency is the euro may establish a stability mechanism to be
activated if indispensable to safeguard the stability of the
euro area as a whole. The granting of any required financial
assistance under the mechanism will be made subject to strict
conditionality.”  ‘Last Resort’  Germany had pushed for the amendment to say that any
financial assistance will only be offered as a “last resort,” EU
officials said.  Last overhauled a year ago, the treaty is the EU’s
equivalent of a constitution, binding on EU institutions in
Brussels and on national governments’ handling of European
affairs. All 27 countries, including the 11 outside the euro
region, would need to ratify the amendment.  Britain, the largest of the non-euro states and with a
soaring deficit of its own, will back a future aid facility as
long as it doesn’t have to pay in, Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said.  “We do need a new mechanism to help the euro zone sort out
its problems and its issues -- that’s important for Britain,”
Cameron said in Brussels. “But we do need to make sure that
Britain is not liable to spend money under that mechanism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  