-- EU to Limit Use of Roche’s Avastin in Breast Cancer
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-12-16T16:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/eu-to-limit-use-of-roche-s-avastin-treatment-in-metastatic-breast-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG ’s Avastin medicine
shouldn’t be used with Sanofi-Aventis SA’s Taxotere drug as a
treatment for breast cancer that has spread, a European
regulatory panel said.  The drug, Roche’s biggest-selling product, can continue to
be prescribed in combination with the paclitaxel chemotherapy
treatment, the  European Medicines Agency ’s Committee for
Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, said today in a
statement. The CHMP, whose advice is generally adopted by
regulators, also rejected a request to allow Avastin to be
paired with an additional chemotherapy.  Avastin’s use against breast cancer has come under scrutiny
from regulators on both sides of the Atlantic because of concern
that the medicine isn’t effective. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration today withdrew its conditional approval for the
drug in breast cancer, following the advice of an advisory panel
in July. Roche said it will appeal that decision.  Avastin, Roche’s best-selling medicine, generated 6.2
billion Swiss francs ($6.5 billion) in  revenue  last year and the
company has said European sales of the drug in breast cancer may
reach between 500 million and 600 million francs this year.
Avastin is approved for several other malignancies including
colorectal and lung tumors.  Roche fell 2 francs, or 1.4 percent, to 139.2 francs at
5:05  p.m. in Zurich trading.  European Approval  The Swiss company won European approval in 2007 for Avastin
paired with paclitaxel chemotherapy as an initial treatment for
breast cancer that has spread. Health regulators expanded that
use in 2009 to include combination with Taxotere, also called
docetaxel. Those approvals were based on results from two
separate studies, dubbed E2100 and Avado.  Roche  asked  regulators last year to grant broader marketing
permission. The European Medicines Agency said in September a
clinical trial that Roche says supports wider use of Avastin was
inconsistent with results from earlier studies, particularly in
terms of efficacy. That trial, called Ribbon-1, tested the drug
in combination with Roche’s Xeloda or anthracycline-based
chemotherapies.  The FDA on Sept. 17 delayed Roche’s application to expand
use of Avastin in breast cancer. In July, an advisory panel
voted 12 to 1 in favor of revoking so-called accelerated
approval. Study data failed to convince the panel that Avastin
had a “clinically meaningful” benefit over chemotherapy alone
in keeping cancer at bay.  The Swiss company’s efforts to expand Avastin’s use have
encountered other setbacks. Study results this year showed the
drug failed to prolong the lives of patients with prostate,
stomach and early colorectal cancer, while Avastin also failed a
clinical trial of women with early-stage breast malignancies.  Breast cancer  is the most common malignancy in females and
strikes about 1 million women a year globally, according to the
Geneva-based World Health Organization.  Peak annual sales of Avastin will likely be at the low end
of the company’s current forecast of 8 billion francs to 9
billion francs if the FDA decides to revoke approval, Chief
Executive Officer  Severin Schwan  said July 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  