-- Euro Advances as EU Leaders Agree on Debt-Crisis Tool, ECB Boosts Capital
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-17T13:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/euro-maintains-gain-as-eu-leaders-agree-on-crisis-tool-ecb-boosts-capital.html
The euro rose against most of its
major counterparts after European Union leaders agreed to create
a mechanism to contain future debt shocks and German business
confidence unexpectedly climbed.  The common currency gained versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except for the Swiss franc after German business
confidence rose in December to its highest since records for the
reunified nation began in 1991. The yen headed for a weekly loss
against most of its major peers as Asian stocks advanced. The
franc touched a record high versus the euro and a six-week high
against the dollar.  “We had better sentiment on the back of relatively good
news on the back of the EU summit,” said  Jens Nordvig , a
managing director of currency research in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “More risk should be embedded in the euro.”  The euro appreciated 0.2 percent to 111.37 yen at 8:44 a.m.
in New York, from 111.14 yen yesterday. It was set for a 0.3
percent increase this week. The shared currency rose 0.1 percent
to $1.3256 from $1.3244. The dollar rose 0.1 percent versus the
yen to 84.03 yen from 83.91 yen. It reached 84.51 on Dec. 15,
the most since Sept. 24.  German business confidence unexpectedly rose to a record in
December as stronger domestic demand helped bolster the recovery
in Europe’s largest economy, according to data published today.  Irish Downgrade  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate
 index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.9
from 109.3 in November. That’s the highest since records for
reunified Germany began in 1991. Economists  predicted  a drop to
109, the median of 36 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey shows.  Moody’s cut Ireland’s credit rating by five levels to Baa1
after the government was forced to ask for external aid last
month, staggered by losses in the banking system.  “The Irish government’s financial strength could decline
further if economic growth were to be weaker than currently
projected or the cost of stabilizing the banking system turn out
to be higher than currently forecast,” Moody’s said.  EU leaders will wrap up a two-day summit today in Brussels.
They agreed to amend the bloc’s treaties to create a permanent
crisis-management mechanism that takes effect in 2013.  The European Central Bank said yesterday it will almost
double its capital base to protect against losses as the
institution buys bonds of governments from Portugal to Ireland
to fight the debt crisis.  Merkel, Sarkozy  Germany, the biggest contributor to Europe’s bailouts of
Greece and Ireland, pushed through a proposal that would allow
financial aid “if indispensable” to underpin the euro and may
force bondholders to bear some costs of future rescues.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ruled out putting more
money on the table, retooling the post-Greek rescue European
Financial Stability Facility to enable it to buy troubled
government bonds, or further entwining Europe’s economies
through joint bond sales.  “The headlines are saying no e-bonds, no expansion of the
EFSF, but that’s just for now,” Yu of UBS said by phone. “It
will probably still have to happen later on.”  “Merkel and Sarkozy are not enjoying much support from
their domestic constituencies, and that keeps them from making
commitments to other nations,” said  Manabu Tamaru , a senior
investment manager at Baring Asset Management in Tokyo. “While
German economy picks up, you really can’t say Europe’s economy
as a whole is improving. The euro may drop below $1.30.”  Annual View  The euro has slipped 9.4 percent this year in a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has gained 10.5
percent, while the dollar is down 1.4 percent.  The Swiss franc climbed against all of its major
counterparts. It added 0.4 percent against the dollar to 0.9610
and touched 0.9559, the strongest since Nov. 5. It rose 0.2
percent to 1.2743 per euro and reached a record of 1.2721.  The yen headed for a weekly decline against a basket of 10
currencies as the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares
rose. People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said his
nation won’t increase reserve ratios and interest rates at the
same time, the South China Morning Post reported, citing a
speech at Peking University.  Zhou said yesterday that increases in banks’ mandatory
reserves don’t rule out interest rate increases, the Hong Kong-
based English-language newspaper reported today.  “Risk sentiment remains firm, supporting higher-yielding
currencies against developed nations’ currencies,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief currency strategist in Tokyo at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “Currencies should strengthen against the yen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  