-- Inaccurate European Stock Trading Data Is Misleading Investors, Aite Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-12-16T16:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/european-off-exchange-stock-volume-confuses-investors-aite-says.html
The number of over-the-counter stock
trades reported in Europe is exaggerated and regulators should
clarify the count to give investors an accurate view of the
market, a report by Aite Group LLC said.  Equity volume classified as off exchange or over the
counter by European regulators was 47 percent of value traded in
October,  Aite  said. The figure includes trades that were also
reflected in exchange tallies and are therefore double-counted,
said Simmy Grewal, the London-based author of the report.  “People are under the impression that a vast amount of
European trading appears to be taking place away from the
market,” Grewal said. “But all the OTC trades aren’t trades
that represent liquidity. At the end of the day, no one can
determine how much actual  trading  is occurring.”  Off-exchange trading is drawing scrutiny in Europe as
regulators prepare to overhaul the Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or MiFID, adopted in 2007 to spur
competition among venues. The report by Aite, a financial
research provider, says the lack of differentiation between
trades and brokerage practices causes investors and policy
makers to overestimate how many transactions occur away from
exchanges and so-called multilateral trading facilities.  Deceptive Count  A European group that represents banks such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.,   UBS AG  and  Deutsche Bank AG  today said over-
the-counter trades represent less than 25 percent of the
European equity market.  “The discrepancy arises from the difference in views among
regulators about what should be reported and published,”
Christian Krohn, managing director for  Association for Financial
Markets  said in an e-mailed statement. “While some authorities
take the view that not all links in a chain of trades which
starts on an exchange need to be published, others take the view
that they should be, leading to a significant level of double-
counting.”  Aite cited brokerage practices reported as OTC trades that
are meant only to record aspects of transactions that have
occurred. An example is a give-up trade in which a broker
assigns the execution of an order to another securities firm as
a way to officially track the arrangement. Another example is a
guaranteed  VWAP  trade, where a broker promises to fulfill a
client order at a certain price or better based on the stock’s
volume-weighted average price over a preset amount of time. The
underlying trades take place in the public markets, Grewal said.  Technical Print  “There needs to be a distinction between actual OTC trades
and a technical print,” Grewal said. “It’s up to regulators to
do that. No one else can create a solution.”  The report stressed that off-exchange volume isn’t the sole
province of dark pools, or broker-run private venues that don’t
display quotations. Regulators in the European Union, U.S. and
Canada are probing the venues out of concern that more volume
occurring away from exchanges may make prices on public markets
less reliable.  “Incorrectly, many market participants believe that the
majority of these OTC trades are being conducted in dark pools
and broker crossing networks,” Grewal said.  More Transparency  Volume on public markets including exchanges and
multilateral trading facilities was 51 percent in October,
according to Boston-based Aite, whose data comes from  Fidessa
Group Plc , a provider of systems to track and execute orders.
Efforts are under way to provide more transparency about trading
in Europe, with companies including  Markit BOAT , NYSE Euronext,
 Thomson Reuters Corp.  and Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, seeking to consolidate data from across venues.  “Counting volume in Europe is a complicated beast,” said
 Alison Crosthwait , Toronto-based director of global trading
strategy at Instinet Inc. Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo owns
Instinet. “Over-the-counter trading includes a chunk of trades
that’s not liquidity,” she said. “It doesn’t represent price
discovery or stock that changes hands.”  Uncertainty about total volume may lead firms to trade too
much if they misjudge the supply of liquidity, she said. OTC
executions should be classified to give brokers and investors
more information about that activity, she added.  In the U.S. about a  third  of share volume and less than 30
percent of the total value traded occurred away from exchanges
in the last five days, according to data compiled by Bats Global
Markets. Publicly reported OTC trading in the U.S. doesn’t
include the types of prints required under MiFID.  Dark Pools  How trading in dark pools is reported in Europe also
creates uncertainty about the amount of volume on those venues.
Some of the activity occurs through regulated venues and is
reported publicly, while some is deemed OTC and published by
brokers with their firms’ other transactions. About 1 percent of
European trading value came from public dark venues including
exchanges and platforms such as  Liquidnet Europe  and  Investment
Technology Group Inc. ’s Posit system, Aite said.  Rosenblatt Securities Inc. in New York, which compiles data
about dark pools directly from brokers, said the 13 European
venues it tracks, including those operated by Citigroup Inc. and
 Credit Suisse Group AG , accounted for 2.3 percent of trading in
October, according to a Nov. 24 report. The 16 U.S. dark pools
Rosenblatt follows reached a record 12.6 percent of trading the
same month, a Nov. 23 study said.  European Parliament  A December  report  on dark pools by  Kay Swinburne , a
Conservative U.K. member of the European Parliament, said that
up to 40 percent of stock trading is conducted over the counter
instead of on organized trading venues. She urged policy makers
to consider regulations that encourage brokers and investors to
execute more trading on exchanges and similar venues.  “People don’t have a lot of confidence in the accuracy of
the OTC data as it stands today,”  Justin Schack , director of
market structure analysis at Rosenblatt in New York, said about
European trading. “Absent that, it’s really hard for market
participants and regulators to make decisions about trading and
policymaking.”  Before 2007, venues such as  London Stock Exchange  had rules
mandating how trades away from registered markets were reported.
Those guidelines were replaced by MiFID, which required the
trades to be reported as OTC transactions without offering ways
to differentiate them, Grewal said.  “We strongly believe the market should be working toward
industrywide arrangements to provide greater transparency by
harmonising standards, with the aim of improving data quality
and comparability,” Jarod Hillman, Head of Real-Time Data at
LSE said today in an e-mailed statement. “Since October, we’ve
been offering our real-time post-trade data separately from pre-
trade data.”  ‘Deteriorated Significantly’  “Many market participants, some of which were subject to
an OTC post-trade transparency regime pre-MiFID, have noted that
the quality of the transparency data has deteriorated
significantly since MiFID was implemented in November 2007,”
 CESR  said in  July report  to the European Commission. Concerns
were “pronounced” in countries where OTC trades were
previously published by the main exchange, it said.  CESR is working to harmonize securities regulation across
Europe. It proposed the development of a regulatory structure
for crossing networks operated by broker-dealers and a single
source for transaction information, called a consolidated tape.
One source for trade information would allow investors to know
where transactions are occurring and at what price, providing
more uniform and accessible disclosure about executions.  “There’s definitely single, double, triple and quadruple
counting of volume in Europe,” said  Vlad Khandros , a market
structure analyst at Liquidnet Holdings Inc. in New York. “The
problem is not lack of transparency but inconsistency with post-
trade rules.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 