-- Europe Prepares for Arctic Blast, Delays at Heathrow
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2010-12-16T17:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/europe-braces-for-arctic-blast-bringing-snow-ice-in-run-up-to-christmas.html
Europe is bracing itself for more
snow and freezing temperatures that are likely to disrupt
transport and hamper shoppers in the run up to Christmas.  Heavy drifting snow and widespread icy roads are expected
to descend across Europe today starting in parts of Scotland and
Germany, European weather agencies reported.  Worst affected areas in the U.K. could see up to eight
inches (20 centimeters) of snow tomorrow, the U.K.-based  Met
Office , a state-funded agency, said in a severe weather warning
today. Germany will likely record its coldest December in 40
years, German-based N24 television meteorologist Alexander
Hildebrand reported today.  “Given the fact that we’re going to see quite a rapid
change and a fall in temperature there is the potential for some
disruption to travel networks,” said Met Office spokesman  John Hammond  by phone. “We could see ice forming on untreated roads
and pavements, coinciding with the drive home for many people
this evening.”  In general, accumulations of up to four inches in the U.K.
are forecast, by the Met Office. All schools are closed in
Shetland and some in Orkney and Aberdeenshire, according to
local U.K. government websites. Some rail services are suspended
in the Highlands.  The German Weather Service issued snow and freezing rain
warnings for northern Germany with snow forecast for much of the
rest of the country.  ‘Stormy winds’  A weather front from the North Sea “will bring heavy
snowfall” and “stormy winds” that will lead to drifting, the
Weather Service said on its  website . Snowfall will begin in
southern Germany late today or early tomorrow, the report said.  Strong winds and rain are causing delays and cancelations
to flights at London’s Heathrow Airport,  BAA Airports Ltd. 
spokesman Stuart Butchers said by phone. Heathrow’s Airport
Operations Team is on standby to handle the conditions.  Flights in and out of Edinburgh Airport, London’s Gatwick
and Frankfurt airport are operating as normal.  Temperatures are predicted to plunge to as low as minus 13
Celsius (8.6 Fahrenheit) in parts of Scotland tomorrow, the Met
Office said. In London temperatures will fall to minus 5 Celsius
and in Berlin they are forecast to drop as low as minus 10
Celsius tomorrow, according to the Global Weather Platform.  The Met Office issues weather warnings when there is at
least 80 percent confidence that severe or extreme weather is
expected, the state-funded agency said.  N24 footage showed falling snow with traffic flowing on the
A1 highway that runs north-southwest from the Baltic Sea to the
western city of Saarbrueken.  Salt Supplies  The City of Cologne, Germany’s fourth largest with a
population of almost 1 million, is running out of salt needed to
grit roads and make them passable, N24 television reported.  Most of Germany can expect a White Christmas this year, the
Meteorology Institute of Berlin’s Free University said today in
an e-mailed statement. In Berlin and the surrounding eastern
state of Brandenburg there is likely to be more snow on the
ground on Dec. 25 in over 100 years, the statement said.  The travel plans of millions of people across Europe were
affected earlier this month when heavy snow and sub-zero
temperatures grounded airplanes, halted trains and turned
highways into parking lots. The snowfall was the earliest to
blanket the U.K. since 1993 and the worst hit areas were South
London, Sussex, Kent and Hampshire, which received as much as 8
inches of snow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Leon Mangasarian  in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  