-- European Services, Manufacturing Slow as EU Diverges
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-16T10:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/euro-area-december-composite-pmi-declines-to-55-markit-says.html
Europe ’s  services and manufacturing 
 industries  slowed more than economists forecast in December, as
smaller euro members failed to keep up with  Germany ’s export-led
expansion.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 55 from 55.5 in November,
the lowest in two months, London-based Markit Economics said
today. A figure above 50 indicates expansion and economists had
expected a reading of 55.3, according to the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The measure of German
manufacturing surged to 60.9, the highest since July.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, has powered the euro
area’s expansion, led by export orders while nations on the
region’s periphery struggle to emerge from recession as the
sovereign debt crisis pushes up their borrowing costs. With
governments across the region stepping up austerity measures to
tackle deficits, the European Commission last month forecast
that growth will weaken into 2011.  “It’s a mixed picture for the euro region, some economies
are really gathering pace and that’s related to  China ,” said
Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “The
overall story is there’s huge financial turmoil in the euro
region and that’s usually a bad sign for the economic outlook in
the euro region overall.”  Manufacturing Gauge  The euro region’s manufacturing gauge rose to 56.8 from
55.3 in the previous month, Markit said today. The services
indicator fell to 53.7 from 55.4. The measure of French
manufacturing fell to 56.3 from 57.9, Markit said. Outside
 France  and Germany growth “slowed to near-stagnation,
registering the weakest performance since November 2009,” the
company said.  Consumer-price inflation held steady at 1.9 percent in
November, the European Union statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. Growth in  labor costs  slowed to 0.8 percent in the
third quarter from a year ago, from 1.6 percent in the second
quarter, a separate report showed.  The euro strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.3243 at 10:00 a.m.
in  London . The  gap  between German and Spanish bond yields
widened to 247 basis points from 242 basis points yesterday and
the Portuguese spread increased to 343 basis points from 340
basis points yesterday.  Spending Cuts  Euro-area growth may weaken to about 1.4 percent in 2011
from around 1.6 percent in 2010, the European Central Bank said
on Dec. 2. Exports may continue to drive growth in 2011 as
government spending cuts weigh on consumer demand, the
Frankfurt-based central bank said.  Volksagen AG’s Audi luxury car unit expects China to
replace Germany as its biggest maker in 2011 “at the latest,”
Chief Financial Officer Axel Strotbek said on Dec. 14. Peter
Bauer, chief executive officer of  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,
Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, said on Dec. 9 that the sales
target for the current fiscal year may be “conservative.”  So far, the economy is showing few signs of cooling.
 European confidence  in the economic outlook improved for a sixth
straight month in November, exports increased in September and
German investors became more optimistic in December.  Countries from Spain to Ireland have already stepped up
efforts to push down their budget deficits and help restore
investor confidence, clouding the growth outlook. ECB President
Jean-Claude Trichet said on Dec. 10 that while the region’s
recovery remains “on track,” it’s “extremely important” for
governments to stick to their austerity measures.  Companies may struggle to maintain their sales growth.
Klaus Engel, CEO of German chemical maker Evonik Industries AG,
said on Dec. 14 that growth “prospects are limited” in
industrial countries.  “Next year, high public debt will force many countries to
cut spending,” Engel said. “Only then will it be possible to
say how strong the upswing forces really are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  