-- Mexico Drug War Death Toll Climbs to 30,196 Since 2006, Government Says
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-12-16T20:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/mexico-drug-war-death-toll-climbs-to-30-196-since-2006-government-says.html
Mexican Attorney General  Arturo Chavez  said that 30,196 people have been killed in drug-related
violence nationwide since President  Felipe Calderon  took office
four years ago.  The number of deaths from January to November this year was
12,456, Chavez said today in Mexico City. This year’s toll is
the highest since Calderon took office, showing that violence is
increasing instead of waning.  Despite the violence, Mexico’s economy will grow around 5
percent this year on the back of exports to the U.S., according
to a central bank forecast. The government estimates the
violence shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output
annually.  “It’s a serious problem and it matters,” said Ricardo
Aguilar, an economist at Invex Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City.
“But as long as private property and the rights of investors
aren’t at risk, the economy doesn’t have any reason to stop
growing.”  The violence hasn’t slowed a rally in Mexican equities this
year. The  benchmark IPC index  has climbed 17.6 percent in 2010,
helping the gauge advance to a record level on Dec. 14. That
compares to a 2.1 percent decline for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
index and an 11.3 percent advance for the S&P 500 in the same
period.  Benchmark Index  The IPC added 0.2 percent to 37,749.89 at 2:52 p.m. New
York time.  The Mexican peso has climbed 5.3 percent this year against
the dollar. Today, the peso gained 0.3 percent to 12.4261 per
U.S. dollar.  Calderon sent military troops to quell violence mostly in
northern states and the western state of Michoacan shortly after
taking office. While Calderon’s stance against drug traffickers
has won praise from U.S. officials, the strategy has caused
infighting within crime groups and between drug cartels.  In the border states of Tamaulipas and Nuevo Leon, a
dispute between the Gulf Cartel and a former allied group known
as the Zetas has sparked shootouts in the streets of Monterrey,
Mexico’s third-largest metropolitan area, and the abandonment of
small Mexican cities near the Texas border, such as Mier. A feud
between the Sinaloa cartel and the Juarez Cartel has made Ciudad
Juarez the deadliest large city in Mexico.  ‘La Barbie’  Calderon, whose term ends in December 2012, has vowed to
continue to target organized crime. The government has
highlighted the capture of drug kingpins and hit men, including
Edgar ‘La Barbie’ Valdez and Sergio ‘El Grande’ Villarreal, and
the deaths of Arturo Beltran and Ezequiel ‘Tony Tormenta’
Cardenas in the last year.  Last week, Nazario ‘El Chayo’ Moreno, a leader of Mexico’s
La Familia drug cartel, was killed by authorities in Michoacan,
according to  Alejandro Poire , a government security spokesman.
Moreno’s body hasn’t been recovered.  Authorities are seeking the arrest of Julio Cesar Godoy, a
congressman with the Democratic Revolution Party who is accused
of having ties with La Familia in his home state of Michoacan,
Chavez said today. Godoy’s whereabouts are unknown, he said.  Legislators this week stripped Godoy of his immunity from
prosecution after a recorded phone call of Godoy allegedly
speaking with a La Familia member was made public. In a news
conference on Sept. 23 Godoy said he is innocent and denied any
ties to illegal groups.  The lower house of Congress yesterday passed legislation to
help crack down on organized crime by stiffening jail sentences
for the use of grenades or car bombs and making it a crime to
hang banners with drug-cartel messages. Lawmakers have stopped
short of approving other Calderon initiatives, including a
measure to unify local police forces under state control to
combat police corruption and help out-gunned rural forces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  