-- Exxon Gets 2015 Deadline From Canada on Gas Pipeline
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-12-16T23:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/exxon-s-16-billion-mackenzie-gas-pipeline-approved-by-canadian-regulator.html
Canada’s National Energy Board gave
an  Exxon Mobil Corp. -led group five years to start building a
C$16.2 billion ($15.9 billion) pipeline intended to haul Arctic
natural gas to southern Canada and the U.S.  More than three decades after the 1,220-kilometer (758-
mile) pipeline first was proposed for the Mackenzie River
valley, a three-member review panel today approved the conduit,
provided Exxon Mobil and its partners meet more than 200
conditions and begin construction by 2015.  The deadline is a hurdle for a project that Exxon Mobil
Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  has said is probably a
decade away from being realized. In a July conference call with
analysts, Tillerson cited the high cost of shipping Arctic gas
south and the length of time it would take to build across semi-
sovereign tribal areas and indigenous hunting grounds as
obstacles to profitability.  “Our decision is a major step toward allowing the project
to proceed, but it does not mean the project will be built,”
the panel said in a 78-page report today, adding that it’s up to
the companies involved to decide if the pipeline makes economic
sense.  “The 2015 timeframe causes us a little concern and will be
challenging,”  Pius Rolheiser , a spokesman for  Exxon Mobil’s 
Imperial Oil Ltd. unit, said in a telephone interview from
Calgary. “It also depends on how long it takes to reach a
fiscal agreement with the government.”  Royal Dutch Shell  Imperial is also a partner in the development, along with
Royal Dutch Shell Plc of The Hague, and ConocoPhillips, based in
Houston.  The pipeline would follow the course of a north-flowing
river that cuts through the sparsely populated Northwest
Territories and empties into the Arctic Ocean. In 2007,
Tillerson said the project no longer was “viable” after the
cost estimate more than doubled amid soaring steel prices and
regulatory delays.  Low natural-gas prices stemming from a surplus of gas
flowing from continental U.S. fields also clouded the project’s
future,  Ian Doig , the Calgary-based publisher of Doig’s Digest,
an oil-and-gas industry newsletter, said today in an interview
before the announcement.  “The price of gas is a significant challenge,” Doig said
in a telephone interview. “The area is only represented by one
member of Canada’s Parliament, so the project doesn’t have a lot
of political clout behind it.”  Parsons Lake, Taglu  The pipeline would tap fields that the U.S. Energy
Department estimates contain almost 6 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas. Exxon Mobil’s Taglu is the largest with an
estimated 3 trillion cubic feet, followed by ConocoPhillips’ 1.8
trillion-cubic-foot Parsons Lake field and a joint Exxon Mobil-
Shell-owned discovery called Niglintgak.  Over the first 20 years of operation, the conduit would
boost Canada’s gross domestic product by as much as C$42 billion
and generate up to C$14.3 billion in taxes and royalties, the
report said.  “This is an important milestone,” Environment Minister
 John Baird  said in a telephone interview after the report was
released. “The process has taken a long time -- too long in my
judgment -- but we’re happy to see them move quickly with the
government’s response.”  Cabinet Approval  Exxon Mobil  and its partners would be required to build
lateral lines from the main pipeline to supply gas to
communities along the route, the report said.  “All the panel is doing is giving the Imperial-led group a
list of conditions,” Doig said. “It’s kind of like a gift
certificate to be used within a certain period of time.” The
panel’s recommendations still require approval by Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper’s  cabinet.  At full capacity, the pipeline would carry 1.2 billion
cubic feet of gas a day, or enough energy to supply about one in
every 10 U.S. homes.  The pipeline has been in the works since the early 1970s
and was shelved after a public inquiry into the potential impact
on the environment, wildlife and indigenous northern
communities.  Natural-gas futures in the U.S., the world’s largest market
for the furnace and factory fuel, peaked at $15.78 per million
British thermal units in December 2005. Since then, they’ve
plunged 75 percent to about $4 amid surging output from new
wells in Texas, Louisiana and Wyoming.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net . 