-- Facebook 2010 Sales Said Likely to Reach $2 Billion, More Than Estimated
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/facebook-sales-said-likely-to-reach-2-billion-this-year-beating-target.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s most
popular social-networking service, is likely to generate 2010
revenue of about $2 billion, a larger sum than projected
earlier, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Sales will more than double from 2009, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the privately held company
doesn’t disclose revenue. Facebook had $700 million to $800
million in sales last year, and the 2010 figure was previously
expected to be closer to $1.5 billion, according to two other
people familiar with the matter earlier this year.  Facebook’s more than half a billion users have made it an
attractive target for advertisers, including  Coca-Cola Co. ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Adidas AG. In October, Facebook
surpassed Yahoo! Inc. when ranked by the number of global users,
making it No. 3 behind  Google Inc.  and  Microsoft Corp. ,
according to ComScore Inc., a research firm in Reston, Virginia.  “The love affair of consumers with social networks is an
abiding one,” said  Karsten Weide , an analyst at IDC in San
Mateo, California. “All the big brands are there.”  Jonathan Thaw , a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, declined to comment.  Facebook, founded in 2004, would reach $2 billion faster
than Yahoo and at almost the same pace as  Google . Yahoo, founded
in 1994, posted revenue of $1.6 billion in 2003 and $3.6 billion
in 2004. Google, founded in 1998, reached $1.5 billion in 2003
and then $3.2 billion in 2004.  ‘Person of Year’  Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook’s founder and chief executive
officer, was named Time magazine’s “Person of the Year”
yesterday. The publication noted his role in “creating a new
system of exchanging information” and “changing how we all
live our lives.”  Zuckerberg, 26, created Facebook for college students when
he was a sophomore at Harvard University. After opening the site
to people outside of higher education, the company surpassed
 News Corp. ’s MySpace as the No. 1 social network two years ago.
Facebook users now post a billion pieces of content, such as
photos and messages, every day, Time said.  Facebook has maintained ad prices, even as its user growth
creates a surge of space for commercial messages, the company
said in August. Facebook also makes money from a credits
program, which lets people buy virtual items in online games.  Figuring It Out  “People are learning and they’re figuring out how they can
work with Facebook,” said  Christian Juhl , a president at
digital ad agency Razorfish, part of Paris-based  Publicis Groupe
SA .  “You can prove success without a massive expenditure.”  Facebook is making gains in so-called display ads -- the
banners, videos and other graphical promotions that appear on
websites. It may grab about 9.4 percent of that market in the
U.S. this year, up from 6.6 percent in 2009, according to
EMarketer Inc. in New York.  Yahoo, which leads the market, will have about 16.2
percent, down from 16.5 percent, the firm estimates.  Google ,
which is stronger in Internet-search ads, may take 6.7 percent,
up from 4.7 percent.  Facebook’s growth is also attracting investor interest. The
company has a valuation of $43.1 billion, according to
 SharesPost Inc. , an exchange for privately held stocks. That’s
up more than 60 percent from three months ago and almost
quadruple the level in March.  At the same time, Facebook’s expansion has increased
concerns about privacy. After lawmakers and advocacy groups
complained that it shares too much personal data, the company
introduced simpler privacy controls in May and said it was
reducing the amount of user information that’s publicly
available.  “They’ve done a better job recently around privacy, which
alleviates a lot of the concern,” Juhl said. “That’s something
we’ll always have to keep watching. But that’s nothing new --
whether it’s Google, Microsoft, Yahoo or Facebook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  