-- Falabella Rallies to Become Chile's Biggest Stock After BCI Boosts Rating
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-16T21:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/falabella-extends-weekly-rally-as-bci-raises-to-overweight-.html
SACI Falabella  rose in Santiago
trading, becoming the largest Chilean stock by market value,
after  Banco de Credito e Inversiones  raised its rating, citing
prospects for Latin American consumer spending growth.  The operator of department-stores, home-improvement outlets
and supermarkets climbed 3.6 percent to 5,219.40 pesos at 3:16
p.m. New York time, extending its increase this week to 12
percent and the rally in 2010 to 74 percent. Falabella’s market
value jumped to 12.5 trillion pesos ($26 billion), overtaking
pulp producer  Empresas Copec SA  as Chile’s biggest stock.  “Big retail names such as Falabella are much more
attractive than commodity names at the moment,”  Maria Jesus Bofill , an analyst at BCI’s brokerage unit, said by telephone
from Santiago. “An international presence gives it attractive
growth potential, backed by solid operations in Chile.”  BCI raised Falabella to “overweight” from
“underweight,” saying in a note dated yesterday that the stock
is cheap relative to its earnings potential and will probably
climb to 5,850 pesos in 12 to 18 months, a 16 percent increase
from yesterday’s close.  Banco BTG Pactual SA initiated coverage of Chilean
retailers this month, assigning a “buy” recommendation for
Falabella and “neutral” ratings for rivals Cencosud SA and
Empresas La Polar SA. Cencosud has more than doubled this year
while La Polar is up 21 percent.  Growth Estimates  Falabella probably will generate 74 percent of sales this
year from Chile, where the economy is set to expand 5.2 percent
in 2010 and as much as 7.1 percent next year, according to BCI
forecasts. The remainder will come from Peru, Argentina and
Colombia, where economic growth next year may be 6.7 percent,
5.5 percent and 4.3 percent respectively, the analysts wrote.  “During the year, growth estimates have been raised for
many of the economies in the region,” they said. “That
translates into an improvement in the forecasts for sales, as
well as cash-flow generation, for this year and the coming
years.”  Copec, Chile’s largest pulp exporter and fuel distributor,
fell 0.1 percent to 9,385.80 pesos, cutting its market value to
12.2 trillion pesos. Copec’s pulp operations account for 68
percent of its net income, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price of pulp has fallen 3.1 percent from a
record $979.02 per metric ton in July, according to FOEX Ltd.
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  