-- U.S. Widens Insider Probe to Companies With Arrests
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-16T22:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/fbi-is-said-to-arrest-five-people-as-part-of-u-s-insider-trading-inquiry.html
Three people who worked at
technology firms, including chipmaker  Advanced Micro Devices 
Inc. , were arrested along with an “expert networker” as federal
prosecutors expanded a probe of insider trading to companies.  A fifth man, Daniel DeVore, formerly a supply manager at
 Dell Inc. , pleaded guilty in federal court in New York on Dec.
10 to conspiracy to commit securities fraud and wire fraud as
part of the probe, prosecutors said today in a statement. He is
cooperating with the investigation.  Today’s arrests were the latest development in a nationwide
investigation of illegal trading at hedge funds by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and the Securities and Exchange Commission. DeVore and three of
the four arrested today are accused of providing inside
information about their companies to clients of Primary Global
Research LLC, a consulting company that provides experts to
investors. The fourth person arrested, James Fleishman, works at
Primary Global.  “A corrupt network of insiders at some of the world’s
leading technology companies served as so-called consultants who
sold out their employers by stealing and then peddling their
valuable inside information,” Bharara said in the statement.  According to the criminal complaint unsealed today, U.S.
investigators made consensual and wiretap recordings of an
unidentified expert-networking firm’s phones, the land lines of
an unidentified hedge fund and the mobile phones of two of the
defendants, Mark Anthony Longoria and Walter Shimoon.  ‘Well Beyond’  Today’s charges “describe criminal conduct that went well
beyond any legitimate information-sharing or good faith business
practice,” Bharara said, adding that the investigation is
continuing.  Fleishman, an account representative at Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global, was arrested this morning on
charges of wire fraud and conspiracy for allegedly trying to
give non-public information to the firm’s clients, including
hedge funds, according to the complaint. So-called expert
networking firms like Primary Global connect investors with
industry specialists who provide insight into a specific market.  Longoria, who worked at AMD; Shimoon, who worked at
 Flextronics International Ltd. , a maker of electronic
components; and Manosha Karunatilaka, who was employed at
chipmaker  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , were charged
with wire fraud and conspiracy to commit securities fraud and
conspiracy to commit wire fraud, prosecutors said.  20 Years  If convicted of the wire fraud charge, the defendants face
as long as 20 years in prison, Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman for
Bharara’s office, said.  The three had worked as consultants at Primary Global,  Dan Charnas , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
Fleishman has been placed on leave, Charnas said.  Longoria appeared in federal court today in Austin, Texas,
where he was released on $50,000 unsecured bond, according to
Julie Golden, deputy for U.S. Magistrate Judge  Andrew Austin ,
who presided over the proceeding. All further appearances will
be in New York, Golden said.  “It appears that AMD is the victim of an insider trading
scheme,” said  Mike Silverman , a spokesman for the Sunnyvale,
California-based company. He said Longoria worked at AMD from
January 2007 to October 2010, when he resigned.  “This kind of activity is expressly prohibited by the
company,” Silverman said. “AMD has been cooperating with the
U.S. attorney’s office and will continue to do so,” he said.  David Frink , a spokesman for Round Rock, Texas-based  Dell ,
the world’s third-biggest maker of personal computers, said the
company will cooperate with law enforcement. DeVore’s lawyer,
Johnny Sutton, declined to comment.  Apple iPhone  Flextronics supplied components to  Apple Inc.  during the
time of the alleged fraud, prosecutors said in the statement.
Shimoon is accused of providing Fleishman’s firm with
confidential sales forecast information and new product features
for Apple’s iPhone.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Renee Brotherton , a California-based spokeswoman for
Flextronics, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  Chuck Byers , a representative for Taiwan Semiconductor, didn’t return
a call seeking comment.  Karunatilaka’s lawyer, Brad Bailey, said his client made an
initial court appearance in Boston today before a U.S.
magistrate judge who agreed to release him on $300,000 bond.
Bailey said he expects his client to be released today.  ‘Reviewing the Charges’  “I am in the process of reviewing the charges against
him,” Bailey said.  Fleishman won release on $700,000 bail today from U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Howard Lloyd  in San Jose, California.  The bail terms, agreed to by prosecutors in New York,
require Fleishman to post his Santa Clara, California, home as
collateral, said  Stuart Gasner , Fleishman’s lawyer. Fleishman is
scheduled to appear in court in New York on Jan. 4.  Fleishman is the second Primary Global employee charged by
Bharara’s office. On Nov. 24, Don Ching Trang Chu was charged
with arranging for insiders at publicly traded companies to
improperly provide information to hedge fund clients of his
consulting firm.  Spherix Capital  Chu, 56, was accused of establishing a relationship with
Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former partner at San Jose, California-
based hedge fund Spherix Capital LLC, prosecutors said in their
complaint against Chu. Lee was employed as an analyst by SAC
Capital Advisors LLC, the hedge fund firm run by Steven Cohen,
from 1999 to 2004.  The U.S. said Spherix paid Chu’s firm for tips. Inside
information was passed concerning Atheros Communications Inc.,
Broadcom Corp. and Sierra Wireless Inc., according to the
government’s complaint.  Lee pleaded guilty last year to insider trading at Spherix
Capital and is cooperating with the U.S. in its probe of Galleon
Group LLC.  The four arrested today are charged with conspiring to
commit securities fraud from 2008 to early 2010, prosecutors
said. The U.S. said an unidentified cooperating witness, who
worked as a co-manager at a hedge fund, directed payments to an
unnamed expert-networking firm.  In October 2009, the U.S. charged Galleon’s founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , in what it called the largest insider-trading case
involving hedge funds. Rajaratnam, 53, has denied wrongdoing and
is scheduled for trial next year.  McKinsey & Co.  In January, former McKinsey & Co. director  Anil Kumar 
pleaded guilty to criminal charges, saying that he leaked
advance information to Rajaratnam about AMD’s acquisition of ATI
Technologies in 2006, which Rajaratnam used to make $19 million
for Galleon.  On Nov. 22, FBI agents from New York and Boston executed
search warrants at the offices of Level Global Investors LP and
Diamondback Capital Management LLC, firms founded by alumni of
SAC Capital Advisors.  Agents that day also executed a search warrant at the
offices of Loch Capital Management. None of the firms or their
employees has been accused of any wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 