-- Banks Push Fed to Curb Borrowers' Right to Rescind Mortgages
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/fed-mortgage-recission-plan-sparks-fight-between-lenders-consumer-groups.html
Mortgage firms are pressing the
Federal Reserve to curb homeowners’ right to invalidate loans
based on flawed documents -- a right consumer groups say is one
of the few weapons borrowers have to battle unfair lending.  Consumer groups and industry lawyers say a rule under
consideration by the central bank would make it harder for
borrowers to exercise their right of “rescission,” which
forces a lender to relinquish a lien on a mortgaged property.
They said the number of rescissions has grown in recent years as
a result of the  foreclosure crisis  and allegations that mortgage
documents were fabricated or processed improperly.  Ken Markison, regulatory counsel at the Mortgage Bankers
Association, said the change would save lenders money. “Greater
clarity will help avoid unnecessary litigation and reduce
costs,” Markison said.  Wells Fargo & Co. , Bank of America Corp., and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., the three largest U.S. mortgage lenders, all
declined to discuss rescissions or didn’t respond to requests
for comment.  Susan Stawick , a Fed spokeswoman, also declined to
comment.  Lenders are pressing the Federal Reserve to act on the
issue now because starting in July, rescission rules will come
under the purview of the new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, industry lawyers said.  Jeffrey Naimon , a lawyer with
Buckley Sandler LLP, described the consumer agency in an e-mail
as “a much more political” regulator than the Fed.  Fed ‘Rushing’  Since the financial crisis began, the Fed has come under
criticism for having failed to meet its existing legal mandate
to protect consumers from deceptive mortgages and other
financial products. That track record was one reason behind
Congress’s push to create an independent consumer agency.  “I cannot understand why the Fed is rushing through this
voluntary gift to the banks unless the Fed is afraid that if it
doesn’t curtail the rights of rescission now, it will never
happen,” said Kathleen Engel, a professor at Suffolk University
Law School in Boston.  The right of rescission was established by the 1968 Truth
in Lending Act. Borrowers who can show a material misstatement
in loan documents have three years to issue a rescission notice
to the lender, who must revoke its lien on the property.  Consumer and industry lawyers said rescissions have risen
because of fallout from the collapse of the housing bubble,
although precise numbers are hard to come by.  Kathleen Day , a
spokeswoman for the Center for Responsible Lending, estimated
that there are “thousands” of rescission cases pending in
jurisdictions around the country; by contrast, the Federal
Reserve estimated that there will be 2.25 million foreclosure
filings this year.  Forced Modification  Borrowers usually exercise the right of rescission during a
foreclosure or other legal proceedings, effectively forcing a
loan modification. The borrower seeks a new lender, the original
lender returns interest and fees, and the principal is repaid by
the second lender.  “It is ultimately the biggest hammer in the toolkit for a
lawyer helping someone to save their home,” said  Ira Rheingold ,
executive director of the National Association of Consumer
Advocates.  The Fed issued the proposed regulation on Sept. 24 as part
of an update of truth-in-lending rules, and asked for public
comment by Dec. 23. The  Fed filing  said the new rules are part
of an ongoing review of truth-in-lending rules that has been
proceeding for years, and would “reduce uncertainty and
litigation costs.”  “The Board does not believe that Congress intended for the
creditor to lose its status as a secured creditor if the
consumer does not return the loan balance,” the Fed wrote.  Compliance Burden  The Fed filings noted that rescissions are sometimes based
on technicalities, such as providing only one copy of a
disclosure instead of two. The goal of the new rule is to
“reduce undue compliance burden and litigation risk for
creditors,” the Fed said, while improving “the clarity and
usefulness of disclosures for the consumer’s right to rescind.”  Day of the Center for Responsible Lending called the
proposed curbs an “industry-friendly move” that contradicts
the Obama administration’s goal of minimizing foreclosures.  “It runs at cross purposes with any effort to bring people
to the table,” Day said in an interview.  At a mid-October meeting of the Fed’s Consumer Advisory
Council, an external advisory group, consumer groups expressed
opposition to the change. At the meeting, Governor  Daniel Tarullo  signaled that he opposed the proposed rescission rule,
according to two people present. Tarullo declined requests for
comment.  Consumer Bureau  Two members of the advisory council, who asked that they
not be identified because the discussions were private, said
they brought the dispute to the attention of  Elizabeth Warren ,
the special adviser to President  Barack Obama  charged with
setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The bureau
will take over responsibility for truth-in-lending regulations
when it begins operations after July 21.  A coalition of consumer and civil rights groups, including
Consumers Union and the NAACP, sent a letter to the Fed on Nov.
16 asking the central bank to hold off on updating truth-in-
lending regulations until the CFPB starts work.  Naimon , the lawyer with Buckley Sandler who represents
lenders, said that waiting for the CFPB would “result in years
of additional delay.”  Rescissions add “thousands of dollars” to the cost of a
foreclosure process because a bank has to hire a local law firm
to manage the litigation, he said. That legal work “can’t just
be done from headquarters.”  Potent Tool  With credit markets tight, lenders have become less willing
to issue new mortgages, so rescissions have become a potent tool
for consumers seeking a loan modification, said  Robert Cook , a
Hanover, Maryland-based attorney with the firm Hudson Cook LLP.
Lenders lose the security on the mortgage -- the home itself --
effectively becoming unsecured creditors.  “The conventional wisdom, which I think is correct, is
that rescissions rise as the economy falls,” Cook said.  The private securitization of mortgages, rare when the
lending act was passed in 1968, has imposed additional costs.
Under the law, Cook said, the trustee of a pool of privately
securitized mortgages can pull the rescinded mortgage out and
force the issuer to buy it back.  The Fed proposal would require borrowers to tender the full
loan principal before the creditor relinquishes the lien, a
change that would “eviscerate the single most effective tool
that homeowners have to stop foreclosures,” the consumer groups
wrote in their letter.  Naimon argued that rescissions are a “lose/lose
proposition” because they are “often a frivolous claim” and
no money will be paid to consumers, but rather to lawyers for
mortgage bankers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 