-- Visa, MasterCard Model Threatened by Debit Proposal
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-17T21:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/federal-reserve-moves-to-reduce-debit-card-fees-visa-mastercard-decline.html
Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc.  may
face permanent damage to the fastest-growing part of their
business after the Federal Reserve proposed rules that could cut
debit-card transaction fees by 84 percent.  “It is negative all around,” wrote  Scott Valentin , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets, in a note to clients. “This
significantly impacts the business model for the networks.”  Visa and MasterCard, the world’s biggest payment networks,
plunged more than 10 percent in New York trading yesterday after
the Fed proposed capping so-called interchange fees at 12 cents
each. Currently, the networks charge merchants an average of 1
percent of the purchase price, regardless of cost, and pass that
money to banks that issue cards.  The change, if approved by the Fed after a public comment
period, would wipe out most of the $16.2 billion in revenue that
debit cards generated last year for U.S. lenders, including  Bank
of America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co.  “These credit-card giants and banks are imposing fees that
are in no relation to the actual cost of processing, and the
retailers and merchants have no way to bargain or even resist
these increases,” U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois
Democrat who pushed for the caps, said in an interview. “This
new law brings the Federal Reserve into the picture and changes
that dynamic.”  Visa  fell 29 cents to $66.90 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, after yesterday’s 13 percent
decline, the most in two years. MasterCard dropped $2.23, or 1
percent, to $221.26, after plunging 10 percent yesterday.  More Competition  The average debit interchange fee last year was 44 cents
per transaction, or 1.14 percent of the purchase price,
according to a  draft  of the proposed rules. The Fed staff
outlined plans that recommend setting interchange at 7 cents or
12 cents, a reduction of 73 percent to 84 percent. Initial Wall
Street estimates yesterday pegged the cut as high as 90 percent.  The proposed reductions would align U.S. interchange rates
more closely with other countries, including Australia and the
27 nations of the European Union. Visa Europe Ltd., operator of
the Continent’s biggest payments network, agreed to cut the fees
to 0.2 percent as part of a deal to end EU antitrust action, the
European Commission said last week. MasterCard agreed to the
same rate last year.  Network Choices  The Fed hasn’t yet decided how to implement a rule that
would require banks to let merchants choose from at least two
independent debit networks for routing transactions, a change
that could create more competition for MasterCard and San
Francisco-based Visa.  MasterCard said the Fed didn’t consider “the full range of
costs” tied to debit programs and that the rules would shift
costs from merchants to their customers.  “Consumers, not banks or payments networks, are the
biggest losers as a result of this regulation,” said  Noah Hanft , general counsel for Purchase, New York-based MasterCard,
in a statement. “This type of price control is misguided and
anticompetitive.”  Visa, which derives about 20 percent of its revenue from
U.S. debit, said the rules would create “unintended
consequences” for the industry and consumers.  Actual Costs  “The Federal Reserve’s proposal includes artificial caps
on debit interchange that do not realistically reflect the value
of card acceptance and do not reflect the actual costs of
running a secure, reliable and efficient debit network,”  Will Valentine , a spokesman for Visa, said in a statement.  While Visa and MasterCard don’t keep interchange fees, the
caps may prompt banks that do to renegotiate their service
contracts, the payments networks’ biggest revenue source.  The caps are based on information collected from debit-card
issuers, networks and merchants about costs, the Fed staff wrote
in a memo that Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  prepared for the
board. This approach means the Fed is unlikely to shift much
when it writes the final rule,  Jaret Seiberg , a financial-
services policy analyst with MF Global in Washington, said in a
research note.  “Substantive changes will require new evidence, which is
unlikely given the amount of work the Fed has spent on this
project,” Seiberg said.  Retailers  The Retail Industry Leaders Association, which represents
companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , Home Depot Inc. and
Target Corp., said the Fed’s proposal validates the claims of
merchants that the payments market is broken.  The Fed’s proposal “is a step forward for the effort to
bring relief to merchants and consumers,” said  Brian Dodge , a
RILA spokesman.  Bankers will push lawmakers to change or eliminate the
Durbin provisions they passed in July as part of the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul legislation, according to  Kenneth Clayton ,
senior vice president and general counsel for card policy at the
American Bankers Association.  “Congress needs to revisit the issue,” Clayton said. “An
implementation delay would be welcome.”  To compensate for the lost profit, banks may eliminate
rewards on debit cards and charge some customers for using them,
said  John McDonald , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
in a Dec. 15 note to clients. Fees on deposit accounts may rise
and banks could promote other products that aren’t covered by
the regulations, such as charge cards that require consumers to
pay their bills in full each month, he wrote.  Cards or Cash  Debit cards have become an increasingly popular substitute
for cash as credit-card issuers cut off accounts and curbed
lending amid the financial crisis and recession.  U.S. consumer spending with debit cards climbed 8 percent
last year to $1.45 trillion, while credit purchases plunged 10
percent, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.
Total debit transactions climbed 13 percent to 38.6 billion,
while those for credit dropped 4 percent to 22.36 billion.  The law allows the central bank to consider fraud costs
incurred by lenders in determining appropriate interchange
rates. The Fed staff said in its memo that it lacked enough
information to make a recommendation to the board on that issue
and would seek input during the public comment period, which
ends Feb. 22.  Fraud Prevention  “The largest cost for most of our institutions in
providing these services are fraud costs and fraud prevention
costs,” said  Bill Cheney , chief executive officer of the Credit
Union National Association.  While the law exempts banks with assets of less than $10
billion, including most community banks and credit unions, those
institutions remain concerned that Visa and MasterCard may
ultimately lower  interchange  rates for everyone, Cheney said.  “Setting a cap ensures that no issuer is able to receive
an interchange fee at an unreasonably high level,” Yellen said
in the memo outlining the proposals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  