-- Flaherty Seeks Provincial Accord on Canada Pooled Registered Pension Plans
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-16T15:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/flaherty-seeks-provincial-accord-on-canada-pooled-registered-pension-plans.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  asked his provincial counterparts to agree to new rules
for pooled registered pension plans that would allow small
companies and self-employed workers to have better options.  The pooled plans “would improve the range of retirement
savings options available to Canadians,” Flaherty said in a
letter he sent to provincial finance ministers ahead of their
Dec. 19-20 meeting in Kananaskis, Alberta.  Flaherty and provincial ministers said in June they would
look for ways to give banks and insurance companies more scope
in providing pension plans for multiple employers or the self-
employed.  The pooled plans “will be particularly beneficial to
Canadians that do not have the benefit of an employer sponsored
pension plan, including the self-employed,” according to a
document provided by Finance Canada.  The plans would have lower management costs and insure that
the funds are invested in the best interest of the plan’s
members, the document said.  Flaherty also wrote that “the risks related to continued
global economic uncertainty remain” and that the federal and
provincial governments must “reaffirm our commitment to
balanced budgets and sound fiscal management.”  The finance ministers said in June they would consider
increases to the  Canada Pension Plan , a mandatory system in
which workers and employers contribute.  Alberta Finance Minister  Ted Morton  in June opposed
expanding the Canada Pension Plan, saying it’s an over-reaction
to the need to boost retirement income and the higher deductions
would be a “job killer” payroll tax that puts an unfair burden
on future generations.  The proposals can proceed over Alberta’s objections as long
as two-thirds of Canada’s provinces, representing two-thirds of
the population, are in favor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 