-- Flaherty Urges Canadian Provinces to Balance Budgets, Pool Pension Funds
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-16T17:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/flaherty-urges-canadian-provinces-to-balance-budgets-pool-pension-funds.html
Canada’s Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said provincial governments should seek to balance
their budgets in the “medium term,” which he described as
about 2015.  “I’m going to encourage all the provinces and territories
to get to balance,” he told reporters in Ottawa today.  Flaherty, who said in October that Canadian deficits will
total C$165.2 billion ($164.3 billion) over the 2009-2014
period, had said the country is “on track” to meet its goal of
returning to balance by 2015-16.  Ontario Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan  said last month the
province will run a deficit of C$18.7 billion in the current
fiscal year, down from a June forecast of C$19.7 billion.
Ontario will have budget gaps of C$17.3 billion in 2011-12 and
C$15.9 billion in 2012-13 and a balanced budget in seven years.  Flaherty, who will meet with his provincial counterparts
Dec. 19-20 at a meeting in Kananaskis, Alberta, said he spoke to
Duncan “recently on this subject.”  Flaherty also said Canada’s economic  recovery  is “modest”
and that Europe’s situation remains “serious.” He said his
second goal for the meeting is to get his provincial
counterparts to agree to new rules for pooled registered pension
plans that would allow small companies and self-employed workers
to have better options.  Range of Options  The pooled plans “would improve the range of retirement
savings options available to Canadians,” Flaherty said in a
letter he sent to provincial finance ministers ahead of their
meeting.  Flaherty and provincial ministers said in June they would
look for ways to give  banks and insurance companies  more scope
in providing pension plans for multiple employers or the self-
employed.  The pooled plans “will be particularly beneficial to
Canadians that do not have the benefit of an employer sponsored
pension plan, including the self-employed,” according to a
document provided by Finance Canada.  The plans would have lower management costs and insure that
the funds are invested in the best interest of the plan’s
members, the document said.  The finance ministers said in June they would consider
increases to the  Canada Pension Plan , a mandatory system in
which workers and employers contribute.  ‘Get This Right’  “There are no quick or easy solutions on CPP,” Flaherty
said. “We must keep in mind the implications of proposals on
the larger Canadian economy and we’re not ignorant of that.
What’s key here is taking the time to get this right.”  Alberta Finance Minister  Ted Morton  in June opposed
expanding the Canada Pension Plan, saying it’s an over-reaction
to the need to boost retirement income and the higher deductions
would be a “ job killer”  payroll tax that puts an unfair burden
on future generations.  The proposals can proceed over Alberta’s objections as long
as two-thirds of Canada’s provinces, representing two-thirds of
the population, are in favor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 