-- Floating-Rate Bonds Favored for 2011 as Inflation Quickens: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-16T16:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/floating-rate-bonds-favored-for-2011-as-inflation-quickens-russia-credit.html
Traders are stepping up bets Russia
will begin lifting borrowing costs from record lows to stem
inflation, spurring gains in debt linked to central bank rates
and losses on fixed-rate bonds.  OAO Transneft ruble notes due in 2019 with a coupon tied to
Bank Rossii’s one-year repurchase rate jumped 7.1 percent since
the central bank last reviewed target borrowing costs Nov. 26.
Similar-maturity debt issued by the pipeline operator paying a
fixed rate dropped 1.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Notes due in 2013 from IK Strategia, a Perm-based investment
company, that are tied to the refinancing rate surged 31 percent
in the period versus a 34 percent drop in similar maturity
fixed-rate debt of food retailer OAO Magnit, the data show.  Traders are pricing in 73 basis points, or 0.73 percentage
point, of rate increases in Russia over the next three months,
the most in almost three weeks,  forward rate agreements  show.
Russia’s  year-on-year inflation rate  rose for a fourth month in
November, to 8.1 percent, the highest level since December 2009.
In Brazil, the rate jumped to 5.63 percent, the quickest since
February 2009.  “Anything linked to rates should be seen as a potentially
good investment going into 2011 given the market is pricing in a
greater likelihood of hikes,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets
credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a phone
interview. “These kinds of bonds should have very good
potential.”  After 14 cuts to key rates between April 2009 and May this
year, Bank Rossii is “free” to tighten monetary policy “in
case it’s necessary,” First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said in a Dec. 1 interview in London.  The central bank’s Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev  said last week
that inflation is a “worry” and policymakers may control it by
raising rates in the first quarter of next year.  ‘Loved’ by Investors  Russia’s  refinancing rate , currently at a low of 7.75
percent, will rise to 8 percent by the end of the first quarter,
according to the median estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg before Bank Rossii’s Nov. 26 announcement. Russia
doesn’t target one benchmark rate. The rate charged on overnight
repurchase loans is 5 percent, while the deposit rate is 2.5
percent, both also at record lows.  Brazilian Floaters  “These bonds are loved by portfolio investors, but there’s
few of them in Russia,”  Dmitry Gritskevich , a fixed-income
analyst at OAO Promsvyazbank, said in St. Petersburg last week.
“Once our market grows more of these will develop.”  Bonds linked to official rates or consumer prices make up
more than 60 percent of the Brazilian local-currency debt
market, according to data from the Treasury. Fixed-rate real-
denominated bonds accounted for 36.7 percent of total
outstanding debt of 1.5 trillion reais, while inflation-linked
bonds made up 28.4 percent and floating-rate securities with
interest tied to the interbank rate, known as Selic, represented
33.3 percent.  Russia has just four bonds with so-called floating rates
tied to either inflation or borrowing costs, and only a few with
coupons that switch to official or money market rates after a
fixed period, Bloomberg data shows.  Notes maturing 2014 of Moscow-based OAO Russian Railways
tied to the one-week repurchase rate climbed to a three-week
high of 103.45 on Dec. 14, while fixed-rate 2014 bonds have
dropped 1.2 percent this month to 121.35 by 7:35 p.m. in Moscow
today.  Question of Timing  Investors need to be convinced that interest rates are
going to rise to buy bonds linked to official borrowing costs,
said  Dmitry Dudkin , head of fixed-income research in Moscow at
UralSib Financial Corp.  “The problem is timing,” Dudkin said by e-mail Dec. 7.
“For investors it’s not clear when exactly the rates go up and
if they stay low for, say another 12 months, then the return on
floaters will be noticeably lower than on longer-term bonds.”  The ruble weakened for the first day this week, dropping
0.2 percent to 30.7126 per dollar by the close of trading. Non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 31.0218 per dollar in three months.  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell today, helping the
yield 8 basis points higher to 5.14 percent, the highest since
July 20. The price of the country’s ruble notes due August 2016
rose for a third day, pushing the yield down 10 basis points to
7.59 percent, the lowest this week.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 5 basis point to 190 points,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. The so-called spread
compares with 139 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 177 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  spread  on Russian bonds is 37 basis points below the
average for emerging markets, the widest since Nov. 18,
according to JPMorgan Indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was 141 points today, down
from this year’s peak of 217, according to data provider CMA.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 9 basis points less than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  Developing Market  Bonds linked to inflation or interest rates will only take
off once Russia moves to a real inflation-targeting regime that
sets one benchmark rate, said  Nikolay Podguzov , head of fixed-
income strategy at VTB Capital, the Moscow-based investment
banking arm of Russia’s second-largest lender.  Russia’s  Finance Ministry  has one federal bond, or OFZ,
linked to the consumer price index. The 2018 note issued in 2004
has traded unchanged in December.  “As the central bank steadily moves towards inflation
targeting and market participants gain more confidence that
their monetary policy is more reliable then these bonds will
become more popular,” Podguzov said by phone in Moscow on Dec.
8. “In order to successfully trade these bonds you need to have
a good understanding of how to measure inflation expectations
and we’re not quite there in Russia yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  