-- Flybe Chief Plots European Expansion After IPO Backed by Soros Investment
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-12-16T08:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/flybe-chief-plots-european-expansion-after-ipo-backed-by-soros-investment.html
Flybe Group Plc , the U.K. domestic
airline that held an initial public offering last week, is in
talks to provide feeder services to the hubs of major European
carriers, its chief executive officer said.  Flybe, which announced a code-share agreement with Air
France-KLM Group in July, will focus on expansion after the
stock sale attracted investors including  George Soros , CEO  Jim French  said in an interview. An outline deal with Finnair Oyj
will be completed within six months, the executive said.  With a fleet of regional aircraft that serve shorter, less
busy routes than mainline carriers, Flybe, the U.K.’s largest
domestic airline, aims to remain an independent operator
cooperating with as many European airlines as possible, he said.  “We’re not going into Europe to challenge Ryanair, EasyJet
and Air France,” the CEO said yesterday in London. “We have a
substantial airline that can give a lot of feed into the hubs,
but we’re not a subsidiary of anybody.”  Soros’s Quantum Partners LP fund bought 2.45 million shares
in Flybe, giving it a 3.4 percent stake in the Exeter, England-
based company, according to regulatory filings.  About half the cash raised in the 63 million-pound ($98
million) IPO will be used to pay deposits on 35  Embraer SA  E-175
regional jets. Ordered in July and valued at $1.3 billion, the
planes will replace Bombardier Inc. Q400 turboprops over the
next six years, French said.  Paring Costs  Flybe rose 0.8 percent to 340 pence at 8:24 a.m. in London.
The stock has advanced 15 percent since it  began trading  on Dec.
10, valuing the carrier at 255 million pounds.  Flybe Finance director  Andrew Knuckey  estimates that the
jets will cut per-seat operating costs by as much as 10 percent.
The airline has options for a further 65 planes and purchase
rights for 40 more, and French says the fleet will probably grow
to 110 aircraft by 2015 and as many as 150 by 2020.  “We set out to create this new generation of regional
airline that took the key elements of the legacy carriers and
the key elements of the low-cost carriers,” the CEO said.  Founded in 1979 as Jersey European Airways after the island
in the English Channel to which it flew, the company was renamed
British European in 2000. It took on its current identity two
years later after switching to a low-cost strategy.  Flybe acquired  British Airways Plc ’s BA Connect unit for
521 million pounds in 2006, adding more than 50 routes and
doubling the number of customers to become the U.K.’s domestic
No. 1 and the largest regional carrier in Europe.  Remaining proceeds from the share sale will be used to
strengthen the carrier’s balance sheet, allowing it to pursue
purchases, French said.  “We’ve got teams working on various acquisitions,” he
said, without identify targets. “We’ll do it at a pace that’s
affordable and controllable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ; 