-- From Obama Dinner to Top Dog Gala, A-List Event Honcho Monn Makes a Splash
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/from-obama-dinner-to-top-dog-gala-a-list-event-honcho-monn-makes-a-splash.html
David E. Monn  had only three hours
to transform the  American Museum of Natural History ’s Whale Room
into a dreamy dinner space for the New York  Animal Medical
Center ’s 100th anniversary Top Dog Gala.  Monn, who calls himself a master event designer, said he
wanted to dazzle the 500 attendees with a surreal setting in the
cavernous room last Thursday night. His team of more than 100
placed thousands of candles on tables covered with midnight-blue
 organza  cloths accented by sequins designed by Monn.  “I want the Whale Room to look like a sea of sparkling
black sand in the bottom of the ocean,” the silver-haired Monn,
47, said in an interview.  A donor to the animal hospital, he did the job free to give
back to the nonprofit, which raised $1.5 million with the event.  “I do it for the organizations I care about,” said Monn,
whose Manhattan office features fine antiques and Sammy, an
affable  Cavalier King Charles Spaniel . “I like to create an
environment that encapsulates the reason the event is there and
to create an experience.”  In May, he added the White House to his resume as the
decorator-in-chief for President  Barack Obama ’s state dinner
hosting Mexican President  Felipe Calderon .  Since leaving the jewelry industry and turning his party-
throwing hobby into a business in 2003, Monn has been dubbed the
“architect of style” for an approach to party planning that
combines shock and elegance.  Chirping Crickets  He has installed 20-foot chrysanthemum trees, pumped in the
sounds of chirping crickets and hired mist machines to fill a
room with his custom-made fragrances. His clients include the
 Metropolitan Museum of Art , the New York City Ballet, the New
York Public Library and the Morgan Library & Museum.  Monn never repeats a design concept and works under tight
deadlines. For the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum’s international
gala last month, he had only a day to transform its seashell-
like atrium into a colorful dining room for 500 guests including
architect  Frank Gehry  and philanthropist  Eli Broad .  When dinner time came, many gasped upon seeing the collage
of bright red, yellow and orange tables and matching table
settings with which he had filled the first floor. Decorative
plates had been hand-painted for each setting.  “I think of David as an artist,”  Jennifer Stockman , the
Guggenheim’s board president, said in an interview. “He’s so
creative about the design, the way people move through the
space, the music you hear, the whole environment.”  Passion for Fashion  Monn, who grew up in rural  Fayetteville, Pennsylvania ,
wanted to be a fashion designer as a child. He developed a
passion for interior design as a teenager. While working in a
local drugstore, he voraciously read House & Garden and
Architectural Digest magazines during his breaks. At 17, he went
to New York to sew for clothing maker  Jonathan A. Logan .  “From a very young age, I always wanted to make things
beautiful,” he said. “I realized that I wasn’t going to be the
next  Calvin Klein . The thing I loved to do the most became that
thing that I now do.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 