-- Gehry Reveals Design for First Australian Building
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-16T04:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/gehry-reveals-tree-house-design-for-first-building-project-in-australia.html
Frank Gehry , the Pritzker Prize-
winning architect of projects including the  Museo Guggenheim
Bilbao , today unveiled the design for his first Australian
 building .  The 16,030 square meter (172,545 square foot)  University of
Technology, Sydney,  business school building will cost A$150
million ($148 million) and will be spread out over 11 floors.  The building, on the site of the former Dairy Farmers
Cooperative about 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) from the city center,
will have a “tree-house” design, incorporating a core
structure, with “branches” spreading away from it, Gehry said.
It will be made from yellow bricks and sharp-angled sheets of
glass with a “crinkly” facade.  “The brief was that business schools needed to open
themselves up to creative processes,” Gehry told reporters in
Sydney. The building seeks to fulfill the “yearning for opening
that up,” he said.  Construction on the Dr. Chau Chak Wing Building, named
after a Chinese businessman who is donating A$20 million to fund
the project, and a further A$5 million in scholarships, is
expected to start in 2012. It will be ready for the 2014
academic year, UTS said in a statement. Community consultation
on the design will start tomorrow and continue until Jan. 14,
according to the UTS statement.  ‘Broken Crockery’  Toronto-born Gehry, who established his practice,  Gehry
Partners LLP , in Los Angeles in 1962, has designed buildings
including the  Walt Disney Concert Hall  in that city -- once
criticized for resembling a pile of “broken crockery,” Gehry
said, -- the  Weisman Art Museum  at the  University of Minnesota 
in Minneapolis, and the  Lewis Library  at  Princeton University .  He is known for his “deconstructivist” style, a post-
modern architectural method that uses fragmented shapes and
distorted structures.  The UTS business school project is “one of national
significance,” Chris Evans, minister for tertiary education,
skills, jobs and workplace relations, said at the briefing. “No
doubt, as with all architectural contributions in Sydney
there’ll be controversy and debate, and that’s a good thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  