-- General Mills Profit Rises 8.6%, Misses Estimates on Raw-Material Costs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-12-16T21:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/general-mills-profit-misses-estimates-as-cost-of-raw-ingredients-increases.html
General Mills Inc. , the maker of
Cheerios cereal and Progresso soup, reported an 8.6 percent gain
in second-quarter profit, missing analysts’ projections as costs
of raw ingredients increased and discounts damped sales growth.  Net income  in the period ended Nov. 28 rose to $613.9
million, or 92 cents a share, from $565.5 million, or 83 cents,
a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding items such as tax gains, earnings were 76
cents, compared with the 78-cent average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Ken Powell  raised some cereal
prices mid-November to make up for surging ingredient expenses.
Powell, 56, has introduced items like chocolate-flavored
Cheerios to lure shoppers away from rival cereal makers  Kellogg
Co.  and Ralcorp Holdings Inc., which have dangled promotional
discounts to capture more sales.  “The cereal category has remained sluggish in recent
months, but General Mills has been the relative winner,”  Alexia Howard , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a report to
clients this week. The New York-based analyst rates the  shares 
“market perform.”  General Mills rose 21 cents to $36.59 at 4:00 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have risen 3.3
percent this year.  The company also reaffirmed its fiscal 2011 profit  forecast 
of $2.46 to $2.48 per share, compared with $2.30 last year.
Kellogg, of Battle Creek, Michigan, has reduced its profit
forecast twice this year because of a June recall and heightened
competition.  Cereal, Snack Sales  General Mills’ sales rose about 1 percent to $4.01 billion.
U.S. cereal sales declined 2 percent compared with last year,
when they rose 10 percent. International revenue and sales of
Yoplait yogurt both advanced 4 percent. Snack revenue dropped 3
percent.  Sales were hurt by “high levels of price promotion by food
manufacturers and retailers,” Powell said in the statement.  “General Mills is holding up  better than its peers , but
it’s still a pretty challenging promotional environment,”  John Baumgartner , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said in an
interview. “It was comforting to see the guidance reiterated.”  The foodmaker said last month that input costs may rise as
much as 5 percent in the year ending in May. Sugar prices have
more than doubled since declining to a 13-month low in May on
concern global supplies may be restricted because of bad weather
in Brazil, the world’s biggest producer. Wheat prices had
climbed more than 40 percent this year through yesterday after
drought slashed Russian production and floods in Australia and
Canada threatened crop quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 