-- Portugal May Get Frozen Out by Bond-Sale `Avalanche' in 2011: Euro Credit
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/german-economic-recovery-to-broaden-in-2011-on-consumer-spending-s-p-says.html
Germany’s economic recovery will
broaden next year as Europe’s largest economy benefits from
faster growth in consumer demand and business investment,
Standard & Poor’s said.  Household spending will increase 2 percent in 2011,
compared with 0.5 percent this year, S&P Chief European
Economist  Jean-Michel Six  said in an e-mailed report in Paris
today. Business-investment growth will accelerate to 10.5
percent from 10 percent in 2010, he said.  Germany’s economy fueled the euro region’s growth this year
as companies stepped up hiring and output to meet export demand,
encouraging consumer spending. While economic expansion may slow
as waning government stimulus packages around the world hurt the
nation’s exports, stronger domestic demand may still put its
expansion on a firmer footing, S&P said.  “The economic upswing will continue, we believe, feeding
on a broader and more balanced range of growth sources in the
coming two years,” Six said in the report. “Domestic demand,
corporate capital spending, and household consumption will
likely widen the dimensions of the recovery, while export growth
levels off.”  Exports  and private consumption drove Germany’s 0.7 percent
economic growth in the third quarter, data showed on Nov. 23.
Six forecast net exports will make almost no contribution to
growth over the next two years and the nation’s high dependence
on overseas demand may be a source of potential weakness as
world trade slows.  Government budget squeezes in Germany’s main trading
partners and tighter monetary policy conditions in emerging
markets, particularly China, may cause a exports to fall “more
markedly than we currently anticipate,” he said.  German  gross domestic product  expansion will slow from 3.5
percent this year to 2.4 percent in 2011 and then 2.1 percent
the year after, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  