-- German Business Confidence Probably Stayed Near Record on Domestic Growth
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2010-12-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/german-business-confidence-probably-stayed-near-record-on-domestic-growth.html
German  business confidence  probably
held close to a record high in December as stronger domestic
demand helped bolster the recovery in Europe’s largest economy.  The  Ifo institute ’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, probably fell to 109.0 from 109.3 in
November, which was the highest since records for a reunified
Germany began in 1991, the median of 36 forecasts in Bloomberg
News  survey  shows. Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich.  Germany’s economy is fueling the  euro region ’s recovery as
declining unemployment encourages consumer demand, and companies
boost investment, helping counter weaker exports. While
countries from Ireland to Spain are struggling to restore growth
and curb budget deficits, the German Bundesbank on Dec. 3
forecast a record pace of economic growth this year.  “This is a classic recovery story where it starts in the
manufacturing sector, employment picks up and then it spreads to
consumers,” said  Jens Sondergaard , an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “All the worries that this was
just an export recovery are not there anymore.”  Ifo’s gauge of executives’  expectations  probably declined
to 106 from 106.3, the Bloomberg survey shows. An indicator of
the  current situation  may increase to 112.5 from 112.3. That
would be the highest since May 2007.  Record Expansion  Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock index  has gained more than 17
percent this year, making it the best performer among major
European equity markets.  Investor confidence  improved in
December, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said on Dec. 14.  While weaker exports were among the main reasons behind a
slowdown in the third quarter, consumer demand may help bolster
an expansion in 2011, the Bundesbank said on Dec. 13. The
economy will probably grow 3.6 percent this year, the fastest
pace since data for a reunified Germany was first compiled in
1992, before cooling to 2 percent in 2011, it forecast.  By comparison, the European Commission last month projected
the 16-member euro region to expand 1.7 percent this year and
1.5 percent in 2011 as governments step up austerity measures.  In Germany,  unemployment  fell for a 17th straight month in
November, keeping the jobless rate at 7.5 percent. That’s the
lowest since April 1992.  Manufacturing growth  accelerated in
December and  industrial output  increased in October.  A consumer sentiment index published by GfK AG rose to its
highest level in three years, the Nuremburg-based market-
research firm said on Nov. 23.  Crisis ‘Burden’  Axel Strotbek , chief financial officer of  Volkswagen AG ’s
Audi luxury-car division, said on Dec. 14 that orders for the
new A1 compact are “higher than expected.”  Peter Bauer , chief
executive officer at  Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-
largest chipmaker, said last week the sales target for the
current fiscal year may be “conservative.”  “For the past 10 years, the German economy has been
running on one engine -- exports,” said  David Milleker , chief
economist at Union Investment GmbH in Frankfurt. “Now it’s more
like three -- exports, consumption and investment.”  German companies may struggle to maintain their sales
growth as governments from Spain to France lower budget deficits
such as through spending cuts, undermining the region’s
recovery. German  factory orders  from euro-area countries dropped
0.9 percent in October from the previous month.  European leaders are seeking ways to stop contagion and
restore investor confidence after Ireland last month became the
second euro-region country to ask for external aid.  “The euro crisis would become something of a burden for
the German economy if every two months another country had to be
rescued,” said  Fabienne Riefer , an economist at  Deutsche
Postbank  in Bonn, Germany. “It would also affect the mood of
the public and eventually the real economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  