-- Ghana Looks to Expand Oil Drilling After Jubilee Pumping Starts
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-12-16T14:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ghana-looks-to-expand-future-oil-drilling-after-jubilee-pumping-begins.html
Ghana  plans to expand oil production
in the area near the offshore Jubilee field, which began
operations yesterday, according to the head of the state-
controlled  Ghana National Petroleum Corp.   An area southeast of Jubilee’s pumping rig is most likely
to be the next place where the West African nation will begin
crude production, said  Nana Boakye Asafu-Adjaye , chief executive
officer of the company, in an interview in the western city of
Takoradi.  Appraisal wells have already been drilled, though Asafu-
Adjaye said it wasn’t clear whether production would be part of
Jubilee or operated separately, he said. He declined to say what
oil companies are involved or what stakes they would hold in the
field. “There are some critical decisions to be made,” Asafu-
Adjaye said.  Ghana, the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, is
planning to use its new oil revenue to diversify its economy
with aluminum, petrochemical and fertilizer industries,
President  John Atta Mills  said in a speech made after starting
the flow of oil from Jubilee, the country’s first major oil
discovery.  With about 800 million barrels in reserves, Jubilee is
operated by U.K.-based  Tullow Oil Plc , which holds 34.7 percent
of the field. Dallas-based Kosmos Energy LLC controls 23.49
percent; The Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. 
owns 23.49 percent; GNPC has 13.75 percent, and two smaller
Ghanaian firms hold the remaining stake.  New York-based  Hess Corp . and Geneva-based  Vitol Group  also
own nearby exploration blocks in the Gulf of Guinea. In
February,  OAO Lukoil , Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, and
closely held, Houston-based Vanco Energy Co. made a
“significant” oil and gas discovery about 70 miles from
Jubilee. In January and September, Tullow announced positive
drilling results at its Tweneboa and Owo wells in the Deepwater
Tano block west of Jubilee, near the border with Ivory Coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 