-- GM's Saturn Ion Under U.S. Review Into Steering Flaw After 633 Complaints
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-12-16T21:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/gm-s-saturn-ion-under-u-s-review-for-steering-flaw-update1-.html
General Motors Co.’s Saturn Ion is
being investigated by U.S. auto-safety regulators following at
least 633 complaints about sudden loss of power steering.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is
investigating about 384,000 Ions from model years 2004 to 2007,
after reports of crashes involving injuries, the agency  said
today  on its website.  The agency said it and the Detroit-based automaker have
received reports of 11 crashes involving the defect, resulting
in four injuries.  “Customers who have those vehicles have been notified,”
said  Alan Adler , a spokesman for GM, which discontinued the
Saturn brand after filing for bankruptcy last year. “And if
they have loss of power-steering assist, they can go to dealers
and have that repaired,” he said in a phone interview today.  Earlier this year, GM recalled 1.3 million Chevrolet
Cobalts and three Pontiac models in North America to fix power-
steering systems following more than 1,100 consumer complaints
about failures. NHTSA had previously opened an investigation
into the vehicles after receiving reports of 14 crashes and one
injury.  Jtekt Corp., a Japanese auto-component maker part-owned by
Toyota Motor Corp., supplied the parts that triggered the
earlier recall, GM’s North America President Mark Reuss said on
March 2. Adler said today the same part is involved in the Ion
investigation.  NHTSA spokeswoman  Karen Aldana  declined to comment beyond
the agency’s statement posted on its website.  GM was unchanged $33.61 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  