-- GM May Widen Lead on China Carmakers as Subsidy Wanes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-17T05:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/gm-set-to-widen-lead-over-chinese-carmakers-as-lure-of-tax-subsidy-wanes.html
Fruit wholesaler Hao Hongfu will
wait until next year to buy a car from a  General Motors Co. 
venture in China, even though he could get a 1,545-yuan ($232)
tax break for buying another vehicle now.  The upcoming Baojun 630 sedan from SAIC-GM-Wuling
Automotive Co. should be more reliable than a Chinese brand,
Hao said. He wants another car to complement the  Beiqi Foton
Motor Co.  pickup truck he uses to haul apples, pears and
oranges in Shandong province.  “It is a pity to give it up,” Hao, 32, said of the
consumption-tax rebate. “But the Baojun looks very nice. I
want to try out a foreign product.”  Overseas automakers including GM,  Ford Motor Co.  and
 Nissan Motor Co.  should benefit next year if the Chinese
government ends the rebate as expected by Dec. 31, said  Bill Russo , a Beijing-based senior adviser at Booz & Co. The
subsidy, which cuts the tax from 10 percent of the purchase
price to 7.5 percent, applies only to cars with engines of
1.6 liters or smaller, a segment dominated by Chinese models.  Local brands accounted for more than 63 percent of the
new models with that size engine last year, according to the
 China Association of Automobile Manufacturers .  Record Sales  “The game that has been played with incentives is to
try to keep consumers, especially first-time consumers,
interested in purchasing those locally branded cars,” Russo
said. “To phase out the subsidies is more challenging for
local companies than for foreign ones.”  Rising  incomes  also should prompt car shoppers to buy
more foreign models in the world’s largest auto market, Russo
said. China’s per capita income of $3,744 last year was more
than double the 2005 amount, according to the  World Bank .  Total vehicles sales may reach a record 20 million next
year, he said, an 11 percent increase from the manufacturers
association projection of 18 million this year. Total sales
are up 34 percent through November over a year earlier, and
passenger-car sales rose 35 percent in the same period.  The government hasn’t said whether it will extend the
rebate into next year. It was continued this year at the
request of the Chinese manufacturers, said  Xiong Chuanlin ,
the association’s vice secretary-general.  Extension Not ‘Appropriate’  “I doubt the tax cuts will continue,” Xiong said last
week in Beijing. “We don’t think it’s appropriate.”  The government aims for local automakers, including
 Geely Holding Group Co.  and  BYD Co. , to account for more than
40 percent of the market for cars, multipurpose vehicles and
sport-utility vehicles, according to a  stimulus strategy 
released in March 2009.  They now make up 31 percent, said  Gerwin Ho , a Hong
Kong-based analyst for Citigroup Inc.  “You have some policy withdrawal and that’s going to
slow down the car sales,” Ho said of the overall market.  BYD, which is backed by  Warren Buffett , has sold the
most cars among domestic automakers this year, according to
association figures. Its  F3  sedan, China’s best-selling
vehicle, comes with a 1-liter or 1.5-liter engine and is
priced from 59,800 yuan.  “The tax-cut incentives definitely played a part in its
popularity,” Tong Wei, a BYD salesman in Shanghai, said of
the F3. “Its sales are likely to dip next year when the
subsidies are removed.”  GM, Ford  BYD spokesman  Paul Lin  didn’t respond to e-mails or
calls seeking comment. The company’s  stock  is down 39 percent
in Hong Kong this year, compared with a 3.4 percent increase in
the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  GM, Ford and Nissan are among the foreign automakers
introducing smaller cars and expanding into China’s interior
to compete with domestic companies.  The company, the best-selling foreign automaker in China,
said sales are up 33 percent through November over a year ago
and may reach a record 2.3 million in 2010. The Baojun is set
to go on sale early next year through more than 100 dealers.  GM, which raised $23.1 billion in an initial public
offering last month, said the Baojun line is meant to be
affordable. It didn’t announce the price. Sales growth the
past two years has been “extraordinary” and should be 10-15
percent next year, GM China President  Kevin Wale  said.  68% Advance  “Any time an incentive is removed it will have some
impact,” he said.  Ford, the  second-largest U.S. automaker , expects record
sales in China this year after opening as many as 100
dealerships, said  Joe Hinrichs , chairman of Ford China. Sales
rose 39 percent through October from a year earlier and will
benefit next year from an expansion into central, western and
northern China, the company said Nov. 25.  The Ford Focus starts at 104,800 yuan. Ford shares have
risen 68 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent
increase in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  “We are growing the part where the industry is growing
the fastest,” Hinrichs said. “We expect another record year
for Ford in China next year.”  Nissan Outlook  Nissan, the best-selling Japanese automaker in China,
expects to sell 960,000 cars there this year, spokesman
 Toshitake Inoshita  said. Its March compact, which starts from
69,900 yuan, benefited from the tax cut, so its expiration
may damp sales, he said.  Nissan, whose shares are little changed this year, said
in September it planned to introduce the Venucia brand to
help meet demand for cheaper models. It hasn’t been priced
yet.  “The multinational companies, GM being one, are trying
to reach down a little lower in the price range,” Russo said.
“As people in China get wealthier, they tend to buy more
foreign-brand products.”  Honda Motor Co.  aims to boost sales in China at least 10
percent next year to 730,000 units,  Seiji Kuraishi , China
chief operating officer for the automaker, told reporters
today in Tokyo. Sales this year may reach 650,000 units,
compared with a previous target for 632,000, he said.  The Tokyo-based automaker also said it aims to start
producing hybrid vehicles in Japan some time after it starts
sales of the models in 2012. Hybrid production would have to
amount to at least 2,000 units a month in China to make
setting up a factory worthwhile, Kuraishi said.  -- Tian Ying ,  Liza Lin . With assistance from  Makiko Kitamura 
in Tokyo. Editors:  Michael Tighe ,  Bret Okeson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  