-- Goldman Sachs's Proprietary Trading Head Sze Said to Plan Asia Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-12-16T03:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/goldman-sachs-s-proprietary-trading-head-sze-said-to-plan-asia-hedge-fund.html
Morgan Sze , global head of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s principal strategies proprietary trading
desk, plans to start a global  hedge  fund that will be 75 percent
invested in Asia, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Hong Kong-based Azentus Capital Management Ltd., scheduled
to start trading at the end of March, has attracted investment
interest from Goldman Sachs partners, they said, declining to be
identified as the information is private. The most  profitable 
firm on Wall Street will not back it with money from its balance
sheet, they added.  Eddie Naylor , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for
Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  Banks including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
moving to comply with the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul act in
the U.S. that prohibits them from risking capital by betting for
their own accounts. Azentus is expected to start investment with
$1 billion to $1.5 billion, making it the largest hedge fund
startup since the financial crisis began, the Financial Times
 reported  today, quoting unidentified marketers of the fund.  “An Asia-based hedge fund able to achieve critical mass on
day one is likely to attract considerable interest from
institutions,” said  Frederick Ingham , Neuberger Berman Group
LLC’s Hong Kong-based head of hedge-fund investments in Asia-
Pacific. “This interest will naturally be exacerbated where the
launch is a spin-out from an institution with a history of
spawning some of the world’s best-known hedge fund groups.”  Leaving Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs, which made about 10 percent of its  revenue 
from proprietary trading, decided to disband the principal-
strategies group, two people with knowledge of the decision said
in September.  Sze’s Asian team is expected to leave Goldman Sachs before
the new fund starts trading, said the people. The fund, led by
45-year-old Chief Investment Officer Sze, started marketing in
early November and met up with large investors even before that,
they said. They didn’t rule out possible investments from
Goldman Sachs’s  asset management  unit.  Azentus will employ investment strategies similar to those
of Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies, said the people. Those
include equity long-short, which bets on rising and falling
stocks, and credit and capital structure arbitrage, which seeks
to exploit mispricing between different securities issued by the
same company.  ‘Relatively Rare’  “A manager with the skill-set to deploy a broad range of
hedge fund strategies, rather than just equity long-short, is
still relatively rare in Asia and will attract those players
looking to capture the Asian opportunity set in a single
investment,” Ingham said.  Equity hedge funds accounted for 72 percent of the number
of Asia-focused hedge funds and 66 percent of their assets under
management by September, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  “Asian credit and capital structure arbitrage has
historically been limited to a handful of Asian managers and
satellite offices or Asian desks of global multistrategy hedge
funds,” said  Charles Stucke , a Chicago-based senior managing
director of Guggenheim Partners LLC. “The collapse of a number
of those offices and desks in the 2008 crisis created trading
opportunity for new firms run by experienced investors.”  About 25 percent of Azentus’s investments will be in
companies outside Asia, which are expected to benefit from
demand from the region or mergers and acquisitions, said the
people.  Bottom-Up Research  It will pick investments using a combination of bottom-up
research and macroeconomic analyses, one of them added.  Sze will lead an investment team consisting of about 12
current employees of Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies in Asia,
said the people. Azentus hired  Roger Denby-Jones , a former prime
broker at Goldman Sachs, as its chief operating officer, people
with direct knowledge told Bloomberg in October.  Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies managed an estimated $11
billion of the firm’s own money at its peak, London-based
Financial Times said. Sze was one of the highest paid traders in
the world, earning as much as twice the  pay  of Goldman Sachs
Chief Executive  Lloyd Blankfein , it added.  Dinakar Singh , a former head of the principal strategies
group, co-founded TPG-Axon in 2004.  Eric Mindich  started New
York-based Eton Park Capital Management LP with $3 billion with
former principal-strategies department co-head  Erland Karlsson 
the same year.  Pierre-Henri Flamand , Sze’s predecessor as global head of
the group, left earlier this year to set up Edoma Capital
Partners LLP, a London-based hedge fund called.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  