-- Goldman Deal Pushes Commercial Mortgage Bond Sales Past $11 Billion Mark
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-12-16T20:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/goldman-citigroup-offer-commercial-mortgage-debt-as-sales-jump.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. sold $876.45 million of bonds linked to U.S.
commercial real estate, pushing 2010 sales to $11.5 billion as
strategists forecast next year’s offerings will quadruple.  Property owners are pushing banks to offer better loan
terms as more lenders vie for a share of the $650 billion
commercial-mortgage bond market. Between 20 and 25 institutions
are seeking to originate loans they plan to package into
securities, up from about five competitors a year ago, New York-
based Standard & Poor’s said in a Dec. 2 report. Issuance
plunged to $3.4 billion in 2009 from a record $234 billion in
2007 after the financial crisis froze credit markets.  “The CMBS lenders came back quickly, and borrowers are
benefiting,”  Greg Michaud , head of real estate finance at ING
Investment Management Americas in Atlanta, said in a telephone
interview. “Twelve months ago, borrowers were happy to get
anything. Now they are really shopping around.”  Today’s sale, tied mostly to payments on shopping center
and office-building loans, priced to yield 140 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate for a top-rated $376 million slice
maturing in 9.84 years, according to a person familiar with it.
The securities were initially marketed to yield between 130 and
135 basis points over swaps, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t public.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, and  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to
comment.  Interest-Only Loans  The Goldman Sachs-Citigroup offering included a higher
percentage of so-called interest-only debt than sales earlier
this year, according to a Dec. 9 report from Fitch Ratings. Such
loans are considered riskier than mortgages that require the
landlord to pay down a portion of the principal. About 85.4
percent of the pool sold today pays principal during the life of
the loans, compared with more than 90 percent of offerings
earlier this year, Fitch said.  Today’s deal still marks a “material improvement”
compared with those from the boom ended in 2007, according to
Fitch. That year, as much as 87 percent of commercial mortgages
packaged into bonds delayed principal payments for at least a
portion of the life of the loan, according to Morgan Stanley.  Relaxing Underwriting  Underwriting standards are usually the first metric to
loosen as lending rivalry increases, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts said in a Nov. 24 report that forecast CMBS issuance
may reach $45 billion in 2011.  “The competition is healthy because it means you have more
dollars chasing these loans,” said Roger Lehman, an analyst at
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. “Financing is a key
component of the recovery in commercial real estate. It’s not a
cash market.”  U.S. commercial real estate values  peaked  in October 2007,
when the Moody’s Real/Commercial Property Price Index touched
191.9. The measure bottomed at 105.4 in August, marking a 45
percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  