-- Google Aims Twin Daggers at Microsoft’s Heart: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-12-16T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/google-aims-twin-daggers-at-microsoft-s-heart-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Forget about  Google Inc. ’s struggle
with Facebook for eyeballs and programmers. Pay no attention to
its fight with  Apple Inc.  over smartphones, or to any other tech
rivalry.  The search giant’s war with  Microsoft Corp.  is The Big One,
the confrontation that will determine what kind of future
Microsoft has, and maybe if it even has a future. And the two
new weapons Google unsheathed last week carry an unmistakable
message of mortal peril.  First came the  Nexus S , the new Google-labeled smartphone
and the first to run “Gingerbread,” Google’s latest Android
operating system. Then came a plain black laptop called the Cr-
48, the first computer to run the company’s Web-based Chrome
Operating System.  On the surface, neither seems particularly menacing. The
Nexus S, made by  Samsung , is the successor to one of the most
hyped and least successful products of 2010, the lovely and ill-
fated Nexus One. And the Cr-48 isn’t even for sale. It’s a
generic prototype that Google is making available to thousands
of developers, companies and others to get them familiar with
the concept of the new operating system before commercial
versions from manufacturers such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
 Acer Inc.  show up next year.  Enormous Threat  Still, the two devices represent an enormous threat to
Microsoft and its chief executive officer,  Steve Ballmer . The
success of Android is rapidly foreclosing Microsoft’s growth
prospects as more computing is done on mobile devices.
Meanwhile, Chrome OS takes dead aim at its great twin cash cows:
the Windows and Microsoft Office franchises.  Of the two new offerings, the Nexus S is the one most
visible to consumers. The phone went on sale in the U.S.
yesterday at Best Buy Co. stores and online for $199 on a two-
year contract from  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile USA, and for
$529 with no contract.  The phone, a variation on Samsung’s popular Galaxy S line,
comes with a gorgeous four-inch touch screen, front- and rear-
facing cameras for video chatting and a passel of Google apps
and services. Its potential killer application is Near Field
Communication, a technology that allows it to read encoded
information from special chips that can be embedded in signs, on
T-shirts or other objects.  Mobile Payments  Putting NFC support into Android is the biggest step yet
toward using the mobile phone as a way of paying for things. And
it comes at a time when Microsoft is still playing catch-up.
Having frittered away its early strength in smartphones, it
suffered a series of stumbles, including a line of youth-
oriented phones called Kin that it introduced this year and
pulled from the market after less than two months. Its latest
effort, the Windows Phone 7 operating system, is a great
improvement -- but still lacks such basics as cut-and-paste
functionality.  It’s possible for Google and Apple to both succeed in
mobile phones. It’s harder to imagine Google and Microsoft both
thriving. Google’s business model, which calls for getting
manufacturers to use its operating system, is far closer to
Microsoft’s than to Apple’s strategy of making money on the sale
of proprietary hardware. And, of course, Google offers Android
to manufacturers at a price that Microsoft can’t beat: free.  While Android is all about limiting Microsoft’s future,
Chrome OS takes dead aim at its present: the Windows and Office
businesses that, in the quarter that ended Sept. 30, earned $6.7
billion of the company’s $7.1 billion in operating income.  In the Cloud  At first glance the Cr-48 -- Cr being the symbol for the
element chromium -- looks like a basic laptop. The differences
become evident once you turn it on. With no large programs or
device drivers to load, it boots in 15 seconds. The operating
system is, essentially, just a Web browser that you can never
close. Forget about a hard drive: Everything you use, all your
programs and all your data, reside in the cloud, on Google’s
distant servers. And it uses not a bit of Microsoft software.  Nor is Microsoft the only one threatened. What kind of chip
powers the Cr-48? Who cares? For the record, the Cr-48 has an
Atom microprocessor from  Intel Corp. , but it’s no more relevant
than what kind of chip powers your smartphone. How about makers
of flash memory chips, like  Toshiba ? A Chrome OS machine needs
little -- the Cr-48 has only 16 gigabytes -- since nothing is
stored on the computer itself.  Useless Brick  Chrome completely commoditizes the hardware; the only
things that count are being connected to the Internet, and at
what speed. For now, that’s Chrome’s biggest weakness. While the
Cr-48 works either over a Wi-Fi network or its built-in  Verizon 
Wireless 3G service, you can’t always count on getting a
connection. On a cross-country flight this week, the Cr-48 was a
useless, inert brick.  On the other hand, that isn’t likely to be a permanent
condition as Internet connections become ever more ubiquitous.
Some airlines, such as Virgin America Inc., have already started
rolling out onboard Wi-Fi.  Since Chrome OS, like Android, is free, it’s logical to ask
what Google gets out of it. Company executives talk about the
benefits of tying users to Google services and gaining valuable
data to help refine its search algorithms. It remains to be seen
whether those users will be troubled by the privacy implications
and whether Google’s business model will work for manufacturers.  You can’t help thinking that the real point of Chrome is
the threat it poses to Windows. From its founding, Google has
defined itself as the anti-Microsoft. Its “don’t be evil”
corporate mantra never needed to specify what it meant by
“evil,” because everyone already knew. The fact is, Google
doesn’t actually need Chrome OS to succeed. Microsoft, though,
desperately needs it to fail.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 