-- Greece's Debt Ratings Are Put on Review for Possible Downgrade by Moody's
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2010-12-16T19:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/greece-s-debt-ratings-are-put-on-review-for-possible-downgrade-by-moody-s.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it
placed Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings on review for a possible
downgrade, citing heightened concerns about whether the country
will be able to reduce its debt to “sustainable levels”.  “Greece has made significant progress in implementing a
very large fiscal consolidation effort,”  Sarah Carlson , vice
president-senior analyst in Moody’s sovereign-risk group, said
today in an e-mailed statement from London. “The challenge of
reducing debt to sustainable levels has also become greater due
to both domestic and regional developments.”  Moody’s, which followed Standard & Poor’s warning two weeks
ago of a possible downgrade, cited a “substantial” shortfall
in 2010 revenue and concerns the conditions of aid to Greece may
change after the European Union raised the country’s debt
forecasts last month. Greece secured a 110 billion-euro ($142
billion) aid package from the EU and the International Monetary
Fund in May to avert a default.  Greece’s debt as a percentage of GDP stood at 127 percent
of gross domestic product in 2009, the highest in the 27-nation
EU. The EU says he measure will rise to 156 percent in 2012.
Greece has said debt as a percentage of GDP will peak in 2013.  Eurostat revised Greece’s 2009 debt and deficit figures on
Nov. 15, surpassing Italy as the region’s most indebted country.
Debt was boosted by 5.5 billion euros from off-market swaps
Greece initially used to lower the debt and deficit and another
18.2 billion euros of debt, worth 7.8 percent of GDP, came from
public companies added to national accounts, Eurostat said.  ‘More Difficult’ Challenge  Greece’s debt challenge is “materially more difficult”
since the revision, Carlson said in a phone interview. While
revenue collection has improved, the government is short of
targets overall, she said.  Credit-default swaps on Greek sovereign debt rose 28.5
basis points to 949, the highest since Nov. 30, according to
data provider CMA.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity German bunds was at 880 basis points
today, down from a high of 973.1 in May. Yields on  10-year  Greek
bonds remain the highest in the euro region, at 11.7 percent.
That compares with 8.08 percent for Ireland, 6.24 percent for
Portugal, 5.47 percent for Spain and 4.59 percent for Italy.  Moody’s said a “multi-notch” downgrade was possible if it
concluded that the debt-to-GDP ratio had failed to stabilize in
the next three to five years.  S&P Warning  Moody’s cut Greece’s credit rating four steps to non-
investment grade, or junk, on June 14, warning of the rising
economic cost of the debt-strapped country’s budget cuts. On
Dec. 2, Greece was warned it could receive a lower credit rating
from Standard & Poor’s as proposed EU rules threaten to hurt
bondholders.  S&P placed  Greece’s  “BB+” long-term sovereign
rating on “CreditWatch” with negative implications.  Greece has cut spending, raised taxes and trimmed wages to
tackle the deficit, which swelled to 15.4 percent of GDP last
year. To secure the EU-IMF aid, the government pledged to trim
the shortfall to under the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014. The
crisis has prompted investors to sell the bonds of Greece and
other high-deficit nations and pushed the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
 Marcus Bensasson  in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  