-- Pimco Total Return May Buy Equity-Linked Securities
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-12-16T18:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/gross-s-pimco-total-return-fund-will-invest-up-to-10-in-equity-securities.html
Bill Gross ’s Pimco Total Return
Fund, the world’s largest mutual fund, is expanding its policy
to allow investments in equity-linked securities for the first
time since 2003.  Pimco Total Return may put as much as 10 percent of assets
in securities including preferred stock and convertible bonds as
early as the second quarter of next year, according to a  filing 
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund
won’t invest in common stock, the Newport Beach, California-
based firm said.  Gross, who said in October that asset purchases by the Fed
will probably signify the end of the 30-year rally in bonds, has
invested the Total Return fund in a mix of government-related
debt, mortgage securities and emerging market bonds. A top
performer over the past five years, the fund trailed most of its
large rivals during a debt selloff in the past month.  “This brings Pimco in line with other bond funds in the
same category and gives them more flexibility,”  Miriam Sjoblom ,
an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in Chicago, said in an
interview. “In moderation, this could increase returns without
adding considerable risk to the portfolio,” she said.  Kathleen Gaffney, who co-manages the $19 billion Loomis
Sayles Bond Fund with Dan Fuss, said in August that the fund has
increased investments in convertible notes, which can be
exchanged for stock, to boost returns for investors.  Bond Selloff  Treasuries fell today, pushing the 10-year note yield to a
seven-month high, as evidence the U.S. economy is recovering
reduced demand for safety. The decline in bonds, which
accelerated after the Federal Reserve on Nov. 3 pledged to buy
an additional $600 billion in assets to revive the economy,
prompted investors to pull money from taxable bond funds in the
week through Dec. 8, the first week of net redemptions in two
years.  Gross had reduced government debt for four straight months
through October. Pimco Total Return, which according to
Morningstar Inc. lost $1.9 billion to investor withdrawals in
November, has declined 2.2 percent over the past month, trailing
93 percent of peers.  The $250 billion fund has advanced 7.8 percent in the past
five years, beating 98 percent of similarly managed rivals over
that period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco said in today’s filing that the move to invest in
equity-related securities came after the fund’s board decided to
repurchase shares owned by Japanese investors and end selling
the fund there. Pimco Total Return stopped making equity-related
investments in 2003 as Japanese securities law restricts such
purchases for bond funds.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , manages
about $1.2 trillion in assets.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for
Pimco, declined to comment on the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  