-- Groupon Said to Seek New Funding After Rebuffing Google's $6 Billion Offer
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r ,   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-12-16T18:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/groupon-said-to-seek-new-funding-after-rebuffing-google-s-6-billion-offer.html
Groupon Inc., owner of a daily
coupon website with 40 million subscribers, is seeking funds
after rejecting a takeover offer from  Google Inc. , three people
familiar with the matter said.  The company aims to raise several hundred-million dollars,
one of the people said. The increased financing would value
Groupon at less than $6 billion, the amount Google offered in
November, said two of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.  Groupon, one of the world’s fastest growing companies, may
use the money to hire sales staff and retain its lead over
coupon-site rivals. LivingSocial, another deal-of-the-day
service, lined up $183 million from a group led by Amazon.com
Inc. earlier this month and said it would use the investment to
overtake its bigger competitor.  An investment group led by Digital Sky Technologies in
April gave Chicago-based Groupon a valuation of about $1.3
billion.  Groupon had been considering raising money from investors
when it entered talks with Google, Bloomberg reported last
month. Founded in 2008, Groupon is on pace to generate more than
$500 million in sales this year, according to the people.  Daily Deal Explosion  The company is trying to get a bigger toehold of the U.S.
local-advertising market, which may rise to $133 billion this
year, according to consulting firm BIA/Kelsey in Chantilly,
Virginia.  Groupon  also spurned an earlier offer from Yahoo! Inc.,
owner of the largest Web portal in the U.S., people familiar
with those talks have said.  Daily-deal sites offer discounts -- often 50 percent or
more -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons,
then keep a portion of the sales. The promotions activate once
enough people sign up for them. The barriers to start such a
site are few; just about anyone with an e-mail list and a deal
can do it.  OpenTable Inc., an online restaurant-reservation system
offers a daily deal. Other sites including  Gilt Groupe Inc.  and
Facebook Inc. also provide coupons.  LivingSocial is Groupon’s closest rival. The Washington-
based company said it will more than triple its employees next
year to 1,800 and more than double the number of cities where it
offers deals.  That would bring the service to 300 markets, about the
number that Groupon now serves with its staff of 3,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 