-- Lichtenstein's Steel Partners Sells Its Entire Stake in Sapporo Holdings
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-12-16T09:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/lichtenstein-s-steel-partners-sells-its-entire-stake-in-sapporo-holdings.html
Warren Lichtenstein ’s Steel Partners
sold its entire stake in  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. , Japan’s fourth-
largest brewer, after failing to oust its directors.  Steel Partners Japan Strategic Fund (Offshore) LP no longer
owns shares in Sapporo, while its partner Liberty Square Asset
Management LP holds 0.15 percent, according to a filing with
Japan’s Ministry of Finance today. The two funds jointly owned
7.88 percent as of Dec. 6, trimming their holdings from a peak
of 19.28 percent in 2007, based on earlier filings.  Sapporo’s stock jumped to its highest close in more than
two months earlier today on speculation Steel Partners sold more
shares in the Tokyo-based maker of Yebisu beer. The fund, which
began investing in Sapporo in 2004, started reducing its stake
after losing a shareholder vote in March this year to force
changes at the brewer, including ousting directors and cutting
capacity.  “Individual investors are coming back to the brewer now
that it can focus on its business instead of dealing with Steel
Partners,”  Tsuyoshi Segawa , a strategist at Mizuho Securities
Co. in Tokyo, said by telephone today. He commented on the
stock’s gain before the filing to the ministry was released.  Katsuhito Ogawa, a spokesman for Sapporo, declined to
comment.  Masako Matsuoka , a spokeswoman for Steel Partners
Japan, said the fund can’t comment on individual stock
transactions.  Sapporo  climbed  5.5 percent to 384 yen at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo trading, the biggest gainer on the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. The stock has fallen 25 percent this year,
underperforming bigger rivals Kirin Holdings Co. and Asahi
Breweries Ltd.  Any investor with a stake of at least 5 percent in a
publicly traded company in Japan has to file documents to the
finance ministry within five working days if there is a change
in its shareholding.  Steel Partners has reduced its  holdings  in more than a
dozen Japanese companies in the past three years. Most of the
fund’s attempts to force changes have been blocked as companies
turned to so-called poison pill defense measures and friendly
tie-ups.  Steel Partners’ biggest holding in Japan is a 28 percent
stake in Unihair Co., a wigmaker formerly known as Aderans
Holdings Co., whose management the fund ousted in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net . 