-- IMF's Strauss-Kahn Says Europe Needs Financial-Crisis Plan for Early 2011
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-16T16:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/imf-s-strauss-kahn-says-europe-needs-crisis-plan-early-2011.html
European Union leaders need to
design a “comprehensive” plan to address budget and banking
woes in early 2011 to curb the debt crisis, International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said.  When asked how much leaders will accomplish in Brussels
talks this week, the IMF chief responded “not much.” In an
interview scheduled to air tonight on the “ Charlie Rose ” show
on PBS, Strauss-Kahn said European Union leaders need more time
to overcome the “piecemeal approach” they have used for
Ireland and Greece and come up with a broad solution.  “Unless the leaders in Europe will provide something like
this, markets will still believe that after one country comes
another one, and then it skips to another one, and it will never
end,” Strauss-Kahn said. “So the real need now is to have a
big plan, which I think is possible.”  EU leaders are beginning a two-day summit today to discuss
a proposed crisis-management mechanism to contain debt shocks
and possibly make more flexible use of the EU’s 750 billion euro
($1 trillion) emergency fund. Portuguese, Greek and Spanish
bonds slipped today as German officials have continued to press
for bondholders to help bear the cost of future debt
restructuring.  Strauss-Kahn said Spain’s biggest banks are “relatively
safe,” with problems concentrated in a small number of lenders.
The situation is “manageable” and not “as bad as they say,”
he said.  Eurobonds  European leaders need to defer any discussion of centrally
issued eurobonds until after the crisis is contained, he said.
In the short run, countries that have the fiscal room to spend
more to help their economies should act to shore up the economic
recovery, he said.  “I would say the real problem for the eurozone is
growth,” according to Strauss-Kahn.  He said Greece is attempting to get its budget policies in
order after “decades” of poor management and probably has
built enough consensus to move forward amid ongoing public
opposition. “I guess they will succeed,” he said.  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve’s so-called quantitative
easing strategy “will help” the economy grow faster even
though it also has drawbacks, Strauss-Kahn said. He said
maintaining growth in the world’s leading economy needs to be
the “main concern,” for policy makers around the world.  Chinese Currency  Strauss-Kahn also called for a gradual appreciation of the
Chinese yuan that would allow China’s economy to adjust over
time. A sudden move would be “disturbing” to the Chinese and
world economy, he said.  “Those asking for immediate revaluation of the renminbi
are in my view are probably wrong,” according to the IMF chief,
using the formal name for China’s currency.  When asked whether he would consider running for the French
presidency in 2012, he responded “I’m too busy to think about
it.” Strauss-Kahn, a Socialist, said his priority now is
focusing on the global financial crisis and his current role at
the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  