-- India's Bond-Purchase Plan May Ease Path to January Interest-Rate Increase
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-12-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/india-s-central-bank-pauses-in-increasing-interest-rates-after-cash-crunch.html
The Reserve Bank of India’s plan to
address the biggest cash crunch in a decade with bond purchases
may revive liquidity enough for the central bank to resume
raising interest rates next month, say economists at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Credit Suisse AG.  The RBI yesterday left its benchmark  repurchase rate 
unchanged at 6.25 percent after six increases in 2010 and
unveiled plans to buy back 480 billion rupees ($10.6 billion) of
government bonds to ease a cash squeeze caused by a record 1.1
trillion rupees of share sales this year.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  is trying to contain price
expectations that have risen in the wake of a jump in costs of
fuel and manufactured goods. With the benchmark rate below the
7.48 percent  inflation rate , household savings and purchasing
power are being eroded, risking a deeper impoverishment of the
828 million people who live on less than $2 a day.  “The bond buyback will certainly bring relief to the
extreme tight liquidity conditions,” said Jahangir Aziz, the
Mumbai-based chief economist at JPMorgan Chase. “Given the
hawkish tone on inflation, the RBI will almost surely come back
to raise rates in January.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell 12
basis points to 7.95 percent, the lowest in six weeks, in Mumbai
yesterday. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  gained
1.1 percent, while the rupee rose 0.1 percent to 45.35 against
the dollar. India’s financial markets are shut today for a local
holiday.  ‘Continued Vigilance’  “Inflation pressures persist both from domestic demand and
higher global commodity prices,” the RBI said in yesterday’s
statement. “There is, therefore, a need for continued vigilance
on the inflation front against the buildup of demand-side
pressures.” It added that the risk to its inflation forecast of
5.5 percent by March 31 is “on the upside.”  While a report this week showed India’s  wholesale-price
inflation  slowed to an 11-month low in November from 8.58
percent in October, the rate is still higher than the 5.1
percent in China and 5.6 percent in Brazil.  Subbarao, who has boosted the  repurchase rate  by 1.5
percentage points since mid-March, said yesterday that inflation
remains “significantly above the comfort level.” He said last
week the RBI aims to slow inflation to between 4 percent and 4.5
percent.  Credit Suisse economist  Robert Prior-Wandesforde  said
yesterday he expects Subbarao to raise borrowing costs as early
as January, advancing an earlier prediction of an increase
between February and March.  State Elections  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh wants to gain control over
inflation before nine states hold elections in the next 18
months.  “A major challenge for the Reserve Bank in the recent
period has been liquidity management,” according to the
statement. “It is the Reserve Bank’s endeavor to alleviate the
liquidity pressure in a manner consistent with the monetary
stance of containing inflation.”  The RBI will offer to buy bonds worth 120 billion rupees
via open-market auctions in each of the next four weeks, the
statement showed. It also cut the statutory liquidity ratio, or
the proportion of deposits lenders need to invest in government
bonds, to 24 percent from 25 percent starting Dec. 18.  Overnight loan rates  between banks averaged 6.6 percent
this month, compared with 3.3 percent a year ago. Lenders
borrowed an average 816.4 billion rupees a day this quarter
using the Reserve Bank’s  repurchase auction window , compared
with 239 billion rupees in the previous three months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, indicating a shortage of money.  Bond Buyback  “The bond buyback is a direct injection of funds and will
prove more helpful in easing the domestic liquidity crunch,”
Credit Suisse’s  Prior-Wandesforde  said. “The message that I get
from the RBI’s statement is that they are clearly worried about
inflation risks and are setting us up for a January hike.”  An RBI survey of price expectations of 4,000 households in
urban areas indicated consumers anticipate inflation to quicken
to 12.7 percent in the next year from a perceived pace of 12.1
percent now, the bank said in a Dec. 9  statement .  Prices are under pressure partly because growth in Asia’s
third-largest economy is straining power and transportation
capacity, said  N. R. Bhanumurthy , an economist at the New Delhi-
based National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.  The power deficit in India, for example, is 14 percent
during peak hours, according to the finance ministry, forcing
most companies to invest in their own supply back-ups.  Consumer Demand  Industrial output  jumped 10.8 percent in October from a
year earlier, the most in three months. India’s  $1.3 trillion
economy  grew 8.9 percent for a second straight quarter in the
three months through September, maintaining the fastest pace of
growth among the world’s major economies after China.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd ., the nation’s biggest carmaker,
relies on its own power plants to run its factories, which adds
to the cost of doing business Chairman R.C. Bhargava said in an
interview on Dec. 15. The New Delhi-based company sold a record
1.11 million cars in the 11 months through November.  China is also battling to rein in inflation, which is a
result of unprecedented credit expansion to protect the economy
from last year’s global recession. Consumer prices rose 5.1
percent in November from a year earlier, the fastest pace in 28
months.  Chinese authorities have refrained from adding to October’s
interest-rate increase and instead have ratcheted up banks’
reserve requirements and relied on tools such as sale of food
reserves to curb prices.  Fuel Price  Price pressures in India may also emerge after companies,
including  Bharat Petroleum Corp. , raised gasoline prices this
week and as the government plans to cut subsidies to state
refiners, including Indian Oil Corp., that sell fuel below
costs. The government partly compensates refiners for their
losses, which increase as crude prices rise.  Crude in New York trading reached $90.76 a barrel on Dec.
7, the highest level since 2008. Oil has gained 11.3 percent
this year. India, which imports three-quarters of its crude oil
needs, is working on a plan to boost diesel prices, Petroleum
Minister  Murli Deora  said Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  