-- Billionaire Dhoot's Videocon Group Plans to Sell Stake in Energy Business
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-12-16T09:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/indian-billionaire-dhoot-s-videocon-plans-sale-of-stake-in-energy-business.html
Videocon Industries Ltd. , India’s
biggest consumer-electronics maker, plans to combine its energy
assets and sell a stake in the business to help pay  debt  and
fund purchases of oil and gas areas.  The company, led by billionaire  Venugopal Dhoot , is in
talks with investors including Chinese companies for the stake
sale, said  Suresh M. Hegde , the group’s finance chief.
Aurangabad, India-based Videocon may also sell as much as 25
percent stake in the energy unit in an initial public offering
within six months “to monetize oil and gas assets,” he said.  Videocon is betting state-run Chinese companies, which bid
a record $38.8 billion this year to acquire energy assets
overseas, will extend their purchasing spree. Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao , who is visiting the South Asian nation this week, said
China will seek to boost commerce with India while reducing his
country’s $18 billion trade surplus.  Chinese investors “give better value than any other
investors,” Hegde, said in an interview in his office in Mumbai
yesterday. “Chinese demand for oil assets is huge.” He didn’t
name the investors.  India’s energy use may more than double by 2030 to the
equivalent of 833 million metric tons of oil from 2007, while
China’s demand may rise 87 percent to 2.4 billion tons,
according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency.  Brazil, Mozambique  Videocon and partners  Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and  Bharat
Petroleum Corp.  made three natural gas discoveries off the coast
of Mozambique, according to a Nov. 29 statement. The company and
its partners have also found hydrocarbons in Brazil and
Indonesia and Brazil.  “Undoubtedly, they have some value going forward in their
energy assets,”  Kishor Ostwal , Mumbai-based chairman of  CNI
Research Ltd . They will get a “good response” from investors,
he said.  Videocon’s  shares  have declined 8.8 percent in Mumbai
trading this year, lagging behind the 13 percent gain in the
benchmark Sensitive Index. The stock fell 1.5 percent to 219
rupees as of 2:30 p.m. in Mumbai.  The company has 115.5 billion rupees ($2.5 billion) of
 debt , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dhoot, with $2.67 billion in assets, is ranked India’s 25th
richest man, according to  Forbes  magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  