-- Ireland's Economy Resumes Growth as Export Growth Counters Domestic Slump
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-12-16T11:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ireland-s-economy-resumes-growth-as-export-growth-counters-domestic-slump.html
Ireland’s economy resumed expansion
in the third quarter as growth in exports countered a continued
slump in building and consumer spending.  Gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent from the previous
three months, when it fell 1 percent, the  Central Statistics
Office  said in Dublin today. Exports jumped 3.6 percent at
constant prices. From a year earlier, the economy shrank 0.5
percent.  “The figures show that the economy has stabilised and is
now on an export-led growth path,” Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in an e-mailed statement. “There are real
positives for the Irish economy as we enter 2011,” he said,
citing the decline in unemployment claims and “positive
producer and consumer indicators.”  Ireland’s government, which last month sought a bailout
from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, is
counting on foreign demand to help pull it out of recession. The
recovery may be hampered by a 6-billion euro ($7.9 billion)
budget tightening next year, part of a government plan to reduce
a deficit that will widen to four times the EU limit this year.  “In spite of this return to positive GDP growth, we
continue to think that the economic outlook is rather bleak,”
said  Oscar Bernal , an economist at ING Bank in Brussels.
“Domestic demand will suffer from the austerity measures by the
government as well as from the unemployment rate.”  Consumer spending fell 0.5 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months at constant prices, while
government expenditure declined 1.7 percent. Investment dropped
18.1 percent, led by construction.  Ireland’s 2011 budget tightening is the first stage in a
four-year plan to reduce the deficit to the EU limit of 3
percent of GDP in 2014. The shortfall will be about 12 percent
of GDP this year, or 32 percent including bank-rescue costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  