-- Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Targets Asset-Management Deals in India, South Asia
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-12-16T15:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/mitsubishi-ufj-trust-targets-india-asia-asset-management-deals.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc .’s trust banking arm aims to sign investment agreements
within a year with one to two asset management firms in South
and Southeast Asia to keep pace with growth in the regions.  Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s
biggest bank by market value, has started searching for
investment targets and plans to spend “several” billion yen on
each deal, President  Kinya Okauchi  said.  The trust bank is expanding outside of Japan as domestic
demand wanes and it competes with domestic rival  Sumitomo Trust
& Banking Co. , Okauchi, 59, said. In 2008 he acquired a stake in
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc , the U.K.’s biggest independent
fund manager.  “India, of course, and Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia are
the countries we are interested in for our investment,” Okauchi
said in an interview in Tokyo on Dec. 15.  Sumitomo Trust’s Nikko Asset Management Co. unit agreed
this month to buy DBS Asset Management from DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. to capitalize on growing demand from wealthy Asian clients.
Tokyo-based Sumitomo Trust is set to merge with Chuo Mitsui
Trust Holdings Inc. to create Japan’s fifth-biggest lender.  Mitsubishi UFJ Trust in 2008 took a 9.9 percent stake in
Scotland-based Aberdeen and expanded its shareholding to 16
percent currently. Under the contract, the Japanese company has
an option to further boost its stake to as much as 19.9 percent,
Okauchi said.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Gilbert  expanded Aberdeen’s
 assets under management  22 percent to 178.7 billion pounds ($282
billion) in the year ended Sept. 30, helped by the acquisition
of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s fund-management business in
January, according to a Nov. 30 financial statement.  Aberdeen held 40 percent of the assets in equities, 25
percent in fixed income, 16 percent in alternative investments
and 12 percent in property, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 