-- Ivory Coast Braces for Violence as Ouattara Supporters Plan Protest March
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-16T09:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ivory-coast-braces-for-violence-as-ouattara-supporters-plan-protest-march.html
Ivory Coast is bracing for violence
as today supporters of the United Nations-backed winner of a
Nov. 28 election,  Alassane Ouattara , plan street protests to
force  Laurent Gbagbo  to quit as president of the world’s top
cocoa producer.  Ouattara, 68, has urged his backers to march through the
commercial capital, Abidjan, over the next two days to help him
take control of government offices and state television. The
army, which backs Gbagbo, has reinforced its positions at the
national broadcaster and the presidency ahead of the protests.  Ivory Coast has been in political limbo since the electoral
commission declared Ouattara the winner of the runoff election
with 54.1 percent of the vote and the Constitutional Council,
after disqualifying seven voting districts in the north, said
Gbabgo won. While Ouattara is supported by the U.S., the
European Union and the  African Union , he remains at a hotel
under the protection of United Nations peacekeepers and Gbabgo,
65, holds the presidency.  “Ouattara is stepping up the pressure by asking people to
take to the streets,” Dominique Assalé-Aka, vice chairman of
the Ivorian Civil Society Convention, said yesterday in an
interview. “There is a risk of violence. Both camps are
becoming more radical.”  Deepening Crisis  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  yesterday said the
deepening political crisis may spark a new civil war in the West
African nation. Ivory Coast has been divided since 2002, when
rebels in the north attempted to topple Gbagbo, accusing his
government of discriminating against northerners.  Ban is “deeply concerned” that any violence now “could have
unpredictable consequences, including reigniting civil war,” the
UN said in a  statement .  The U.S., Canada and the Netherlands on Dec. 14 advised
their citizens in Ivory Coast to leave the country while the
uncertainty persists.  Cocoa reached a four-month high on Dec. 7 on speculation
that the political conflict would hamper exports of the beans.
Cocoa for March delivery gained 0.9 percent to $3,005 per ton in
trading in NYSE Liffe in London at 9:16 a.m.  Ouattara’s call for marches is “a significant change in
strategy,”  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , a New York-based Africa
analyst with DaMinas Advisors, said yesterday in an interview.
“It shows that he’s realized that the formal approach is not
going to work. He realizes that he has to do something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 