-- Ivory Coast Opposition Says 32 Supporters Killed in Political Violence
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-16T17:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ivory-coast-opposition-says-13-supporters-killed-in-abidjan-clashes.html
Ivory Coast’s opposition coalition
said 32 of its supporters were killed as security forces clashed
with protesters in Abidjan and Yamoussoukro, the commercial and
political capitals of the world’s top cocoa producer.  The deaths come after  Alassane Ouattara  called for two days
of protests to force  Laurent Gbagbo  to step down from the
presidency. Troops loyal to Gbagbo used live ammunition and tear
gas to disperse opposition supporters, said Meite Sindou, a
spokesman for Ouattara’s Prime Minister  Guillaume Soro . Ouattara
is the United Nations-backed winner of a Nov. 28 election run-
off.  “The crisis could significantly escalate and spiral into
political violence or a worst-case ‘return to war’ scenario,”
Rolake Akinola, the London-based Principal Analyst for sub-
Saharan Africa for VoxFrontier Consulting, said in an e-mailed
note today. Gbagbo’s “continued intransigence increasingly
suggests this will be a fight to the finish”.  Ouattara, 68, has urged his backers to march through
Abidjan over the next two days to help him take control of
government offices and  state television . The army, which backs
Gbagbo, reinforced its positions at the national broadcaster and
the presidency before the protests.  Disqualified Votes  Ivory Coast has been in political limbo since the electoral
commission declared Ouattara the winner of the runoff election
with 54.1 percent of the vote and the Constitutional Council,
after disqualifying seven voting districts in the north, said
Gbabgo won. While Ouattara is supported by the U.S., the
European Union and the  African Union , he remains under the
protection of United Nations peacekeepers and Gbabgo, 65, holds
the presidency.  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  yesterday said the
deepening political crisis may spark a new civil war in the West
African nation. Ivory Coast has been divided since 2002, when
rebels in the north attempted to topple Gbagbo, accusing his
government of discriminating against northerners.  Ban is “deeply concerned” that any violence now “could
have unpredictable consequences, including reigniting civil
war,” the UN said in a  statement .  The U.S., Canada and the Netherlands on Dec. 14 advised
their citizens in Ivory Coast to leave the country while the
uncertainty persists. AU Chairman  Jean Ping  will visit Abuja,
the Nigerian capital and headquarters of the Economic Community
of West African States, before traveling to Abidjan, the Addis
Ababa-based body said in an e-mail yesterday.  Cocoa Climbs  Cocoa climbed for the fourth day amid fears the political
conflict would hamper exports, gaining $29, or 1 percent, to
$3,008 by 11:04 a.m. in New York.  Ouattara’s strategy to invoke a popular rebellion mirrors
the one used by Gbagbo to enter the presidency a decade ago.
President  Robert Guei  was forced to flee as violent youth groups
wreaked havoc in Abidjan after both he and Gbagbo claimed
victory in disputed elections.  Ouattara’s call for marches is “a significant change in
strategy,”  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , a New York-based Africa
analyst with DaMina Advisors, said yesterday in an interview.
“It shows that he’s realized that the formal approach is not
going to work. He realizes that he has to do something.”  Gunfire tore through Abobo, a neighborhood largely
inhabited by northerners, before diminishing later in the day,
Hamed Kone, an official with Ouattara’s youth wing said in an
interview.  Unjustified Force  Amnesty International is “appalled by this completely
unjustified and disproportionate use of force and calls on the
Ivorian security forces to stop these killings immediately,”
said Salvatore Sagues, West Africa researcher with the London-
based  group , in an e-mailed statement. “Those who opened fire on
these people, as well as those who gave the order, will have to
account for their acts.”  Army chief Philippe Mangou and other senior military
officers have appeared on Radio Television Ivoirienne over
recent days calling on troops to “respect the republican
spirit”.  Security forces were simply protecting state institutions,
Eric Ane, a spokesman for Gbagbo’s party, said in an interview.
“The security forces are doing their job, which is to say to
maintain order, not more,” he said, without saying how many
people were killed.  ‘Freedom of Information’  Guillaume Soro , whom Ouattara chose as his prime minister,
called on supporters to “not be put off by this dictatorship of
tanks and to reclaim pluralist freedom of information by the
state media,” according to an e-mailed statement.  The Liberian Bureau of Immigration closed its border with
its eastern neighbor on concern that former fighters were
returning to Ivory Coast to participate in the violence.  “It is on full alert to arrest would be individuals
attempting to cross into Ivory Coast to engage in conflict,”
the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  Over 3,000 people had fled into Liberia from Ivory Coast
since the runoff vote, Saah Nyumah, deputy executive director of
the Liberia Refugees, Repatriation and Resettlement Commission
told reporters in Monrovia yesterday.  -- With assistance from  Ansu Konneh  in Monrovia. Editors:  Emily Bowers ,  Karl Maier ,  Philip Sanders .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  and  Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 