-- J&J Promotes Two in Race to Succeed CEO Weldon
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-16T21:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/j-j-promotes-two-in-race-to-succeed-ceo-weldon-address-product-recalls.html
Johnson & Johnson  is setting in
motion a competition to replace Chief Executive Officer  William Weldon  by promoting the heads of its drug and device units to
vice chairmen and assigning them to repair its consumer business
following product recalls.  The elevation of  Alex Gorsky , 50, who leads the devices
business, and  Sheri McCoy , 52, chief of pharmaceuticals, was
announced by the company in a statement yesterday. It follows
the recall of more than 40 consumer products since April, and
continuing probes into J&J’s production processes. McCoy will
supervise the consumer business, and Gorsky the supply chain.  The latest moves may not assuage investors, said  Robert Goldman , an analyst at CL King & Associates. Since Weldon, 62,
replaced  Ralph S. Larsen  in April 2002, J&J shares have dropped
1.5 percent. This year, they have fallen 3.1 percent, the third-
worst performance in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals
Index .  “Johnson & Johnson is in a challenged period and that
might suggest the need for outside solutions,” said Goldman,
who is based in New York, in a telephone interview today.
“Clearly, those two are now at the front of the line in the
sweepstakes.”  Third-quarter revenue for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
J&J fell 0.7 percent to $15 billion, with sales of consumer
products declining 11 percent because of the recalls, the
company said Oct. 19. Recalls and suspension of manufacturing at
a plant that made some of those products will reduce sales this
year by about $600 million, the company said in July.  Split Responsibilities  J&J , the world’s largest health-products company, fell 17
cents to $62.40 at 4:07 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  “The changes are an appropriate step in furthering our
long-term succession plans, and assuring talented, experienced
leaders at all levels of the organization,” Weldon, who also
serves as chairman, said in a statement yesterday. Gorsky and
McCoy weren’t available for comment, J&J spokesman  Jeffrey Leebaw  said in an e-mail today. Spokeswoman  Carol Goodrich 
referred questions about succession to the statement.  Under the changes, the two vice chairmen will split the
company’s responsibilities.  McCoy  is in charge of businesses
generating three-fifths of revenue. Gorsky retains oversight of
the devices unit, the company’s fastest growing. Sales of
devices gained 5.9 percent to $18.3 billion in the first nine
months of 2010, while pharmaceutical revenue rose 1 percent to
$16.7 billion. The consumer unit fell 5 percent to $11 billion.  Consumer Business  McCoy, a chemical engineer by training, will oversee the
consumer business that includes McNeil Consumer Healthcare,
responsible for the bulk of the recalls. Reporting to her will
be the unit’s new chief,  Jesse Wu , 54, who replaces  Colleen Goggins , who is retiring.  Before taking over pharmaceuticals last year, McCoy ran the
Surgical Care Group. Earlier in her career, she served as head
of the company’s medical devices division in Latin America.  Joaquin Duato  and  Paul Stoffels  will report to McCoy as the
new co-chairmen of pharmaceuticals, the company said. Duato will
oversee commercial businesses and operations, Stoffels drug
research.  Gorsky , a former U.S. Army ranger who has also worked at
Novartis AG., will run a manufacturing and supply group created
to make sure all plants meet quality standards, as well as
procurement of goods.  Michael Mahoney  will report to Gorsky as the new chairman
of medical devices and diagnostics.  ‘Bright and Innovative’  Gorsky and McCoy are “capable individuals, bright and
innovative,” said  Marc Davis  of Summit, New Jersey-based
Tradition Capital, who owns about 154,000 shares of J&J.
“They’re both strong leaders and they’ve been in the healthcare
field for a long time, they’ve both operated divisions and been
successful.”  They are also “unlikely to shake up the status quo,”
said  Les Funtleyder , an analyst for Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York. “The question is why now? Was this an acceleration of the
plan? At some point the investors are going to get fed up and
want some answers.”  One concern for investors may be the effect of a
competition for the top job on the company, he said. “Often
times when you have a succession plan like this, it can lead to
distraction within the ranks as everyone’s waiting to see who
will be in charge,” Funtleyder said.  Tylenol, Benadryl  J&J sells prescription drugs including Remicade for
arthritis and Procrit for anemia; medical devices led by the
DePuy unit that makes artificial hips and knees; and over-the-
counter treatments such as the Tylenol painkiller.  J&J has recalled Tylenol cold treatments, Children’s
Benadryl allergy tablets and more than 40 types of children’s
over-the-counter liquid medicines since April, leading to
regulatory warnings and Congressional hearings. Yesterday, U.S.
regulators cited J&J for violations at a plant where the company
suspended over-the-counter drug production earlier this year.  Weldon, testifying about the recalls before a Congressional
committee hearing on Sept. 30, said J&J hadn’t maintained its
“high-quality standards” and had made “considerable
progress” in addressing the manufacturing lapses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 