-- Kan to Cut Corporate Taxes, Increase Hiring Incentives to Bolster Growth
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2010-12-16T03:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/japan-tax-panel-wants-corporate-tax-cut-hiring-incentives-to-spur-growth.html
Japan will lower the nation’s
corporate tax rate next year and introduce incentives for small
businesses to increase hiring, an attempt by Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  to bolster a slowing  economy .  To make up for reduced revenue, wealthy households will be
taxed more and fuel taxes will be raised, the government tax
panel will say in a report to Kan in Tokyo today. The panel,
headed by Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , already announced the
policies earlier this month.  The recommendations reflect the government’s aim to spur
corporate demand to support the nation’s expansion while also
securing revenue to help fund the largest debt burden in the
industrialized world. Kan will use the guidelines to compile the
budget for the year starting April 1, a spending package that
seeks to cap bond sales below 44.3 trillion yen ($526 billion).  “These tax policies reflect the government’s struggle to
boost growth while also making progress toward fiscal
consolidation,” said  Hiroshi Miyazaki , chief economist at
Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Given these
recommendations, they may very well end up achieving neither.”  Rising bond yields may put more pressure on the government
to rein in spending next year. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year bond was 1.295 percent at the 11:05 a.m. morning close in
Tokyo, matching the highest level since May 18.  Miyazaki said the corporate tax cut may not be able to
bolster the economy at a time when executives are concerned
about the yen’s advance against the dollar. Having more cash on
hand may encourage companies to move overseas, he said.  Kan this week said he wanted the nation’s effective
corporate tax rate lowered by 5 percentage points. The corporate
tax rate in Tokyo, Japan’s financial and economic center, is
40.69 percent, compared with 28 percent in the U.K. and 25
percent in China.  The reduction will cut revenue by between 1.4 trillion yen
and 2.1 trillion yen, according to Ministry of Finance
calculations. Noda said this week he will do his best to find
funds to counter the loss in revenue.  Small Effect  Japan’s tax policy changes will only add 0.33 percentage
point to gross domestic product in fiscal 2011, according to
 Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at Nomura Securities Co. in
Tokyo.  The panel also agreed to place a heavier burden on the
nation’s wealthier population, adjusting the tax system to
account for deflation, Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi 
said this week.  The government will set a ceiling on income deductions for
those who earn more than 15 million yen annually and it will be
more halved for corporate executives who earn more than 40
million yen, the tax panel said. The maximum inheritance tax
will be raised to 55 percent from 50 percent.  Increasing Hiring  Small companies  that increase their workforce will be
eligible for a tax writeoff of 200,000 yen per person provided
they have hired more than five people or increased their
 workforce  by at least 10 percent, the panel said earlier this
week. Corporate tax for those companies will drop to 15 percent
from 18 percent next year, the group said.  The tax panel yesterday agreed to raise levies on fuels
including petroleum and coal next year as part of its
environmental tax. The levy for petroleum will increase by 37
percent to 2,800 yen per kiloliter in three stages through 2015
beginning in October, the group said.  Some of the panel’s attempts to increase revenue were met
with resistance by ministries. The panel will recommend
extending a tax break on capital gains and dividends for two
years instead of ending it in 2011 as scheduled after the
Financial Services Agency said ending the break could hurt the
stock market and depress economic growth.  “We made progress” in fixing Japan’s tax system, Igarashi,
who moderated the panel, said at a press conference on Dec. 13.
“But we need to make bigger changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  