-- U.S. Economy: Fewer Firings Point to Job-Market Gains
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-12-16T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fell-to-420-000-last-week.html
Fewer workers than forecast filed
claims for unemployment benefits last week, pointing to a drop
in firings that signals the U.S. job market is improving.  Applications for  jobless insurance  payments fell by 3,000
to 420,000, sending the average over the past four weeks to the
lowest level since August 2008, according to data from the Labor
Department issued today in Washington. Other reports showed work
began on more houses last month and manufacturing picked up in
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia region in December.  A decrease in firings would be a harbinger of bigger gains
in payrolls that will help bring down the  jobless rate , which
has been at 9.5 percent or higher for 16 consecutive months, the
longest stretch since monthly records began in 1948. Fed policy
makers this week said they will continue to buy Treasury
securities in a bid to reduce unemployment.  “Hiring is picking up, but there’s still a lot of work to
be done,” said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “The labor market
is gaining traction, which should be a positive for housing.”  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbing
to the highest level since September 2008, after the reports.
The S&P 500 gained 0.6 percent to 1,242.87 at the 4 p.m. close
in New York. Treasuries increased, pushing down the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note to 3.44 percent from 3.53 percent late
yesterday.  Unexpected Drop  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected claims
would increase to 425,000, according to the  median  of 48
forecasts. Estimates ranged from 405,000 to 435,000. There were
no special factors in last week’s decrease, a Labor Department
official said as the figures were released today.  The four-week  moving average  of claims, a less-volatile
measure, decreased to 422,750, the lowest since the week ended
Aug. 2, 2008.  “Jobs are what we’ve been really missing and we’ve been
awaiting that heralded decline in claims below 400,000,” said
 John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.
“Things aren’t looking so bad.”  Builders in November began work on more homes for the first
time in three months, showing the industry is struggling to
recover, Commerce Department figures also showed today.  Housing
starts  rose to a 555,000 annual rate, up 3.9 percent from the
previous month.  Building permits , a proxy of future work, fell,
reflecting a drop in applications for multifamily projects.  Foreclosures, Unemployment  Companies like  Toll Brothers Inc.  anticipate the industry
that triggered the worst recession since the 1930s will regain
its footing in coming months after the end of a tax credit
caused demand to slump. Mounting foreclosures and  unemployment 
near 10 percent mean housing will take years to fully rebound.  “Housing remains stuck in the mud,” said Moody’s Smith,
who correctly forecast the pace of starts. “Builders are in a
wait-and-see mode. Foreclosures are still problematic and the
recent backup in mortgage rates poses a significant threat.”  The  median  estimate called for a 550,000 pace in starts,
based on a survey of 76 economists.  A report from the Philadelphia Fed showed manufacturing in
the area covering eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and
Delaware expanded this month at the fastest pace since April
2005 as orders climbed and the workweek lengthened.  The bank’s  general economic  index unexpectedly rose to 24.3
from 22.5 last month. The gauge was forecast to decrease to 15,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion.  Growth Overseas  Expanding economies in China and other emerging markets,
business investment in new equipment and gains in consumer
spending are bolstering production. The data indicate
manufacturing may keep powering the economic recovery.  “Growth is accelerating,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global
chief economist at MF Global Inc. in New York. “There is pretty
good momentum going into the new year.”  Broadcom Corp. , the biggest maker of chips for television
set-top boxes, this week increased its fourth-quarter revenue
projection. The Irvine, California-based company is making
inroads in the mobile-phone market, supplying radio chips for
handsets from South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and
Finland’s Nokia Oyj.  “We have seen now an extended period of time of recovery
in the components business,” Paul Reilly , chief financial
officer of  Arrow Electronics Inc. , said this week at a
conference in New York. Melville, New York-based Arrow is a
distributor of electronic components and computer products to
industrial customers.  Benefit Rolls Climb  The number of people  continuing  to collect jobless benefits
rose by 22,000 in the week ended Dec. 4 to 4.14 million, today’s
report from the Labor Department showed. These data do not
include the number of workers receiving extended benefits under
federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by 324,537
to 4.83 million in the week ended Nov. 27.  More help may be coming for the unemployed. The Senate
yesterday passed an $858 billion tax-cut plan, crafted by
President Barack Obama and Republicans that extends Bush-era
reductions for all income levels. It also continues expanded
unemployment insurance benefits through 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  