-- Julian Assange's Lawyer Stephens Says U.K., Not Sweden, Wanted Bail Appeal
-- B y   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-12-16T12:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/julian-assange-lawyer-stephens-says-u-k-not-sweden-wanted-bail-appeal.html
Julian Assange ’s lawyer said that
Sweden didn’t ask the U.K. government to appeal a judge’s ruling
allowing the  WikiLeaks  founder to be released on bail and that
it was “confusing” why the British prosecutors decided to
appeal.  “The question is why did they make this decision if they
said yesterday that they were acting on behalf of the Swedish
authorities,”  Mark Stephens , Assange’s lawyer, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s fair to say that this is
all a bit fishy. The whole case really reeks.”  Assange, 39, turned himself in to U.K. authorities after
Swedish police issued a warrant on one count of unlawful
coercion, two counts of sexual molestation and one count of
rape. WikiLeaks gained prominence after it released U.S.
military documents, including a video of a July 2007 helicopter
attack in Iraq that killed a Reuters television cameraman and
his driver.  A London judge is hearing arguments by British prosecutors
seeking to overturn the ruling that Assange can be released on
bail while he fights the Swedish extradition request.  Stephens said prosecutors have withheld evidence that shows
Assange’s innocence. Stephens regularly represents media
organizations, including Bloomberg News.  “We know the two women were texting each other with
material that was exculpatory of Julian,” Stephens said. “Yet
the prosecutor has hidden that from us and hasn’t allowed it
out.”  Stephens said that even if convicted, Assange wasn’t likely
to face any prison time in Sweden on the kind of allegations
that he faces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elliott Gotkine  in London at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net ;
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 