-- Junk Spreads Tumble to Lowest Since '07 as Fed Prints Cash: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-12-16T17:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/junk-spreads-tumble-to-lowest-since-07-as-fed-prints-cash-credit-markets.html
Relative yields on junk bonds
narrowed to a three-year low as investors gained confidence in
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s efforts to stimulate
the economy.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-risk debt
rather than government bonds has dropped 82 basis points this
month to 540 basis points, or 5.4 percentage points, the lowest
since Nov. 16, 2007, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. High-Yield Master II index.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
advising clients to buy speculative-grade debt in 2011, even
after gains of 14 percent this year and a record 57.5 percent in
2009. Economists are boosting growth forecasts after President
 Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax cuts enacted by his
predecessor and as Bernanke seeks to reduce unemployment and
avert deflation by buying Treasuries.  “We’re going to start taking more risk as we go into next
year because the economic fundamentals are better,” said  Thomas O’Reilly , a managing director in Chicago at Neuberger Berman
Fixed Income LLC, which oversees $11 billion in junk bonds.  Spreads on high-yield debt have tightened 187 basis points
from this year’s high on June 11, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The riskiest tier has narrowed the
most this month, falling 122 basis points to 906, according to
the bank’s US High Yield, CCC and Lower Rated index. Investment-
grade bonds have dropped 13 basis points to 169.  Swaps Streak Ends  “The sweet spot is high yield,” said  Alberto Gallo , a
credit strategist at Goldman Sachs in New York, which favors
bonds with B ratings. “You want to gain as much spread exposure
as possible, and you want to decrease your rate exposure, which
is what you achieve with high yield.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, spreads on company bonds
worldwide were unchanged at 171 basis points, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 4.04 percent, the highest since June 21, while
emerging-market spreads rose 7 basis points, the most this
month, to 226, JPMorgan indexes show.  The cost of protecting company bonds from default in the
U.S. climbed to the highest level in a week. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 87.8
basis points as of 11:53 a.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Bank of America  The index, at the highest since Dec. 8, typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves.
Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender by assets,
plans to sell 10-year notes in a benchmark offering as soon as
today, according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark
sales are typically at least $500 million.  While JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs say investors should be
“overweight” high-yield bonds, they differ on how much risk to
take. Corporate bonds rated B are offering the best return for
the amount of risk taken and will likely gain 9.5 percent in
2011, Goldman Sachs said Dec. 3 in a research report.  JPMorgan says investors should be “overweight” CCC ranked
securities as the economy grows faster than expected, the New
York-based bank’s  Peter Acciavatti  wrote Dec. 8 in a report.
Overall, high-yield bonds will return 9.8 percent, he wrote.  Factory Output  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent
last month, the biggest gain since July, after a revised 0.2
percent drop in October, a Fed report showed yesterday. The U.S.
economy will grow 2.55 percent in 2011 after increasing 2.8
percent this year, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The tax-cut stimulus may spur U.S. growth by 1 percentage
point to 3 percent,  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. rates
strategy of RBC Capital Markets LLC wrote Dec. 9 in a research
report. JPMorgan raised its forecast for gross domestic product
in the first half of 2011 to 3.8 percent from 2.8 percent, chief
economist  Bruce Kasman  said Dec. 10.  The U.S. Senate passed an $858 billion tax-cut plan
yesterday, giving bipartisan endorsement to the agreement
between Obama and Republicans that would extend reductions for
all income levels.  ‘QE2 Is Working’  Fed policy makers affirmed on Dec. 14 their plan to buy as
much as $600 billion of Treasuries to stimulate the economy in a
process known as quantitative easing, or QE2. The U.S. central
bank has kept its benchmark rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent for two years.  “Certainly in my mind, QE2 is working,” said  Scott Minerd , chief investment officer at Guggenheim Partners LLC in
Santa Monica, California, where he oversees more than $100
billion. “As the availability of credit continues to increase
as a result of monetary expansion, the prices of high yield
relative to other assets should continue rising. And that makes
high yield a safer place to be.”  Yields  on the benchmark Treasury climbed to 3.53 percent
yesterday, the highest since May. U.S. government bonds have
lost 2.84 percent in December, poised for the worst monthly
decline since January 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Treasury Master Index.  Inflation Hedge  Junk bonds should help shield investors from losses
stemming from rising interest rates and inflation, said  Lucette Yvernault , who helps oversee the equivalent of about 7 billion
euros ($9.3 billion) as a money manager at Schroders Investment
Management Ltd. in London. U.S. investment-grade bonds have lost
2.57 percent this month, the most since October 2008, while junk
debt returned 0.84 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  “Inflation protection is a great strategy to have whilst it
remains cheap,” she said.  Total return money managers, hedge funds and proprietary
trading desks are all “eagerly” boosting their exposure to
credit risk across asset classes,  Ken Hackel , head of
securitized product strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut, wrote in a Dec. 15 note.  ‘Fear Versus Greed’  “Frankly we are a bit surprised by the strength of
conviction being expressed,” he wrote. “The driving force may
well be investors sitting with too much cash and scrambling to
set up for 2012, but the fear-versus-greed pendulum is clearly
in motion and swinging to the right, with no visible signs of
near term reversal.”  The U.S. default rate for junk-rated debt is expected to
drop to 2.2 percent by this time next year, from 3.6 percent in
October, Moody’s said in a report.  High-yield bonds will return about 7 percent to 12 percent
in 2011 as defaults are “near zero” for the next few years,
said O’Reilly of Neuberger, which in the past 13 years has owned
one security that defaulted.  Guggenheim’s Minerd is adding junk bonds, focusing on those
with B ratings in the 7- to 10-year range that yield more than
10 percent, and shorter-term notes that pay at least 6 percent.  “The forward momentum in the economy is very strong,”
Minerd said. “We expect that next year will be one of the best
for the economy that we’ve seen over the past 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  