-- Kenyan Parliament Dismisses lawmaker's Motion to End Cooperation With ICC
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-12-16T15:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/kenyan-parliament-dismisses-lawmaker-s-motion-to-end-cooperation-with-icc.html
Kenya’s Parliament dismissed a
motion to end the East African nation’s obligation to cooperate
with the  International Criminal Court , which is pursuing cases
against six Kenyans for their alleged roles in post-election
violence in 2008.  Deputy Parliamentary Speaker Farah Maalim said lawmaker
Isaac Ruto didn’t follow proper procedure because he presented
the motion for debate rather than a bill. Ruto urged parliament
to repeal  Kenya ’s commitment as a signatory to the Rome Statutes
that created the court. The proceedings were broadcast by Kenya
Broadcasting Corp., the state-run television station.  The Hague-based court’s Chief Prosecutor  Luis Moreno-Ocampo 
yesterday requested that charges of crimes against humanity be
filed against Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , and lawmaker  William Ruto . Industrialization Minister
 Henry Kosgey , Cabinet Secretary  Francis Muthaura , former police
chief Mohammed Hussein Ali and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio
presenter, were also identified as suspects.  “A state shall not be discharged, by reason of its
withdrawal, from the obligations arising from this statute while
it was a party to the statute, including any financial
obligation which may have accrued,” Prime Minister  Raila Odinga 
told lawmakers. Ending cooperation also wouldn’t affect current
cases, he said.  Election Violence  The charges stem from fighting that broke out after then-
opposition leader Odinga disputed the results of a December 2007
presidential election that gave victory to incumbent President
 Mwai Kibaki .  Two months of fighting subsided after Kibaki signed a power
sharing accord with Odinga, who was installed as prime minister,
and the leaders agreed to change the police and courts, stem
corruption, and punish instigators of the clashes.  Kenyan lawmakers blocked two proposed laws to create a
local tribunal to try post-election violence suspects, prompting
Moreno-Ocampo to begin his own investigation in March.  The court will now examine the evidence presented and
decide whether to accept Moreno-Ocampo’s request to summon the
six suspects to appear voluntarily or file arrest warrants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 