-- KKR Buys Stake in China Liquor Retailer as Wine, Spirit Consumption Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-16T09:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/kkr-buys-stake-in-china-liquor-retailer-as-wine-spirit-consumption-rises.html
KKR & Co.  agreed to invest in
China’s VATS Liquor Store as rising incomes drive consumption of
wines and spirits in the world’s most populous country.  VATS operates more than 270 liquor stores across China, the
New York-based buyout firm said yesterday in a statement, which
didn’t contain financial details. The Beijing-based company
distributes French wines including Petrus and Laphroaig Scotch
whisky and sells Chinese liquor brands made by  Wuliangye Yibin
Co. , according to the statement.  "China’s alcohol market is slated to expand further as
people’s incomes keep rising,"  Jason Yuan , a Shanghai-based
analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd., said by telephone today.
"Getting hold of a vast distribution channel is the key to
success."  China’s government is seeking to promote domestic spending
as it reduces a reliance on exports to drive growth. Consumption
of bottled white spirits in China has increased at a compound
annual growth rate of 20 percent in the past five years, data
from the country’s statistics bureau show.  Consumer spending in Brazil, Russia, India and China may
surpass U.S. purchases in 15 years and companies that sell to
emerging-market shoppers are some of the best investments “of
our lifetime,” Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill , who coined the BRIC acronym, said Dec. 7.  VATS, which opened its first store in central Hunan
province in May 2005, aims to increase the number of its outlets
to more than 1,000 over the next three to five years, according
to its  website .  KKR is the largest shareholder of  China Modern Dairy
Holdings Ltd. , the Hong Kong-based producer of raw milk that
listed in the city last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  -- Michael Wei . With assistance from Eva Woo in Beijing. Editors:
 Chua Kong Ho , Lena Lee.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  