-- Kleiner Perkins Plays Catch-Up in Social Web With Twitter Deal
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-12-16T19:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/kleiner-perkins-plays-catch-up-in-social-media-market-with-twitter-funding.html
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers , a
venture capital firm that shunned social-media startups in favor
of green technology, is spending hundreds of millions of dollars
to make up for lost time.  After hiring Internet analyst  Mary Meeker  from Morgan
Stanley last month, Kleiner said yesterday that it led a $200
million investment in Twitter Inc. In October, the Menlo Park,
California-based firm also introduced a $250 million fund for
entrepreneurs who are building social applications and services.  Kleiner, which along with Sequoia Capital made billions
from an early investment in  Google Inc. , is getting a piece of
Twitter at a later stage. The startup, with more than 175
million users, has already quadrupled in value over the past
year. Kleiner also missed out on investments in Facebook Inc.,
Groupon Inc. and LinkedIn Corp., which are all valued in the
billions of dollars on private exchanges.  “Are they late? Of course, they’re late,” said  Eric Risley , founder of Architect Partners, a technology merger-and-
acquisition advisory firm based in Menlo Park. “But I can’t
imagine that means they missed the boat, because there’s a heck
of a lot more innovation to play itself out.”  Founded in 1972, Kleiner has been one of the most
successful Silicon Valley firms, mostly because of 1990s
investments in Internet companies such as Google,  Amazon.com
Inc.  and Netscape Communications Corp.  Green Technology  In the past decade, the focus shifted. Starting in 2006,
Kleiner partner  John Doerr  began investing in alternative
energy. He said in February of that year that “green tech could
be the largest economic opportunity of the 21st century.” In
2008, Kleiner introduced the $500 million Green Growth Fund.
During that stretch, rival firms Sequoia, Accel Partners and
Greylock Partners stuck with the Web.  While Doerr continues to invest in alternative energy, he’s
come back to the Internet, now that social-media companies have
taken off. Until the Twitter funding, Kleiner’s biggest social-
networking deal was struck by former Electronic Arts Inc.
executive  Bing Gordon , who was hired by Kleiner in 2008. Soon
after joining, Gordon led a $29 million investment in Zynga Game
Network Inc., the most popular maker of games on Facebook. Zynga
is now worth more on private exchanges than  Electronic Arts  is
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Chegg, Ngmoco  Kleiner also invested in online book-rental company Chegg
Inc. in late 2008, and made multiple investments in mobile-
gaming company Ngmoco. Chegg has since raised more than $180
million, while Ngmoco was acquired in October for $400 million.  Twitter marks a late-stage deal for Kleiner. Prior to
yesterday, San Francisco-based Twitter had raised four venture
rounds from about 20 investors, including everyone from angel
investor  Ron Conway  to Wall Street securities firm  Morgan
Stanley . The latest financing round values Twitter at $3.7
billion.  “We are privileged and excited to be the lead investor in
Twitter’s latest investment round,” Kleiner said in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to helping the company become the
next great Internet treasure.”  To find future Internet companies, Kleiner will be looking
to Meeker, the former Morgan Stanley analyst. She gained fame in
the 1990s for her bullish calls on Web companies such as Amazon
and America Online Inc., and predicted last month that there
will be a $50 billion online advertising boom.  Kleiner also is looking for early stage social startups in
its $250 million sFund. Facebook, Zynga and Amazon are investors
in the fund, similar to Apple Inc.’s role in Kleiner’s iFund,
which opened in 2008 to back mobile-app companies.  “They’ve demonstrated they can move the ball when they
need to and focus,” said  Jerome Engel , founder of the
entrepreneurship program at the University of California,
Berkeley’s Haas School of Business and a partner at  Monitor
Venture Associates LLC . “Social media is a great space and we’d
be fools not to pay attention to it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  