-- Representative Kline Eyes Way to Stop Rule Restricting For-Profit Colleges
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/kline-considering-measures-to-block-for-profit-college-rule.html
John Kline , the incoming leader of
the House of Representatives education committee, said he is
considering measures to block an Obama administration plan to
tighten for-profit colleges’ access to student aid.  The Department of Education has proposed tying for-profit
colleges’ eligibility for U.S. student aid to graduates’ incomes
and loan repayment rates. In September, after receiving more
than 90,000 comments, the department delayed making public the
final rule until early next year.  Kline , a Minnesota Republican who will become chairman of
the education committee in January, said he would rather that
nonprofit and for-profit colleges be required to disclose
graduation rates, costs, and graduates’ debt burdens to all
applicants. The so-called gainful employment rule is scheduled
to go into effect in 2012, and Kline said he has been looking at
ways of “stopping” it.  “At the very least, you need to push this thing back,” he
said yesterday during an interview with reporters in his office.
The rule has been getting “an enormous amount of pushback and
getting it in a bipartisan way.”  Democratic Representatives  Alcee Hastings  of Florida and
 Donald Payne  and  Robert Andrews  of New Jersey have voiced
opposition to the gainful employment proposal, Kline said. At
least 80 members of Congress have said they oppose the rule.
‘  Broad Opposition  “You’ve got what I’d think of as a pretty broad
spectrum,” Kline said.  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and chairman of the
Senate education committee, state prosecutors in Kentucky and
Florida, and the U.S. Government Accountability Office have been
investigating the education companies’ recruitment practices and
use of government funds. Phoenix-based  Apollo Group Inc. , the
biggest U.S. for-profit college and operator of the University
of Phoenix, gained 45 cents, or 1.2 percent yesterday in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading, and has  lost  37 percent this
year. An index of 13  for-profit colleges  gained less than 1
percent yesterday.  The rule is  intended to measure  the quality of for-profit
colleges’ by tracking former students’ incomes and ability to
repay loans. Schools that fail to hit benchmarks risk losing
eligibility for student financial aid that can account for up to
90 percent of revenue at for-profit colleges. Those measures
don’t provide an accurate picture of how well the colleges
educate their students, Kline said.  “I’d say you’re measuring the wrong thing here,” he said.  For-profit colleges are an important part of the
educational system, because they can quickly develop programs to
prepare students for expanding job opportunities, Kline said.
The regulation needlessly hinders an industry that’s working
well, he said.  The rule may be blocked by including language in a spending
bill that would prevent the department from implementing it,
Kline said. He said he would prefer to work with Secretary of
Education  Arne Duncan  soften or eliminate the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 