-- Shale-Gas Output May Double by 2035, Reducing Energy Imports, U.S. Says
-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-12-16T22:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/natural-gas-production-from-shale-may-double-by-35-u-s-agency-forecasts.html
Production forecasts for natural gas
locked in shale have doubled, which will help the U.S. become
less reliant on imported energy, according to a federal agency.  The  Energy Information Administration ’s annual long-term
forecast shows gas from shale will play a bigger role in meeting
U.S. demand,  Richard Newell , agency administrator, said today in
Washington. Production in 2035 is “twice the level that we had
in last year’s outlook,” he said.  The Annual Energy Outlook predicts imports will meet 18
percent of U.S. demand by 2035, down from 24 percent last year.
Higher prices will spur fuel production, including natural gas,
oil and coal, the agency said. Tougher energy-saving rules, such
as fuel-economy mandates for new cars, and a boost in biofuel
production from crops such as corn also will make the U.S. less
reliant on imports by 2035, according to the forecast.  Overall U.S. energy consumption will jump 21 percent by
2035. Coal will remain the “dominant energy source for
electricity generation,” although more natural-gas fired plants
will be built because of higher supplies of the cleaner-burning
fuel, according to the outlook.  The agency forecasts construction of five nuclear plants by
2035, contributing to a 10 percent increase in electricity
generated from atomic power. The share of electricity from
renewable sources such as hydroelectric dams and solar panels
will rise to 14 percent in 2035 from 11 percent last year,
according to the outlook.  Gas Reserves  This year’s outlook more than doubles the estimate of U.S.
technically recoverable reserves of natural gas from shale, a
type of sedimentary rock, to 827 trillion cubic feet from 347
trillion cubic feet. New technologies that let natural-gas
producers drill horizontally and fracture the rock formations
with injections of water, sand and chemicals account for the
increase, Newell said.  Last year’s long-term outlook predicted annual shale-gas
production would rise to 6 trillion cubic feet by 2035, Newell
said. The updated forecast is 12 trillion cubic feet, he said.  The agency raised its 2035 projection for overall natural-
gas production 25 percent from last year’s outlook “as a result
of greater supply availability from shale gas plays,” the EIA
said.  Average annual Henry Hub natural-gas prices, in 2009
dollars, are predicted to be $4.81 per million British thermal
units in 2015, $5.18 in 2020 and $7.19 by 2035. Last year’s
forecast for prices in 2035 was $8.88 per million Btu.  Cheaper Prices  The cheaper price will drive up the use of natural gas as a
fuel for generating electricity, at the expense of coal and
renewable sources such as wind turbines, the EIA said. Natural-
gas electricity generation by 2020 is 29 percent higher in this
year’s outlook. Gas-fired generation by 2035 is 17 percent
higher than last year’s forecast, the EIA said.  The agency’s prediction “should offer assurance that long-
term investments in natural gas for power and transportation can
proceed in a predictable and favorable market environment,”
 Daniel Whitten , a vice president at the Washington-based
 America’s Natural Gas Alliance , said in an e-mail.  The group’s members, which include natural-gas producers
 Devon Energy Corp.  and  Range Resources Corp. , can exceed the
EIA’s “robust projections,” Whitten said.  While the outlook concludes shale-gas production will
expand, the report’s “fine print” casts doubt over whether it
can be extracted profitably,  Luke Popovich , a vice president at
the  National Mining Association , which represents coal producers
such as  Peabody Energy Corp.  and  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. ,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 