-- NBA Commissioner Stern Says He's Optimistic on Contract; Sides `Far Apart'
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-16T21:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/nba-commissioner-stern-says-he-s-optimistic-on-contract-sides-far-apart-.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  said he’s optimistic the league and its
players union can avoid a lockout next year. He said the sides
remain “very far apart.”  Stern said today the league and the National Basketball
Players Association will resume talks after the holidays. The
collective bargaining agreement expires June 30, and the
commissioner said chances of avoiding a work stoppage depend on
how hard both sides are willing to work and how much they are
willing to compromise. He said talks so far have followed “a
playbook that is normally observed.”  “I’m working hard to see whether there can be basketball
next year, and until there isn’t, I remain optimistic that there
will be,” Stern told reporters at an event to promote ESPN’s 3-
D telecast of tomorrow night’s Miami Heat-New York Knicks game
at Madison Square Garden.  Dan Wasserman , a spokesman for the union, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message seeking comment.  The NBA and the  union  disagree on issues such as percentage
of shared revenue, minimum age requirements and changes in
salary cap rules.  “The formal proposals are very far apart,” Stern said.
“But if you ask me whether there have been deals made without
undue damage with proposals that started far apart, I’d say
there’s precedent for that.”  The league has asked teams to cut player costs by $750
million to $800 million, or about one-third, and Stern has said
that paying 57 percent of revenue to labor under the current
agreement is “just way too high.”  The players’ association said it’s willing to negotiate the
current percentage, a stance Stern said was “not really much of
a concession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  