-- NCR's Blockbuster Express Unit Signs DVD-Sale Agreement With Warner Bros.
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/ncr-s-blockbuster-express-signs-dvd-agreement-with-warner-bros-.html
NCR Corp. ’s Blockbuster Express
movie-rental unit reached a licensing agreement with Warner
Bros. that gives the studio 28 days to sell new releases before
they are placed in kiosks.  NCR will be able to buy videos directly from Time Warner
Inc.’s Warner Bros. at a lower price and in greater volume than
it gets from third parties,  Justin Hotard , vice president and
general manager of NCR Entertainment, said yesterday in an
interview. The pact applies to DVDs that will go on sale in
stores in January, he said.  The company has 28-day agreements with NBC Universal and
News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox, studios that also require a
four-week window from a movie’s so-called street date, when it
is available for sale on DVD after being shown in theaters.  Blockbuster Express rents most of its movies for $1 a day
through almost 8,000 kiosks. The  company  competes with  Coinstar
Inc. ’s Redbox service, which rents for the same price through
more than 28,000 rental booths.  This month, NCR began offering three titles for $2.99 a
night on the same date the movies went on sale in stores. The
higher price wasn’t a deterrent, Hotard said.  “We’re optimistic that this means there is a market for
delivering certain titles for customers earlier, and customers
are willing to pay a premium,” Hotard said.  The test involves about 900 kiosks in San Francisco,
Phoenix, Miami and Atlanta. Titles in the test include Fox’s
“The A-Team” and Warner’s “Inception.” Fox’s “Wall Street:
Money Never Sleeps” will become part of the trial run next
week, Hotard said.  NCR licenses its movie-rental unit’s name from Blockbuster
Inc. The Dallas-based company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection Sept. 23 and has until Jan. 14 to file a
reorganization plan.  NCR, based in Duluth, Georgia, declined 20 cents to $14.85
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has climbed 33 percent this year. Time Warner, based in
New York, fell 12 cents to $31.35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 Mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  