-- Nevada Switch to 401(k)-Style Pension Adds $1.2 Billion Cost, Study Says
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-16T19:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/nevada-switch-to-401-k-style-pension-adds-1-2-billion-cost-study-finds.html
Nevada ’s pension system would pay
$1.2 billion more over the next two fiscal years than its
current obligation to retirees to convert its $24.7 billion plan
to one based on employee contributions, a report says.  That’s because switching to a so-called defined-
contribution plan, such as the 401(k) offered by companies,
would speed up the need for state payments to cover existing
benefits, according to a  report  yesterday to Nevada’s Public
Employment Retirement System.  Governor-elect  Brian Sandoval , 47, a Republican, has pushed
for an employee-supported plan to cut costs for the fund, which
has $10.4 billion less than needed to pay benefits, documents
for a state bond sale this month show. Alaska, Michigan and the
District of Columbia already require defined-contribution plans,
said the Nevada report by Segal Group Inc., a Chicago-based
consultant.  “We know there are no short-term savings,”  Dana Bilyeu, 
executive officer of the  Nevada system , said in an interview
from Carson City. “In fact, there is a short-term higher
cost.”  States and municipalities are trying to address retiree
expenses as the gap widens between the $1.89 trillion of assets
they have to pay promised benefits and their estimated $3.15
trillion of liabilities,  Joshua D. Rauh , a finance professor at
Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management in
Evanston, Illinois, said in an August study.  Last year, 25 U.S. states contributed less money to their
retirement funds than actuaries calculated was needed, up from
23 a year earlier, Loop Capital Markets said in an October
report.  $71 Billion Short  New York state’s pension is underfunded by $71 billion,
according to the Empire Center for New York State Policy, an
Albany-based project of the Manhattan Institute, which opposes
taxes and promotes outsourcing to private companies.  Illinois is the worst-ranked state in data compiled by
Bloomberg, with only half the assets needed to fund worker
pensions. It may have to borrow $3.7 billion to fund its fiscal
2011 contribution.  Defined-contribution plans can reduce potential liabilities
and expenses for governments because workers choose investments
for their savings and withdraw payments based on results.
Conversion can create additional costs, however, because of the
need to fund and administer two sets of benefits at once during
the transition, the Segal report said.  “Part of the message is, there is no silver bullet,” said
 Keith Brainard , chief of research for the National Association
of State Retirement Administrators.  Investment Shift  Closing a defined-contribution plan to new members and
their contributions would force it to shift investments to
income-generating fixed assets, which would lower returns and
add to the state’s cost of contributing, said Hank Kim,
executive director of the National  Conference of Public
Employees Retirement Systems  in Washington.  “There’s absolutely no dispute that a frozen plan is more
expensive,” said Kim, whose organization includes 500 public-
pension-fund members. Segal is an associate member. “When most
politicians look at the cost of it, they end up dropping it,”
Kim said. Talk of switching may be “politically expedient,” he
said.  Nevada may have to postpone plans to convert because of the
cost, said Carole Vilardo, president of the  Nevada Taxpayers
Association . The state projects a $2.7 billion budget deficit,
or about half of general-fund spending, in the two-year fiscal
period that begins July 1.  “At this point, we can’t afford it,” said Vilardo. “The
concern is in not having enough money with the belt-
tightening.”  Benefits Paid  As of June 30, the Nevada pension was 70.5 percent funded,
down from 72.5 percent in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009,
according to the bond documents. The fund paid $1.1 billion in
benefits to 41,900 beneficiaries in 2009, according to  an
actuarial report .  Segal’s study may be based on some flawed assumptions, said
Northwestern’s  Rauh.  One is that the state would be required to
pay off the unfunded liability at the pace called for in the
report. The report also fails to account for the benefit of
stopping growth of the unfunded liability, Rauh said.  “I would not use this as a reason to take the option off
the table,” Rauh said in a telephone interview.  Governor-elect Sandoval, who hasn’t reviewed the report,
“looks forward to meeting with and hearing from” the pension’s
staff, Mary-Sarah Kinner, his spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  