-- New York, London Exchanges Seek Moscow Bourse Alliance, Micex Chief Says
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-16T12:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/new-york-london-stock-exchanges-seek-moscow-partnership-micex-chief-says.html
New York  and  London  stock exchanges
are pursuing partnerships with Moscow’s Micex that may lead to
partial ownership of the Russian bourse, Micex Stock Exchange
President  Ruben Aganbegyan  said.  “Quite a lot of people would like to cooperate with us,”
Aganbegyan said in an interview in Moscow yesterday. “Deutsche
Boerse is a good partner, but then there’s a few others who
would love to basically work with us, like NYSE,  Nasdaq , LSE.”  Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG , Europe’s largest
exchange by market value, is in talks with the Micex and its
Moscow rival, the RTS, on creating an alliance that may see
equity swapped as part of the deal, two people involved in the
discussions said Dec. 3.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  is seeking to transform Moscow
into an international financial center as part of a drive to
diversify the economy away from natural resources. Uniting the
Micex and RTS and allying with foreign bourses will help lure
investment to the state privatization program, First Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in an October interview. The
government expects to raise 1 trillion rubles ($32.5 billion)
selling shares in state companies over the next three years.  Aganbegyan, who left Renaissance Capital, the Moscow-based
investment bank half-owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , to
head Russia’s largest bourse in June, said his goal is to
attract foreign investment as the exchange seeks to slow the
flow of overseas listings by Russian companies.  Rusal, Mail.ru  United Co. Rusal, billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s aluminum
producer, raised $2.2 billion in Hong Kong in January in the
biggest Russian IPO this year.  Mail.ru Group Ltd. , a Russian
investor in Facebook Inc., raised more than $1 billion last
month on the London Stock Exchange, Europe’s oldest independent
bourse. NYSE Euronext runs the New York Stock Exchange as well
as markets in Paris, Lisbon, Amsterdam and Brussels, while
NASDAQ OMX Group Inc. owns the Nasdaq Stock Market in New York.  NYSE doesn’t wish to comment, spokesman  Ray Pellecchia  said
by e-mail. LSE spokeswoman Victoria Brough also declined to
comment. E-mails to NASDAQ OMX spokesman  Robert Madden  weren’t
immediately returned.  While the Micex and Deutsche Boerse have no concrete plan
to swap equity stakes, “any idea should be considered,”
Aganbegyan said. The Micex itself “is not in any negotiations
to sell any shares,” he said.  Russia’s central bank is the largest Micex shareholder,
with 30 percent. State-owned banks VTB Group, OAO Sberbank and
VEB also hold stakes. The RTS is owned by Russian and
international investment banks including UBS AG, Deutsche Bank
AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, according to the bourse’s
website.  ‘Positive Thing’  The Micex is seeking a “friendly takeover” of the RTS,
central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said Nov.
18.  Aganbegyan said the Micex and RTS tie-up will happen “as
soon as possible” after RTS shareholders give “clarity” about
their plans.  Russia’s plan to sell stakes in companies such as  OAO
Sberbank , the biggest lender, OAO Rosneft, the largest oil
producer, and OAO Russian Railways, the nation’s rail monopoly
in next year’s privatization drive, Shuvalov said Oct. 20. The
proceeds will be used to narrow Russia’s budget deficit, which
is Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said Nov. 19 will be 4.6
percent of gross domestic product this year.  Privatization is a “very, very, very positive thing, the
more the better,” Aganbegyan said yesterday. “A lot of the
reforms being undertaken by the Micex can help allow the
privatizations to be done at the Micex.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  