-- New York State Pension Plan Fires BlackRock Russell 1000 Alpha Tilts Fund
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-16T21:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/new-york-state-pension-plan-fires-blackrock-r1000-alpha-tilts-equity-fund.html
The  New York  state retirement fund,
the nation’s third-largest public pension, fired a  BlackRock
Inc.  fund that managed $1.6 billion in equities, according to
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  The plan’s investment was terminated in October, according
to a monthly transaction report published today by DiNapoli’s
office. DiNapoli is the sole trustee of the $132.8 billion fund.  Firing BlackRock “was part of an asset reallocation
strategy where we are reducing our exposure to public
equities,” said Olayinka Fadahunsi, a New York-based spokesman
for DiNapoli. Fadahunsi didn’t know why the BlackRock fund was
chosen out of those run by 11 outside managers of investments in
companies with large market values.  The BlackRock Russell 1000 Alpha Tilts large-cap account
was the plan’s biggest in that category among U.S. equity funds
under outside management, the system’s  annual report  shows. The
Alpha Tilts fund aims to outperform the Russell l000  index  using
a so-called quantitative strategy where it varies weightings of
shares or sectors based on patterns or market signals,  Brian Beades , a company spokesman based in New York, said by e-mail.  “We can’t comment on our client actions,” said Jessica
Greaney, a BlackRock spokeswoman in New York.  More Investments  BlackRock  also managed $2.05 billion of investments in
smaller U.S. companies and $4.02 billion of international
equities as of March 31 for the pension fund, according to the
plan’s most-recent annual report. The report shows it has more
than 1 million members and beneficiaries.  BlackRock is the world’s largest money manager with $3.45
trillion of assets. The pension has invested in the Alpha Tilts
fund since November 2001. BlackRock has lost other pension
business recently.  Last week in  Massachusetts , the board overseeing state
pension assets voted to drop BlackRock as the manager of about
$1 billion in bonds, citing concern that the firm isn’t
adequately focused on some fixed-income markets. The company
still manages more than $2 billion for the Massachusetts plan.  After the New York fund’s investments lost 26 percent in
2009, its worst-ever performance, it announced plans to reduce
holdings in U.S. equities to 30 percent. As of March 31, about
39 percent of its assets were in U.S. shares, according to the
annual report.  Lower Allocations  The fund also lowered its allocation goals for
 international equities  to 13 percent of assets from 16 percent,
the annual report shows. Allocations were increased for private
equity and  real estate . The plan also set up new categories for
investments in real assets such as farmland, gold or
infrastructure, and an “opportunistic portfolio” for assets
that don’t fit in the other groups.  In the year ended March 31, the BlackRock Alpha Tilts
fund’s investment return of 49.6 percent was less than the 51.7
percent for all domestic equities it held and the 52.8 percent
achieved by other active managers in that group, the annual
report shows. The Russell 1000 Index  returned  51.6 percent for
the 12 months through March 31, including reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  During the past five years through March, the BlackRock
fund’s 1.35 percent annual rate of return was less than the 2.2
percent for all domestic equities held by the plan and the 1.6
percent of active managers, according to the pension plan’s
annual report.  The BlackRock fund’s returns were also less than the
Standard & Poor’s 500  index  for the one and five-year periods,
the report shows.  BlackRock Instititonal Trust collected $3.98 million of
fees from the New York fund for managing domestic equities and
$3.47 million for investing international shares in the year
through March, according to the plan’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  