-- Nigeria Banking Stocks Jump to One-Month High on Debt Purchase Start Date
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-12-16T15:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/nigeria-banks-jump-to-1-month-high-on-debt-purchase-start-date.html
Nigerian  banking shares rose,
sending an industry index to its highest in more than a month,
after a government-owned company set up to bail out commercial
lenders pledged to buy the first toxic debt by year-end.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index , which tracks the
performance of the top 10 capitalized and most liquid lenders in
the country, rose 1.4 percent to 393.17, its highest value since
Nov. 11, as of the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos.  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, will issue
“consideration bonds” so that it can buy debt from the banks
on Dec. 30, Foluke Dosunmu, executive director for finance, said
today at a meeting with lenders in Lagos.  The 1 trillion naira ($6.5 billion) raised from selling the
interim bonds will be used to buy non-performing margin loans
from Nigeria’s 24 banks, and non-performing loans from the banks
bailed out last year by the central bank of Nigeria, she said.
The interim bonds will be replaced by fully registered bonds on
Jan. 31, she said.  The end-of-year purchase of the first set of debt is
“sacrosanct,”  Mustafa Chike-Obi , Amcon’s managing director,
said at the meeting, in response to bankers’ questions on
whether the date might be shifted.  Amcon wants to buy all the non-performing loans of the
bailed-out banks because it plans to recapitalize them to wipe
out their negative equity before matching them with potential
investors who will bring them to capital adequacy, he said.  Nigerian banks cut lending after a debt crisis in 2008 and
2009 threatened the industry and sent stocks plunging. The
Central Bank of Nigeria bailed out lenders with 620 billion
naira, and fired the chief executives of eight of the country’s
24 banks last year.  First Bank Plc , the country’s second-biggest lender, gained
50 kobo, or 3.85 percent, to close at 13.50 naira.  Guaranty
Trust , Nigeria’s third-biggest lender by market value, climbed
38 kobo, or 2.17 percent, to 17.87 naira, its highest closing
level since May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 