-- Nokia Expands Smartphone Patent Claims Against Apple
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-12-16T17:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/nokia-files-more-patent-complaints-against-apple-in-u-k-germany-holland.html
Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, escalated its patent battle with  Apple Inc. 
over smartphone technology by filing new infringement complaints
in the U.K., Germany and the Netherlands.  Nokia claims Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices
infringe 13 patents related to functions including touch user
interfaces, signal noise suppression and on-device application
stores, according to a statement today from the Espoo, Finland-
based company. The cases add to lawsuits involving 24 additional
Nokia patents asserted against Apple in the U.S.  Nokia, which has lost market share to competitors with
more-feature rich phones, is expanding a patent war that began
when it sued Apple in October 2009. Cupertino, California-based
Apple has its own  complaints  against Nokia in the U.S. and U.K.,
and claims Nokia is trying to use the litigation to strong-arm
Apple into providing access to proprietary iPhone technology.
Nokia has denied Apple’s patent and antitrust allegations.  “They both hold fairly important mobile tech patents, and
they’ll probably resolve these issues out of court over time,”
said  Alkesh Shah , an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc. in New
York who has an “underweight” rating on Nokia shares.  The newest lawsuits involve technology including patents
for “using a wiping gesture on a touch screen to navigate
content or enabling access to constantly changing services with
an on-device app store, both filed more than 10 years before the
launch of the iPhone” in 2007, Paul Melin, Nokia’s vice
president for intellectual property, said in the statement.  E7, Symbian  “The Nokia inventions protected by these patents include
several which enable compelling user experiences,” he said.  Nokia is planning to begin shipments early next year of the
E7. The phone is the most complete of Nokia’s latest series of
handsets using a new version of the Symbian operating system and
has both a touchscreen and a slide-out keyboard.  “Nokia wants freedom to move in the touch space because
they were slow to get into that,” said  James Kelleher , director
of research at Argus Research Co. in New York. “As they move
forward with touch, they want to make sure they’re not prevented
from going there.”  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
stands by a comment made in December 2009, when General Counsel
 Bruce Sewell  said, “other companies must compete with us by
inventing their own technologies, not just by stealing ours.”  The International Trade Commission in Washington is
reviewing patent-infringement claims that Nokia and Apple have
filed against the other. A trial on some of Apple’s claims
against Nokia was held in November and an ITC judge is scheduled
to release his findings in February. Nokia’s allegations against
Apple were tried earlier this month, with the judge’s decision
expected in April.  Nokia Market Share  The commission, which was set up to protect domestic
markets from unfair trade practices, has the power to ban
imports of products found to infringe U.S. patents.  Nokia’s market share declined in the past year as it
struggled to refresh its smartphone models to match offerings by
Apple and manufacturers using Google Inc.’s Android system.
Growth in Chinese unbranded handsets contributed to a drop in
Nokia’s overall global share of industrywide sales to 28.2
percent in the third quarter, from 36.7 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Apple also is embroiled in patent litigation with Motorola
Inc. and HTC Corp., both companies that make phones that use the
Android system.  The cases are: HC 10 C 03053, U.K. High Court (London); 4b
O 195/10, Dusseldorf District Court, Germany; 7 O 222/10,
Mannheim District Court, Germany; and KG RK 10-3054, District
Court of The Hague, the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 