-- Nomura Real Estate May Miss 2012 Profit Target on Slowing Office Demand
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2010-12-16T06:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/nomura-real-estate-may-miss-2012-profit-target-on-slowing-office-demand.html
Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. , a
unit of Japan’s biggest brokerage, said it may miss the profit
target it expected to achieve by March 2012 because of a lack of
demand for office buildings.  Nomura Real Estate set a 60 billion yen ($716 million)
target for operating profit, or sales minus operating costs, in
its three-year  midterm business plan  announced in May 2009 and
that will end in March 2012. The Tokyo-based developer in April
forecast 35 billion yen of operating profit for the current year
ending March 2011.  “We’re in a very difficult situation to achieve our
numerical target,” said  Takao Orihara , a director and a board
member of Nomura Real Estate, in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.
“We have not given up, but as of now, achieving it will be
difficult -- market conditions still remain tough.”  Nomura Real Estate and its rivals are struggling to fill
their buildings with tenants as companies scale back office
space amid signs that Japan’s economic recovery may be faltering.
Tokyo’s office vacancy rate rose to a record high in August and
has more than  tripled  in the past three years, according to Miki
Shoji Co., a real estate brokerage based in the nation’s capital.  Nomura Real Estate’s  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 1,313 yen
at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have
declined 4.2 percent this year, underperforming the 44-member
Topix  Real Estate  Index’s 1.7 percent gain.  ‘More Severe’  The office vacancy rate, a measure of unoccupied office
space that the firm calculates, rose to 5 percent as of
September from 4.8 percent six months earlier, the unit of
Nomura Holdings Inc. said on its  website .  Nomura Real Estate  reduced rents for a second year as
competition intensified, Orihara, also the executive managing
officer of Nomura Real Estate Development Co., said. Nomura Real
Estate Development builds residential and commercial projects
and manages investments for its clients, according to the
company’s website.  “The office market conditions have been more severe than
we had anticipated,” he said. “We’re not expecting any
significant recovery going forward.”  Operating profit for the office business, which accounts
for more than half of the total profit, will probably be little
changed at 21 billion yen for the current fiscal year from a
year ago, Nomura Real Estate forecast in October.  ‘Balanced Profit’  The company aims to increase  profit contribution  from its
housing division, investment management and development
businesses to make up for a decline in office rental revenue,
Orihara said.  “We aim to have a more even and balanced profit
contribution from the three main businesses while increasing the
overall profit,” he said.  Operating profit  for Nomura Real Estate’s residential
business, which contributes a third of total profit, will
increase 49 percent in the year ending March 2011, as the
developer sells more apartments.  Nomura Real Estate may be able to sell more than 5,000
units in the current business year, which would be a record high
for the company that went public in 2006, Orihara said.  “The sales are continuing to increase and we expect the
housing business to be our main driver for profits in the
foreseeable future,” he said.  Orihara said he expects gross margin for its  residential
business  to increase to as high as 19 percent from the business
year starting April 1, 2011, compared with 16.1 percent the
fiscal year that ended March 31. Land was bought at a cheaper
price, allowing them to profit on the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katsuyo Kuwako  in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  