-- Rusal Snubs Norilsk $12 Billion Buyback Offer, Has `No Intention' to Sell
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-16T15:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/norilsk-nickel-offers-to-buy-25-of-its-shares-from-rusal-for-12-billion.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , the world’s
biggest nickel producer, offered $12 billion to  United Co. Rusal 
to buy back a 25 percent stake held by the aluminum company, as
analysts said a deal could benefit both sides.  Norilsk’s institutional investors and shareholders
indicated the move would be “the most efficient at the
moment,” Norilsk said today in a  statement . Moscow-based Rusal,
headed by billionaire  Oleg Deripaska , rebuffed the approach.  Norilsk’s bid follows a $9 billion offer to Rusal in
October from fellow billionaire  Vladimir Potanin , who also holds
a 25 percent stake. Rusal’s exit would bring an end to a long-
running feud in which the two men have bickered over how Norilsk
manages its $2.3 billion cash pile and Deripaska has demanded
bigger dividends to curb Rusal’s $12 billion of debt.  “This was a natural step from Norilsk Nickel,”  Vladimir Zhukov , a Moscow-based analyst at Nomura International Plc, said
by telephone. “From Norilsk Nickel’s perspective, it’s a good
investment given its excessive cash flows, while for Rusal the
amount equals its gross debt and allows it to solve the debt
problem in one go.”  Norilsk  dropped 1.3 percent to 6,708.17 rubles as of 6:11
p.m. in Moscow, after jumping as much as 1.1 percent following
its announcement of the offer.  Rusal ’s depositary receipts
advanced 3.6 percent in Paris.  Monetize Investment  “We do not think Rusal will be inclined to sell right
now,”  Mikhail Stiskin , an analyst at Moscow-based Troika
Dialog, said today in an e-mail. “But the offer highlights that
Rusal can now monetize its investment in Norilsk Nickel if it
wants to.”  The dispute between Potanin and Deripaska, which dates back
to 2008, was reignited in June when an election of Norilsk’s
board gave Rusal three seats and Potanin’s Interros Holding Co.
four. Deripaska in July also offered to buy out Potanin’s shares
and install new  management  at Norilsk.  “Norilsk Nickel is a strategic investment for Rusal, and
we have no intention to sell our stake,” Rusal said today in an
e-mail.  Norilsk said it’s lined up banks including JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to provide
financing for a Rusal buyout. The nickel company also said it
would cancel as much as 20 percent of its own shares within
three years if Rusal agrees to sell, while some of the purchased
stock may be used to issue “financial instruments” to reduce
its debt.  Decide on Bid  “We think that Rusal has enough time to think about the
offer and decide on it,”  Maria Uvarova , a Norilsk spokeswoman,
said by telephone.  Onexim Group, Rusal’s second-largest shareholder, advised
the aluminum company’s board to review Norilsk’s proposal.  “This offer looks much more realistic compared with the
previous one,” Dmitry Razumov, chief executive officer of
Onexim, said today by e-mail.  Norilsk has offered a “very attractive price,” Nomura’s
Zhukov said. “The chance is above zero, in my view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  