-- Obama Health Care Law Should Be Completely Thrown Out, States Lawyer Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   D u w a y n e   E s c o b e d o
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/obama-administration-states-take-defense-of-health-care-fight-to-florida.html
The Obama administration’s health-
care reform should be thrown out because it overreaches the
federal government’s authority, opponents argued in a Florida
lawsuit three days after a judge in Virginia ruled part of the
law unconstitutional.  “The entire act has to fall,” Deputy Florida Attorney
General Blaine Winship told U.S. District Judge  C. Roger Vinson 
in Pensacola yesterday. Vinson heard arguments from lawyers for
20 states and the U.S. government on whether the act exceeds
legitimate federal power.  Led by Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , the states
sued the day President  Barack Obama  signed the  legislation  in
March, arguing it burdens state budgets and unconstitutionally
compels people to buy coverage.  A federal judge in Richmond, Virginia, on Dec. 13
invalidated the mandatory coverage portion of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act that Obama signed into law on
March 23, while leaving the remainder of it intact. The
administration won prior rulings from federal judges in Detroit
and in Lynchburg, Virginia.  The government has called the minimum-coverage provision
the linchpin of the reform effort because it would push younger
and healthier people into the insurance pool.  The individual mandate and expansions of  Medicaid  and
employer-based coverage would extend health coverage to 32
million more people by 2019, according to the Congressional
Budget Office. Mandatory coverage would start in 2014.  ‘Alternative Ways’  “There are lots of alternative ways to provide health care
to the needy without imposing on individual liberties and
freedom of choice,” Vinson said during yesterday’s hearing.  The sweeping  955-page law  -- its table of contents alone
requires 13 pages -- bars insurers from denying coverage to
people who are sick and from imposing lifetime limits on costs.
It also includes pilot projects to test ideas like incentives
for better results and bundled payments to medical teams for
patient care.  Winship and outside counsel  David B. Rivkin  sparred with
U.S. Justice Department attorney Ian Gershengorn over whether
the government’s constitutional authority to regulate commerce
includes power over the “inactivity” of not buying insurance.  “Inactivity cannot be regulated under the Commerce
Clause,” Rivkin said. “Supreme Court law is perfectly
consistent on this over the decades.” Otherwise, under the
government’s logic, “every inactivity is economic,” he said.  ‘Innocent Bystanders’  “The uninsured are not inactive,” Gershengorn countered.
“This is not a situation of innocent bystanders standing to the
side,” he said, adding that those who weren’t purchasing
insurance were making the economic decision to pay later or
shift the cost.  The $2.5 trillion national health care market is unlike the
market for anything else, said the attorney for the U.S.
government.  Medical care providers will not refuse to treat those who
cannot pay “because that would be barbarous,” Gershengorn
said.  Vinson asked Rivkin whether the government’s theory would
allow regulation of any behavior with an economic impact.  “They can decide how much broccoli everyone should eat
each week?” Vinson asked.  “Certainly,” replied Rivkin, an attorney in the
Cleveland-based law firm  Baker Hostetler LLP .  Government’s Lawyer  “We’ve always exercised the freedom whether we want to buy
or not buy a product,” Vinson told the Obama administration’s
lawyer.  Gershengorn said health insurance is “a financing
mechanism,” not a product. “It’s not shoes,” he said. “It’s
not cars. It’s not broccoli.”  The states said in court papers that they would be forced
to accept costly changes in Medicaid -- the state and federal
partnership program to provide health care for the indigent --
which under the act would be expanded to cover everyone under
age 65 with an income as high as one-third above the federal
poverty level.  Dropping out would be a practical impossibility, they said.  “No federal program besides Medicaid funds health-care
services for the states’ poorest residents, and the states
plainly are unable to establish, fund and implement a Medicaid-
like replacement program, much less to do so immediately,” the
states said.  States “have no real choice but to accept this new
Medicaid regime,” Winship said yesterday.  “Congress knew perfectly well it was not the states’
choice,” he said. “They knew they were wielding a stick and
not a carrot.” He called the expanded program “Medicaid on
steroids.”  Offsetting Benefits  The administration argued in court papers that the states’
higher Medicaid costs would be offset by other parts of the law.  U.S. District Judge  Henry E. Hudson  in Richmond ruled
Dec. 13 that requiring people under 65 obtain coverage or pay a
cash penalty was unconstitutional.  The government lacks the authority to “compel an
individual to involuntarily enter the stream of commerce by
purchasing a commodity in the private market,” wrote Hudson,
who was named to the bench by Republican President  George W. Bush .  Vinson, named to the bench in 1983 by Republican  Ronald Reagan , told Gershengorn that he paid out of pocket for the
delivery of his first child, at a rate of about $100 per pound.  Law’s Linchpin  In Washington, debate over the law is turning toward the
U.S. Supreme Court, which advocates on both sides say probably
will decide its future.  Judges in the cases decided in favor of the Obama
administration,  George Caram Steeh  in Detroit and  Norman K. Moon 
in Lynchburg, were appointees of Democrat  Bill Clinton .  More than 15 friend-of-the-court briefs have been filed in
the Florida case.  They include submissions from U.S. Representative  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican slated to be speaker of the House in
January; caucus member  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota; 62 of her
colleagues; and 32 Republican senators including Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky and 2008 presidential candidate  John McCain  of Arizona.  Organizations including the retiree advocacy groups  AARP ,
 Gray Panthers  and  American Academy of Pediatrics  submitted a
memorandum supporting the act.  Defending the administration’s stance in their own brief
are almost 40 economics scholars including Nobel laureates  Eric Maskin ,  George Akerlof  and  Kenneth Arrow .  Commerce Regulation  Timothy S. Jost , a law professor at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia, said the universal need for
medical care makes it unlike any other commodity, putting it
within the purview of congressional regulation.  “The decision not to purchase health insurance has a
profound effect on interstate commerce,” he said in a Dec. 13
phone interview.  More than $40 billion in health-care costs for the
uninsured is shifted annually to providers, insurers and
taxpayers, Jost said, citing the economists’ brief.  Joining Florida in the suit are Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nebraska,
Nevada, North Dakota, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and
Utah.  State Attorneys General  The attorneys general of Colorado, Michigan, Pennsylvania
and Washington also joined in the Florida suit. The governors of
those states filed a brief in support of the administration.  The chief legal officers, Colorado’s  John Suthers ,
Michigan’s  Mike Cox , Pennsylvania’s  Tom Corbett  and Washington’s
 Rob McKenna , are Republicans. Their respective governors,  Bill Ritter ,  Jennifer Granholm ,  Ed Rendell  and  Christine Gregoire ,
are Democrats.  “I have a decision to make, and I will make it as quickly
as possible,” Vinson said yesterday after hearing nearly three
hours of argument. The judge offered no specific timetable for
his ruling.  “This is ultimately about freedom,” Texas Attorney
General  Greg Abbott  told reporters outside the courthouse. He
said that if allowed to stand, the legislation would lead to a
“giant expansion” of Congress’s power to regulate Americans
under the Commerce Clause.  “Liberty and freedom are being fought for in this
courthouse today,” he said.  Ron Pollack , executive director of the consumer advocacy
group Families USA, supports the healthcare act. Addressing
reporters outside the court, Pollack said it isn’t the threat
that Abbott and others say it is.  ‘Outlandish’ Comment  Winship’s “Medicaid on steroids” comment was
“outlandish,” he said.  “The attorney generals want us to believe this will
bankrupt their states,” Pollack said. “The states do pick up
some costs but it is only a tiny portion. Most of the states
will save money when this legislation goes into effect.”  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Pensacola, Florida, at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Duwayne Escobedo in Pensacola, Florida, at
 duwayne.escobedo@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 