-- Obama Administration, States Take Health-Care Fight to Court in Florida
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/obama-administration-states-take-health-care-reform-fight-to-florida.html
The Obama administration’s defense
of its health-care reform shifts to Florida today, three days
after a judge in Virginia ruled part of the new law
unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge  C. Roger Vinson  in Pensacola will hear
arguments from lawyers for 20 states and the Justice Department
on whether the measure meant to provide health insurance for all
Americans exceeds the boundaries of federal power.  Led by Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , the states
sued the federal government the day President  Barack Obama 
signed the  legislation  in March, arguing it burdens state
budgets and unconstitutionally compels people to buy coverage.  “If this were allowed to stand, Congress could make you do
anything,”  Randy E. Barnett , a Georgetown University law
professor who filed a brief in the Virginia case attacking the
law, said in a phone interview. “It would turn citizens into
subjects.”  The portion of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act that says individuals must obtain coverage or face a cash
penalty was declared unconstitutional on Dec. 13 by U.S.
District Judge  Henry E. Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia. The yearly
 penalty  can be as much as $2,085 per family for most Americans.  “Neither the Supreme Court nor any federal circuit court
of appeals,” Hudson wrote, has extended the power under the
U.S. Constitution “to compel an individual to involuntarily
enter the stream of commerce by purchasing a commodity in the
private market.”  States in the Florida case are seeking to have the entire
bill declared void, not just mandatory insurance.  Central Element  The government has called the minimum-coverage provision
the linchpin of the reform effort because it would push younger
and healthier people into the insurance pool.  The individual mandate and expansions of  Medicaid  and
employer-based coverage would extend health coverage to 32
million more people by 2019, according to the Congressional
Budget Office. Mandatory coverage would start in 2014.  The sweeping  955-page law  -- its table of contents alone
requires 13 pages -- bars insurers from denying coverage to
people who are sick and from imposing lifetime limits on costs.
It also includes pilot projects to test ideas like incentives
for better results and bundled payments to medical teams for
patient care.  The administration won prior rulings from federal judges in
Detroit and in Lynchburg, Virginia. A senior official in the
administration said its loss in Richmond, Virginia, will
probably be appealed.  In Washington, debate over the law is turning toward the
U.S. Supreme Court, which advocates on both sides say probably
will decide its future.  Independent Decision  “Judge Vinson will reach his decision independent of the
three previous federal judges,” Barnett said in the Dec. 13
interview.  The Pensacola judge on Oct. 14 denied a government bid for
dismissal. More than 15 friend-of-the-court briefs have since
been filed in the case.  They include submissions from U.S. Representative  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican slated to be speaker of the House in
January; caucus member  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota; 62 of her
colleagues; and 32 Republican senators including Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky and 2008 presidential candidate  John McCain  of Arizona.  Organizations including the retiree advocacy groups  AARP ,
 Gray Panthers  and  American Academy of Pediatrics  submitted a
memorandum supporting the act. Defending the administration’s
stance in their own brief are almost 40 economics scholars
including Nobel laureates  Eric Maskin ,  George Akerlof  and
 Kenneth Arrow .  Economists’ Argument  “The requirement to obtain a minimal level of health
insurance is predicated on the unique characteristics of the
health-care market,” the economists said, including “the
unavoidable need for medical care,” the unpredictability of
that need and the inability of care providers to decline care in
an emergency.  Timothy S. Jost , a law professor at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia, said the universality of that
need makes health care unlike any other commodity, placing it
within the purview of congressional regulation.  “The Commerce Clause is about regulating commerce,” he
said in a Dec. 13 telephone interview. “It is basically
economic decisions that are regulated. The decision not to
purchase health insurance has a profound effect on interstate
commerce.”  More than $40 billion in health-care costs for the
uninsured is shifted annually to providers, insurers and
taxpayers, said Jost, citing the economists’ brief.  State Costs  Florida and the other states argue they’ll be forced to
assume “billions of dollars of unaffordable new costs,” if the
act’s expansion of liabilities under Medicaid, the joint state-
federal health insurance program for the poor, is allowed to
stand.  “The states cannot avoid these crushing new costs,” they
said in a brief, because there is no readily available
alternative program for providing health care to the indigent.  The Obama administration, in its own submission the same
day, countered that the states’ increased Medicaid costs would
be offset by other provisions of the legislation.  Vinson said he will allow each side one hour to argue.  Joining Florida in the suit are Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nebraska,
Nevada, North Dakota, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and
Utah.  Party Divide  The attorneys general of Colorado, Michigan, Pennsylvania
and Washington also joined in the Florida suit. The governors of
those states filed a brief in support of the administration.  The chief legal officers, Colorado’s  John Suthers ,
Michigan’s  Mike Cox , Pennsylvania’s  Tom Corbett  and Washington’s
 Rob McKenna , are Republicans. Their respective governors,  Bill Ritter ,  Jennifer Granholm ,  Ed Rendell  and  Christine Gregoire ,
are Democrats.  Hudson, the judge who threw out the key provision of the
law in Virginia this week, was appointed by Republican President
 George W. Bush .  Judges who ruled in favor of the administration on the
health law,  George Caram Steeh  in Detroit and  Norman K. Moon  in
Lynchburg, were appointees of Democrat  Bill Clinton .  Vinson, the Pensacola judge, was named by Republican  Ronald Reagan .  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Pensacola, Florida,
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 