-- Obama Says `Progress' Made in CEO Meeting on Ways to Spur Economic Growth
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/obama-says-progress-made-in-ceo-meeting-on-fueling-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  said he and
20 company executives made “good progress” during a four and a
half hour meeting toward establishing closer cooperation between
government and business to accelerate the U.S. economic
recovery.  “We focused on jobs and investment, and they feel
optimistic that by working together we can get some of that cash
off the sidelines,” Obama said as he left the session
yesterday, referring to the almost $2 trillion that he said
companies have amassed.  The meeting with business leaders, who included  UBS AG 
Chairman for the Americas  Robert Wolf  and  Honeywell
International Inc.  Chairman  David Cote , was part of the
administration’s campaign to heal a strained relationship with
the business community and to collaborate on ways to boost jobs,
with the nation’s unemployment rate at 9.8 percent.  Held at Blair House, across Pennsylvania Avenue from the
White House, the executives and administration officials
conferred on issues such as tax overhaul, education, exports,
regulation and the  budget deficit , as well as ways to encourage
businesses to spend and invest. While Obama has held dozens of
meetings with business-leaders during his term, attendees said
they expected more follow-up from yesterday’s summit, either
from the president himself or top aides.  Executives said it was critical that the administration
continue the dialogue.  ‘Not Episodic’  “This meeting is not episodic; we think it will be
continual,”  Motorola Inc.  Co-CEO  Greg Brown  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “We agreed on a number of
us engaging on different issues within the administration. It’s
not about optics, it’s about delivery and we are all very
focused on that.”  Obama is generating more optimism among CEOs after a series
of business-friendly overtures, including a deal to extend tax
cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 and efforts to boost exports such
as a U.S.-South Korea free-trade agreement and a loosening of
controls on some technology sales.  The administration has been seeking to strengthen
relationships with the business community following criticism
from some executives and business groups, such as the  U.S.
Chamber of Commerce , of the administration’s overhaul of the
health-care system and financial regulations. Obama said private
companies are crucial to the U.S. climbing out of the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  ‘Let’s Restart’  “Things were said on both sides that shouldn’t have been
and did not further the opportunity to work together,”
Honeywell’s Cote said as he arrived at Blair House yesterday.
“This is our chance to do that. I give the president a lot of
credit for being the man big enough to say ‘Let’s restart, let’s
work on how do we create a more vibrant  economy .’”  Obama began the meeting with a message to the corporate
leaders, saying they represent why the U.S. is unique, what is
best about the country’s entrepreneurial spirit and that he
wanted to dispel any notion that his administration wanted to
inhibit their success, according to one person in the room.  The president asked the executives for examples of policies
that weren’t working. One idea was to cut tax rates on
accumulated foreign earnings that are repatriated to the U.S.
like Congress authorized for one year in 2004, according to
participants in the room.  Overseas Earnings  While Obama has called on the CEOs to spend the $2 trillion
in cash their companies have accumulated on job creation, the
executives said much of that is earnings from overseas sales
that are retained abroad to avoid paying U.S. corporate income
tax. U.S.-based multinational corporations pay corporate income
tax on earnings when they are brought back to the U.S. If the
revenue remains abroad, either in cash or investment in overseas
facilities, the money isn’t taxed.  Obama said he would consider the issue and asked what the
executives would be willing to give up in other corporate tax
rates to make sure it remains revenue neutral.  The executives also brought up the issue of U.S. global
competition. With respect to China specifically, they asked
Obama to ensure trade goes both ways, attendees said.  Twenty executives took part yesterday’s session, which was
closed to the press. Along with Wolf, Cote, and Brown, those
invited included  Google Inc . CEO  Eric Schmidt ,  Intel Corp.  CEO
 Paul Otellini  and  Comcast Corp . CEO  Brian Roberts . Other CEOs
attending were  DuPont Co. ’s  Ellen Kullman ,  PepsiCo  Inc.’s  Indra Nooyi ,  Dow  Chemical Co.’s  Andrew Liveris ,  Cisco Systems Inc .’s
 John Chambers ,  Kenneth Chenault  of  American Express Co ., Duke
Energy Corp.’s  James E. Rogers , NextEra Energy Inc.’s  Lew Hay 
and Eli Lilly & Co. President and CEO  John Lechleiter .  Outside Advisers  A number of the executives at the meeting serve on several
of Obama’s outside advisory boards, including Wolf; Cote; Boeing
Co. CEO  James McNerney ;  General Electric Co . Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ;  United Parcel Service Inc . CEO  Scott Davis ;  Penny Pritzker , who led Obama’s campaign fundraising
effort and is chairman of Pritzker Realty Group;  Mark Gallogly ,
founder and managing partner of Centerbridge Partners LP; and
venture capitalist  John Doerr , a partner at  Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers .  After the meeting, Boeing’s McNerney said Obama told the
executives that the administration is committed to pursuing
free-trade agreements that would increase U.S. exports and jobs.
Obama set a tone for the meeting that “we’re all in this
together,” McNerney said on Bloomberg Television.  Executives at the meeting agreed with the president’s
assessment that the two sides made progress.  “It’s important for business and government to be able to
work together,” Cote said. “I came away feeling very good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net 
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  