-- Obama's History of Compromise Brought Him to Tax-Cut Deal With Republicans
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-12-16T20:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/obama-s-history-of-compromise-brought-him-to-tax-cut-deal-with-republicans.html
From Harvard to the halls of
Congress,  Barack Obama  has demonstrated an ability to
compromise. Pragmatism was his default position, he promised.
Consensus building, his specialty.  With Democrats in charge of Congress and Republicans united
against his agenda the last two years, there was little
opportunity or incentive to compromise. Now, after midterm
elections that cost Democrats control of the House, Obama has
struck an $858 billion deal with Republicans on taxes and
spending, convincing many Democrats he’s serious about working
with the opposition and displeasing them in the process.  Activists in his party are threatening a primary
challenger. By agreeing to an extension of the Bush-era tax cuts
for the highest income earners in exchange for measures to boost
the economy, Obama finds himself being assailed for something he
always said he’d do: compromise.  “He’s not a terribly ideological president; he’s a
pragmatist more than anything else,” said  Simon Rosenberg ,
president of  NDN , a Washington-based advocacy group formerly
called the New Democrat Network. “He has passed more meaningful
legislation than anyone in the modern era, and the only way he
was able to do that was by being pragmatic and working with the
people in power at the time.”  The alarm among Democrats that Obama, who rode to the
presidency on a promise of pragmatism, is more than willing to
negotiate is matched only by their worry that he isn’t
particularly skilled at it.  Looking for Fight  “When did the fight happen?,” Representative  Anthony Weiner , a New York Democrat, asked on NBC’s “Meet the Press,”
Dec. 12. “Did the full-throated fight happen?” With a Democrat
in the White House and his party still in charge of both houses
of Congress until January, “We’re acting like we have a weak
hand,” Weiner said.  Obama, 49, came into office with a pattern of not letting
ideology get in the way of practical solutions, either for a
larger political goal or his own ambition.  At Harvard, Obama was elected the first black president of
the Harvard Law Review by convincing different ideological
factions that he would listen to their concerns. He wasn’t
someone who “demonized conservatives or personalized
politics,”  Brad Berenson , an editor during Obama’s tenure at
the journal who later was counsel under President  George W. Bush , recalled in a 2008 interview.  Offshore Drilling  That flexibility carried over to the national politician.
As a presidential candidate, Obama supported the publicly
financed election system, yet opted out of it to spend a record
$740.6 million. He bucked many of his supporters when he
announced he would grudgingly back an expansion of offshore
drilling as part of an energy plan to reduce record oil prices.  “What I don’t want to do is for the best to be the enemy
of the good,” Obama said Aug. 2, 2008, in Florida during the
heat of the presidential campaign, announcing his support for
the energy plan. “If we can come up with a general bipartisan
compromise in which I have to accept some things I don’t like,
then that’s something I’m open to.”  Once in the White House, Obama promised to put health-care
negotiations on C-Span, and then negotiated behind closed doors
an $80 billion deal with the pharmaceutical industry to secure
its support for his overhaul. The president also issued waivers
for lobbyists to work in top administration posts, overriding
his own ethics rules.  Not Defeat  Whether backing a deal on an energy bill over two years ago
or tax cuts, Obama has maintained that compromise isn’t defeat.  “I recognize that folks on both sides of the political
spectrum are unhappy with certain parts of the package, and I
understand those concerns,” Obama said Dec. 13 as the Senate
was clearing the way for a tax-cut vote. “But that’s the nature
of compromise -- sacrificing something that each of us cares
about to move forward on what matters to all of us.”  U.S. stocks rose on Dec. 7, after Obama announced the deal
with Republicans to extend the tax cuts for two years, sending
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a two-year high.  Kevin Caron , a market strategist in Florham Park, New
Jersey, at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said the announcement “takes
off the table a great degree of uncertainty.”  Those gains were wiped out later that day after a probe of
insider trading reportedly widened and Obama said he’ll push to
overhaul the tax code in two years.  Pay Freeze  For some, the question is whether Obama tacks too far and
gives up too much for too little in return, sometimes for
nothing at all. While he agreed earlier this year to an
expansion of offshore drilling, he never got a deal with
Republicans on a comprehensive energy bill. Similarly, he
announced this month a pay freeze for federal workers without
getting anything from Republicans who had been demanding it.  “You don’t make concessions unless the other side works
for it,” said  Herb Cohen , author of “You Can Negotiate
Anything.” “A concession given when the other side doesn’t
work for it isn’t appreciated.”  Even so, after the Senate’s passed legislation yesterday to
extend the tax cuts, some House Democrats seem resigned to pass
the measure and the deal has received endorsements, most notably
from former President  Bill Clinton . Former colleagues say the
deal is vintage Obama.  Illinois Record  “I don’t think national Democrats should be surprised that
President Obama compromises, if they knew what his record was
back when we was a community organizer and a member of the
Illinois General Assembly,” said  Kirk Dillard , a Republican who
served with Obama in the Illinois state legislature and appeared
in television ads for him during the campaign. “He was always
somebody who would compromise.”  That style leaves Obama open to criticism that he’s vague
and unprincipled. In the Illinois senate, he voted “present”
close to 130 times, on issues ranging from the age at which
juveniles can be tried as adults to anti-abortion legislation.  In many ways, being elusive was an asset during the
presidential campaign. Obama’s primary challenger  Hillary Clinton , and then general election opponent  John McCain , voiced
frustration at not being able to pin him down on issues. Their
argument that Obama lacked experience didn’t sway voters.  Energy Bill  They both criticized Obama for his 2005 vote in favor of an
energy bill because it contained oil-industry tax incentives.
The then-freshman Illinois senator defended his decision as
making critical investments in renewable energy, and in a 2005
press release said he “reluctantly” voted for the measure.  In the current political environment it remains to be seen
whether Obama can build consensus by rising above the partisan
squabble or whether opponents, even within his own party, will
endanger his presidency by casting him as malleable and
ambiguous on his convictions.  “If you are a pragmatist and you are willing to change
your opinion on what it takes to get a deal, then that could
look like some people as if you don’t have any core beliefs and
it’s confusing about what you’re actually for,” Rosenberg said.  Obama has said that he regrets not doing more to bridge the
partisan divide in his first two years in office. At the same
time, administration officials say Obama had to remain faithful
to his guiding principles in a time of economic crisis. They
disputed any suggestion that the president failed to articulate
those principles.  Partisanship Risk  “This comes down to leadership.” White House press
secretary  Robert Gibbs  said. “This comes down to the president
being unwilling to risk the economy.” He also warned of the
consequences of partisan calcification.  “The world we live in now requires that each party is
going to have to work with the other party to get something
done,” Gibbs. “If everybody’s unwilling to do that then the
next two years are going to produce nothing.”  That pragmatism helps Obama position himself for re-
election in 2012, said  Allan Lichtman , a political history
professor at American University in Washington.  “However disgruntled his base may be it has nowhere else
to go in 2012,” he said. “This deal is all about stimulating
the economy. Obama knows that if the economy recovers over the
next two years he will rather easily win re-election, much like
Reagan in 1984.”  Even political opponents say Obama’s consensus-building
could seal the deal for a second administration.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican with whom Obama
worked on ethics legislation when both were in the chmaber, said
he’s optimistic the president’s leadership style will forge more
consensus with Republicans.  “We didn’t see that before, so I think we’ve got to have
some time and give him some maneuvering room, give him time to
adjust to the new realities,” Coburn said.  “He’s a good guy, he’s smart, he’ll figure this out on how
to work it,” he said. “And if he doesn’t, he’s going to be a
one-term president.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  