-- Lockheed F-35 Program Faces $1 Billion Cut in U.S. Senate Spending Measure
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-16T21:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/lockheed-f-35-strike-fighter-faces-1-billion-cut-in-senate-spending-bill.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter program faces a $1 billion budget cut under a   
bill  to finance government operations that’s advancing toward a
Senate vote.  The move would strip out the JSF money, eliminating seven
aircraft, from a U.S. Defense Department request for $7.86
billion and 42 planes, according to the spending measure, which
didn’t give a rationale for the new totals.  Savings from the JSF program, the Pentagon’s biggest arms
project, would be the most among $8.4 billion in weapons-
spending reductions in the 1,924-page Senate bill released Dec.
14. Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed is the largest U.S.
defense contractor by  sales .  The measure’s $667.7 billion defense  section  also provides
$450 million to keep developing  General Electric Co. ’s F-35
backup engine. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has said the
engine from primary supplier  United Technologies Corp.  is
sufficient, and has vowed to advise President Barack Obama to
veto any bill that funds the GE model.  Senators are proposing to drop five of the Air Force F-35s
from the Pentagon’s request and two of the short-takeoff and
vertical-landing models being built for the Marine Corps. The
military expects the first F-35s to be ready for combat in 2016.  Lot 4 Prices  Separately, the Pentagon F-35 program office released today
the per-aircraft costs of the 42 jets to be bought in the fourth
low-rate production contract awarded Nov. 19. The Air Force
version will cost $111.6 million, the Marine Corps short-takeoff
and vertical landing model is projected at $109.4 million and
the Navy carrier model will be $109.4 million.  The price includes one-time expenses for production
equipment, flight-test instruments and manufacturing support
equipment, the Pentagon said. It doesn’t include the propulsion
system.  Jennifer Whitlow, a spokeswoman for Lockheed, said in an e-
mailed statement the F-35’s price has “dropped dramatically”
from the previous three production contracts. The Air Force
version’s price has dropped as much as 50 percent compared with
the first contract of two aircraft, she said.  Omnibus Measure  Under the bill, the Pentagon would get $495 million to buy
nine  Boeing Co.  F/A-18E/F fighters it didn’t request. The bill
provides $2.1 billion to fully fund the Navy’s request for 35
Boeing and Textron Inc. V-22 tilt-rotor Osprey and $1.8 billion
for additional Boeing P-8A Poseidon surveillance aircraft.  The so-called omnibus measure would cap a year that
included a breakdown in the congressional budgeting process, as
Democrats were unable to pass a tax-and-spending blueprint or
any of the 12 annual appropriations bills to fund federal
agencies for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  Once senators approve their legislation, it must be
reconciled with a House version that keeps the federal
government funded at the levels for fiscal 2010, which ended
Sept. 30. It is called a “Continuing Resolution.” The House
bill doesn’t reduce F-35 purchases.  Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman  Daniel Inouye , a
Hawaii Democrat, said he is confident the spending plan will be
passed before Congress adjourns for the year on Dec. 30.  Defense Secretary Gates told reporters today at the White
House the Senate version is preferable to the House measure.  “We have very little flexibility to move money around in
the Pentagon budget” under the House proposal, he said. A
continuing resolution for the Defense Department “is the worst
of all possible worlds.”  Lockheed rose 65 cents to $70.37 as of 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped 9.2
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  