-- Oil Sands Have Limited Local Impact on Health, Ecology, RSC Says
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-12-16T11:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/oil-sands-have-limited-local-impact-on-health-ecology-rsc-says.html
Canadian oil sand production has
limited impact on the local environment and population, while
the government needs to increase regulation of the industry to
keep up with expansion, an academy of scientists said.  The Royal Society of Canada’s panel of experts couldn’t
find “credible evidence” of increasing cancer rates in people
living near the oil sands operations in northern Alberta, it
said in a statement posted on its website. The industry doesn’t
“threaten” the Athabasca River system and the impact on air
quality is “minimal,” the RSC said.  At the same time, environmental regulations don’t “appear
to have kept pace with the rapid expansion of the oil sands
industry over the past decade,” the RSC said in its  414-page
study . Improvements in technology haven’t dealt with increasing
tailing ponds and greenhouse gas emissions, it said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , BP Plc, and Husky Energy Inc. are
among companies investing in Alberta oil sands, which contain
the biggest crude reserves outside of Saudi Arabia, according to
Canadian government estimates. Crude extracted from local
bitumen will be the largest single source of U.S. oil imports
this year, according to industry consulting group,  IHS CERA .  Shell plans to raise its production of heavy crude in the
Americas by 60 percent through 2020, the Anglo-Dutch company
said in a  presentation  on Sept. 28. PTT Exploration & Production
Pcl, Thailand’s biggest energy explorer, became the latest
company to secure an oil sand project in Alberta when it teamed
up with Statoil ASA last month.  Statoil, Shell and BP have faced opposition from
shareholders because of environmental concerns about the energy-
intensive projects to extract oil from the tar-like sands.
Dwindling reserves in easier-to-access areas and rising prices
are making oil sands developments more attractive to producers.  Total SA, Suncor Energy Inc., Imperial Oil Ltd. and other
explorers this month have agreed to “work together in a unified
effort to advance tailings management,” Shell said in a
 statement . The partners plan to complete research next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  