-- Olam May Enter Carbon Credits Market on Timber Project in Congo, Gabon
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-12-16T08:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/olam-may-enter-carbon-credits-market-on-african-timber-project.html
Olam International Ltd. , a commodity
supplier backed by Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte, may enter
the carbon credits market based on the acquisition of a timber
project in the republics of Congo and Gabon.  The company will review building a power plant fueled by
biomass and ways to restore degraded forest areas at the tt
Timber International AG operations it agreed to buy this week,
Robert Hunink, Olam’s global head of wood products business,
said today on a conference call. The power plant may cost about
12 million euros ($16 million) and save burning 3 million liters
of diesel, he said.  “The carbon potential is certainly something that we will
be looking at seriously over the coming years,” Hunink said.
Olam will partner with a company that has a “proven track
record” in carbon credits in this, he said.  Olam’s 30 million-euro purchase of tt Timber, announced
yesterday, will expand the Singapore-based company’s timber
business in Africa to 2.3 million hectares of hardwood and an
output volume in excess of 500,000 tons of tropical lumber a
year. The deal, due to close in mid-January, will make Olam one
of the world’s biggest certified hardwood suppliers, according
to the company, and improve client access in Europe, the U.S.,
north Africa and the Middle East.  Carbon credits may also help to offset what is currently
“probably the all-time low” in wood prices, Chief Executive
Officer  Sunny Verghese  said on the conference call. “We see it
as a major opportunity and will be working towards it,” he said,
referring to the carbon credit market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  