-- Holiday Bordeaux From Actors Stock Hollywood Agents’ Wine Racks
-- B y   M e g h a n   G e n o v e s e
-- 2010-12-16T06:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/holiday-bordeaux-from-actors-stock-hollywood-agents-wine-racks.html
Damian Cecere , an actor who lives in
Los Angeles, plans to spend about $50 on a bottle of Cabernet
Sauvignon for his agent this holiday season. That’s $50 more
than he spent last year.  “Things are definitely on an upswing, but I’m not ready to
splash out with the Cristal,” said Cecere, 36, who appeared in
a Super Bowl  Bud Light  commercial and credits Matt Taylor of DDO
Artists Agency for landing him the job.  Cecere said he’ll also cough up a buck or two on a bow. His
gesture is part of rebound in year-end alcohol-giving, a
Hollywood tradition that was crimped last year by the
advertising slump and studio cutbacks. Growing film production
and entertainment hiring are boosting sales at Los Angeles
stores including Wally’s Wines & Spirits, K&L Wine Merchants and
the  Wine House .  “Last year, even if the budget was there, it didn’t look
good to be spending money,” said Steve Wallace, owner of
Wally’s, who estimated business is up 20 percent, though below
pre-recession levels. “This year, everyone is feeling a little
better.”  The uptick in sales reflects a rise in filming. Permits for
on-location shooting climbed 11 percent this year through Oct.
12, headed for the biggest year-over-year increase since 2004,
according to  FilmLA Inc. , which coordinates permits in the city.
TV commercial production has surged 39 percent, poised for the
biggest gain since FilmLA began compiling data in 1993.  Chateau d’Yquem  The Bud Light ad, in which Cecere crashes his girlfriend’s
book club to obtain his favorite brew, has netted the actor
about $15,000 in residual payments. That’s about half what he
earned from a television ad before the recession that began in
December 2007, Cecere said.  “I made so little from acting last year I was sending out
e-mails instead of gifts,” said  Cecere , who also works as a
deejay. “This year, I bounced back.”  Motion picture employment has risen 13 percent through
October, to an average of 136,000, compared with 120,500 for all
of 2009, according to Nancy Sidhu, chief economist at the Los
Angeles County Economic Development Corp.  Wally’s, which provided liquor for last month’s premiere of
 Sony Corp. ’s “Burlesque,” according to Wallace, keeps a
computer catalog of the favorite vintages of talent agents,
managers and casting directors. Customers no longer shy away
from Don Julio’s 1942 label tequila, at $125, or Dom Perignon’s
$149 Andy Warhol Tribute champagne, or even an 1849 Chateau
d’Yquem from Bordeaux, which Wallace said recently sold for
$22,000.  Easy To Re-gift  Intoxicating beverages are standard holiday gifts in
Hollywood, said David Boxerbaum, an agent with APA Talent &
Literary Agency in Beverly Hills.  “Liquor is the easiest thing to give while still denoting
class,” Boxerbaum said, adding that he has already received one
bottle of  Dom Perignon .  U.S. spirits sales rose 3.6 percent this year through Nov.
28, according to Symphony IRI Group, a Chicago-based market
researcher. Wine sales are up 3.7 percent through Nov. 13,
according to Nielsen Co.  Booze has a long shelf life, and recipients who don’t
imbibe, or whose liquor cabinets are overflowing, can re-gift a
fifth of single-malt Scotch whiskey with little guilt or chance
of getting caught.  “I’m definitely seeing more gift bottles this year than
last,” said independent agent Caroline Liem, former head of
casting for “Jimmy Kimmel Live” on  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC. She
said she so enjoyed the bottle of Miro Petite Sirah an actor
gave her that she purchased a case. “Gifts won’t guarantee you
a role, but a thoughtful present can keep you on the radar.”  $15,000 Remy, Colt 45  To really make an impression, the ambitious can’t go wrong
with Remy Martin’s century-old Louis XIII Rare Cask cognac,
according to Larry Greifer, president of Los Angeles-based
 Luxury Management Group , an entertainment marketing and
consulting company. One palladium-trimmed crystal bottle, which
takes two weeks for Remy artisans to create, costs $15,000, less
than 1 percent of what the Hollywood Reporter says  Reese Witherspoon  was paid for her role in “How Do You Know,”
released this month by  Sony Corp.   “That bottle will be on the bar forever, and your name
will always come up,” Greifer said. “When you give a gift in
entertainment, you are really representing yourself.”  Joel Rose ’s agents shouldn’t expect the stand-up comedian
to represent himself in any way that would set him back more
than $10, the 32-year-old said.  “Things are looking up, but I want to maintain my salt of
the earth, man from northern New Jersey image,” said Rose, a
former lawyer who has performed at the Ice House and the Comedy
Store in Los Angeles. “I’m giving Colt 45 and a pack of
menthols this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meghan Genovese  in Los Angeles at 
 megenovese@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  