-- Tombini's No Fraga or Meirelles as Rate-Increase Bets Fade: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2010-12-16T22:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/tombini-s-no-fraga-or-meirelles-as-rate-increase-bets-fade-brazil-credit.html
Traders are moving closer to betting
 Alexandre Tombini  will be the first Brazilian central bank
president in more than a decade to keep the benchmark interest
rate unchanged at his first policy meeting.  Interest-rate future yields show traders cut their wagers
for an increase in the key rate by half since Dec. 8 to 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gustavo Franco  was the last central bank
president to keep borrowing costs unchanged at his first meeting
in 1997.  Tombini may keep the rate steady after a smaller-than-
expected increase in retail sales in October signaled the
expansion in Latin America’s biggest economy is easing. Slowing
food price increases are fueling speculation the  inflation rate 
will decline from 5.63 percent, the highest since February 2009.
Current central bank head  Henrique Meirelles  raised rates at his
first meeting in 2003, while  Arminio Fraga  boosted borrowing
costs when he became president of the institution in 1999.  “Inflation might ease on the back of this drop in food
commodity prices and from this perspective, we cannot disregard
the possibility that the central bank could buy some time
here,”  Zeina Latif , a senior economist with RBS Securities Inc.
in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “Markets are
divided between zero and 50 basis points.”  Speculation China will raise borrowing costs is also
fading, with bond yields showing the central bank will seek to
damp inflation by increasing banks’ reserve requirements rather
than interest rates.  ‘Not Opportune’  Meirelles, who increased reserve and capital requirements
for banks on Dec. 3, held the main interest rate at 10.75
percent in his final meeting earlier this month. The central
bank’s eight-member board, in a statement, said it was “not
opportune to re-evaluate the monetary policy strategy” because
“more time” is needed to gauge the economic impact of the
recent measures to slow credit growth.  “The announcement wasn’t that clear after the policy
meeting,”  Bertrand Delgado , an economist at Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York who forecasts a 50 basis-point
increase in January, said in a telephone interview. “But you
get the sensation, depending on the data, they could raise rates
in January or wait a little bit longer. So far the data shows
that they might wait a little bit longer.”  The decision to raise banks’ reserve requirements to slow
credit growth may “precede” conventional monetary policy
action, central bank policy makers said in the minutes of the
meeting released today.  Retail Sales  Policy makers raised the rate this year by 200 basis points
to cool the economy. Analysts predict growth of 7.6 percent this
year, the fastest pace in more than two decades, according to a
Dec. 10 central bank survey of about 100 economists.  Retail  sales rose  0.4 percent in October from September,
less than the 1.1 percent median forecast by 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, the national statistics agency said Dec.
14. The IGP-M price index, the nation’s broadest gauge of
inflation, rose 0.83 percent in the first preview of December,
less than the 0.95 percent median forecast. Increases in prices
for agricultural products slowed to 1.4 percent, according to
the index.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 11 basis point to 186 at
5:03 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell 1 basis point to 115, according to CMA prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.7027 per U.S. dollar.  Inflation Outlook  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 4 basis points to 11.87 percent yesterday,
indicating traders expect Tombini will increase borrowing costs
by about 200 basis points by the end of next year. Tombini, who
has served on the central bank’s board since 2005, was confirmed
by the senate yesterday.  The central bank didn’t return a message seeking comment
after business hours yesterday.  Francisco Lopes , who was acting central bank president
before Fraga took office in 1999, also increased rates at his
first and only policy meeting.  Brazilian economists raised their inflation forecasts for
the fifth straight week in the central bank survey. Consumer
prices will rise 5.38 percent over the next 12 months, according
to the median forecast in the survey published Dec. 13.  Brazil targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  ‘Little Time To Waste’  “There’s little time to waste,”  Marcelo Carvalho , head of
Latin American research at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil in Sao
Paulo, which projects a 50 basis-point increase next month, said
in a telephone interview. “Inflation argues for swift policy
action, prompt response.”  The central bank’s decision to increase reserve
requirements earlier this month is prompting some traders and
analysts to conclude that policy makers can use other tools to
slow inflation, said RBS’s Latif, who forecasts a 50 basis-point
increase in January.  The central bank lifted reserve requirements on time
deposits to 20 percent from 15 percent and raised an additional
requirement for non-interest bearing accounts to 12 percent from
8 percent. The measures will remove 61 billion reais ($35.7
billion) from circulation, according to the central bank.  “Analysts are not so confident that the tightening needs
to be significant,” Latif said. “They know that other measures
could help the central bank. And if it’s not significant, maybe
they could postpone once more as they did in December.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  