-- Honda Says Hydrogen Auto Fuel Cell Know-How Helped Speed Battery-Car Plan
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-12-16T05:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/honda-says-hydrogen-auto-know-how-helped-speed-plan-for-battery-run-fit.html
Honda Motor Co.  said expertise
gained from designing autos that run on fuel cells helped it
speed up development of a battery-powered Fit, after the company
was late in entering the growing market for rechargeable cars.  Parts of the Fit, due in 2012, including the motor and
transmission are derived from those used in the hydrogen-powered
FCX Clarity sedan, said  Sachito Fujimoto , Honda’s senior chief
engineer for fuel-cell and electric autos. Honda yesterday
detailed plans to test electric Fits in Torrance, California,
and at Google Inc. and Stanford University, as well as a plug-in
hybrid sedan in Torrance that’s also being readied for sale.  “All of the development knowledge we acquired was
leveraged,” Fujimoto said in an interview yesterday at the
Torrance-based  U.S. headquarters  for Honda, Japan’s second-
largest automaker. Compared with battery cars, “fuel-cell
technology is very difficult. We tried to work on the most
difficult technology first.”  Honda unveiled the electric Fit in Los Angeles last month,
in part to meet a California rule requiring such vehicles, after
touting hydrogen as the best low-pollution alternative to
gasoline in the past decade. The Tokyo-based company faces a
global challenge from carmakers including Toyota Motor Corp.,
 Nissan Motor Co.  and General Motors Co., which all preceded
Honda in announcing plans to sell rechargeable autos.  Battery cars charged at electrical outlets store power for
propulsion, while fuel cells make electricity onboard a vehicle
in a chemical reaction with hydrogen and oxygen. Both
technologies eliminate tailpipe exhaust and emissions of carbon
and other gases linked to climate change.  Shares Rise  Honda  climbed 1.9 percent to 3,235 yen as of 1:45 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, poised for the highest close since April 28.
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.3 percent.  The market for autos charged at electrical outlets and
hybrids may expand to about 7 percent of global sales volume, or
5.2 million units, by 2020, industry researcher J.D. Power &
Associates, said in October.  Carlos Ghosn , Nissan’s chief
executive officer, has said he expects electric cars to account
for 10 percent of global industry sales by 2020, rising from
several thousand units, or less than 1 percent, this year.  Honda leases a few dozen Claritys to Los Angeles-area
drivers. The expense and complexity of building such cars, which
use platinum and other costly metals, and a lack of hydrogen
fuel stations has delayed retail sales plans for them until at
least 2015 or later.  “The industry trend seems to be focused on the battery
electric vehicle,” Fujimoto said. Honda’s fuel-cell development
is advancing toward a car that can be sold to retail customers.
“We’re really approaching that,” he said, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net . 