-- Onex Said to Seek Sale of Husky Injection Unit That May Fetch $2 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-12-17T15:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/onex-said-to-seek-sale-of-husky-injection-unit-that-may-fetch-2-billion.html
Onex Corp.,  Canada’s largest
private-equity firm, is in talks to sell its Husky Injection
Molding Systems unit to rival buyout firms and may reap as much
as $2 billion, said people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Onex hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. to handle the auction, said the people, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. Bolton,
Ontario-based Husky makes machines that turn resin into plastic
products such as bottles and medical syringes.  Private-equity firms are buying and selling assets among
each other after a two-year decline in leveraged buyouts left
some firms with spare money to invest and others seeking to
liquidate older deals. Some of the largest buyouts this year,
including Burger King Holdings Inc. and Multiplan Inc., involved
companies that were at least partially owned by other private-
equity firms. Burger King was the third-biggest buyout in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Onex hasn’t made a decision to sell Husky and hasn’t
received any offers for an acquisition, the private-equity firm
said in a statement today. Onex said it is continually
considering potential opportunities for its operating companies.  Apollo Global Management LLC and Carlyle Group are among
the firms weighing a bid, the people familiar with the matter
said. Most of the interest in Husky is coming from buyout firms,
and some have already met with the company’s management to learn
about the business, said the people.  Plastic Bottles  Husky had earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $197 million in the 12 months ended Sept. 30,
according to a statement on Onex’s  website.  Toronto-based Onex
bought Husky for about C$960 million ($953 million) in 2007, in
a transaction that valued the company at about 9 times trailing
12-month Ebitda.  That transaction allowed Husky Chairman  Robert Schad , who
founded the company in 1953, to sell his more than 44 percent
stake in the company. Husky’s bankers at Citigroup Inc.
contacted about 70 potential buyers, and found most of their
interest among private-equity firms, Husky said in a 2007
regulatory filing.  Husky said in another regulatory filing that as of 2007 it
had a 75 percent market share globally in the sale of equipment
that completes the first step in converting polyethylene
terephthalate resin into products such as plastic bottles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net 
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 