-- Hong Kong May Repeal Advisory Against Traveling to Philippines After Talks
-- B y   T a t i a n a   L a u
-- 2010-12-16T10:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/hong-kong-may-repeal-advisory-against-traveling-to-philippines-after-talks.html
Hong Kong may repeal an advisory
telling citizens to  avoid all travel  to the Philippines, imposed
after the August fatal tour-bus hijack in Manila, following
talks today.  Philippines Tourism Secretary  Alberto A. Lim  met Hong Kong
Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  in the Chinese city today and
pledged improved security measures and justice for the victims
of the hijacking in a bid to repair ties damaged by the incident.  Tourists canceled trips to the Philippines after eight
members of a Hong Kong tour group died in the 10-hour police
siege of the hijacked bus, an event that was broadcast live. The
Hong Kong government in October expressed its disappointment
with the Philippines for failing to take more serious action
against officials for their mishandling of the siege.  “We will certainly conduct a very objective review, and
we will consult with the tourism trade and people in Hong
Kong” before reconsidering the warning, Hong Kong Secretary for
Security  Ambrose Lee  told reporters today.  The Philippines government will cooperate with the Hong
Kong coroner to determine the tourists’ cause of death, Tsang
said in a statement after the meeting. The Philippines has
deployed 185 police officers to patrol tourist attractions, and
a special task force was set up to ensure the safety of bus
passengers outside of the capital city, the statement said.  Criminal Charges  Criminal charges were brought against the brother of the
deceased hijacker for illegal possession of firearms, Lim told
reporters in Hong Kong. Four police officers faced
administrative charges, and the mayor of Manila has to answer
charges of misconduct of office and neglect by tomorrow, he said.  Police officers stormed the bus on Aug. 23 after
negotiations failed with the hijacker, a disgruntled former
inspector.  “The individuals who mishandled the incident and its
aftermath have been identified and the president has ordered
criminal and or administrative action to be taken against
them,” Lim said.  Tourism to the Philippines, an archipelago of more than
7,000 islands, has lagged behind the rest of the region. The
nation attracted 2.7 million tourists last year, about 4 percent
of all arrivals into the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,
according to the bloc’s  website . Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore
and Indonesia had all surpassed the Philippines in arrivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tatiana Lau   in Hong Kong at 
 tlau29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net  