-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall for Second Day; Chongqing Rural Bank Slides on Debut
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-12-16T08:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/hong-kong-stocks-fluctuate-chongqing-rural-advances-on-debut.html
Hong Kong’s  benchmark stock index 
fell to a two-month low after a report that China ordered a halt
on some company lending, heightening concerns of more monetary
policy tightening.  Bank of Communications Co., based in Shanghai, slid 1.1
percent.  Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank Co. , a lender in
China’s most populous city, dropped 1 percent on its debut. Sino
Land Co. retreated 2.7 percent, leading declines among
developers, after the Hong Kong Economic Times newspaper said
the city’s property prices fell.  “Policy tightening remains as the biggest concern
lingering in the market,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at
Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Don’t expect any
window dressing toward the yearend as there seems to be more bad
news than good this year.”  The  Hang Seng Index  fell 1.3 percent to 22,668.78, the
lowest close since Oct. 5. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index 
of so-called H shares of Chinese companies lost 1.2 percent to
12,434.95.  The Hang Seng Index has climbed 3.6 percent this year on
expectations that growth in corporate earnings will overcome
concerns about the pace of the U.S. economic recovery and
China’s steps to curb rising property prices. Shares in the
gauge trade at an average 14.2 times estimated earnings,
compared with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  Bank of Communications fell 1.1 percent to HK$7.81.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s largest
lender, slid 1 percent to HK$5.75.  Chongqing Rural dropped 1 percent to HK$5.20 on its debut,
after climbing as much as 4.6 percent.  Lending Curbs  The China Banking Regulatory Commission’s Shanghai branch
ordered a halt on lending to companies for purchases of fixed
assets until the end of the year, the Oriental Morning Post
reported, citing unidentified people it said were familiar with
the matter.  China may raise interest rates this month on concern
negative real interest rates may spur bank deposit holders to
search for higher yields, possibly fueling an asset bubble,  Liu Li-Gang , an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., said in a report today.  Sino Land, controlled by billionaire Robert Ng, lost 2.7
percent to HK$15.06. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., Hong Kong’s No.
2 developer by market value, fell 0.8 percent to HK$113.90.  Tencent Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest Internet company by
market value, slid 2.5 percent to HK$173.80. The company began
offering instant message service to overseas users. The QQ
International messaging service is now available in English,
Japanese and French languages, Tencent said.  All but three stocks fell on the 45-member Hang Seng Index.
Futures on the gauge slid 1.7 percent to 22,552.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 