-- OPEC Export Increase Slows as Winter Fuels Demand Ebbs, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-16T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/opec-export-increase-slows-as-demand-ebbs-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase crude loadings by the smallest
amount since October as demand for winter fuels passes its peak,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Shipments  will rise 0.3 percent to 23.46 million barrels a
day in the four weeks to Jan. 1 from 23.39 million barrels in
the period to Dec. 4, Oil Movements said today in a report.
That’s the smallest gain since Oct. 2. The data exclude Ecuador
and Angola.  “We’ve certainly past the peak of the winter,” said  Roy Mason , Oil Movements’ founder, in a telephone interview from
Halifax, England. “In terms of products other than for
distillates in Europe, stocks are still quite high. The tanker
market will be quiet until mid-January.”  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including those
from non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen, will rise 0.4 percent to
17.36 million barrels a day, from 17.29 million in the four
weeks to Dec. 4, data from Oil Movements show.  OPEC  maintained its current oil production quota of 24.845
million barrels a day at a meeting on Dec. 11 in Quito, Ecuador,
as member nations consider the global recovery strong enough to
withstand price gains. The organization will meet next in June.  A total of 472.64 million barrels of crude will be on board
tankers in the month to Jan. 1, up 0.7 percent on the Dec. 4
figure of 469.24 million barrels, according to Oil Movements.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  