-- Oracle Rises After Earnings Forecasts Top Predictions
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-12-17T21:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/oracle-profit-beats-estimates-on-demand-for-databases-computer-hardware.html
Oracle Corp. , the  second-largest 
software maker, rose in Nasdaq trading after forecasting profit
for this quarter that may top analysts’ predictions, a sign it’s
benefiting from an acquisition-fueled expansion into hardware.  Profit excluding certain expenses will be 48 cents to 50
cents a share, Oracle Co-President  Safra Catz  said yesterday on
a conference call. That exceeds the 47-cent average of  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The forecast followed a report showing
profit rose to 51 cents in the period ended Nov. 30, higher than
analysts’ average prediction of 46 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  has bulked up in
 hardware  to make Oracle a one-stop business computing shop, and
he’s making headway on a projection that this year’s purchase of
 Sun Microsystems Inc.  will boost fiscal 2011 operating profit by
$1.5 billion. That’s allayed concern he overreached by buying
more than 65 companies since 2005, said  Jason Maynard , an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in Santa Monica, California.  “Years ago, people didn’t believe in the strategy,” said
Maynard, who rates Oracle “outperform.” “There were a lot of
doubters on the Street. People have flipped.”  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, gained $1.19, or
3.9 percent, to $31.46 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
 shares  have climbed 28 percent this year.  For the third quarter, which ends in February, Oracle
forecast  revenue growth  of 31 percent to 35 percent, assuming
current exchange rates, ahead of analysts’ average prediction
that sales would rise 30 percent to $8.4 billion.  Sales Harbinger  New license sales, a predictor of  revenue , will rise 10
percent to 20 percent, Oracle said. That indicates an increase
to as high as $2.1 billion. Maynard had predicted an 11 percent
gain, to $1.9 billion. Last quarter, new license sales grew 21
percent to $2 billion.  Maynard  estimated $1.85 billion.  “The strength in the quarter was very broad-based,” Co-
President Catz said on the conference call.  The company reports sales that include deferred revenue
from acquired companies and don’t conform to generally accepted
accounting principles. On that basis, sales increased to $8.65
billion in the second quarter, compared with $8.34 billion, the
average projection in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  In the coming months, Oracle will release new versions of
its business applications developed under a project known as
Fusion.  Ellison said the new software, which companies can run in
their data centers or access via the Web, would strengthen
Oracle’s position against SAP AG,  Salesforce.com Inc.  and
closely held Workday Inc.  Share Gains Predicted  “You’re just seeing the beginning of our share gains in
applications,” Ellison said on the conference call.  Further increases in Oracle’s stock will hinge on whether
the company can keep drawing customers to its applications, the
programs that help businesses handle such tasks as payroll and
tracking sales leads, said  Walter Pritchard , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in San Francisco. Sales of new applications
licenses rose 21 percent to $579 million last quarter.  “The biggest swing factor on shares is sustainability of
strong second-quarter apps performance,” he said in an e-mail.
Pritchard recommends buying Oracle shares and doesn’t own them.  Oracle, which ranks second to Microsoft Corp. in software
sales, also said it will issue a dividend of  5 cents a share .
The dividend will be payable on Feb. 9 to holders of shares as
of Jan. 19.  Under  Ellison , Oracle has spent more than $42 billion on
acquisitions since the beginning of 2005. The stock has more
than doubled in the past five years, compared with an 18 percent
gain for the S&P technology index.  New Rivals  The buying spree has brought Oracle into closer competition
with SAP, Hewlett-Packard Co. and International Business
Machines Corp. HP, the world’s largest computer maker, forecast
first-quarter profit last month that exceeded analysts’
estimates.  On Nov. 24, Oracle won a $1.3 billion jury award in a
federal copyright infringement case against SAP.  Net income in the second quarter rose 28 percent to $1.87
billion, or 37 cents a share, from $1.46 billion, or 29 cents, a
year earlier, Oracle said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  