-- Toronto-Dominion Bank Trader Fined, Banned From Industry by U.K. Regulator
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-12-16T13:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/toronto-dominion-bank-trader-fined-banned-from-industry-by-u-k-regulator.html
A bond trader fired by  Toronto-
Dominion Bank  was banned from working in the financial industry
in the U.K. and fined 750,000 pounds ($1.2 million) for
misstating his trading positions and lying to hide losses.  Nabeel Naqui, former head of the bank’s credit-products
group for Europe and Asia Pacific, overstated his performance
from 2006 to 2008 and hid his actions from colleagues, the
 Financial Services Authority  said today in a statement.  “Naqui’s actions amounted to a sustained course of
deliberate and dishonest misconduct,”  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s
managing director of enforcement, said in the statement.
“Confidence in the financial system relies on someone in
Naqui’s position to be trusted.”  The FSA last year fined Toronto-Dominion 7 million pounds
for repeated systems and controls failures after it was forced
to cut earnings by about C$96 million in mid-2008 because of
mispriced derivatives. In July, the bank settled a U.K. lawsuit
against Naqui, in which he was accused of incorrectly pricing
the credit derivatives.  Naqui was suspended in June 2007 and fired six months later
for “gross misconduct” following a probe by the bank, he said
in a court filing last year. He denied the claims in the
Toronto-based bank’s suit and said the bank was attempting to
make him a “scapegoat” for alleged failures in the bank’s
systems and controls. Naqui said he sometimes used different
prices than the dealer quotes he received because of his own
assessment of the correct price.  Recoup Bonuses  The bank sued Naqui last year seeking 3.1 million pounds to
recoup his bonuses and the cost of the investigation, according
to the lawsuit. Toronto-Dominion said he overvalued his trading
positions by altering quotes from dealers and forwarding them on
to the bank without notification that they had been changed.  The bank’s losses arose on positions Naqui took on an index
of credit-default swaps, financial products that pay cash if the
company or government they relate to defaults on their debt. The
losses on trades made on an index of CDSs appeared when Naqui
passed his books to another trader, the FSA said in a  summary of
the case  against Toronto-Dominion.  Naqui’s lawyer, Kathryn Garbett, didn’t return a call for
comment. A call to Toronto Dominion’s press office wasn’t
immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 