-- Mortgage-Bond Math Means Everyone Is a Winner: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-12-16T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/mortgage-bond-math-means-everyone-is-a-winner-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
There’s no reason to think  MBIA Inc. 
and  Bank of America Corp.  are conspiring to make the Big Four
accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP look foolish. They
couldn’t have done a better job, though, if they tried.  As the outside auditor for both companies, it’s  PwC ’s job
to make sure each presents its financial results fairly. The
strange part here is that MBIA and Bank of America have taken
dueling accounting positions when it comes to some soured
mortgage bonds that MBIA insured during the housing boom. PwC
meanwhile is letting both companies’ approaches stand.  MBIA has recorded a sizeable asset on its  balance sheet 
based on refund demands it has made to the bank. Bank of
America, though, hasn’t booked any liability for those same
claims. Common sense tells you one of them, and maybe both, will
be proven wrong in the end. The companies, of course, say they
are following generally accepted accounting principles.  While this may be an extreme example, it’s probably not
unique. As the largest U.S. banks face increasing claims from
mortgage investors and bond insurers, they also must decide how
to quantify the potential costs on their balance sheets.  Likewise, the companies making the refund demands in some
cases are recording accounting benefits -- sometimes as assets,
other times as reductions to liabilities -- to reflect the value
of their potential recoveries. Where it gets tricky is when both
sides of the same claim reach opposing conclusions. That PwC is
the auditor for both MBIA and Bank of America is an added twist.  MBIA’s Latest  Check the disclosures in MBIA’s latest quarterly report,
and you’ll see a  $2.2 billion  accounting benefit called
“estimated recoveries” that the Armonk, New York, bond insurer
recorded on its Sept. 30 balance sheet. This represents the
value of what MBIA says it’s contractually entitled to collect
from various lenders as a result of ineligible mortgages that
were included in the loan pools backing certain securities.  MBIA wants the lenders to buy back or replace those loans,
on the grounds that they didn’t comply with the representations
and warranties the banks made in their securitization documents.
MBIA won’t say how much it’s owed by each of the banks.
Nonetheless it’s easy to deduce from its  disclosures  that most
of the estimated recoveries relate to loans originated by
Countrywide Financial, which Bank of America bought in 2008.  MBIA’s claims also are the subject of a lawsuit the company
has filed against Bank of America in a New York state court, one
of several such suits the company is waging against different
banks. MBIA says its $2.2 billion figure includes only what the
company is owed contractually, not additional damages that might
be awarded in litigation.  Now We Know  Bank of America, on the other hand, hasn’t recorded any
liability for MBIA’s demands. Its reserves for repurchase claims
were $4.4 billion as of Sept. 30. However, the company says it
hasn’t established any liability for claims by bond insurers
that are suing the bank; that’s how we know the liability it
recorded for MBIA’s claims is zero. Bank of America says such
litigation interferes with its ability to resolve bond insurers’
claims, and makes it impossible to reasonably estimate what its
future repurchase obligations for them might be.  I won’t try to guess who is right here. Maybe Bank of
America is being too aggressive by not recording any liability
for MBIA. Perhaps MBIA’s recovery estimate is too high. Or maybe
both companies’ numbers will prove too rosy.  One possible explanation for how this situation arose may
be that the companies are relying on different accounting
standards for their respective conclusions.  Different Strokes  A Bank of America spokesman,  Jerry Dubrowski , said the
company is treating claims by bond-insurer litigants as
 contingencies , which have their own set of rules. MBIA’s chief
financial officer,  Chuck Chaplin , said his company’s analysis
falls under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s special
rules for  financial-guarantee  insurers. Conceivably the two
accounting regimes might yield different financial-reporting
results for the same transaction, depending on which side a
company is on.  Steven Silber , a PwC spokesman, declined to comment.  A similar situation may be brewing at  Assured Guaranty
Ltd. , which also is audited by PwC. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based
bond insurer said it had recorded $1.4 billion of accounting
benefits for its repurchase claims as of Sept. 30. A company
spokeswoman,  Ashweeta Durani , said more than half of that amount
was related to Bank of America.  Unlike MBIA, Assured hasn’t sued Bank of America, which
leaves open the possibility that the lender may have recorded a
liability on its balance sheet for Assured’s claims. Dubrowski
declined to say how much, if any, of Bank of America’s $4.4
billion reserve is tied to Assured. My guess is it’s probably
less than what Assured has booked as a benefit.  It’s no surprise that two companies on opposing sides of
the same claim would disagree about how much it is worth. Still,
the job of an independent auditor should be to ensure that the
numbers make sense.  At MBIA and Bank of America, they don’t. Investors can only
hope that the left hand at PwC will look into what the right
hand is blessing.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  