-- House Moves Toward Vote on U.S. Tax-Cut Extension
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   P e t e r   C o h n
-- 2010-12-16T22:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/house-will-try-again-to-begin-work-on-obama-s-858-billion-tax-cut-plan.html
The U.S. House moved closer to
voting on President  Barack Obama ’s $858 billion agreement with
Republicans to extend Bush-era tax cuts after quelling a
rebellion by Democrats who oppose many of its terms.  After hours of wrangling that threatened to derail the tax-
cut deal, the House reconvened to consider a revised procedure
that would let disgruntled Democrats express their displeasure
with the measure.  “We all agree we want to get this done as quickly as
possible and get this done tonight,” said New York
Representative  Anthony Weiner.   “We will get a vote on the merits of the bill,” Vermont
Representative  Peter Welch  told reporters after a meeting with
House leaders in Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ’s office.  Income taxes will increase across the board on Jan. 1 if
Congress fails to pass a bill for Obama to sign.  The $858 billion tax-cut plan extends through 2012 all
Bush-era tax reductions on income, capital gains and dividends.
It continues expanded unemployment insurance benefits through
2011, cuts payroll taxes by 2 percentage points during 2011 and
lets businesses write off 100 percent of capital investments
between Sept. 9, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2011. Obama agreed on the
plan with Republicans on Dec. 6.  A debate rule proposed earlier today would have required
lawmakers who want to increase the estate-tax rate in the bill
to simultaneously approve the entire tax-cut measure. A proposed
new rule would allow a separate vote on the full tax-cut plan
whether or not lawmakers approve the estate-tax change, Rules
Committee Chairwoman  Louise Slaughter  of New York said.  Broader Changes  During the dispute, some Democrats began pushing for
broader changes to the bill. Oregon Representative  Peter DeFazio 
said he and other Democrats wanted to add a $250 cost-of-living
payment to Social Security recipients and other provisions.  “If you’re going to have a fight that you’re going to
lose, have it about something that really reflects Democratic
values,” said Kentucky Democrat  John Yarmuth .  Provided the rule is approved, Democrats would debate and
vote on the tax-cut measure and a proposal to amend it with a
higher estate tax -- which Senate Republicans say they will
refuse to accept. The Senate passed its version of the measure
yesterday, 81-19.  Republicans said any significant changes made by the House
would be rejected in the Senate and would risk scuttling the
entire agreement.  Send to Obama  Some House Democrats said the chamber will likely clear the
Senate-passed measure and send it to Obama for his signature.  “This has been a done deal for a while,” said House
Agriculture Committee Chairman  Collin Peterson , a Minnesota
Democrat. He called the speculation over the estate-tax proposal
“just a lot of gnashing of teeth.”  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  of
Massachusetts said Democrats “make a great mistake” by fearing
“we will get blamed” for taxes going up next year without
action by Congress. Even so, he said his view was in the
minority and he predicted the tax-cut bill will pass.  House Democrats threatened last week to refuse to bring the
Senate’s tax plan to the floor unchanged, and they focused much
of their ire on the estate tax provision. Many House Democrats
also wanted to limit the income tax cut extension to the first
$250,000 of family income.  The Senate-passed measure sets the top estate-tax rate at
35 percent and gives families a $5 million tax-free allowance
per individual, or $10 million per couple.  Estate Tax  The Democrats’ estate-tax proposal would set the top rate
at 45 percent with a $3.5 million per person tax-free allowance.
The House passed such a rate last December; that proposal died
in the Senate.  Barring congressional action, the estate tax in January
will have a top rate of 55 percent that applies after a $1
million tax-free allowance.  The legislation extends dozens of expired and expiring tax
breaks, including the research and development tax credit and a
college tuition tax credit that was created in last year’s
economic stimulus law.  If the tax cuts expire, payroll withholding would increase
in January, taking more money out of workers’ paychecks and
causing administrative challenges for the Internal Revenue
Service. The new Congress would take up the tax issue, and the
outcome would be controlled by a Republican-led House and a
Senate with 47 Republicans, up from 42 now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cohn  in Washington at 
 pcohn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  