-- House Republicans Urge Regulators to Exempt Manufacturers From Swaps Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2010-12-16T17:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/house-republicans-urge-regulators-to-exempt-manufacturers-from-swaps-rules.html
Two U.S. lawmakers who will take
leadership roles in the next Congress said regulators must
ensure manufacturers and commercial end-users are exempt from
margin requirements for the $583 trillion swaps market.  It is “critically important” that the end-user exemption
be clarified by agencies including the  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  and  Securities and Exchange Commission,  Republican
Representatives  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama and  Frank Lucas  of
Oklahoma wrote in a letter to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  and CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler . The CFTC and SEC
are writing swap-market rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  “We have serious concerns that Dodd-Frank will force
American companies, which did not cause or contribute to the
financial crisis, to move billions of dollars in capital onto
the sidelines,” Bachus and Lucas wrote in the letter today.
Bachus was selected to lead the Financial Services Committee and
Lucas picked to lead the Agriculture panel when Republicans take
over the House next month.  Dodd-Frank, the financial regulation overhaul enacted in
July, requires that most swaps be moved to clearinghouses,
exchanges and other trading platforms to boost transparency
after largely unregulated swaps contributed to the credit crisis
in 2008. Bachus and Lucas said they would be open to delaying
deadlines that require most rules to be completed by mid-July.  ‘Carefully Deliberate’  “We encourage you to carefully deliberate and take the
time necessary to ensure that implementation of the act’s major
overhaul of the derivatives market is done correctly the first
time,” the lawmakers wrote.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican
slated to lead a Financial Services subcommittee, wrote a Dec.
15 letter asking Geithner to make clear in writing whether end-
users are exempt.  Bachus and Lucas also urged regulators to exempt foreign-
exchange swaps and forwards from the clearing and trading
requirements other swaps will face under Dodd-Frank. The law
leaves that determination to be made by the Treasury secretary.  The foreign exchange market is “stable”, and it is
“vital” that such derivatives are excluded, Bachus and Lucas
said in their letter. A coalition of 20 financial firms,
including Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG, urged Treasury to grant
the exemption.  Swaps and other derivatives are financial instruments whose
value is based on an underlying security or benchmark, such as a
stock option. Companies may use them to hedge risks and other
investors employ them to bet on markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 