-- Party’s Over Should Steele Win Another Term: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-12-16T02:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/party-s-over-if-steele-wins-another-term-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Choosing the next chairman of the  Republican National Committee  will test the power and
effectiveness of the  Republican Party . In particular, it will
provide a useful barometer of the party’s ability to coalesce
behind a strong candidate for president in 2012.  The logic is simple: If it can’t stop  Michael Steele  from
winning a second term as chairman, after the disaster that was
his first, how can it possibly stop Sarah Palin?  To the consternation of the Republican establishment,
Steele and Palin both are proceeding full speed ahead.  What’s shocking about Steele’s progress in particular is
that he shouldn’t be difficult to derail. His RNC tenure was
marked by spending so profligate it would make a congressman
blush.  His former political director, Gentry Collins, blasted
Steele on his way out the door, blaming his onetime boss for
leading the party into the 2012 cycle with “100 percent of the
RNC’s $15 million in lines of credit tapped out, and unpaid
bills likely to add millions to that.”  Granted, Collins is no unbiased source, since he is now
running against Steele for the chairman’s job. But his account
meshes with other evidence, such as the complaints by some
candidates that critical get-out-the-vote efforts were
shortchanged because of a lack of RNC resources.  Embarrassing Moments  After multiple other embarrassments -- that $2,000
reimbursement to a donor who paid for a group trip to a bondage-
themed club, Steele’s  reported interest  in buying a
private jet, his giving speeches  for pay , the times he said  Afghanistan  is “a war of Obama’s choosing” and abortion is an
individual choice -- Steele was expected to go quietly, even
gratefully, at the end of his term.  Everything was going as planned. Five serious candidates
stepped up to replace him. He wasn’t huddling with the few
advisers he has left, or combing the party for support.  Then on Dec. 13 he popped up with  a statement  via his
private e-mail account -- one with a casual sense of
capitalization that would have made E.E. Cummings proud --
saying yes, he would run again.  How’s that for going rogue?  There doesn’t seem to be any party leader with the clout to
stop Steele or cut a deal he can’t refuse. The fight to sideline
him is taking place in the press, with what passes for the
establishment haranguing him. Wayne Berman, who was finance
chairman for John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign,  told 
Politico that Steele’s “arrogant style, cult of personality and
embarrassing mismanagement are sources of great discontent with
the major fundraisers of the party.”  Reagan’s Commandment  So much for  Ronald Reagan ’s 11th commandment -- don’t speak
ill of another Republican. If Steele persists, the election at
the RNC meeting in January could prove that the old saw about
Democrats now fits the GOP: I’m not a member of an organized
party, I’m a Republican.  This tells you a lot about the state of political parties
today. Both the Republican and Democratic parties have been
weakened by a parallel universe of groups such as MoveOn.org,
the Tea Party and so-called 527 organizations. Never close to
perfect, the parties in healthier times nonetheless provided
basic governance, platforms and rules. They held conventions
that actually chose nominees, kept the grassroots connected and
provided a ladder for aspiring politicians to climb.  A lot of those functions are so yesterday. Around the
country in 2010, Republicans nominated virtual strangers:
wrestling impresario  Linda McMahon  in  Connecticut , Carl Paladino
in  New York ,  Meg Whitman  in  California , Christine O’Donnell in  Delaware . See how many of the 168 RNC committeemen and
committeewomen could identify these candidates’ mug shots.  Parties Over  Could the oft-repeated prediction that the parties are dead
finally be coming true?  The Republicans’ most reliable spokesman and strategic
thinker right now,  Karl Rove , has no official party role.
 American Crossroads , the group he helped found, is a huge
spender and likely kingmaker going forward.  A claque of talk-show hosts, including  Glenn Beck  and  Rush Limbaugh , demand obedience, respect and apologies, should a
Republican dare criticize them.  Senator Jim DeMint of  South Carolina  runs his own informal
Tea Party Caucus and seems determined to repeat his 2010
strategy of finding primary candidates to challenge sitting
senators who don’t hew to his brand of Republicanism.  As much of a flameout as Steele was as chairman, about 25
percent of RNC members are inclined to support him, the National
Journal  reported . He did, after all, preside over the biggest
net gain in House seats for either party since the 1940s. With
no runaway front-runner among the five candidates vying to
replace him, Steele could steal another term.  Filled Need  He would never have won the job initially had Republicans
not thought they needed their own transformative figure to face
off against America’s first black president. That turned out to
be unnecessary; all they needed to do was just say no.  Even in this intimate, closed process -- akin to the
College of Cardinals choosing a Pope -- Republican leaders might
fail to rid themselves of a chairman who has proved he’s not up
to the job.  Imagine how the party will handle Palin, another candidate
most party leaders say is not up to the job, in an open and
uncontrolled series of primaries and caucuses in 2012.  Mama Grizzly. Papa Grizzly. Hear them roar.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  