-- Philippine Stocks Decline to Two-Week Low on Foreign Investor Fund Outlows
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-12-16T04:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/philippine-stocks-decline-to-two-week-low-on-foreign-investor-fund-outlows.html
Philippine stocks  fell, driving the
benchmark index to the lowest level in two weeks, as overseas
investors pared their holdings after the gauge surged to a
record last month.  Robinsons Land Corp.  slumped the most in six months after
the stock’s rating was cut by CitisecOnline.com Inc. while  GMA
Network Inc.  posted the biggest loss since May after saying it
may miss its earnings forecast this year. Overseas investors
sold a net $18.7 million of Philippine stocks yesterday,
bringing this week’s outflows to $31.22 million, and paring net
purchases in 2010 to $1.21 billion.  “Overseas fund managers are doing their end of year
portfolio rebalancing,” said  Olan Caperina , who helps manage
$11 billion at Manila-based Bank of the Philippine Islands.
“Investors are squaring their positions and locking in their
gains, which can be significant considering how far the market
has gone up this year.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  lost 1.2 percent to
4,039.40 as of 12:08 p.m. in Manila, set for the lowest close
since Dec. 1 and trimming this year’s gain to 32 percent. The
country’s stocks rallied in 2010 along with other developing
markets as the nation’s economy expanded, earnings rose and
investors sought higher yields amid near-zero benchmark interest
rates in the U.S.  The Philippine benchmark stock gauge, which closed at a
record-high on Nov. 4.,  trades  at 14.7 times this year’s
estimated earnings, compared with 13.2 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exports, Economy  The country’s export growth slowed to a 10-month low in
October as the global recovery eased, damping demand for the
nation’s semiconductors and other electronics. Exports account
for about a third of the $160 billion Philippine economy. Growth
in gross domestic product slowed to 6.5 percent last quarter
from a three-year high of 8.2 percent in the previous three
months.  Robinsons Land , the nation’s second-biggest shopping mall
operator, declined 4.5 percent to 16.3 pesos, set for the
steepest loss since June 7. The stock was cut to “hold” from
“buy” by  Richard Laneda , an analyst at CitisecOnline.  “Robinsons is the least favored play in the property
sector given its limited landbank, which is hampering its
ability to capitalize on the strength of the sector,” Laneda
said in a Dec. 15 report. “Although the company is taking steps
to address this problem, it will take time for earnings to
materialize.”  GMA Network , the nation’s No. 2 broadcaster, tumbled 4
percent to 6.7 pesos, the most since May 5. GMA may not achieve
this year’s 3 billion-peso profit target because its performance
in the fourth quarter was not as good as a year earlier, when
sales were boosted by political campaign advertisements, a stock
exchange filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  