-- Pimco's Kiesel Says U.S. Economy Will `Run Fast' With Emerging Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-12-16T19:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/pimco-s-kiesel-says-u-s-economy-will-run-fast-with-emerging-markets.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. 
says the U.S. economy is poised to “run fast” along with
emerging-market countries, to the benefit of banks, secured
loans and bonds, and junk-rated debt that may be upgraded to
investment-quality.  “The experience of running fast, or at least running
faster, is something the U.S. economy is finally set to do,”
 Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond portfolios at Pimco,
wrote on the firm’s  website . The fund favors credits in emerging
markets, the U.S. and countries “tied into strong emerging
markets growth,” such as Canada and Australia, he wrote.  The biggest bond-fund manager boosted its forecast for U.S.
economic growth by 1 percentage point to as much as 3.5 percent
after President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax cuts enacted
by his predecessor and as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  seeks to reduce unemployment and avert deflation by
buying Treasuries. Pimco is based in Newport Beach, California.  “The U.S. economy has turned the corner from a cyclical
perspective due to the combination of accommodative monetary
policy and increased near-term fiscal stimulus along with
gradually improving trends in underlying economic
fundamentals,” wrote Kiesel, who was nominated  yesterday  for
fixed-income manager of the year by Morningstar Inc.  “Europe appears sick and is set to ‘run slow’ on a
relative basis, with subpar economic growth,” he wrote.  Junk, or high-yield, bonds and leveraged loans are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  