-- Gross Puts $17 Million of Own Money Into Bond Funds After Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/pimco-s-gross-puts-17-million-own-cash-in-closed-end-funds-as-bonds-slump.html
Bill Gross , head of the world’s
biggest mutual fund, put $17 million of his own wealth into
closed-end bond funds in the past week as a debt selloff spurred
investors to flee taxable fixed-income funds for the first time
in two years.  Gross, who manages the $250 billion Pimco Total Return
Fund, bought five closed-end corporate bond funds this week
after purchasing five municipal bond funds a week earlier,
according to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The purchases suggest Gross sees value in debt even after
investors pulled money from taxable bond mutual funds for the
first time since December 2008. A selloff in bonds has lifted
the yield on  10-year Treasuries  by more than a percentage point
since Nov. 4, the day after the Federal Reserve pledged to buy
$600 billion in assets to try to revive the economy. U.S.
investors poured $252 billion into taxable funds in the first 11
months of the year.  “The question is whether this is a bond market turning
point,”  Eric Jacobson , a Morningstar Inc. fund analyst in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Gross, who reduced his fund’s holdings of government debt
for four straight months, said in October that asset purchases
by the Fed will probably signify the end of the 30-year rally in
bonds. The yield on the 10-year note touched a seven-month high
yesterday on evidence the economy is recovering, encouraging
investors to unwind bets the securities will rise. Bond yields
and prices move in the opposite direction.  Investors pulled $401 million from taxable bond funds in
the week ended Dec. 8, the first net redemptions since the week
ended Dec. 10, 2008, according to data released yesterday by the
Investment Company Institute, a Washington-based trade group for
the mutual funds industry.  $1.7 Billion Withdrawn  All bond mutual funds lost $1.7 billion to withdrawals in
the week. Investors took out $2.7 billion from domestic stock
funds, their 32nd straight week of redemptions, while stock
funds that invest outside the U.S. attracted $1.3 billion, the
ICI said.  Gross purchased shares of Pimco Income Strategy Fund, Pimco
Income Strategy Fund II, Pimco High Income Fund, Pimco Corporate
Income Fund and Pimco Corporate Opportunity Fund on Dec. 14,
according to an SEC filing yesterday. On Dec. 13 and 14, he more
than doubled his holdings in the funds to 2.37 million shares,
filings show.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, which runs the
Pimco funds, declined to comment.  Closed-end funds issue a fixed amount of shares that trade
on an exchange.  8.9% Slump  Shares of Pimco Municipal Income Fund III have declined 8.9
percent in price since Nov. 4. The shares are trading at about
an 18 percent premium to the value of its underlying assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco Corporate Income Fund  has dropped 7.5 percent since
the Fed’s quantitative easing plan was announced. The shares
trade at less than a 1 percent discount to net asset value.  Gross, 66, has beaten 98 percent of his peers in the past
five years overseeing Pimco Total Return. The fund lost 2.4
percent, including reinvested interest, in the month ended Dec.
14. It had its first withdrawals by investors in two years in
November.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , manages
about $1.2 trillion in assets.  Inflation Expectations  Benchmark 10-year Treasuries have slumped since signs of an
economic recovery and planned asset purchases by the Fed fueled
expectations inflation will accelerate.  Investors began pulling out of municipal-bond funds in
November amid concerns about renewed inflation and a flood of
supply from issuers. Withdrawals from municipal-bond funds in
the week ended Nov. 17 were $3 billion, according to Lipper FMI,
the highest amount in almost 19 years.  High-yield managers including Fidelity Investments’  Mark Notkin  in Boston and  Margaret Patel  at San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo & Co. said last month that they believe the bond fund
rally is over and stocks represent a better buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net 
 Sree Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 