-- Polish Government Picks EDF for Exclusive Talks to Buy Power Utility Enea
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-12-16T07:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/polish-government-picks-edf-for-exclusive-talks-to-buy-power-utility-enea.html
Poland picked  Electricite de France
SA , Europe’s biggest power producer, for exclusive talks to buy
Enea SA as it plans to sell its third-largest utility by end of
March, the Treasury Ministry  said on its website  late yesterday.  Poland called for bids for a 51 percent stake in Poznan,
western Poland-based  Enea  in June.  EDF is the second bidder the government selected for
exclusive talks in this process after in November it failed to
reach an agreement on the sale with Kulczyk Holding SA,
controlled by Polish billionaire Jan Kulczyk.  The stake was valued at  5.44 billion zloty  ($1.81 billion)
at yesterday’s close on the Warsaw bourse. The transaction’s
value could be twice as much after last month the government
said any potential investor will have to call a public tender
for all Enea shares.  Vattenfall AB , the Nordic region’s largest utility that
announced it plans to sell all its minority holdings, owns 19
percent of Enea.  The ministry is looking for a premium of 10 to 20 percent
on the market price for its stake, Deputy Treasury Minister Jan
Bury said in September.  Poland is selling its energy companies as part of its four-
year plan to raise 55 billion zloty from asset sales. This year
it put up for sale or already sold shares in its five largest
power groups, including a 4 billion-zloty, 10 percent stake in
largest PGE SA, and a 7.53 billion-zloty majority holding in
fourth-biggest Energa SA.  EDF, Kulczyk, as well as France’s GDF Suez SA and
Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS of the Czech Republic placed
binding bids to buy Enea in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  