-- Posen Says Bank of England Policy Makers Shouldn't Overreact on Inflation
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-16T10:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/posen-says-bank-of-england-policy-makers-shouldn-t-overreact-on-inflation.html
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said policy makers shouldn’t “overreact” to inflation,
which may slow below 1 percent in two years.  The bank’s Monetary Policy Committee “would only make
things worse by making policy looking in the rear-view mirror,
trying to make up for past mistakes,” Posen said in a speech
today in Billericay, England. “If we allow for even just some
exchange-rate pressure upwards on prices over this period as
well, underlying  U.K. inflation  has stayed well below target.”  U.K. inflation has exceeded the government’s 3 percent
limit for nine months, and an increase in value-added tax on
sales in January may add to prices in 2011. Posen said Britain’s
economy still has a “large” amount of slack in the aftermath
of the recession and the largest  government budget squeeze  since
World War II will slow inflation.  “Neither our forecast nor our policy going forward should
overreact reflexively to that above-target inflation, even
though it will persist for the next few months after the coming
VAT rise,” Posen said.  Posen’s analysis leads him “to a forecast for U.K.
inflation well below that of the November Inflation Report, and
more importantly a forecast that at the target horizon of two-
plus years, annual CPI inflation will be significantly below
target (perhaps by 1 percent or more),” he said.  Price Expectations  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier in
November, the highest since May. Consumers’ inflation
expectations reached a two-year high in November in a GfK NOP
Ltd. survey for the Bank of England released today.  The large amount of slack in the economy will still curb
consumer-price gains, Posen said.  “Financial crises in advanced economies do not destroy
enough productive capacity to offset the disinflationary fall in
demand,” he said. “For the U.K. today, this would suggest that
a sizable output gap still exists, exerting downward pressure on
inflation, all else equal.”  The bank’s nine-member committee kept its bond-purchase
plan unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($312 billion) this month
and held its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent. Minutes of the central bank’s Nov. 4 decision showed
policy makers split three ways, with  Andrew Sentance  calling for
higher rates to combat inflation and Posen pushing for more
stimulus to sustain the recovery. The rest voted for no change.  Minutes of this month’s decision are due Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  