-- Pound Strengthens Versus Dollar As U.K. Retail Sales Grow for Second Month
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-16T15:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/pound-strengthens-versus-dollar-as-u-k-retail-sales-grow-for-second-month.html
The pound rose for the first day in
three against the dollar as a report showed U.K. retail sales
increased for a second consecutive month in November and
consumers’ inflation expectations surged.  Sterling rebounded after reaching a two-week low against
the U.S. currency yesterday, strengthening against all its 16
major counterparts. Sales climbed 0.3 percent from October, when
they increased 0.7 percent, the Office for National Statistics
said, matching the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Ten-year government bond yields reached a seven-
month high as the Debt Management Office sold 825 million pounds
($1.3 billion) of inflation-linked securities maturing in 2042.  “The retail sales data improved sentiment and lent support
to the pound,” said  Jane Foley , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “There may have
been some front-loading by consumers before the sales-tax
increase next month.”  The pound gained 0.4 percent to $1.5584 as of 3:14 p.m. in
London after reaching $1.5531 yesterday, the lowest level since
Dec. 2. It appreciated 0.4 percent to 84.68 pence per euro.  Sterling has lost 1.3 percent in the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
a basket of 10 developed-country currencies.  Since the end of 2009, Britain’s currency has lost
5 percent, compared with a 9.6 percent decline by the euro and a
1.4 percent loss by the dollar.  Retail Sales, Inflation  Sales excluding fuel increased 0.3 percent in November from
October and were up 1.8 percent on the year, the statistics
office said. Food-stores sales increased 0.6 percent from the
previous month, while non-food sales rose 0.2 percent.  Recent data indicate the U.K. economic recovery maintained
momentum in the fourth quarter, with jobless claims falling for
a second month in November and surveys showing manufacturing
growth accelerated to a 16-year high. Retail sales may also have
been boosted by consumers bringing forward spending to avoid
next year’s increase in value-added tax.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government will increase
value-added-tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent in January.
Almost two-thirds of U.K. retailers predict Christmas sales will
be the same or better than last year, according to the British
Retail Consortium.  Britons’ inflation expectations surged to their highest
level for more than two years in a sign that above-target price
increases may be becoming embedded in the minds of consumers.  Posen Speech  People questioned last month expected consumer prices to
increase 3.9 percent over the following year, the highest
reading since August 2008, the Bank of England said in a
quarterly report published in London. That compares with
expectations in August of a 3.4 percent gain.  U.K. inflation accelerated to 3.3 percent in November, the
ninth month above the government’s 3 percent upper limit, as
food and clothing costs climbed. Bank of England Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said this week the strength of inflation has
increased the risks to price expectations.  Monetary Policy Committee member  Adam Posen  said policy
makers shouldn’t “overreact” to inflation, which may slow
below 1 percent in two years.  The MPC “would only make things worse by making policy
looking in the rear-view mirror, trying to make up for past
mistakes,” Posen said in a speech today in Billericay, England.
“If we allow for even just some exchange-rate pressure upwards
on prices over this period as well, underlying U.K. inflation
has stayed well below target.”  Canadian Comparison  Minutes of the central bank’s Nov. 4 decision showed policy
makers split three ways, with  Andrew Sentance  calling for higher
rates to combat inflation and Posen pushing for more stimulus to
sustain the recovery. The rest voted for no change.  Policy makers voted Dec. 9 to maintain the benchmark rate
at a record low 0.5 percent and the bond-purchase program at 200
billion pounds. Minutes of this month’s decision will be
published Dec. 22.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. advised investors to sell
the pound against the Canadian dollar because the North American
country’s exports to the U.S. should boost its economy relative
to the U.K.  “Divergences in the pace of economic growth will begin to
emerge in 2011 between those countries which rely more heavily
on external demand from the U.S. and those that rely more
heavily on Europe,”  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist in
London, wrote in a research report yesterday. “Domestic
austerity measures will also begin to kick in more notably next
year in the U.K.”  Gilts Rise  Sterling appreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.5677 today. The
pound will probably weaken to C$1.4850, Hardman wrote.  Ten-year gilts dropped for a fifth consecutive day, their
longest losing streak since October. The 10-year yield has risen
more than 40 basis points this month as the prospects for global
economic growth diminished appetite for the perceived safety of
fixed-income assets.  The government sold index-linked gilts due 2042 at a so-
called real yield of 0.763 percent. Investors bid for 1.93 times
the amount of securities on sale, according to the debt office
website.  The 10-year gilt yield increased one basis point to 3.64
percent. It reached 3.654 percent earlier today, the highest
level since May 20, according to Bloomberg generic data. The
4.75 percent security maturing in March 2020 fell 0.115, or 1.15
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 108.64.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  