-- Putin Gets No Respect From Poker Players in Moscow Resisting Gambling Ban
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-12-17T09:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/putin-gets-no-respect-from-poker-players-in-moscow-resisting-gambling-ban.html
Nikolai nods to the camouflaged
guards as he enters a nightclub in central Moscow before heading
to a room tucked behind a glass wall.  It’s shortly before 10 p.m. on a Tuesday. The push of a
button opens a wooden door to a smoke-filled parlor packed with
poker players. The card game was considered a sport until Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  decided last year to prohibit gambling
in all but Russia’s furthest reaches.  The ban succeeded only in driving “decent people into the
dark,” Nikolai, a name he chose to use because of fear of
repercussions, said as he stacked 20,000 rubles ($650) of chips
on a blue felt table. He pointed to a poster advertising a poker
tournament with 600,000 rubles of prize money.  Russia’s purge against gambling is sending poker
underground just as the casino industry expands globally. Gaming
revenue will increase 57 percent worldwide to $157 billion by
2014, the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP estimated
in a  report  published last week.  Why parlors like the ones Nikolai frequents are still
operating is an issue of increasing frustration for  President Dmitry Medvedev , who has taken the lead from Putin in the public
campaign against gambling. As president in 2006, Putin called
for casinos to be shut to reduce addiction and clamp down on
organized crime. He set up four special zones for gambling that
have so far remained undeveloped.  Shut Down  “Russia is quite unique because it went against the trend
globally,” said Laurie Korpi, the head regulatory analyst at
London-based  GamblingCompliance , an industry research firm. “I
can’t think of many countries which would have an established
gambling industry that pays taxes and then overnight would
basically just close the door.”  Medvedev ordered an investigation last month into why
Moscow officials haven’t shut down what city hall itself says
are more than 100 illegal gambling halls. The ban on poker came
into effect on July 1, 2009, two years after it became a sport.  The club hosting Nikolai includes three halls, a bar and
cash desk and the focus is poker, not discussion. Players around
seven tables in one hall nibble on savory snacks and sweets and
mainly drink tea, rarely talking.  Medvedev yesterday ordered Moscow Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  to
investigate illicit gambling dens. “We need to finish the task
of cracking down on illegal casinos,” Medvedev said at a
government meeting in Ryazan, southeast of Moscow. “This is an
illegal business and it’s a crime.”  24 Hour Raids  Sobyanin, Putin’s former chief of staff,  plans  to create
special units that will be on call to raid gambling halls 24
hours a day. Medvedev fired Sobyanin’s predecessor,  Yuri Luzhkov , in September after 18 years in power, citing “lack of
confidence.”  “I think we will sort out the mess within a month,”
Sobyanin told Medvedev yesterday.  More than 3,000 illegal betting parlors have been closed
across Russia so far this year and many still operate outside
the law, said Colonel Vladimir Krivosheev of the  Interior
Ministry’s  economic safety division.  “We raided a hall with slot machines in a basement of a
house in the suburbs of Moscow once and there were rats
everywhere,” he said in an interview. “People kept playing
even after the squad raided the premises.”  Dungeon Bound?  Nikolai, who learned karate in the 1980s to defy a Soviet-
era ban, keeps in touch with his poker partners and parlor
managers by text message as they move  around Moscow  to avoid
raids. He lost 20,000 rubles of chips within half an hour before
winning 61,000 rubles with his second 20,000 ruble stake. He
then headed to the second venue of the night, this one glitzier,
with dark leather walls lit by deep red lights.  “I’ve got phone numbers for about 40 places, and about 20
percent of them have been shut down in the past two years,”
said Nikolai, 50. “If this keeps up, where are the decent
people supposed to go to relax, a dungeon?”  The four zones Putin created for legal gambling are near
the borders of North Korea, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and in the
exclave of Kaliningrad between Poland and Lithuania. Before
then, Russia had 360,000 slot machines, more than any country
except Japan and the U.S., according to a 2008 report by London-
based research group  Taylor Nelson Sofres Plc .  ‘Irrational Idea’  “One of the most dramatic developments in 2009 and 2010
was the collapse in the Russian market, which was essentially
shut down by regulatory changes in the latter half of 2009,”
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in its Dec.7 report.  The company predicted global casino gaming revenue will
grow at a 9.3 percent annual rate during the five years to 2014
from $100.5 billion in 2009.  The Russian government shouldn’t be under any illusions as
to the difficulties of curtailing gambling in a country where
the industry was doubling every couple of years, reaching about
$7 billion in 2008, said  Michael Boettcher , chief executive
officer of Storm International, the country’s biggest casino
operator before the prohibition.  Storm , based in Moscow, has all but abandoned Russia and
opened casinos in countries including Armenia, Belarus and
Mexico because few gaming companies or gamblers have shown much
interest in traveling to the new zones, Boettcher said.  Crime, Suicide  “It was an ill-conceived and irrational idea born more out
of politics than common sense,” Boettcher said by e-mail.
“This disaster could have been averted by talking to either the
existing operators inside Russia or consulting with another,
independent, gaming expert from outside the country.”  Russia had 3 million gambling addicts, or 2.1 percent of
the population, according to a 2008 estimate by NarcoDen, a
Moscow-based rehabilitation specialist.  The  Public Chamber , set up by Putin to scrutinize
legislation, said the gambling halls were to blame for
“destruction of families, crimes against people, theft and
robbery, psychological illness, a large number of suicides,”
according to a 2006 statement.  As he moved to his third and final venue of the night
around 2 a.m., a three-story office building, Nikolai said there
are far worse scourges on society than playing poker.  “There are 50 times more saunas, which are basically
brothels, than there are gambling halls in Moscow,” said
Nikolai. “And no one cares about them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at   bcook7@bloomberg.net  