-- Putin Predicts Russian Economic Rebound, `Powerful' Boost From World Cup
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-12-16T12:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/putin-expects-russian-economy-to-return-to-pre-crisis-level-in-mid-2012.html
Russia’s economy will rebound to its
pre-crisis level by the middle of 2012 and receive a "powerful"
boost from hosting the 2018 soccer World Cup, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said on a live TV call-in show today.  Putin, who flew to Zurich on Dec. 3 to claim victory in the
World Cup bidding, said the event would help upgrade roads,
airports and railway stations in Russia’s European economic
heartland.  "It’ll be an entirely positive influence on the future of
the country," Putin, 58, said during the program, which received
more than 2 million questions in the first 150 minutes, with
social issues, housing and labor receiving the most attention.
Half a million inquiries were sent in before the call-in,
broadcast live on state television, radio and the Internet.  Putin, who has maintained his annual tradition of the
hours-long nationwide broadcasts since handing over the
presidency in 2008 to his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , continues to
occupy much of the limelight as the 2012 elections approach.  The premier, who backed Medvedev as his successor because
of a constitutional ban on three consecutive presidential terms,
hasn’t ruled out returning to the presidency.  ‘Very Satisfactory’  Russia’s recovery from last year’s 7.9 percent contraction
was hindered by a record heat wave and wildfires, which killed
more than 50 people, devastated agricultural output, forced some
manufacturers to halt production and hurt consumer demand. Gross
domestic product may grow 3.8 percent this year, compared with
an  average growth rate  of almost seven percent from 1999-2008,
Putin said.  "On the whole, we are ending this year in a very
satisfactory condition," Putin said, highlighting the creation
of 1.2 million new jobs in 2010 and a decline in the number of
those living under the poverty line. "We’ll get back to the pre-
crisis level in the first half of 2012."  Medvedev, 45, in his annual state-of-the-nation address on
Nov. 30, devoted almost half the time to family issues in what
commentators described as a lackluster speech. A day later,
Putin gave an interview to CNN’s  Larry King , touching on foreign
and domestic policies.  His appearance in Zurich hours after Russia won the right
to host the World Cup late on Dec. 3 competed with broadcasts of
Medvedev talking to children and doing chin-ups at a school in
southern Russia the previous day.  Four More Years  Medvedev, who has made fighting corruption and reducing
Russia’s dependency on oil and gas the hallmark of his
presidency, would like to run for a second term, his economic
aide,  Arkady Dvorkovich , told the British Broadcasting
Corporation in an interview shown Dec. 10.  “I believe he does” want to gain four more years in the
Kremlin, he said. “Otherwise, he would not work seriously on
the initiatives he announced.”  Medvedev and Putin will consult with each other on who
should run, Dvorkovich told the BBC, according to the
broadcaster’s website.  In his first year in office, Medvedev pushed through a
constitutional change extending the presidential term to six
years from four, fueling speculation Putin was planning to
return for another 12 years in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  