-- Putin Says Madoff, Khodorkovsky Cases Show Russia More Liberal Than U.S.
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-12-16T12:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/putin-says-khodorkovsky-punishment-more-liberal-than-madoff-sentence.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
the punishments meted out to Ponzi scheme architect  Bernard Madoff  and former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky 
show Russia’s judicial system is more “liberal” than the U.S.  “If we look at the practice in other countries, Madoff
received 150 years in prison for a similar crime,” Putin, 58,
said during his annual call-in show with the nation today. “I
think things look a lot more liberal here.”  Khodorkovsky, who has served more than half of his eight-
year term for fraud and tax evasion, is awaiting the verdict in
a second trial on related charges that may add six years to his
sentence. A Moscow court yesterday delayed reading the verdict
until Dec. 27, without giving a reason. Madoff, 72, was
convicted in a New York court last year of orchestrating the
largest Ponzi scheme in history, costing investors about $20
billion in principal.  “We must operate based on the fact that Khodorkovsky’s
crimes have been proven in court,” Putin said. “A thief should
sit in jail.”  During Putin’s presidency, Yukos, once Russia’s largest
company by market value, was bankrupted under $30 billion of tax
claims and sold off in pieces, mostly to OAO Rosneft, the state
oil producer chaired by Putin deputy  Igor Sechin . Khodorkovsky
has called the case against him retribution for his political
opposition to Putin.  U.S. lawmakers including 2008 Republican presidential
candidate  John McCain  of Arizona have called the case against
Khodorkovsky an “assault on democracy and political freedom.”  Putin’s comments today were designed to put pressure on the
judge in the case before he starts to read the verdict, which
could take two weeks, said Vadim Klyuvgant, a member of
Khodorkosvsky’s defense team.  “We will be referring to his comments everywhere because
they prove that the court isn’t free and that this is political
punishment not justice,” Klyuvgant said in a phone interview
from Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook in Moscow at 
 Bcook7@bloomberg.net  