-- Putin Berates Pro-Democracy Opponents After Ethnic Clashes Prompt Arrests
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-12-16T14:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/putin-condemns-extremism-cautions-against-criticism-of-police.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  railed against pro-democracy opponents as he vowed to
prevent further ethnic clashes.  A Dec. 11 rally by 5,500 people protesting against the
death of a soccer fan killed in a confrontation with migrants
from Russia’s North Caucasus turned violent, injuring more than
30 people. Moscow riot police yesterday detained hundreds of
people at rival rallies to avoid further clashes.  Opposition critics have said the police aren’t capable of
ensuring security in Moscow and other cities, pointing at the
extremist protests as a sign of the shortcomings of authorities.  Police, who face a lot of "justified criticism," play the
most important role in maintaining order and shouldn’t be
"smacked down,"  Putin said. "Otherwise, our liberal
intelligentsia may have to shave off their wispy beards, put on
helmets and head out to fight off the radicals."  Former Russian Prime Minister  Mikhail Kasyanov , now an
opposition politician who was barred from running in  the 2008
presidential elections, accused the government of tacitly
encouraging extremist nationalist forces.  “The fact is that the authorities in previous years
virtually encouraged such developments and didn’t do anything to
minimize them, and now it all pours out in the street,”
Kasyanov told Bloomberg News on Dec. 13.  Vladislav Surkov , the Kremlin’s chief political strategist,
today called for the “eradication” of “those who fill the
ranks of the ethnic criminal groups and shoot boys,” in an
interview published in the newspaper Izvestia.  “We must suppress any extremist actions, on all sides,
regardless of their origins,” Putin said today. “We shouldn’t
paint people from the Caucasus or people from other
nationalities with the same brush.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net 
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez in Prague 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  