-- Tradition Can Hire Rival ICAP Brokers From February, Singapore Judge Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-12-16T10:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/tradition-can-hire-rival-icap-brokers-from-february-singapore-judge-says.html
Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA ’s
Singapore unit will be allowed to hire 37 brokers from rival
ICAP Plc as much as a year earlier than the March 2012 cutoff
date its U.K. competitor had sought.  ICAP , the world’s largest broker of trades between banks,
sued 38 of its employees to stop them from defecting and
Tradition for recruiting them. ICAP sought a temporary court
order to prevent Tradition from hiring some of the 38 brokers
before February 2011 and others as late as March 2012, or before
the dispute was resolved.  Tradition may hire eight of the ICAP brokers this month and
the rest in February, according to a Dec. 6 Singapore High Court
order granting the temporary injunction. No restraint was placed
on one broker.  ICAP is looking forward “to the full trial to determine
the outcome of the case,” ICAP spokesman Mike Sheard said in an
e-mail.  James Ient, chief financial officer of Tradition’s
Singapore unit, said by phone the company was pleased with the
decision.  The brokers said ICAP breached their employment contracts
and placed “unreasonable and unnecessary restraints on their
trade,” according to their counter suit.  ICAP has denied the breaches and is within its contractual
rights, according to the London-based company’s court filing.  ‘Second-class Citizens’  Kim Rosenkilde, ICAP’s former Asia head, and his deputy,
Don McClumpha, also allegedly favored Caucasians over Asians,
who were “made to feel like second-class citizens and not
treated with simple courtesy,” the brokers said in court
papers.  Tradition, the world’s third-largest inter-dealer broker,
denied inducing the ICAP employees to breach their contracts.
ICAP was “guilty of serious mismanagement, which led to the
departures,” the Lausanne, Switzerland-based firm said in court
papers.  The trial is scheduled to start Aug. 1.  Andy Leck from Baker & McKenzie.Wong & Leow is acting for
ICAP and Allen & Gledhill LLP’s Ang Cheng Hock is representing
Tradition. Christopher Daniel from Advocatus Law LLP and Suresh
Nair from Straits Law Practice LLC are representing the brokers.  The case is ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. v M. Divakaran & Ors
S724/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  