-- RBA to Help Australian Banks Meet Basel Rules With New Liquidity Facility
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-17T05:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/rba-to-help-australian-banks-meet-basel-rules-with-new-liquidity-facility.html
Australia’s central bank will offer
contingency loans to lenders in a plan to help them meet global
liquidity rules aimed at averting a repeat of the credit crisis.  The Reserve Bank of Australia will provide secured
facilities to cover any gaps between lenders’ liquid assets and
global regulators’ requirements, according to an e-mailed
statement from the RBA and the Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority today. Banks will pay a yet-to-be-determined fee and
put up assets eligible for  repurchase transactions  with the RBA
as collateral to access the standby funds, it said.  “The regulator has created an alternative liquid asset,”
 Sally Auld , a Sydney-based interest rate strategist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a note to clients. “The fee is essentially
a payment for the right to access the government (RBA) balance
sheet in times of stress.”  Global bank regulators in Basel published a so-called rules
text clarifying standards yesterday. Regulators, including the
Group of 20 nations, are focusing on ways to bolster banks’
liquidity and capital to prevent a re-run of the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  While banks in most countries will meet Basel’s liquidity
coverage ratio predominantly through holding government debt,
there aren’t enough sovereign bonds outstanding in Australia for
lenders to buy, APRA and the RBA said today.  There’s about A$175 billion ($173 billion) of Australian
government debt on issue, according to a  federal website . Sales
of U.S. government bonds will top $1.5 trillion in 2010,
Treasury  data  show.  Liquidity Standards  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision wants banks to
hold enough assets that can be converted into cash to meet their
needs for 30 days in a “severe liquidity stress scenario.”
More than 60 percent must comprise securities including cash,
central bank reserves, sovereign bonds and debt sold by
multilateral development banks, the document states. Up to 40
percent can be assets such as highly rated non-financial
corporate bonds and covered bonds.  The liquid asset portfolios of Australia’s four biggest
banks currently total about A$333 billion, Westpac Banking Corp.
credit strategists  Brendon Cooper  and  Chris Walter  wrote in a
note to clients today. That includes some securities that won’t
be eligible under the new rules, they wrote.  Australia’s larger banks will have to show “they have
taken all reasonable steps” toward meeting Basel requirements
“through their own balance sheet management, before relying on
the RBA facility,” according to today’s statement.  Strike a Balance  The RBA must strike a balance when setting the fee,
JPMorgan’s Auld wrote. Banks may choose to increase the size of
their secured facility if it is too low, or may raise lending
rates to recoup the costs if the fee is too high.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., National
Australia Bank Ltd., Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Westpac,
which control more than 80 percent of the home-loan market, drew
public criticism after raising mortgage rates faster than the
central bank increased borrowing costs.  Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who is seeking support for
a plan to increase bank competition, said in a statement today
that the  Basel requirements  don’t give lenders “justification
for stinging customers with any additional costs.”  Commonwealth Bank  fell 0.5 percent to A$50.70 on the
Australian stock exchange at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in
Sydney. Westpac gained 0.2 percent to A$23.19 and National
Australia Bank dropped 1.2 percent to A$24.15. ANZ slipped 0.7
percent to A$23.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 