-- Stocks Gain, Treasury Yields Hold Near 7-Month Highs on Data
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-16T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/treasuries-rise-commodities-drop-before-eu-debt-talks-u-s-jobs-report.html
U.S. stocks advanced, reclaiming
two-year highs for benchmark indexes, while the dollar weakened
as data on jobless claims, manufacturing and housing bolstered
confidence in the world’s largest economy. Treasury 10- and 30-
year yields retreated from seven-month highs.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.6 percent to
1,242.87 at 4 p.m. in New York, erasing yesterday’s drop and
climbing for the seventh time in eight days. The Dollar Index, a
gauge of the U.S. currency against six peers, fell 0.2 percent
to 80.067. The 10-year Treasury yield declined 10 basis points
to 3.43 percent after surging 26 basis points in the past two
days, while the 30-year rate lost five points to 4.54 percent.
Cotton jumped on signs supply may lag behind demand.  Shares  of consumer and transportation companies led the
advance following the unexpected decrease in jobless claims, the
first gain in housing starts in three months and the fastest
growth in Philadelphia-area manufacturing since 2005. European
stocks rallied in the final hour of trading as the region’s
leaders began a two-day summit on the spreading debt crisis.  “The overall direction of the economy is good,” said
 David Kelly , who helps oversee $445 billion as chief market
strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New York. “The unemployment
data is the most important. It’s further confirmation that the
labor market is on the mend,” he said.  Economic Data  First-time jobless claims unexpectedly decreased last week
by 3,000 to 420,000, Labor Department figures showed. Housing
starts rose to a 555,000 annual rate last month, up 3.9 percent
from October, the Commerce Department said. The Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index rose to 24.3,
topping the median forecast of 15 in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, as orders and the factory workweek increased.  All 10 of the main S&P 500 industry groups advanced, led by
industrial and material shares. FedEx Corp. rallied 2 percent
after raising its full-year earnings forecast, saying cost
“headwinds” will decline in coming months.  Starbucks Corp. , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
climbed 2.3 percent after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . recommended
buying the shares. Bank of America Corp. gained 1.9 percent
after a report that it started settlement talks with mortgage
investors.  The dollar weakened against 13 of 16 major counterparts,
losing at least 0.4 percent versus the British pound, Swedish
krona and Brazilian real.  ‘Flow-Driven Trades’  Treasury price swings are at the highest level in more than
a year as signs of U.S. recovery offset concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis is deepening. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s  MOVE  index, which measures volatility in Treasuries
based on prices of over-the-counter options maturing in 2 to 30
years, rose yesterday to 125.20, the highest level since
September 2009.  “We are finding out that when the focus is on the domestic
economy, the flow moves against Treasuries,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. “We are seeing flow-driven trades
that have been exacerbated by the improving economic data. It’s
a snowball effect. The data alone doesn’t explain the strength
of the selloff we’ve seen.  Spanish bonds slipped, sending the 10-year yield up four
basis points to 5.56 percent, after the nation sold 2.4 billion
euros of 10-year and 15-year bonds at an auction today, below a
maximum target of 3 billion euros, the Bank of Spain said. The
10-year bonds sold at an average yield of 5.446 percent, up from
4.615 percent last time the bond was sold on Nov. 18. It also
sold 15-year bonds at a higher rate.  ‘Linchpin for 2011’  “Spain is the linchpin for 2011,”  Russ Koesterich , head
of investment strategy for scientific active equities at
 BlackRock Inc . in San Francisco, told Bloomberg Television.
“Spain is much larger than Greece, Ireland or Portugal, and if
Spain starts to run into real fiscal challenges, the existing
mechanisms in Europe aren’t big enough to deal with that.”  European Union divisions widened over how to contain the
debt contagion that threatens the euro, limiting a summit that
began today to an agreement on a crisis- management mechanism
that takes effect in 2013. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
balked at boosting or making more flexible use of the EU’s 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) emergency fund, as leaders neared an
accord on the tool to contain future debt shocks and the
European Central Bank armed itself with more capital.  EU Negotiations  Germany’s insistence on cutting bond values when countries
get into trouble in the future triggered the latest phase in the
debt crisis, culminating in an 85 billion-euro support package
for Ireland on Nov. 28. Merkel laid out a nine-point set of
demands that don’t need to be embedded in the treaty and in a
retreat for Germany, the plan foresees only “case by case”
writedowns for bondholders in accord with International Monetary
Fund practices.  BP Plc shares lost 1.4 percent in London as U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration sued units of the energy company,
saying they violated environmental laws in the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill. The cost of insuring against a default by BP rose,
with credit-default swaps tied to the company’s bonds climbing
20 basis points to 103, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts closed at a record-high 594.5 basis points on June 29.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slipped 0.5 percent and the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.7 percent to a two-week
low. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  fell 1.2 percent
after the Oriental Morning Post said regulators in Shanghai
ordered halts on lending to companies for purchases of fixed
assets. China’s debt rating was raised by S&P to AA-, the
fourth-highest ranking, from A+, according to a statement
released as Chinese exchanges closed.  Sensex Rallies  India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  rallied 1.1
percent after the country’s central bank kept benchmark interest
rates unchanged, in line with economists’ estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Cotton jumped to a one-month high on signs of a delay in
lifting limits on exports from India, the world’s second-biggest
producer. Futures for March delivery rose 3.98 cents, or 2.8
percent, to $1.4612. Earlier, the price gained by the exchange
limit of 4 cents to $1.4614, the highest since Nov. 10, when the
fiber reached a record $1.5195.  Copper declined for a second day in New York on speculation
that China may increase borrowing costs as it seeks to control
inflation. Futures for March delivery fell 1.65 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $4.116 a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 Ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 