-- Reid Says Republican Earmark Complaints Hypocritical
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-16T23:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/reid-calls-republicans-hypocritical-over-earmark-complaints.html
The Senate’s top Democrat called
Republicans hypocritical for trying to sink an “omnibus”
spending bill to fund the government that many have used to
secure money for pet projects for their constituents.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada said today that
no Republicans have asked that their projects be rescinded from
the legislation. He also predicted that many will take credit
for the funding if the measure is approved.  “Some of the people who speak out against congressional-
directed spending, or earmarks, are people who have more
earmarks that others,” Reid told reporters. “If you went to
‘H’ in a dictionary and found ‘hypocrite,’ under that would be
people who ask for earmarks but vote against them.”  His comments came as lawmakers consider a  1,924-page bill 
that would set funding levels of government programs through
Sept. 30, 2011, the end of the fiscal year. The $1.2 trillion
measure includes more than 6,000 earmarks, with a price tag of
about $8 billion, and is putting some lawmakers in an awkward
position because it comes amid a post-election push to clamp
down on such projects. Republicans last month adopted a non-
binding earmark moratorium that would apply to bills considered
next year and the year after.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today that rather than pass the omnibus bill,
Congress should adopt a stopgap measure shorn of the projects
that would fund the government through Feb. 18. That would make
it easier for Republicans to make good on promises to cut
spending when they take control of the House in January and see
their numbers increase in the Senate.  Reading Aloud  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, is
threatening to force Democrats to read the entire omnibus bill
before it can be put to a vote, a process that would likely take
several days. Lawmakers typically waive Senate requirements that
legislation be read aloud. A stopgap measure currently funding
the government is set to expire Dec. 18.  “This is exactly the kind of thing the American people
voted against in November,” McConnell said of the omnibus bill.
“Americans don’t want massive, trillion-dollar bills rushed
through Congress on our way out the door -- they want us to be
careful and responsible with their money.”  McConnell secured more than $100 million in earmarks in the
measure, according to a tally by the Washington-based budget
watchdog group  Taxpayers for Common Sense . Among them: $2
million for “equipment and technology” at Northern Kentucky
University, $3 million to widen a road and $724,000 to combat
soil erosion.  Asked why McConnell hasn’t rescinded his earmark requests,
spokesman Don Stewart said, “We don’t want to rewrite” the
bill, “we want to defeat it.”  It’s ‘Our Job’  All but a handful of lawmakers in both parties have secured
projects in the bill. Reid said winning earmarks is part of
“our job -- that’s what we’re supposed to do,” because the
U.S. Constitution gives Congress the power of the purse.
Although Reid is one of President  Barack Obama ’s main allies on
Capitol Hill, he said the administration was trying to “steal”
that authority by seconding calls for dropping earmarks from the
legislation.  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said today that
Obama would “strongly” prefer legislation shorn of earmarks,
which are directions to federal agencies on how to spend part of
their budgets.  “I do not want to give up more power to the White House,
whether it’s  George Bush  or Barack Obama” in office, Reid said.
“I’m going to fight as hard as I can against President Obama on
these earmarks and my Republican colleagues who hate to vote for
them but love to get them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  