-- Redzepi Tells of Running ‘World’s Best Restaurant’: Interview
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-12-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/rene-redzepi-reveals-trick-to-running-world-s-best-restaurant-interview.html
Rene Redzepi , the chef at Noma,
holder of the “World’s Best Restaurant” title, takes a bite of
his Icelandic lightly salted cod with langoustine at Texture in
London and lets slip a four-letter word.  “I’m sorry for swearing but this is really good,” says
Redzepi, 32, who was on a  worldwide tour  -- taking in Sydney,
San Francisco, Seattle and New York -- to promote his new book,
“ Noma, Time and Place in Nordic Cuisine .” Celebrity has come
suddenly to this son of a Macedonian taxi driver.  “When you start at catering college, nobody prepares you
for a book tour or public speaking,” he says. “You learn how
to do a bearnaise. There’s no media training. In cooking school,
there’s not even manager training. You learn the fundamentals of
cooking. Everything else is learning by doing.  “So how do you cope with these things? Well, you just
figure out a way to do it. And for me, the way I cope with it is
that I keep focus on the restaurant. I only have the restaurant.
If I do other things, it’s only to do with the restaurant.”  Redzepi’s life has been turned upside down since  Noma 
toppled  El Bulli  in the World’s Best Restaurant awards on April
26. When I interviewed Redzepi in Copenhagen two months earlier,
he wasn’t sure he’d have time to attend the event.  ‘Crazy Thing’  “Before then, we often had empty tables for lunch,” he
says. “The day after, we had more than 100,000 people trying to
book online, which is an obscene amount of numbers. We have
between 20 and 22 tables a day, five days a week, which is 125
tables a week times four, 600 tables a month, times 11, which is
almost 7,000 tables, so in one day we could have filled our
restaurant for almost 15 years. It was a crazy thing.  “Our team came more together with this award: People felt
proud, happy, and we told ourselves that we wanted to enjoy the
moment. I know that when you hit No. 1 you can never go forward
again, you can only go back, so I know that this is a special
moment and, on top of that, the book is out as well.  “We’ve told ourselves that we need to share this moment
together as a team and enjoy it as much as we can: It might be
over soon. So the team has become more of a family and we’re
cooking better and it’s made us more confident. A lot of people
think that because expectations would be so high we would freak
out and we couldn’t relax anymore and would just be so nervous.
That didn’t happen.”  The day after our lunch, Redzepi entertained hundreds of
people with a cooking demonstration at the  Freemasons’ Hall  in
London. I’d say he had the audience eating out of the palm of
his hand if that didn’t have food-hygiene implications.  No Wisecracks  In person, he’s softly spoken and a little shy. Does he get
nervous about public speaking?  “Of course,” he says. “I’m not a comedian. I’m not a
politician. I’m a cook and that’s what put me there on that
stage, so I focus on the cooking, on produce, on flavor and
taste. I can’t crack jokes because I don’t have any.”  Redzepi, who owns a 33 percent stake in Noma, says he has
yet to see much financial gain from Noma’s success. He says he
lives in a rented apartment because he can’t afford to buy and
that he’s making less than 50,000 pounds ($78,000) a year.  The pleasure he took in the meal prepared for us by chef
Agnar Sverrisson at  Texture  added to my enjoyment of dining with
such an engaging lunch guest. Redzepi even wanted to discuss the
wines with the Swedish sommelier, Erica Laler.  “An Icelandic chef and a Swede serving to a Danish chef in
England?” he asks. “That’s London for you. Have we met any
English people here? There has been a Greek, a French, a
Swedish, an Icelandic. London is such a hub of everything.”  “Noma: Time and Place in Nordic Cuisine,” by Rene
Redzepi, is published by Phaidon (354 pages, 35 pounds, $45.95.)
To buy this book in North America,  click here .  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 