-- Roche’s Avastin Faces FDA Withdrawal in Breast Cancer
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-12-16T18:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/roche-s-avastin-drug-should-be-withdrawn-for-breast-cancer-u-s-fda-says.html
Roche Holding AG ’s top-selling drug
Avastin should no longer be used to treat breast cancer after
recent studies failed to show a benefit, U.S. regulators said.  The Food and Drug Administration  said  today it is beginning
the process to rescind Avastin’s accelerated approval in breast
tumors. The medicine, also cleared for lung, brain and colon
cancer, had  global sales  of 6.22 billion Swiss francs last year,
or $5.75 billion based on the average 2009 exchange rate.  Avastin was granted conditional marketing approval for
breast cancer in 2008 based on preliminary data. An FDA advisory
panel recommended revoking that approval in July because follow-
up studies found the medicine increased side effects and didn’t
prolong survival when paired with chemotherapies. The agency’s
decision goes further than European regulators, who announced
today they would limit the drug’s use in breast cancer.  “The limited effects of Avastin combined with the
significant risks led us to this difficult decision,”  Janet Woodcock , director of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said in a statement. “We encourage the company to
conduct additional research to identify if there may be select
groups of patients who might benefit from this drug.”  Roche said it will request a hearing on the decision; the
FDA will take at least through January to review the appeal. A
hearing, if granted, would be the first of its kind, the agency
said. The Basel, Switzerland-based company fell 1.2 francs, or
0.9 percent, to 140 francs at 5:50 p.m. in Zurich trading.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  “It’s uncharted territory,” said Stefan Frings, Roche’s
Avastin franchise director, in a telephone interview. “There’s
no company ever that has done this in the context of an
accelerated approval.”  The FDA urged doctors to review patients currently on the
drug. If approval is revoked, U.S. doctors still would be able
to prescribe Avastin for breast cancer as an “off-label” use,
though Roche won’t be allowed to market it this way.
Reimbursement from insurers and government health programs may
also be challenging without regulatory approval. Treatment costs
about $50,000 annually.  Avastin’s U.S. sales for breast cancer may decline to $200
million in 2015 from an estimated $600 million this year, said
 Jack Scannell , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
London.  ‘Not to Zero’  “I wouldn’t be surprised if this trims European use as
well, but not to zero,” Scannell said today in a telephone
interview.  Avastin was initially cleared for use with paclitaxel
chemotherapy as a first-line treatment for women with breast
cancer that has spread to other organs and doesn’t show the HER-
2 protein linked to aggressive tumor growth. Roche  had asked  the
FDA to convert the conditional approval to full clearance and
allow the medicine to be used with other chemotherapy agents.  About 207,000 women will be  diagnosed  with breast cancer
this year in the U.S. and about 40,000 will die of the disease,
according to the National Cancer Institute.  “I’m stunned by this decision,” said Edith Perez, deputy
director of the Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center in
Jacksonville, Florida, in a telephone interview today. “I’m
saddened for patients that they may not get this option.”  Data from four studies in breast cancer, including the one
used to support the initial approval, no longer support a
positive ratio of benefits and risks, Woodcock told reporters
today on a conference call. The agency didn’t consider cost in
its assessment, she said.  Medicare Payment  Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly and
disabled, won’t change its reimbursement policies for Avastin
until the FDA review is resolved, Woodcock said.  Introduced in 2004, Avastin was the first medicine to fight
cancer by blocking the growth of blood vessels that feed tumors,
a process called angiogenesis.  Roche’s efforts to expand Avastin’s use have encountered
setbacks this year. Study results showed the drug failed to
prolong the lives of patients with prostate, stomach and early
colorectal cancer, while Avastin also failed a clinical trial of
women with early stage breast malignancies.  Drugs that win conditional clearance through the FDA’s
 accelerated approval  program can later be pulled from the market
if subsequent data fails to show that a treatment increases
long-term survival or slows progression of the disease while
improving quality of life.  Pfizer’s Mylotarg  Pfizer Inc. ’s leukemia treatment Mylotarg became in June
the first drug with accelerated approval to come off the market
after studies linked it to deaths from liver and lung
complications and failed to prove it works. New York-based
Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, voluntarily halted sales
of the drug, which won accelerated FDA approval 10 years ago
based on preliminary data showing improved remission rates.  Avastin shouldn’t be used with Sanofi-Aventis SA’s Taxotere
drug as a treatment for metastatic breast cancer, the European
Medicines Agency, the drug regulator for the 27 countries of the
European Union, said today in a statement. Avastin can still be
used with paclitaxel, the agency said.  The agency rejected Roche’s application to expand use with
its Xeloda drug.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  