-- Romania, Former `Mediocre Student,' Has Gained IMF's Confidence in 2010
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-12-16T09:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/romania-former-mediocre-student-has-gained-imf-s-confidence-in-2010.html
Romania has reversed its image as an
economic “mediocre student” after the government weathered no-
confidence votes and protests to adhere to International
Monetary Fund demands for spending and job cuts, said the IMF’s
mission chief to the Balkan country.  The second-poorest European Union member after Bulgaria
probably will complete in April its 13 billion-euro ($17.4
billion) bailout loan, the eighth accord with the IMF since the
1989 fall of communism, so it can win a precautionary standby
agreement, said  Jeffrey Franks  in a Dec. 14 phone interview from
the Washington-based lender’s headquarters.  The government of Prime Minister  Emil Boc  has struggled to
quell parliamentary opposition and street demonstrations to
austerity measures designed to keep bailout payments flowing
into state coffers. The current agreement, part of a larger 20
billion-euro package reached with other international lenders,
would only be the second that the country has completed in 20
years.  Romania “had a reputation of being a pretty mediocre
student in terms of completing its reforms and this program has
certainly changed the image,” Franks said. “It’s now seen as a
country that has made an enormous effort against very long odds
to complete some very difficult reforms that were needed.”  The country’s  gross domestic product  may shrink 1.9 percent
this year as the rest of Europe recovers from the global
financial crisis, prompting criticism that adhering to the
strict demands by the IMF, the European Union and others is
keeping the country in recession.  No-Confidence Vote  The opposition Liberal and the Social Democratic parties
yesterday asked for a vote of no confidence against Boc’s
government over a bill that raises public wages by 15 percent in
2011. He has urged lawmakers to forego debate on the bill and
pass it in three days to unlock the next payment from an IMF
bailout. The government is relying on a combined 2.4 billion
euros in loan payments by March.  The IMF’s board is scheduled to meet in early January to
review Romania’s progress.  The pension law, approved by Parliament on Dec. 7 and
signed by the president yesterday, is another positive step,
Franks said. Boc also called for a quick vote on a wage bill,
raised a value-added tax rate to 24 percent, cut public wages 25
percent and reduced the public-sector workforce to bring the
deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product this year and
4.4 percent next year.  ‘New Arrangement’  “A delay of a week or two would not have any significant
effect on the new arrangement,” Franks said. “We are still
planning to come to negotiate a follow-up arrangement with the
idea that the follow-up arrangement will probably go into effect
in April.”  Any new arrangement would include demands for more
structural reforms in labor, infrastructure and capital input,
said Franks.  “It’s very clear that the state has not completely been
restructured,” Franks said. “There are areas in which
Romania’s economy still needs to reform in order to be as
flexible and productive as it needs to be.”  Eastern European countries, including Romania, have largely
avoided any spillover from a sovereign-debt crisis that pushed
the cost of insuring Portuguese, Spanish and Italian bonds to
records, Franks said. Still, concerns persist that the region
may affected by the turmoil.  “We always look at possible spillover effects,” Franks
said. “So far eastern European countries have been relatively
little affected by difficulties going on in other European Union
countries but that’s not necessarily going to be true in the
future, so we have to continue to be vigilant on this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  