-- Roubini Sees Politics Curbing Further Fed Asset-Buying Rounds: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-12-16T20:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/roubini-sees-politics-curbing-additional-fed-stimulus-rounds-tom-keene.html
Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University economist who predicted the global financial crisis,
said political opposition may prevent additional rounds of
monetary stimulus by the Federal Reserve.  With an unemployment rate above 9 percent and economic
growth of less than 3 percent in 2011, the Fed may need to
embark on another round of asset purchases, Roubini said today
in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday”
with  Tom Keene .  The Fed said last month it will buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to boost the economy, a policy that has
been dubbed QE2 for a second round of quantitative easing.
Republican Representative  Ron Paul , who will oversee the central
bank next year, and new members of the Federal Open Market
Committee will be against such actions, Roubini said.  “We may need QE3, but then the politics from Congress and
the internal dynamic of the FOMC may not allow it, even if now
growth is still below trend and inflation is still low and
falling,” said Roubini, who is also chairman and co-founder of
Roubini Global Economics in New York.  Stanford University Professor  John Taylor , who also
appeared on today’s show, renewed his criticism of the Fed’s
asset purchases. The former Treasury undersecretary was among
the 23 people, mainly Republican economists and former policy
makers, who signed a letter last month calling on the Fed to
halt the purchases.  Fed’s ‘Best Intentions’  “Frequently the best intentions don’t really work out,”
Taylor said in a separate interview. “QE2 has been a concern to
me all along. I don’t think it’s doing much good if you just
look at the Treasury rates.” The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note climbed to 3.47 percent today from 2.57 percent on Nov. 3,
the day the second round of purchases was announced.  The Fed should use “rules-based policies that people can
rely on and provide predictability of policy,” Taylor said.
“There’s great harm caused by deviating from these and
discretionary actions.”  Taylor last month said the Federal Reserve Act should be
amended to require the Fed to tell Congress twice a year about
its strategy for the “systematic adjustment of the federal
funds rate in response to changes in inflation and in the real
economy during the current year and future years.”  The Stanford professor published in 1992 a formula used by
the Fed for setting central bank interest rates. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in 2007 that Taylor’s research provides
“essential guidance” to central bankers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  