-- Schrager Bids on Manhattan Sites for Chain Aiming to End Hotel `Sameness'
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-12-16T22:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/schrager-bids-on-manhattan-sites-for-chain-aiming-to-end-hotel-sameness-.html
Ian Schrager , the New York developer
who pioneered the boutique hotel concept, has bid on three sites
in Manhattan as he starts a company focused on both luxury
properties and trendy, less-expensive ones.  The company, Schrager Hotels, will build new hotels and
renovate properties of about 1,000 rooms in “gateway” cities
such as Chicago, Rio de Janeiro and Paris, Schrager said in an
interview. The New York bids, in lower Manhattan and Midtown,
consist of two land parcels and one existing hotel that he
didn’t identify. The company plans to develop 10 to 15 locations
at a cost of $250 million in the next five years, he said today.  “Every major city of America, they have these large hotels
that have been built 30 or 40 or 50 years ago that have been
languishing,” Schrager said. “We think that’s perfect for us
to go in there and sort of ‘Schrager-ize’.”  The 64-year-old hotelier is selling his stake in New York’s
Gramercy Park Hotel as he starts the new chains. The deal with
partner RFR Holding LLC, led by developer  Aby Rosen , will be
completed today, according to a statement from Schrager Hotels.  Schrager declined to disclose the price for his stake,
saying only the offer was “too good to refuse.”  “There isn’t anything I wouldn’t sell in my life -- except
my wife and kids,” he said. “If you walked into my house and
saw a piece of furniture you liked, and you made the right
offer, you could walk away with it.”  Industry Rebound  The hotel industry is showing signs of recovery after the
U.S. recession. Occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed
to 65 percent this year through October from 61 percent in the
same period in 2009, according to Smith Travel Research Inc. of
Hendersonville, Tennessee. Revenue per available room, or
revpar, increased 6.5 percent to $76.87.  New York City hotel room rates rose 6.9 percent in October
from a year earlier to an average $273 a night, according to
Smith Travel. Revenue per available room climbed 6.9 percent to
$231, even as occupancy remained unchanged at 85 percent.  New York hotel prices will take five years or longer to
return to rates reached in 2007, in part because there is
competition from about 8,000 rooms that were added during the
property boom, Schrager said. The slower recovery was another
reason he felt it was time to sell the Gramercy stake, he said.  “After the last bad cycle you go two or three years to get
double-digit revpar increases,” Schrager said. “It’s going to
take much longer to get there this time.”  ‘Vulnerable’ Brands  Most luxury brands are “vulnerable” because they don’t
distinguish themselves from each other, offering the same design
and services in every location, Schrager said.  “I’m seeing sameness and monotonously similar hotels,” he
said. “You can’t tell the difference between one chain and
another. You can’t tell which city you’re staying in.”  Schrager said his new company, with its two brands to be
named next year, will not compete with the Edition boutique
brand he is creating for  Marriott International Inc.  Edition is
in line with the four-star boutique concept, while Schrager
Hotels will seek to develop properties at price points higher
and lower, he said.  The company’s first hotel will be Chicago’s Ambassador
East, a 285-room property in the city’s “Gold Coast” area that
Schrager is renovating. It is scheduled to open under the new
brand in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  