-- Schwarzenegger Bids California Farewell, Leaving Brown Burdened With Bonds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/schwarzenegger-bids-california-farewell-leaving-brown-burdened-with-bonds.html
Arnold Schwarzenegger  swore after
his first month as  California  governor that he’d rip up the
state’s credit cards. Instead, the Republican former action-
movie hero pushed through at least $52 billion of borrowing.  Debt of  the world’s eighth-largest economy almost tripled
in Schwarzenegger’s seven years, to $91 billion on June 30 from
$34 billion in 2003, state  Treasury figures  show. Californians
owed $2,362 per person last year, up from $977 before he went to
work. Under Schwarzenegger, the state’s workforce grew 9.9
percent to 348,213, according to his finance office.  When Democrat  Jerry Brown  takes over the biggest U.S.
municipal borrower on Jan. 3, he’ll inherit interest and
principal  payments  that consume 7.1 percent of general-fund
spending, twice what greeted Schwarzenegger. That will rise to
10 percent in 2012, leaving less for services and to tackle a
budget deficit that may reach $28 billion in 18 months.  “Every dollar you spend on debt service is a dollar you
don’t have available to educate kids or for health-care or to
spend in other ways,” Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  said at a Dec. 8
meeting in Sacramento to address fiscal conditions.  Schwarzenegger, 63, a former body-building champion, never
held public office before he was elected governor with promises
to fix California’s finances. While he sold debt for roads and
schools, he also borrowed to help close more than $100 billion
of deficits that plagued the most populous state since 2004.  Eroding Revenue  With his second term in its waning months, the longest
recession since the 1930s has cut California’s tax collections  8
percent  since 2007. Even after Schwarzenegger and lawmakers
slashed spending by more than $45 billion and raised taxes by
$12.5 billion in the last 27 months, the state faces a cash
shortage of as much as $4.6 billion by September that may
require it to pay bills with IOUs, as it did in July 2009,
Controller  John Chiang  said Dec. 8.  California shares with Illinois the lowest credit rating of
any state from Moody’s Investors Service. The A1 grade is
Moody’s fifth-highest. Standard & Poor’s rates California A-,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities. That
hasn’t stopped investors from buying California bonds. The state
sold $9.3 billion of long-term debt and $10 billion of one-year
notes in 2010.  California, which grew by 4.7 million people in the last
decade to 39 million, has the fifth-highest personal-income tax
rate in the U.S. That makes its bonds, many of which are exempt
from federal and state taxes, appealing to the wealthy.  Investor Demand  Record demand from individuals drove down the state’s
interest cost for $1.25 billion of tax-exempt securities sold
last month to 1.09 percentage points more than 30-year AAA
bonds, or 5.5 percent for a bond maturing in 2040. Similar bonds
sold in March yielded 1.41 points more, or 5.65 percent.  Under Schwarzenegger, the  extra yield  investors demand to
buy 10-year California bonds compared with top-rated municipal
bonds reached the highest in at least 16 years, at 1.71
percentage points in July 2009. It was 1.29 percentage points on
Dec. 14 compared with 0.51 point on Oct. 7, 2003, the day he was
elected.  “The debt situation in this state is absolutely a horrific
situation,” said Jon Coupal, president of the  Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Association , which backed property-tax-limiting
Proposition 13 in 1978. “He absolutely did not live up to his
promises.”  Confronting Unemployment  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat who was governor from 1975 to
1983, will have to confront the problem with the state mired in
12.4 percent  unemployment  in October, higher than the 9.8
percent national rate in November.  “We’ve done a lot of borrowing because it was too tough to
face the music and find new  revenues ,” Brown said on Dec. 8.
“California is facing a very serious budget crisis.”  Schwarzenegger won a 2003 recall election to oust Governor
 Gray Davis , a Democrat whom voters blamed for a $38 billion
budget gap. Davis had spent an $8 billion surplus on social
programs and increased pensions and benefits, costs that now
consume 5.1 percent of the general fund.  Under Davis, spending grew 36 percent as the state
workforce expanded 12 percent to 316,860. That opened deficits
as the 2001 recession caused California’s worst one-year decline
in tax revenue since World War II. Davis borrowed $18 billion to
balance his last budget and pushed to sell $11.5 billion of
bonds to repay the state for buying power for utilities.  Steamrolled  “Schwarzenegger tried his best, but then he caved,” said
 Marilyn Cohen , chief executive officer of Envision Capital
Management in Los Angeles. She manages $250 million of fixed-
income assets and told clients this month to “hold” two issues
of California general-obligation debt. “He was run over by a
steamroller.”  Promising to end “crazy deficit spending,” Schwarzenegger
defeated child actor  Gary Coleman , Hustler magazine publisher
 Larry Flynt  and 132 other candidates in the 2003 vote. The day
after he was sworn in, he warned about a state bankruptcy unless
it borrowed $15 billion to pay off $14 billion of notes and
warrants coming due.  “It is what basically a financial counselor would do,”
the governor told the  State Building and Construction Trades
Council of California  in February 2004. “Let’s consolidate the
debt. Let’s refinance it for lower costs. Then let’s tear up the
credit cards.”  Passed by Voters  The borrowing, which Schwarzenegger labeled “Economic
Recovery Bonds,” was approved by voters in March 2004 along
with a measure forbidding future governors from selling debt to
fund deficits. More than $7 billion of those bonds remain
outstanding, with taxpayers obligated until 2024, according to
Lockyer’s office.  Another early Schwarzenegger decision still burdens
California, said state Senator  Mark Leno , a San Francisco
Democrat and chairman of the budget committee. Keeping a
campaign pledge, the governor rescinded an increase in car-
registration fees imposed by Davis. That deprived the budget of
$4 billion a year, Leno said.  “He has been a major cause of the continued dismantling of
our fiscal soundness,” Leno said in a telephone interview.
“Rather than deal with the problem honestly, he did the exact
opposite and instituted a tax cut. He wouldn’t have needed those
bonds if he hadn’t cut the car tax.”  There would be more borrowing in Schwarzenegger’s first
term. He endorsed a successful ballot measure in October 2004
authorizing $3 billion of general-fund-backed bonds for stem-
cell research.  Public-Works Package  In 2006, facing re-election, he proposed a $37.4 billion
public-works bond package for roads, schools, housing and flood
protection. Voters approved the debt in November, along with $5
billion of bonds for water supply. They also awarded
Schwarzenegger a second term.  Two years later, Schwarzenegger backed a successful ballot
measure allowing the state to sell $10 billion of bonds for a
high-speed rail line. In November 2009, the legislature approved
his plan to ask voters this year for another $11 billion of
bonds to overhaul the aging water system. He was forced to
postpone the vote for two years in August as the budget fell $19
billion into deficit.  Borrowing for infrastructure is “absolutely appropriate,”
said Schwarzenegger’s budget spokesman,  H.D. Palmer .  “Long-term bonds are not like credit cards,” he said.
“Credit-card debt suggests that you’re making a decision to
finance your groceries and pay for them over a 30-year
period. That’s not what you’re doing with a long-term asset like
a highway.”  Internal Borrowing  The governor has also  borrowed  internally to balance
budgets, including $1.9 billion of property-tax revenue meant
for local governments in 2009, $1.6 billion owed to programs
such as the Beverage Container Recycling Fund and almost $4
billion of deferred subsidies to schools and health-care
clinics.  “Nobody in Sacramento seems to care when we get downgraded
and continue to pile on debt,” said Cohen of Envision Capital.
“The day of reckoning will come: Hello Greece, Ireland; here
comes California.”  California is still not the most-indebted state, said  Edith Behr , a senior credit officer at Moody’s. Debt equal to 3.7
percent of gross state product in 2009, the 12th-most among
states, is “very manageable,” she said in a telephone
interview.  Higher Debt Service  The budget Schwarzenegger signed in October cut spending by
$7.8 billion, including $3.4 billion from schools and $1.6
billion from payroll and benefits. Debt service increased 12.3
percent from the previous year to  $5.2 billion . California is
obligated by its constitution to pay debt before all other costs
except schools.  This year, Schwarzenegger’s administration is trying to
sell 11 state office buildings and lease them back to help close
the deficit. Proceeds will repay $1.1 billion of bonds used to
build the properties, with the rest going to the general fund. A
state appeals court blocked the sale on Dec. 13 pending a review
of a lower-court dismissal of a challenge to the plan.  “The only reason they are doing that is to avoid voter
approval,” said Coupal of the Jarvis association. “Like a
bond, they are getting a lot of cash up front. You end up with
the long-term obligation. Instead of bond payments, we’ve got
lease payments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  