-- Sehgal Plans to Buy Apple, P&G Amid Forecast S&P 500 Will Surge
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-16T17:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/sehgal-plans-to-buy-apple-p-g-favors-potash-corp-cameco-athabasca.html
Rohit Sehgal , a money manager whose
Canadian growth fund has outperformed 92 percent of its peers
over the past five years, said he is building his U.S. holdings
in anticipation of a surge in American stocks next year.  The manager of the  Dynamic Power Canadian Growth Fund  said
he plans to increase the fund’s stakes in companies including
Apple Inc., Procter & Gamble Co. and U.S. industrial companies,
estimating the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will gain as much as
20 percent in 2011 as the economy grows faster than forecast.  “Fiscal and monetary policy remain very, very
accommodative and it looks like the consumer there is coming
back and spending,” said Toronto-based Sehgal, who manages
about C$5 billion ($4.98 billion) at Goodman & Co. Investment
Counsel, a division of DundeeWealth Inc.  The S&P 500 is  lagging  behind Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite
Index for a seventh straight year, trailing in part because of
the larger financial crisis in the U.S. and the past 21 months’
jump in commodity prices. Energy and raw-materials companies
make up 49 percent of Canadian stocks and 16 percent of U.S.
stocks by market value.  U.S. equities’ recent underperformance means they have more
room to gain from global economic growth than do  Canadian
stocks , according to Sehgal, who estimates the S&P/TSX will
advance at least 15 percent in 2011.  International Demand  Just as Canadian companies have benefited from emerging
markets’ demand for commodities, U.S. companies may gain from
international markets’ need for products such as Apple’s
iPhones, P&G’s Pampers and engines from Cummins Inc., Sehgal
said. The fund invested in Cummins earlier this year. All three
companies derived most of their  revenue  from outside of the U.S.
in their last reported year.  With “the combination of improving domestic demand and
overseas demand, you can make a pretty good case for the U.S.
market, and the valuations look very attractive,” said Sehgal,
who also manages a  hedge fund  that has returned 251 percent
since March 2009. In “Canada, outside commodities, your
opportunities are somewhat limited.”  Sehgal, the chief investment strategist at Goodman, said he
thinks U.S. tax, spending and monetary policies will drive the
country’s economy to growth of 3.5 percent to 4 percent next
year. Of 77 economists in a Bloomberg survey, 72 forecast the
U.S. economy will expand by less than 3.5 percent, with the
median estimate in the survey at 2.6 percent.  Sehgal, named one of Canada’s top 50 fund managers in the
last two annual Brendan Wood International analyst surveys, said
he plans to reduce the portion of the mutual fund’s holdings in
Canadian stocks to as little as 60 percent from about 70
percent.  Energy Shares  Within Canada, the mutual fund is most heavily concentrated
in energy companies, which Sehgal said should profit from crude
prices remaining around $90 a barrel. Among the top 10 holdings
of both the mutual fund and hedge fund are Pacific Rubiales
Energy Corp., which produces oil in Colombia, and oil-sands
developer Athabasca Oil Sands Corp.  “The oil sands have the capability of replacing Saudi
Arabia,” he said in an interview in Toronto. “The production
can go on for 100 years, the reserves are so massive. And also,
the technology is improving, which is bringing the costs down.”  Sehgal said he has been adding shares of uranium producers
including Cameco Corp. on speculation of energy demand from
China.  Potash  Fertilizer producers are another current focus: After
selling the mutual fund’s stake in Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc. in the first half of the year, the manager bought shares at
about C$100 in July. The shares soared after BHP Billiton Ltd.
tried to buy the company for $40 billion. Potash Corp. closed
yesterday at C$139.69, even after the Canadian government
blocked BHP’s bid.  “Potash fundamentals are so good, you don’t need a
takeover potential for these stocks to perform very well,” he
said. “They can increase their production by 50 percent without
much incremental cost, and globally the demand is going to
continue to grow.”  Industries seen as defenses against a weak economy, such as
utilities, are likely to trail the rest of the market in 2011,
Sehgal said.  Last year, when the S&P/TSX traded at about 11,500, Sehgal
estimated the index would plateau at about 13,000 in 2010. The
index closed yesterday at 13,229.07. Sehgal’s sector forecasts
were not quite as accurate: He favored energy companies over
gold producers, and the S&P/TSX Gold Index has  outgained  the
S&P/TSX Energy Index this year, 26 percent to 6.1 percent.  Bank of Nova Scotia agreed to buy DundeeWealth for about
C$2.3 billion ($2.29 billion) last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 