-- Silicon Valley Venture Investors Lose Taste for Chips
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-12-16T21:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/silicon-valley-no-longer-reflects-name-as-investors-shun-chips.html
Silicon Valley has lost its appetite
for silicon.  While venture capitalists are pouring money into social
networking, e-commerce and online-game companies, investments in
chipmakers are close to a 12-year low. And yet semiconductors --
made from silicon wafers -- provide the brains for everything
from computers and mobile phones to nuclear missiles.  At issue is the expense to get a startup off the ground.
 Chipmakers  spend millions developing and testing their designs
before they even know if an idea is viable. Those costs have
pushed the industry abroad to countries that offer tax
incentives and subsidies unmatched in the U.S. Meanwhile, the
expense of starting software and Internet companies has actually
gone down, thanks to cheap Web-based programs and services.  “There are no lack of ideas, but it’s becoming harder and
harder to find investors,” said  Ken Lawler , a general partner
at Battery Ventures in Menlo Park, California, who has invested
in chip companies such as  MaxLinear Inc.  and  Calxeda Inc.  “It
takes too much money and too much time.”  That contrasts with China, whose role as a manufacturing
hub for semiconductors is helping it play a bigger role in
design and innovation. The country’s worldwide share of chip-
related patents is expected to rise to 33 percent this year from
22 percent last year, according to  a November report  from
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC.  Time for Concern?  “The U.S. has got a lot to be concerned about from a
global competitiveness perspective,” said  Matt Cowan , co-
founder of venture capital firm Bridgescale in Menlo Park, who
formerly worked in corporate development at Intel Corp.  Venture financing  of U.S. semiconductor companies dropped
36 percent through the first three quarters of this year to
$894.9 million, down from $1.39 billion in the same period in
2008, according to data from the  National Venture Capital
Association . Last year, venture capitalists invested a total of
$863.8 million in chip companies, the lowest level since 1998.  First-time venture investments in chip companies accounted
for 1.1 percent of total initial funding this year, the smallest
category among 16 industry groups tracked by the NVCA.  Software companies received the highest amount, with 17
percent. In the past two years, venture capitalists and other
investors have piled hundreds of millions of dollars into
social-networking companies such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc., online-game maker Zynga Game Network Inc. and Web-coupon
provider Groupon Inc. Each is valued in the billions.  Less Sexy  Additionally, a new class of so-called super-angel
investors has emerged that’s focused primarily on funding early-
stage Internet startups.  “Semiconductors aren’t as sexy, you don’t get the
valuations, and you don’t get the multiples,” said  Manuel Henriquez , chief executive officer of  Hercules Technology Growth
Capital Inc. , a Palo Alto, California-based firm that provides
debt financing to startups. “There’s no semiconductor activity
out there.”  The term Silicon Valley was coined in the 1970s and refers
to the 50-mile stretch between San Francisco and San Jose, where
companies such as  National Semiconductor Corp. ,  Intel  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  were using silicon to create
computer components.  Nowadays, a state-of-the-art chip plant costs more than $4
billion and has a useful life of about five years.  ‘Not Viable’  “That is just not a viable plan,” said  Kishore Seendripu ,
CEO of  MaxLinear , one of just five U.S. chip companies to go
public over the past two years.  Most companies don’t even consider manufacturing their own
products, choosing to outsource to Taiwanese businesses instead.
Taiwan surpassed the U.S. in terms of production in 2005 and has
been adding to its lead ever since, according to the trade group
Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International.  Seendripu used his own money to fund MaxLinear, which makes
chips for set-top boxes, digital televisions, computers and
mobile phones. The former Broadcom Corp. engineer and his
colleagues parlayed consulting work in 2003 into free use of the
million-dollar software for designing chips. They paid for
initial production runs by handing over their data to a
Taiwanese manufacturing company.  At first,  MaxLinear  couldn’t find venture backers and was
later told by its bankers, Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley,
to shelve a proposed  initial public offering , according to
Seendripu. While the company pressed ahead with the IPO, the
 stock  has dropped 25 percent since its debut.  Volatile Market  Dramatic swings in demand for electronics also have made
investors increasingly hesitant about chipmakers. The volatile
nature of the industry means a company looking to raise money
needs to be profitable and have high-profile customers,
Seendripu said.  At Tallwood Venture Capital,  Dado Banatao  says he wants to
be the “last man standing” investing in semiconductors. A 37-
year industry veteran and former head of engineering at  National
Semiconductor , he has spent more than a decade finding early-
stage companies that he helps build.  In the past five years, Banatao has encouraged his
companies to expand abroad, particularly in China, to take
advantage of government support and lower production costs.  Looking Outside  “It used to be that we started companies here and we
didn’t think about going offshore until we were substantially
big,” Banatao, 64, said in an interview at his office in Palo
Alto. “At the outset now, as we fund the company, we think
about going outside right away.”  Since the beginning of 2009, more semiconductor companies
have gone public in China than in the U.S. In the past year,
Chinese financial markets have provided more than 80 percent of
all chip IPO funding, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Growth in Asia is boosting chip revenue, estimated to
increase almost 33 percent globally this year to more than $300
billion, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association.  “There are real challenges with respect to doing business
in the United States as an industry,” said  Brian Toohey ,
president of the Washington-based group. “It’s a fairly mature
industry and the capital costs are huge. Competition in this
industry is pretty fierce.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  