-- Singapore Exchange's Antitrust Approval for ASX Bid Doesn't Sway Lawmakers
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-16T02:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/singapore-exchange-s-antitrust-approval-for-asx-bid-doesn-t-sway-lawmakers.html
Australia’s lawmakers, including
Treasurer  Wayne Swan , are still not convinced that Singapore
Exchange Ltd.’s bid for  ASX Ltd.  is in the national interest.  The A$7.8 billion ($7.7 billion) offer for the nation’s
main bourse yesterday won the approval of Australia’s
competition regulator, overcoming one of several hurdles before
getting the go-ahead. It still needs the support of Swan, the
Foreign Investment Review Board, the Reserve Bank of Australia,
the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, and
parliamentarians, several of whom are opposed to the sale.  Yesterday’s approval by the  Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission  “is not a factor for me,” Swan said in an
e-mail late yesterday. “I’ll take a very methodical approach.
I’ll examine all of the material before me including the
material from the ACCC and at the end of the day I will take a
decision in the national interest of Australia.”  Singapore Exchange’s bid to win Australian parliamentary
approval for its offer for ASX “will be one of the key reform
battlegrounds for 2011,” said  Rob Oakeshott , one of three
independent lawmakers whose support the minority Labor
government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs to pass
legislation. Even if SGX’s bid wins all regulatory approvals,
laws amending the Corporations Act will need to be passed in
both houses of parliament.  Green Light  “The ASX has a lot of work to do if it wants to get
parliamentary support, even if FIRB joins the ACCC in giving the
green light,” Oakeshott said in an interview today. ASX’s
spokesman  Matthew Gibbs  declined to comment today on political
opposition to the proposed merger.  The ACCC said in a statement yesterday that  Singapore
Exchange ’s bid for  ASX Ltd.  wouldn’t adversely affect
competition in exchange services. A key focus of its
investigation was whether the acquisition of ASX would deter
entry into the Australian market of rival Chi-X Australia Pty
and other competitors due to SGX’s links with Chi-X Global Inc.  Some Australian lawmakers including two Greens party
members, opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  and two
independents have said they are against Singapore Exchange’s bid,
claiming it’s unlikely to be in the best interests of
Australians. Independent rural representative  Bob Katter  said at
the time the bid was announced that it was “lunacy.”  ‘Fanatical Marketism’  The ACCC’s decision is “the first step toward selling off
Australia’s economic future,” Katter said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “If ever there was an example of selling
your birth right for a bowl of porridge, this is it.  “Our hope is that my fellow members of parliament will
reject this fanatical marketism that is taking away our
sovereign right to self determination.”  Greens party leader Senator  Bob Brown  said he would refuse
to support the takeover unless national benefits can be clearly
proven. “The ACCC’s narrow mandate is no substitute for a
responsible government decision,” he said.  Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 for A$8.4
billion in a cash and share deal that would create the world’s
fifth-largest listed exchange company. Based on  SGX ’s closing
share price yesterday, the value of the deal was A$7.8 billion.
ASX  shares  rose as much as 0.7 percent today and were trading at
A$38.72 as of 1:33 p.m. in Sydney. SGX shares rose as much as 1
percent today and were trading at S$8.48 at 10:33 a.m. in
Singapore.  No Concerns  The ACCC announcement shows there are no concerns about a
lessening of competition, ASX spokesman Gibbs said in an e-mail
yesterday. Both Gibbs and SGX spokeswoman  Magdalyn Liew  said
they were “pleased’ with the decision.  ASX Chief Executive  Robert Elstone  told reporters when
announcing the takeover proposal that it was in the interests of
both countries, and that the companies were confident they would
win regulators’ approval.  The deal has to be approved by Treasurer Swan under
Australia’s foreign investment rules. The deal will also have to
be approved by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  at   gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 