-- SNB Leaves Key Rate Near Zero to Stop Franc From Appreciating
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-12-16T09:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/snb-leaves-benchmark-rate-close-to-zero-to-prevent-franc-from-appreciating.html
The Swiss central bank held
borrowing costs near zero in a bid to keep a lid on the franc
after Europe’s debt crisis pushed the Swiss currency to a
record, threatening the country’s recovery.  The  Swiss National Bank  left the  three-month Libor target 
rate at 0.25 percent. That’s in line with the forecasts of all
19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. SNB President  Philipp Hildebrand  will hold a press conference at 10 a.m. in Zurich.  The Swiss franc has appreciated 16 percent against the euro
this year, reaching an all-time high yesterday after investors
became more concerned about the ability of European governments
to contain the fiscal crisis. While the SNB in June stopped
intervening in currency markets, a stronger franc may undermine
Switzerland’s  export-led growth  and the central bank today
forecast a “significant’” economic slowdown.  “The SNB are still anticipating a marked slowdown in
growth from the exchange-rate impact,”  Eoin O’Callaghan , an
economist at BNP Paribas, said in an e-mailed comment. “If we
see a significant depreciation in the franc, then given the
strength of domestic fundamentals, we would expect the SNB to
hike. But if the franc remains elevated, it will come later.”  The Swiss currency, which yesterday climbed to a record
1.2759 per euro, was at 1.2825 per euro after the decision. The
SNB did not alter its rhetoric on the franc, sticking to its
line that it will “take the measures necessary to ensure price
stability” against the backdrop of a stronger currency.  Inflation Forecasts  The central bank cut its 2012 inflation forecast to 1
percent from 1.2 percent. The 2011 projection was raised to 0.4
percent from 0.3 percent. The SNB left its growth forecasts
unchanged from September and expects the economy to expand about
2.5 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2011.  The inflation outlook shows that “the current expansionary
monetary policy cannot be maintained over the entire forecast
horizon without compromising long-term price stability,” the
central bank said in a statement.  The SNB said it expects inflation to breach 2 percent in
the third quarter of 2013, averaging 2.14 percent. In the second
quarter of 2013, inflation may average 1.78 percent instead of
a previously projected 2.25 percent, it forecast.  “The SNB expects economic growth to continue,” Hildebrand
said in Zurich. “However, it is likely to be significantly
lower in the quarters ahead, a development attributable to both
the generally subdued economic activity in the industrialized
countries and the appreciation of the Swiss franc.”  Swiss Exports  With governments from Ireland to Spain struggling to reduce
their budget deficits, the euro has plunged 14 percent against
the franc this year. That’s making Swiss exports from  Swatch
Group AG  watches to  Givaudan SA  fragrances less competitive in
the region buying two thirds of all goods.  “The SNB will likely still look for a material slowdown,
though later than previously forecast,” said  Beat Siegenthaler ,
a currency strategist at UBS AG in Zurich. “If the franc’s most
recent gains have anything to do with market expectations of a
more hawkish SNB, these are bound to be disappointed.”  Switzerland’s recovery is already cooling. Growth  weakened 
in the third quarter and leading  economic indicators  fell to the
lowest level in seven months in November.  Consumer prices  rose
0.2 percent in November from a year earlier partly as a stronger
franc lowered costs of imports such as heating oil.  “In the current environment of low inflation and a subdued
but positive economic outlook, the SNB isn’t under pressure to
raise rates,” said  Fabian Heller , an economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. “It doesn’t have an incentive of giving a
signal that could put any upward pressure on the franc.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  