-- Snowstorms, Freezing Roads Forecast as Britain Braces for an Arctic Blast
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2010-12-16T11:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/snowstorms-freezing-roads-forecast-as-britain-braces-for-an-arctic-blast.html
Britain is bracing itself for more
snow and freezing temperatures that is likely to disrupt
transport and hamper shoppers in the run up to Christmas.  Heavy snow and icy roads are expected across much of the
country starting in parts of Scotland today, the Met Office, a
state-funded agency, said in a severe weather warning today.  Worst affected areas could see up to eight inches (20
centimeters) of snow tomorrow. In general, accumulations of up
to four inches are forecast. All schools are closed in Shetland
and some in Orkney and Aberdeenshire, according to local
government websites. Some rail services are suspended in the
Highlands.  “Given the fact that we’re going to see quite a rapid
change and a fall in temperature there is the potential for some
disruption to travel networks,” said Met Office spokesman  John Hammond  in a telephone interview. “We could see ice forming on
untreated roads and pavements, coinciding with the drive home
for many people this evening.”  Temperatures are predicted to plunge to as low as minus 13
Celsius (8.6 Fahrenheit) in parts of Scotland tomorrow, the Met
Office said. In London temperatures will fall to minus 5
Celsius, according to the Global Weather Platform.  The Met Office issues weather warnings when there is at
least 80 percent confidence that severe or extreme weather is
expected, the state-funded agency said.  The travel plans of millions of people across Europe were
affected earlier this month when heavy snow and sub-zero
temperatures grounded airplanes, halted trains and turned
highways into parking lots. The snowfall was the earliest to
blanket the U.K. since 1993 and the worst hit areas were South
London, Sussex, Kent and Hampshire, which received as much as 8
inches of snow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{ Chris Spillane } in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  