-- South Africa Faces Price Risk on Rising Food, Power Costs: Inflation Bonds
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/south-africa-faces-price-risk-on-rising-food-power-costs-inflation-bonds.html
South African investors are buying
inflation-linked bonds as the lowest interest rates on record in
Africa’s largest economy, combined with rising food, wage and
energy costs threaten to reverse a two-year slide in inflation.  The  yield  difference between three-year inflation-linked
bonds, known as linkers, and standard notes of similar maturity,
which gauges the premium investors are willing to pay to protect
against price rises, surged  44 basis points  last month. That’s
the biggest gain since March 2009. The so-called breakeven rate
was 5.56 percent yesterday, from a low of 4.95 percent Nov. 4.  “Inflation has bottomed so now is the time to start buying
linkers,” Mark le Roux, who helps oversee about $29 billion as
head of fixed income at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. , including
index-linked securities, said by phone from Cape Town. “Rising
food and fuel prices are going to be big drivers of inflation
going forward on a global scale, but domestically you can also
throw higher wage and electricity costs into the mix.”  The rally in linkers started on Nov. 4, the day after the
Federal Reserve announced plans to buy $600 billion of Treasury
securities to boost growth in the world’s largest economy. That
may add to food prices that are already near their highest since
2008, with white corn, a staple food in South Africa, leaping 21
percent in the past six months.  The extra liquidity will “impact on inflation and pension
funds want to hedge themselves against that risk,”  Ian Scott , a
bond trader at Stanlib Asset Management, which holds inflation-
linked bonds, said by phone from Johannesburg.  Trend Change  South Africa’s  inflation  rate slid to a five-year low of
3.2 percent in September, near the bottom of the 3 percent to 6
percent target range, as the rand’s 37 percent surge against the
dollar since the start of last year curbed the cost of fuel and
other imports. The announcement of September inflation on Oct.
27 sparked a 33 basis point drop in the breakeven rate in six
days. Then came the U.S. announcement on quantitative easing
that combined with concern about rising wages and electricity
prices to reverse the trend.  “The strength of the rand has helped mask a lot of the
imported inflationary pressures,” said Coronation’s le Roux.
“That’s going to dissipate because there’s more of a risk that
the rand weakens from here rather than appreciates.”  The  South African Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark rate to
 5.5 percent  on Nov. 18, the lowest level since the repurchase
rate was first introduced in 1999, weakening the appeal of the
rand. Policy makers have also boosted foreign currency purchases
to prevent further appreciation.  The rand is likely to slide 7 percent to 7.30 per dollar by
the final quarter of 2011, according to the median forecast of
20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The currency traded at 6.8582
as of 5:35 p.m. local time yesterday.  Power Costs  The inflation rate is already on the way back up, rising to
3.6 percent in November, the second consecutive gain.  The biggest risk of further increases may come from prices
set by the state, such as electricity and municipal charges,
 Jonathan Myerson , head of fixed-interest at Cadiz Asset
Management, which oversees about $7.3 billion and holds
inflation-linked bonds, said by phone from Cape Town.  State power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd., which produces
about 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity needs, plans to
raise tariffs by about 25 percent in each of the next three
years and is seeking similar increases for the two-years beyond
2013.  Average wage settlements in South Africa reached 8.3
percent in the first three quarters of 2010, more than double
the current inflation rate, the central bank said on Dec. 9.  Returns  Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on Nov. 18 that
inflation will probably average 4.3 percent in 2011, little
changed on this year as the rand’s rally keeps price pressures
in check. Inflation will average 4.8 percent in 2012, she said.  “Countries around the world are trying to export
themselves out of the crisis, so we’re seeing an oversupply of
goods,” said  Ilke Smit , an economist at Metropolitan Asset
Managers in Cape Town. “That’s deflationary. We may see
inflation move structurally lower.”  Still, analysts, businesses and labor union officials
expect inflation to average 5.5 percent in 2011 and 6.2 percent
in 2012, according to a Dec. 7 survey by the Bureau for Economic
Research at the University of Stellenbosch, near Cape Town.  As concern about inflation resurfaces, South African
inflation-linked debt has returned 11 percent this year, the
fourth best performance worldwide after Turkey, Brazil and
Poland, according to index data from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch & Co. Since Nov. 1, the bonds have returned 1.7 percent.  “Inflation will run faster than the Reserve Bank is
anticipating,” said  Matthew Sharratt , an economist in Cape Town
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which recommends buying
inflation-linked bonds. “With wage increases at about 8
percent, and rising food prices, there’s enough of an uplift to
boost inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  