-- Soybeans, Corn Gain in Chicago as Dry Weather in Argentina May Hurt Output
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-12-16T13:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/soybeans-corn-gain-in-chicago-as-dry-weather-in-argentina-may-hurt-output.html
Soybeans and corn advanced in
Chicago on concern that dry weather in Argentina may threaten
crops, potentially curbing global supplies even as import demand
from China increases.  Rains this weekend will miss the major growing region in
Argentina, according to Chicago-based  T-Storm Weather LLC . Hot,
dry weather will return next week in areas where rainfall has
been 6 inches (15 centimeters) less than normal in the past
month, increasing crop stress, the private forecaster said. A La
Nina weather pattern, which causes dry weather in South America,
is threatening crop yields.  “While we acknowledge that room still exists for the
weather to improve from here, we see production-shortfall risk
increasing should wetter weather in Argentina and southern
Brazil not materialize over the next two weeks,” Morgan Stanley
said in a report. “Planting progress, particularly in
Argentina, has been delayed due to dry weather, and the second
corn crop in Brazil could also fall short due to the delayed
soybean harvest.”  Soybeans for March gained 3.5 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$13.1125 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The most-active contract touched $13.2475 yesterday,
the highest price since Nov. 12.  Corn for March delivery rose 2.25 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$5.865 a bushel. The price yesterday reached $5.945, the highest
level since Nov. 9.  “Weather concerns in Argentina are likely to affect prices
quite significantly,”  Ker Chung Yang , an analyst at Phillip
Futures Pte, said from Singapore today. The country is the
second-biggest corn exporter and third-largest soybean shipper,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Wheat for March delivery fell 0.75 cent to $7.64 a bushel
in Chicago, after earlier losing as much as 0.4 percent. Prices
have climbed 41 percent this year after Russia banned exports
and floods in Australia and Canada threatened crop quality.
Milling-wheat prices on the NYSE Liffe in Paris rose 0.1 percent
to 238.25 euros ($315.49) a metric ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net , or
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  