-- Spain Completes Last Bond Sale With Sovereign Rating at Risk: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-16T11:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/spain-goes-into-last-bond-sale-with-sovereign-rating-at-risk-euro-credit.html
Spain completed the final bond sale
of the year with the threat of a credit rating downgrade,
undermining the government’s efforts to convince investors the
nation and its lenders can meet their refinancing needs in 2011.  Today’s auction of 10-year and 15-year bonds raised 2.4
billion euros ($3.2 billion), missing the maximum goal of 3
billion euros, after a surge in borrowing costs led the Treasury
to reduce the usual target of as much as 4 billion euros. The
yield on 10-year bonds rose five basis points after the auction
to 5.56 percent as of 11:46 a.m. in Madrid.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may lower the
country’s Aa1 rating less than three months after the previous
cut. Spain’s central government, regional administrations and
banks collectively require 290 billion euros of financing next
year, leaving the country “susceptible to further episodes of
funding stress,” the company said.  “Spain had to pay much higher yields for this auction, and
that’s to be expected in the light of what Moody’s did earlier
this week,” said  Philipp Jaeger , a fixed-income economist at DZ
Bank AG in Frankfurt.  The nation today sold 1.78 billion euros of 10-year bonds
at an average yield of 5.446 percent, compared with 4.615
percent last time the securities were issued on Nov. 18, the
Bank of Spain said today in Madrid. It also sold 618.7 million
euros of 15-year debt at 5.953 percent, compared with 4.541
percent when the paper was last sold on Oct. 21.  Borrowing Needs  Spain is prefunding for 2011 as it has covered this year’s
needs, according to Salgado. The budget shows gross issuance of
192 billion euros for the central government next year, although
asset sales announced on Dec. 1 may raise 14 billion euros to
help reduce the potential borrowing. Even as Moody’s says the
country will meet its budget-deficit goals for 2010 and 2011,
the rating company highlighted the risks posed by the banks’
requirement to roll over 90 billion euros of debt.  “The sovereign is OK, in terms of debt dynamics and even
going forward in terms of the debt trajectory, it’s the banking
system that’s a problem,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds over German bunds rose nine basis points to 251 basis
points at noon today in Madrid. That compares with a euro-era
closing high of 283 basis points on Nov. 30. The cost of
insuring Spanish debt against default fell 5.6 basis points to
318, according to CMA prices.  Bank Buying  Spanish banks may provide some potential support for future
bond auctions, as they have reduced holdings of government debt
since June, which may leave them room to soak up new issuance.
Lenders lowered their holdings of Spanish government debt by 15
percent to 131.9 billion euros in October from 155.6 billion
euros in June, according to data from the Treasury. Their share
of Spain’s debt shrank to 26 percent in October from 33 percent
in June, while non-residents boosted their share to 48 percent
from 43 percent.  “Reduced exposure by those institutions should ultimately
be a good thing in terms of auction participation going
forward,” said  Sean Maloney , a fixed-income strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in London. “It probably leaves a bit of
room for the traditional supporters of these auctions to come
forward.”  Spanish banks  also have reduced their dependence on funding
from the European Central Bank, cutting borrowings to 61.1
billion euros in November, the lowest since January, from a peak
of 130.2 billion euros in July, according to Bank of Spain data.
Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said yesterday he
doesn’t foresee “problems of market access” for lenders next
year, while Spain hasn’t seen any “lack of appetite” for
public debt and he doesn’t expect it to next year either.  Brussels Summit  The auction comes as European leaders gather in Brussels
today to discuss the creation of a permanent mechanism to
support countries with financing difficulties beginning in 2013
when the temporary facility set up in May expires. Amid concerns
that the existing 750 billion-euro fund may not be big enough if
more countries seek help, Germany is hardening its opposition to
expanding the facility, shifting more pressure onto the ECB and
its bond-buying program.  Moody’s analyst  Kathrin Muehlbronner  said in an interview
yesterday that a bailout for Spain isn’t “likely,” though she
declined to “rule it out.”  Juan Jose Toribio , a professor at
IESE business school and former head of financial policy in the
finance ministry, puts the chances of Spain needing a bailout at
30 percent, rising to 50 percent if Portugal seeks help.  Moody’s threat to cut Spain’s rating came two weeks after
the government announced a series of measures, including partial
privatizations, benefits cuts and a reduction in taxes for small
businesses, aimed at bolstering growth and slashing the deficit
by 50 percent in two years. The Socialist government had already
lowered public wages and announced a pension freeze in May after
Greece’s near-default.  “What it means is that it doesn’t believe in the package
of measures,” Toribio said. “It’s all about the date.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  