-- Spain Banks Face 2011 Revenue Drain on Funding Costs
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-12-17T12:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/spain-s-banks-face-revenue-drain-in-2011-on-higher-funding-costs.html
Spain’s banks, burdened this year by
rising defaults and flagging credit demand, will face further
pressure in 2011 as funding costs eat away at the returns on
their stock of home loans.  The squeeze may be worst for lenders with the greatest
proportion of mortgages because they have less scope to pass on
the financing costs to customers, said  Claire Kane , an analyst
at MF Global in London. Ibercaja, a Zaragoza-based savings bank,
has 53 percent of its loans in mortgages, while Bankinter SA,
based in Madrid, has 46 percent, Bank of Spain  data  show.  “The amount of mortgages a bank has gives an indication of
who is going to face the most pressure on revenues,” said
 Daragh Quinn , an analyst at Nomura International in Madrid.
“The more retail mortgages you have, the more difficult it will
be to re-price your loan book.”  Concern that Spain won’t be able to reduce the euro
region’s third-highest budget deficit and avoid a European Union
bailout has driven up financing costs for the banks. The
nation’s Aa1 credit rating may be lowered, Moody’s Investors
Service said on Dec. 15, blaming banking losses, regional public
deficits and mounting borrowing costs as the government and
lenders seek to refinance 260 billion euros ($345 billion) of
debt.  The cost to insure the senior debt of Bankinter for five
years has almost doubled since April, to about 330 basis points,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s almost twice the cost of
insuring the debt of Belgium’s KBC Groep NV, which has the same
A1  rating  from Moody’s as Bankinter. Both have a negative
outlook from the rating company. The Spanish bank is the fifth-
worst performer in the 53-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks  and
Financial Services Index this year after dropping 42 percent.  ‘Squeezing’ Margins  Bad loans as a proportion of total loans in Spain climbed
to 5.67 percent in October, the highest level since January
1996, from 5.50 percent in September and 4.99 percent a year
ago, the Bank of Spain said today.  The cost of luring deposits also rose. The average rate
paid on Spanish household deposits for as long as a year reached
2.61 percent in October, compared with 1.13 percent in Germany.  Spanish banks are already contending with losses on loans
to property developers and real-estate assets taken on their
books during the property crash. Moody’s estimated on Dec. 13
that lenders had recognized only half of the estimated 176
billion euros of losses they will have to absorb on their loans.  The ability of Spanish banks to generate profits at the
moment is “very limited,” said  Juan Jose Toribio , a professor
at the IESE business school and a former head of financial
policy at the nation’s finance ministry. “Because they have
liquidity problems, they are paying more for their liabilities
and that is squeezing their margins.”  Mortgage Surge  Consolidated nine-month profit at Spain’s commercial banks
and savings banks fell 18 percent from a year earlier to 14.3
billion euros, according to the banking and savings bank
associations. As many as 13  mergers are underway  that will
reduce the number of savings bank groups to 17 from 45 in a
process backed by 11 billion euros from a government bailout
fund.  Spain’s housing boom led to a fivefold surge in mortgage
lending to about 618 billion euros over the past decade. Banks
drove down the rates on home loans to lure customers they could
then sell credit cards, insurance and current accounts.  Banks that lend more to companies can turn over their loan
books at a faster pace to raise the return on credit, said
Nomura’s Quinn. By contrast, the average life of new mortgages
taken out in Spain in the third quarter was 25 years, according
to the  College of Property Registrars .  ‘Handicapped’  “The financial institutions that will have most problems
are those that are most handicapped in re-pricing their
assets,” said  Albert Coll , deputy  chief financial officer  of
Banco Sabadell SA, which makes two-thirds of its loans to
companies. “They will be those that have a larger percentage of
mortgages.”  Banco Pastor SA, based in La Coruna, has the lowest ratio
of mortgages to overall  lending  at 16 percent, while Sabadell,
based in the Spanish town of the same name, has 17 percent and
Madrid-based Banco Popular Espanol SA 18 percent, according to
the Bank of Spain.  Mortgages to individuals account for about 29 percent of
the Spanish loan book of Banco Santander SA, a spokeswoman for
the country’s biggest lender said in an e-mail.  Having a lower weighting of mortgages hasn’t saved the
banks from taking punishment from investors.  Sabadell  is down 19
percent this year, while  Popular  and Pastor fell 23 percent.  Loan Quality  “It’s kind of the flip side of the coin,” said Kane.
“Sabadell and Popular may have more flexibility to re-price
their loans but people also worry about the quality of their
lending to small- and medium-sized companies and developers.”  A Bankinter official, in a statement, said while mortgages
provide a lower return than products such as personal loans,
they are also less risky and generate better returns after
provisions. A spokesman for Zaragoza, Spain-based Ibercaja
didn’t immediately respond to a request for a comment.  Javier Torrero , chairman of Torrero Torinco, a Cordoba,
Spain-based maker of products such as doors and windows for the
construction industry, said Spanish companies are accustomed to
banks charging more for loans. He expects lenders to increase
the cost of credit further in 2011.  “Banks will just keep raising their rates,” said Torrero,
who described the effect of higher financing costs on companies
as “horrific.” His banks, which include Santander and  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , have raised the rate they charge
on loans to 3 percentage points over the 12-month euro-area
interbank offered rate, or euribor, from less than 1 percentage
point three years ago, he said.  ‘Profitable Business’  At Sabadell, rates on two-year corporate loans have climbed
to 233 basis points over 12-month euribor from 205 basis points
last December and 190 basis points in March 2009, said Coll.
Euribor, a benchmark for most Spanish mortgages, currently
stands at 1.53 percent. A basis point is equivalent to one one-
hundredth of a percentage point.  The quality of Spain’s mortgages has proved resilient, even
with unemployment higher than 20 percent. Moody’s expects a loss
ratio of 2.8 percent for home loans, compared with 12.9 percent
for loans to developers and 50 percent for real estate assets.  “Mortgages can be a problem in a given year such as 2011
because of the prevailing liquidity or funding conditions,”
said  Arturo de Frias , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. Over a longer period, they remain “a very profitable
business,” he said.  Mortgage ‘Millstone’  Even so, the ability to adjust lending rates will be
crucial to Spanish lenders maintaining profitability, said Kane.  Bankinter’s customer spread, the difference between its
yield on assets and the cost of its liabilities, shrank to 81
basis points in September from 1.93 percentage points a year
earlier. Net interest income plunged 40 percent in the third
quarter at the bank, whose chief executive officer,  Jaime Echegoyen , resigned a day before results were announced.  “From being a goldmine for the banks, mortgages have now
become a millstone,”  Pablo Garcia , head of equities at Oddo
Sociedad de Valores in Madrid, said by phone.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Charles Penty  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  