-- St. Joe Adds Fairholme's Bruce Berkowitz, Charles Fernandez to Its Board
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-16T23:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/st-joe-adds-fairholme-s-bruce-berkowitz-charles-fernandez-to-its-board.html
St. Joe Co. , the largest private
landholder in northern Florida, named  Bruce R. Berkowitz  and
 Charles M. Fernandez  of Fairholme Capital Management LLC, the
developer’s biggest shareholder, to its board.  The additions are effective Jan. 1 and expand St. Joe’s
board to nine members, the Watersound, Florida-based development
company said today in a statement. Fairholme, based in Miami,
owns 26.8 million  shares , or 29 percent of the St. Joe stock
outstanding, as of Dec. 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The shares have plunged 18 percent since hedge fund manager
 David Einhorn  said two months ago he was betting against the
stock. Einhorn, president of Greenlight Capital Inc. and best
known for wagering against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., said
St. Joe had sold its best properties and spent too much on
residential development.  “St. Joe has uniquely valuable assets and some of the most
attractive, concentrated and well-managed real estate in the
U.S.,” Berkowitz, co-founder and managing member of Fairholme,
said in today’s statement. “The value is in its development
expertise, communities, infrastructure, entitlements, master
plans, timberlands and most importantly the company’s long-term
vision.”  General Growth  Berkowitz, 52, also partnered with  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc . and Pershing Square Capital Management LP to
bring mall owner  General Growth Properties Inc . out of
bankruptcy last month. Fernandez, 48, is president of Fairholme
and has served as a member of its portfolio management team
since January 2008.  The announcement came after the close of regular U.S.
trading. St. Joe gained 76 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $20.17
today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Its shares
have fallen 31 percent in the past year.  A takeover of St. Joe is unlikely because the company’s
financial condition would make financing a leveraged acquisition
“very tough,” Einhorn said today.  “This will be a hard thing to take private on a reasonable
basis because there’s no cash flow,” Einhorn said in an
interview today with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television. “The
company has negative profits with no means of generating ongoing
cash to service debt. There is not a lot of bank lending to
develop the land that St. Joe has in its cycle.”  St. Joe has “long-term” value and will eventually make
money on development surrounding an airport that opened in
Panama City, Florida, in May, Chief Executive Officer  Britt Greene  said in a Nov. 2 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 