-- Subway Cameras Rise After Criticism of Greenwich Village Killer's Escape
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/stabbings-in-new-york-greenwich-village-spur-call-for-more-subway-cameras.html
In March, a man stabbed two people
to death on a  New York City subway  train in Greenwich Village,
escaping through the Christopher Street station, one of the
stops in the 468-station system without camera surveillance.  The double-killing was an uncommon occurrence in an area of
the city that has benefited from historically low crime rates.
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority  board members including
 Norman Seabrook , then chairman of its safety and security
committee, criticized the lack of cameras underground, saying
the killings should have been recorded.  “You can’t put a policeman in every station -- you can’t
put a policeman on every train and in every car,” Seabrook said
in a telephone interview. Putting more cameras “in the system
to be able to deter some of the threats that we receive in New
York on a daily basis is a good thing.”  In the eight months since the stabbing, the city said it
has made significant progress in expanding surveillance both
above and below ground. About 3,700 of the 4,200 cameras
installed are now operating in the subways, up from about 2,300
in March, a 61 percent increase, said  Kevin Ortiz , a spokesman
for the MTA who, citing “security reasons,” declined to say
how many stations don’t have camera surveillance.  “There’s been an incredible amount of progress over the
past couple of months in getting cameras operational,” said
Ortiz, who declined to say how many cameras the state agency
intends to install in the subways.  Bus Cameras Approved  Yesterday, the MTA’s board approved a $9.75 million
contract with a unit of United Technologies Corp. to install
video cameras and recorders on 426 Manhattan buses starting in
the first quarter of next year, with an option for another 1,150
buses.  The MTA has been working to secure the nation’s largest
transit system, with an average 7 million daily trips, since the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The efforts to install
cameras intensified after the bombing of London’s transit system
in July 2005 killed 52 people and security pictures helped
investigators identify four suicide bombers.  The month after the London attacks, the MTA awarded
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. , the world’s
 largest defense company , a $212 million, three-year contract to
build an electronic security system with more than 1,000 cameras
and 3,000 electronic sensors to detect potential dangers such as
unattended items and intruders entering restricted areas.  Flawed Designs  The project came to a halt in April 2009 when Lockheed sued
for breach of contract, saying the authority was delaying the
company’s ability to complete the work, originally scheduled to
be finished in August 2008. The MTA countersued in May 2009,
saying Lockheed submitted flawed designs, didn’t stick to
schedules, and failed to manage the project.  The case is pending in federal court in New York.  Cameras are used to monitor various areas of the subway,
from tunnels to turnstiles. Some locations are monitored live
while others are connected to recorders, Ortiz said.  Electronic surveillance became more important this year
when budget constraints forced the authority to remove hundreds
of roving agents from stations, said  Andrew Albert , chairman of
the  New York City Transit Riders Council , which advises the MTA.  In New York, the number of major felony crimes, such as
murder, rape and robbery, fell 80 percent from 1990 to 2009,
from 527,257 to 106,736, with murders dropping from 2,262 to
471, according to the  New York Police Department . New York City
Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg  is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Subway Crime Rising  While crime overall remains far below what it was 20 years
ago, subway crime is on the rise, with major felonies up 4.9
percent from January to November compared with a year ago,
according to the MTA. An average of 40 such subway crimes a
week, more than half of them thefts, are reported.  “We should have had this system in place” before cutting
the agents, Albert said of subway cameras. “I know these are
tough times financially, but you can’t discount the possibility
of crime or terror in today’s world.”  The  Christopher Street station , where the killer in the
March stabbing escaped, is part of Transit District 2, which
covers 20 subway lines and more than 40 stops in lower
Manhattan, from 34th Street south.  In that incident, Brenddy Garcia was arrested as a suspect
four days after the killings. He was later released after a
grand jury determined that he had acted in self defense.  In the NYPD’s Sixth Precinct, which includes Greenwich
Village, murders have dropped 85 percent in two decades, from
seven in 1990 to one in 2009, according to police department
statistics.  Booth Agents Cut  The MTA has cut about 450 booth agents from stations this
year, with about 2,580 remaining, Ortiz said. Every stop in the
system will continue to have a full-time booth manned 24 hours a
day and intercoms so that customers can reach the booth, he
said.  Peter Vallone , chairman of the City Council’s Public Safety
Committee, said the camera program has been “taking forever to
implement.” Albert agreed, saying “there are lots of places
where there are no cameras or the cameras are not yet
functional.”  In June 2009, the MTA terminated the  Lockheed  contract and
hired other contractors to complete the project with $66 million
of it remaining. New companies included Henry Bros. Electronics
Inc., which received $7 million to get the rest of the Lockheed
cameras operational, Ortiz said.  About half of the 1,000 cameras installed as part of the
Lockheed project are now operational, and the rest should be
online next year, Ortiz said.  ‘Old System’  Gene Russianoff , an attorney for the Straphangers Campaign
advocacy group, said the pace of installation “does not inspire
confidence.”  “They claim they’ve turned it around,” said Russianoff,
whose group is an arm of the  New York Public Interest Research
Group . “You have a really old system, and you’re grafting onto
it modern detection equipment, whether it’s air monitoring or
cameras. It’s not easy. It’s not an environment that was
designed to have that kind of equipment in it.”  MTA Chairman  Jay H. Walder  has vowed to make better use of
technology such as cameras since taking over in September 2009.
Walder returned to the authority, where he helped introduce
MetroCards to replace subway tokens in the 1990s, from a job at
the London transit system.  Subway Car Surveillance  In February an attempt to extend surveillance from station
platforms and passageways onto subway cars began. Cameras were
installed on four cars of each 10-car train in a pilot project
on the E line between Queens and Lower Manhattan. The MTA is
ordering more than 300 cars ready to be outfitted with cameras
in case it decides to expand the program.  In September, almost 600 cameras at subway stations in
Grand Central Terminal, Pennsylvania Station and Times Square
began feeding into a counterterrorism surveillance network
monitored by the NYPD.  Additionally, the MTA bus initiative approved yesterday may
be expanded to include routes in high-crime areas, according to
MTA documents, and is “essential to providing improvements to
the safety and security of the environment for employees and the
riding public,” the agency said.  Bob Haskins, president of UTC Fire & Security’s Interlogix
unit, declined to comment.  “We continue to work closely with the NYPD to ensure that
our security decisions are aligned with their policing
strategies,” the MTA’s Ortiz said in an e-mail.  Ortiz added that, at the Christopher Street Station, there
is still no working camera. He declined to comment on when or if
one would be activated there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 