-- Stable Peso Cutting Into Reserves Windfall for Treasury: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-12-16T12:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/stable-peso-cutting-into-reserves-windfall-for-treasury-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s currency is headed to
its smallest decline against the dollar in three years, cutting
central bank profits and pushing the government to use reserves
at a faster pace to meet financing needs.  The peso dropped 4.5 percent against the dollar this year
after a 9.1 percent slump in 2009, the least since a 2.9 percent
retreat in 2007. The depreciation will help reduce earnings for
Banco Central de la Republica Argentina to about 8 billion pesos
($2.01 billion) from 23 billion pesos in 2009, most of which was
handed to the Treasury this year, said a central bank official
who asked not to be identified, citing internal policy.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  plans to draw $7.5
billion from the $52.1 billion of foreign reserves to cover debt
payments next year, up from $6.6 billion this year, according to
the 2011 budget. Argentina’s dependence on foreign reserves to
pay obligations constrains its credit rating, Moody’s Investors
Service said. Investors demand 493 basis points in  extra yield 
to hold the government’s dollar bonds rather than U.S.
Treasuries, almost three times more than in Brazil, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  “Part of the reason Argentina has such a low rating is
these not very institutional methods they have to meet their
financing needs,”  Gabriel Torres , an analyst with Moody’s
Investors Service, said in a telephone interview from New York.
Moody’s rates Argentina B3, six levels below investment grade.  Economic Growth  Fernandez’s restructuring of $12.2 billion worth of
defaulted debt in June and record-low interest rates in the U.S.
and Europe helped boost dollar inflows this year, curbing the
peso’s decline and driving the average yield on Argentina’s
dollar bonds to 9.23 percent from as high as 12.31 percent
earlier this year. The government stopped making payments on $95
billion of debt in 2001, the biggest sovereign default ever.  South America’s second-biggest economy will likely expand 5
percent next year, after growing 8.6 percent in 2010, said
 Daniel Volberg , an economist with Morgan Stanley in New York who
estimates the government needs about $8 billion in financing in
2011. He forecasts the government will likely post a budget
surplus equal to 0.8 percent of gross domestic product next
year, up from a 0.1 percent deficit this year.  “They’ve already said they’re going to use $7.5 billion in
reserves next year, so that’s most of what they need,” Volberg
said. The government will likely sell more Treasury notes to
government agencies to help make payments, he said.  Financing Needs  Argentina’s foreign reserves equaled about 16.9 percent of
2009  gross domestic product , less than the 18.3 percent of
neighboring Brazil and ahead of the 15.9 percent maintained by
Chile, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A decline in the currency increases the peso value of the
central bank’s reserves, a gain it books as a profit that is
transferrable to the Treasury during the following year.  An Argentine Economy Ministry official, who asked not to be
identified in accordance with internal policy, said the
government has alternatives and doesn’t foresee problems meeting
its financing needs in 2011.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the government’s
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 507 at 7:05 a.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan.  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years rose 22 basis points to 654 basis points yesterday,
according to CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to comply with
debt agreements.  ‘Tough Situation’  The peso lost 0.1 percent to 3.9765 per dollar. Warrants
linked to economic growth fell 0.17 cent to 13.70 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Argentina’s peso is poised to fall for a seventh straight
year, depreciating to 4.03 per dollar by year end and dropping
to 4.29 by December 2011, according to the median forecast of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In August, the analysts
predicted a decline to 4.14 per dollar by yearend and 4.65 by
the end of 2011. The currencies of neighbors Brazil and Chile
have appreciated 2 and 7.1 percent this year.  “If exports were to decline and government revenue
suffered, Argentina would be in a tough situation,” said
 Alejandro Urbina , an emerging-market debt manager at Silva
Capital Management in Chicago. “But the economy is doing well,
exports should continue to do well, and revenue should be OK.”  Inflation estimated to be in excess of 25 percent by Nomura
Securities International Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG is forcing the government to limit the
currency’s decline to keep prices in check, according to  Alberto Ramos,  an economist at Goldman Sachs in New York. The government
said inflation was 11 percent in November from a year earlier.  ‘Short Leash’  “The government doesn’t want to tighten monetary or fiscal
policy to deal with inflation, so the only tool they have at
their disposal is the exchange rate,” said Ramos. “Every time
the exchange rate depreciates, it generates profits for the
central bank. When it’s not depreciating, those profits can’t be
passed on to the Treasury.”  Government spending rose 45 percent in October from a year
earlier to 36.9 billion pesos.  Argentina is “keeping the peso on a short leash,” Ramos
said. “They have a lot of latitude to spend and not erode their
fiscal position, but the bottom line is, how disciplined are
they on the spending side?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  