-- Supertankers Head for Worst December in Nine Years as Ship Glut Cuts Rates
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-12-16T16:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/supertankers-head-for-worst-december-in-nine-years-as-ship-glut-cuts-rates.html
Supertankers shipping 2 million-
barrel cargoes of Middle East crude oil are heading for the
worst December since at least 2001 as excess vessel supply cuts
what owners can charge.  Returns  from shipping Middle East oil to Asia, the
industry’s biggest trade route, averaged $15,350 a day so far
this month. The previous worst December was in 2001, when rental
income averaged $19,341, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
dating back to that year.  “If December continues to be this poor it would be the
clearest evidence yet of the structural surplus that this market
has to deal with,”  Ben Goggin , London-based head of tanker
freight derivatives at SSY Futures Ltd., a unit of the world’s
second-largest shipbroker, said by e-mail today. “Owners will
need to do everything in their power to stem the tide of
deliveries coming next year.”  December and January are normally among the best months for
owners, according to  Halvor Ellefsen , a shipbroker at SeaLeague
A/S in Oslo. That’s when Northern Hemisphere refineries lift
imports to cover winter fuel production and deteriorating
weather can cause vessel delays that curb supply.  The six-member  Bloomberg Tanker Index , led by Hamilton,
Bermuda-based Frontline Ltd., has declined 4 percent this year
to 368.08 points as of yesterday.  There has been  a 16 percent surplus  of VLCCs for hire in
the Persian Gulf so far during the fourth quarter, according to
Bloomberg News surveys. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the
average excess was 11 percent.  Charter rates  on the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia to
Japan voyage, the benchmark route for very large crude carriers,
or VLCCs, advanced 2.9 percent today to 52.85 Worldscale points,
according to the Baltic Exchange in London today.  Returns  from
the route jumped 22 percent to $9,295 a day, according to the
bourse.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude oil
transportation costs, added 1 percent to 1,039 points today,
according to the exchange.  Next year, VLCCs with a combined transportation capacity of
27 million deadweight tons are scheduled to join the fleet,
according to data from  Clarkson Research Services Ltd. , a unit
of the largest shipbroker. That constitutes 16 percent of the
existing fleet’s capacity of 165.4 million tons, Clarkson data
show.  Morgan Stanley estimated in October that the combined fleet
of VLCCs and smaller suezmax and aframax tankers will grow by a
record over the next two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 