-- India’s Top Court to Monitor Phone-License Probe
-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-12-16T13:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/supreme-court-to-monitor-india-s-investigation-into-phone-license-auction.html
India’s highest court said it will
monitor a federal investigation into the 2008 sale of mobile-
phone licenses to verify the probe is being conducted
appropriately.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  must submit a progress
report to the  Supreme Court  by the next hearing on Feb. 10, a
two-member bench headed by Justice G.S. Singhvi said today. The
court told the CBI to also examine the circumstances related to
the 16 billion rupees ($353 million) that government-owned banks
lent to mobile-phone operators before the sale.  The move raises scrutiny on the probe of a scandal that’s
roiled the nation’s phone industry, led to the resignation of
the telecommunications minister and stalled parliamentary
proceedings. India’s top auditor said last month the sale of 157
permits at “unbelievably low” prices two years ago, deprived
the treasury of as much as 1.4 trillion rupees.  The Supreme Court will monitor the investigation partly
because of the scale of the potential losses from the sale of
the licenses, Singhvi said.  The CBI will complete its probe, which began more than a
year ago, by March 31, its legal counsel K.K. Venugopal told the
Supreme Court on Nov. 22.  ‘Incriminating’ Documents  The government welcomes the Supreme Court’s decision to
monitor the CBI probe because it would expedite the
investigation, India’s new telecommunications minister  Kapil Sibal  said today. He rejected opposition calls for a
parliamentary probe.  Investigators searched 34 locations, including in New Delhi
and the states of Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, the CBI said
yesterday. They searched the homes of former telecommunications
minister  Andimuthu Raja  in New Delhi and the state of Tamil Nadu
last week, finding what the CBI called “incriminating”
documents.  Raja resigned from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet
on Nov. 14, two days before the Comptroller and Auditor General
of India said in a report that the government sold wireless
airwaves in 2008 for 123.9 billion rupees, though they were
worth as much as 1.5 trillion rupees. Raja has denied any
wrongdoing.  The auditor also said then the government awarded licenses
to 13 ineligible companies at the time, including units of
 Telenor ASA  and Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  The Telenor and Etisalat units said Dec. 14 the Department
of Telecommunications notified the companies to prove the
validity of their mobile-phone licenses within 60 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  