-- U.K. Retail Sales Increase for Second Month, Driven by Food, Toys, Jewelry
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-16T09:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/u-k-retail-sales-rose-for-second-month-in-november-on-food.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose in November
after a bigger than estimated increase in October, led by demand
for food, toys and jewelry in the run-up to Christmas.  Sales increased 0.3 percent from October, when they gained
a revised 0.7 percent, the Office for National Statistics said
today in London. That matched the median forecast of 24
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier,
sales rose 1.1 percent.  Recent data indicate the economic recovery maintained
momentum in the fourth quarter, with jobless claims falling for
a second month in November and surveys showing  manufacturing 
growth accelerated to a 16-year high. Retail sales may also have
been boosted by consumers bringing forward spending to avoid
next year’s increase in value-added tax.  “There’s an element of pre-Christmas demand in the
numbers, and the budget cuts haven’t started to kick in yet,”
said  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP Paribas in London. In
2011, “incomes will be eroded by inflation and that will make
it harder for retailers.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government will increase
value-added-tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent starting from
January. Almost two-thirds of U.K. retailers predict Christmas
sales will be the same or better than last year, according to
the British Retail Consortium.  Food Sales  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report, and traded at $1.5591 as of 9:46 a.m. in London, up 0.3
percent since yesterday.  Excluding fuel, sales increased 0.3 percent in November
from October and were up 1.8 percent on the year, the statistics
office said. Food-stores sales increased 0.6 percent from the
previous month, and non-food sales rose 0.2 percent. Tesco Plc,
the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, said on Dec. 7 that sales
in the peak Christmas period are ahead of its forecast.  Internet sales surged 37.5 percent by value in November.
Such sales now account for 10.5 percent of all retail sales,
compared with 7.9 percent a year earlier. Average weekly
internet sales in November amounted to 660 million pounds ($1.03
billion), according to the statistics office.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said this week
the recovery “has remained on track” and may have persisted
this quarter. Nevertheless, the pace of consumer-spending growth
may be curbed by the government’s planned fiscal squeeze. The
Treasury’s fiscal watchdog has said the U.K. faces a
“sluggish” recovery and forecasts that about 330,000
government jobs will be axed by 2015.  Inflation Pressure  Accelerating  inflation  may also undermine households’
spending power. Consumer-price growth unexpectedly accelerated
to a six-month high of 3.3 percent in November. The Bank of
England said in a report today that Britons’ inflation
expectations surged to their highest level for more than two
years in a sign that price increases may be becoming embedded in
the minds of consumers.  Policy makers held the benchmark interest rate at a record
low 0.5 percent this month and left their bond-purchase plan at
200 billion pounds.  Adam Posen  said in a speech today that
policy makers shouldn’t “overreact” to the fact that inflation
is above the 2 percent target.  The retail deflator, a measure of changes in shop prices,
showed a 2.3 percent annual increase in November, the statistics
office said. The deflator on clothing was 2.5 percent, the most
since records began in 1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  