-- U.S. Regulator to Consider Measures to Limit Oil, Gold, Wheat Speculation
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-16T16:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/u-s-to-consider-actions-to-restrict-speculation-in-oil-other-commodities.html
The top U.S. commodities regulator
will consider today steps to curb speculation in raw materials
including oil, gold and wheat as part of the most sweeping
rewrite of Wall Street rules since the 1930s.  Four of five members of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said they will vote in favor of publishing a two-part
proposal to restrict the number of contracts one firm can hold.
The plan, if approved after a 60-day public comment period,
would limit traders to 25 percent of deliverable supply in the
contract nearest to expiration, followed by an all-month ceiling
of 10 percent of open interest up to the first 25,000 contracts
and 2.5 percent thereafter.  The Dodd-Frank Act gave the CFTC until January to rein in
speculation in the energy and metals markets and until April for
agricultural commodities. Yesterday, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler 
told lawmakers that the commission wouldn’t meet next month’s
deadline because it doesn’t yet have sufficient data.  “At the core of our obligation is to protect market
integrity,” Gensler said at the hearing today. The rule will
shield the markets from excessive speculation by ensuring
positions aren’t too concentrated, he said.  Gensler, along with Commissioners  Bart Chilton ,  Scott O’Malia  and  Michael Dunn  said they will vote today in favor of
publishing the rule for comment. Dunn and O’Malia said they may
not ultimately support imposing position limits. Commissioner
 Jill Sommers  said she would vote against the rule.  ‘Bad Policy’  “It’s bad policy to promulgate regulations that are not
enforceable,” Sommers said, adding that the commission lacks
the data needed to enforce effective caps.  After the comment period, the commission will need to vote
on whether to impose position limits. The CFTC didn’t say when
that vote will take place or when the rules would take effect.  Regulators and lawmakers are attempting to curb commodity
speculation amid concern that investors contributed to oil
reaching the record high of $147.27 a barrel in 2008. The CFTC
received hundreds of public comments on position limits and held
at least 75 meetings on the subject since July, according to its
 website .  The law is named for its primary authors, Senate Banking
Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, and
House Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts
Democrat. It aims to stem systemic risk by requiring most
interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed by
clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution
facilities.  CFTC’s Scope  The financial overhaul expanded the CFTC’s authority to the
over-the-counter derivatives market for the first time since
swaps were introduced 30 years ago. Before the law passed,
traders could buy futures on regulated exchanges, or they could
privately negotiate for unregulated, look-alike contracts.  That situation allowed traders to sidestep limits by buying
derivatives, contracts whose value is linked to commodities,
stocks, bonds, loans, and currencies or to specific events such
as changes in interest rates. Some firms use them to lock in
prices for goods they buy or sell, while speculators may use
them to bet on the markets.  Trading Curbs  The proposal limits trades on both exchanges and in look-
alike derivatives. Such contracts played a role in the 2006
collapse of Amaranth Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that lost $6.6
billion on natural gas bets. Amaranth amassed a large position
in unregulated swaps after being ordered to reduce its position
on the regulated exchange.  The cap on contracts nearest to expiration would be similar
to rules now in place on exchanges. The  New York Mercantile
Exchange , for example, limits traders to 1,000 natural gas
futures in the last three days before the contract expires. The
CFTC is still gathering the information needed to set and
enforce caps in the over-the-counter market, Gensler said
yesterday.  “Without specific swaps data, we have no ability to claim
we are applying enforceable limits without understanding the
full size of the market,” O’Malia said in a statement.  The plan exempts so-called bona fide hedgers who use
contracts to offset commercial risk. Swaps dealers, who sell
derivatives, are free from limits as long as the transaction is
made on behalf of an end-user, while facing caps for trades made
to mitigate bets dealt to speculators.  Cash Settlement  Traders holding only cash-settled contracts, which don’t
provide for physical delivery of a commodity, would be allowed
to hold up to five times the cap in the spot month.  The proposal covers 28 commodities, including crude,
natural gas, gasoline, heating oil, gold, silver, copper,
platinum, palladium, corn, oats, rice, soybeans, soybean meal,
soybean oil, wheat, feeder cattle, live cattle, lean hogs, milk,
cocoa, coffee, orange juice, sugar and cotton.  The commission estimated that the spot-month rules would
affect 70 traders in agricultural contracts, six in base metals,
eight in precious metals and 40 in energy. The combined caps may
affect 80 agriculture traders, 25 in base metals, 20 in precious
metals and 10 in energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 