-- U.S. Says Somali Pirates Are Dodging Navies, Operating Near India Coast
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-16T15:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/u-s-says-somali-pirates-are-dodging-navies-operating-near-india-coast.html
The U.S. said Somali pirates, who
have taken at least $100 million in ransom from hijacked ships
over the past two years, are operating as far away as India as
they dodge more than 20 naval vessels deployed to hunt them.  “The pirates are moving to where the naval forces do not
operate,” Donna Hopkins, the U.S. State Department’s counter-
piracy coordinator, said on a conference call today.  The U.S. is one of 60 nations that are coordinating efforts
to eliminate the threat of pirates as they demand rising ransoms
from commercial ships captured in the Indian Ocean, Hopkins
said. Many of the pirates are based in Somalia, where several
armed groups have been struggling for control of the country for
almost two decades.  The number of merchant ships hijacked by pirates climbed 15
percent in the first nine months of this year, and Somalis were
responsible for 44 percent of the 128 attacks, the  International
Maritime Bureau  said in October. One crew member was killed, 27
injured and 773 people were taken hostage in the period.  Battling pirates at sea will not put an end to their
attacks, Hopkins said. “Although the most visible face of
piracy is on the seas, piracy needs to be combated and will only
be defeated on land,” she said.  There is concern over a rise in piracy off the oil-rich
coast of Nigeria, which may be linked to political groups,
Hopkins said. Rebels in the Niger River delta region of Nigeria,
Africa’s top oil producer, have frequently attacked oil
installations and kidnapped workers, as they pressure the
government to use oil revenue to develop the area.  Somalia’s pirate network, by contrast, is “a business
operation that does not appear to have any political
motivation,” Hopkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Agnes Nikoi at 
 anikoi@bloomberg.net  