-- U.S. Foreclosure Filings Drop to Two-Year Low Amid Lender Delays
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-12-16T19:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/u-s-foreclosure-filings-drop-to-two-year-low-amid-lender-delays.html
Foreclosure  filings  in the U.S.
plunged to a two-year low last month as lenders and loan
servicers reviewed practices under legal scrutiny around the
country, according to  RealtyTrac Inc .  A total of 262,339 U.S. properties received default or
auction notices or were  seized  in November, down 21 percent from
October and 14 percent from a year earlier, RealtyTrac said in a
report today. Those were the biggest monthly and annual declines
since the Irvine, California-based data company began reports in
January 2005. One in every 492 households got a filing.  All 50 states are investigating whether faulty documents
and signatures were used by lenders on hundreds of thousands of
 foreclosure  papers in a process that has come to be known as
“robo-signing.” The coordinated probe began in October after
the biggest U.S. banks suspended some home repossessions to
review their procedures. A seasonal drop in  filings  of 7 percent
to 10 percent is typical for November, according to RealtyTrac.  “Fallout from the foreclosure robo-signing controversy
forced lenders and servicers to hit the pause button on many
foreclosures while they scrambled to revamp their internal
procedures and revise or resubmit questionable paperwork,”
 James J. Saccacio , the firm’s chief executive officer, said in
the report.  State Investigations  A U.S. District Court judge in Maine last week allowed GMAC
Mortgage LLC to continue selling foreclosed homes in the state,
ruling that federal courts have limited authority on the issue.
GMAC, owned by Detroit-based Ally Financial Inc., has also been
sued by the state of Ohio in a foreclosure complaint. The
multistate probe may end in multiple settlements, Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller , the investigation’s leader, said last month.  Demand for foreclosed properties may slump amid the
inquiry, RealtyTrac said earlier this month. Distressed homes
accounted for a quarter of all residential sales in the third
quarter, according to the company.  The foreclosure filings last month were the fewest since
November 2008. Ten states had more than 70 percent of the total.  Unemployment near  10 percent  and “economic displacement”
has pushed the foreclosure crisis into states such as Utah,
Oregon and South Carolina,  Rick Sharga , RealtyTrac’s senior vice
president, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
That’s a different cause than the lax lending standards that led
to defaults in Nevada, Florida, California and Arizona, he said.  Default Decline  Default notices in November dropped 31 percent from a year
earlier to 78,955, the fewest since July 2007 and the 10th
straight annual decline, RealtyTrac said. In the states where
courts oversee foreclosures -- where most lenders have
concentrated their reviews -- default notices decreased 43
percent year-over-year.  Auction notices were little changed from a year earlier at
115,956. In judicial states, auctions decreased 12 percent from
November 2009, RealtyTrac said.  Bank seizures of homes declined 28 percent from October and
12 percent from a year earlier to 67,428, the lowest tally since
May 2009. They fell in 37 states and the District of Columbia.  Even with the slowdown, home seizures for 2010 surpassed
980,000, more than last year’s total, RealtyTrac said.  Nevada  had the highest foreclosure filing rate for the 47th
straight month, at one in every 99 households, five times the
national average. Filings rose 22 percent from a year earlier.  Utah Jump  Utah had the second-highest rate at one in 221 households,
up from sixth place last month, and  California  was third at one
in 233. Filings in the most populous state fell 22 percent from
November 2009.  Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Michigan, Idaho, Illinois and
Colorado rounded out the top 10 highest rates, RealtyTrac said.  California, a non-judicial state, had the most filings in
November and contributed more than a fifth of the U.S. total
with 57,378.  Florida , a judicial state, had the second-most
filings at 32,938, a 38 percent drop from a year earlier.  Michigan, a non-judicial state, ranked third with 15,311
filings. Georgia was fourth at 14,423 and Texas was fifth at
13,369. Illinois, Nevada, Ohio, Arizona and Pennsylvania were
also among the 10 highest filing totals.  The  Las Vegas  metropolitan area, with a foreclosure rate of
one in 86 households, ranked highest for cities with populations
of more than 200,000. Six California cities were second through
seventh: Stockton, Bakersfield, Modesto, Vallejo, Merced and
Riverside-San Bernardino.  Reno, Nevada, was eighth; Sacramento, California, ranked
ninth; and Port St. Lucie, Florida, was 10th, said RealtyTrac,
which sells data from counties representing 90 percent of the
U.S. population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  