-- U.S. Selects 24 Solar Power Zones to Streamline Project Approvals
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2010-12-16T22:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/u-s-selects-solar-power-zones-to-streamline-project-approval-process.html
The U.S. government gave preliminary
approval for solar energy projects at 24 sites on federal land
in six states, a step that may allow energy companies develop
them sooner.  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  and the U.S. Energy
Department announced the “solar energy zones” during a
conference call today.  The decision would create an environmental-impact
evaluation before developers apply for permission to build and
may speed the application process, Salazar said. Early approval
could also identify the best use of existing transmission lines,
he said.  “We are working hard to rapidly and responsibly develop
renewable energy on public lands,” Salazar said. The sites
listed in the  Draft Solar Programmatic Environmental Impact
Statement  may support up to 24,000 megawatts of solar power on
214,000 acres, he said.  Salazar began a similar study last month of optimal areas
to place wind turbines off the Atlantic Coast, resolving
potential conflicts with state and environmental regulators over
shipping lanes, bird migration paths and tourism.  BrightSource, Solar Trust  The streamlined process for approving solar parks on
federal lands may help developers such as BrightSource Energy
Inc. of Oakland, California, and Tessera Solar, a division of
NTR Plc of Dublin, Ireland, which are building some of the 1,800
megawatts of projects approved by the Interior Department’s
Bureau of Land Management in the past two months.  “This is another step in the right direction,” said Bill
Keegan, a spokesman for Solar Trust of America, which through
its  Solar Millennium  LLC unit is developing a 500-megawatt solar
thermal power plant on the bureau’s land in Riverside County,
California. A “systematic review” should help ensure that
development isn’t “endangering species,” he said.  Solar Trust is a joint venture of  Solar Millennium AG , an
Erlangen, Germany-based maker of parabolic solar-power
equipment, and Ferrostaal AG, an Essen, Germany-based
engineering company.  Solar Trust’s Palen project was granted a license by
California regulators yesterday.  Wilderness Society  Federal agencies evaluated 675,000 acres for potential
solar development in Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New
Mexico and Utah. The agency had announced the locations in July.
Environmental groups objected to some of the sites, saying they
are too close to national parks or could endanger sensitive
wildlife populations.  The  Wilderness Society  studied the 24 areas initially
suggested by the BLM and this month and identified two that
aren’t suitable for development, said Alex Daue, a spokesman for
the society.  One is the 110,000-acre Iron Mountain zone in California,
located between the Joshua Tree National Park and the Mojave
Desert National Preserve.  “A couple of the zones are inappropriate for large-scale
solar development,” Daue said in a telephone interview. “Iron
Mountain should be taken off their map.”  The Wilderness Society plans to work with other
environmental groups and the Interior Department to promote
development at the solar zones it considers best suited for
large-scale energy plants, Daue said. It will do so during a 90-
day comment period that begins when the document is published in
the federal register, he said.  “We support solar development on most of the zones and we
want the BLM to ensure projects are built within those zones,”
Daue said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 