-- Turkey's Central Bank Cuts Benchmark Rate to Record Low as Inflation Slows
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-12-16T18:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/turkey-s-central-bank-cuts-benchmark-rate-as-inflation-slows.html
Turkey’s central bank cut its
benchmark interest  rate  to 6.50 percent, the first change since
2009, as inflation slows and the bank seeks to curb capital
inflows and reduce the current account gap.  The bank reduced its one-week repo lending  rate  by 0.5
percentage points to a record low, according to an e-mailed
statement from Ankara today. The decision matched the forecast
of seven out of nine economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg this week.
The bank will release minutes of the meeting within eight
working days.  The decision follows Deputy Governor  Erdem Basci ’s argument
that lower rates along with higher reserve requirements for
banks are the best way to tackle a widening current-account
deficit. Basci, who may succeed  Durmus Yilmaz  as governor next
year, set out the proposal in a paper published on the bank’s
website last weekend. The changes are designed to bolster
financial stability in the face of a “widening current-account
gap and growing credit expansion,” it said in a statement
alongside today’s decision.  “It’s clear that price stability is no longer the bank’s
chief concern, it’s now interested in wider financial
stability,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in
Istanbul, said in a telephone interview. “With inflation likely
to decline in the months ahead, we could expect further cuts.”  The central bank’s statement provided no guidance for the
future of rates. The bank has decided that a “low policy rate,
a wider rates corridor and higher required reserve requirements
are a suitable policy mix,” it said.  ‘Encouraging Saving’  The bank also lowered its overnight borrowing rate to 1.5
percent from 1.75 percent, and raised the overnight lending rate
to 9 percent from 8.75 percent, it said according to the
statement.  The reserve requirement rate, currently 6 percent, will
rise and the bank will encourage longer-term saving by varying
the required reserves according to maturities, the bank said. It
also said banks may have to deposit reserves against liabilities
that were not previously included in calculations.  The “net impact of the changes on monetary conditions will
not be expansionary,” the statement said.  The case for this “unconventional approach is not
watertight,”  Ilker Domac , an Istanbul-based economist for
Citigroup Inc., said in an e-mailed note today. “We find it
hard to justify the bank’s major deviation from the inflation
targeting framework.”  Inflation Target  The central bank bolsters its case for lower rates by
arguing that inflation is slowing toward its target of 5 percent
by the end of next year. The  inflation  rate fell to 7.3 percent
last month from 8.6 percent in October, and the rate will fall
further in the coming months, the bank said Dec. 4.  Inflation, though, is likely to accelerate again later in
2011 and the bank could be forced to “make an even sharper
response that could create further complications,” Domac said.  Bonds surged this week on expectation of a rate cut after
the publication of Basci’s paper. Yields on two-year lira bonds
plunged 39 basis points to 7.3 percent.  Basci, 44, said that lower rates would help weaken the lira
and discourage short-term capital inflows that are potentially
destabilizing. The looser monetary policy can be offset by
raising the required reserve ratio from 6 percent, forcing banks
to park more money at the central bank rather than lending it.  Consumer borrowing has risen an average of 0.9 percent a
week this year, helping the country’s  gross domestic product 
expand an annual 8.9 percent in the first three quarters.  Economic Growth  The boom, which has pushed the ISE-100 stock index up 26
percent this year, comes as Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
prepares to seek a third term in June elections. Europe’s
fastest-growing economy has attracted companies including
Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , which agreed to pay
$5.8 billion for a stake in lender  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS .  Stronger domestic demand is pulling in more goods from
abroad. The current-account  deficit  widened to $40.8 billion, or
about 5.6 percent of GDP, in the 12 months to October as imports
surged and export growth slowed.  Business groups have urged the government to weaken the
lira, which has gained more than 8 percent in the past year
against the euro, the currency of Turkey’s main export markets.  Before today, Yilmaz had held the benchmark unchanged for a
year, after reducing it by a total of 10.25 percentage points in
the preceding 13 months.  The lira was little changed after today’s decision, trading
at 1.5221 per dollar in Istanbul at 7:44 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  