-- Turkish Banks Sell Lira Bonds After Regulator Removes Government Safeguard
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-12-17T06:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/turkish-banks-sell-lira-bonds-after-regulator-removes-government-safeguard.html
Turkey’s largest banks are lining up
to sell their first lira-denominated bonds after regulators
eliminated a ban designed to safeguard investor demand for
government debt.  Turkiye Is Bankasi AS  and Turkiye Garanti Bankasi, the two
biggest listed lenders in Turkey, plan to enter the local bond
market as the central bank lowers interest rates. Istanbul-based
 Akbank TAS , the third biggest and 20 percent-owned by Citigroup
Inc., sold 1 billion liras ($658 million) of 178-day securities
on Dec. 13, the first fixed-income offering of its kind by a
Turkish retail bank.  Yields on  benchmark two-year government debt  fell to 7.25
percent yesterday, declining below equivalent rates of Indian
bonds for the first time and to the tightest level since at
least 2006 against Polish debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Turkish yields dropped as  inflation  fell to 7.3 percent in
November, down from 70 percent a decade ago.  “There is more room for yields to fall” as investors bet
inflation “will come out very low in February and March,” said
 Isik Okte , a trader at Finans Invest in Istanbul. “Bond issues
by banks are all tied to this low-interest environment. Others
will follow because it’s become a way of funding at low cost.”  Garanti  disclosed three days ago that it applied to
regulators to sell as much as 3 billion liras of local-currency
bonds at different maturities. Isbank applied a week ago to
issue as much as 5 billion liras of bonds.  Scarcity Value  Akbank’s bonds were priced at a 7.28 percent yield compared
with 6.5 percent for June 2011 Turkish government lira-
denominated bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Demand for
debt sold by Turkish banks will be boosted by their scarcity
value, said  Simon Quijano-Evans , chief economist for emerging
Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Credit Agricole Chevreux
SA in Vienna.  “Investors will be prepared to buy anything which offers a
yield pickup on the government bonds,” Quijano-Evans said.  Since Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  took power in
2003, gross domestic product as measured in constant prices  grew 
34 percent, including contractions in 2008 and 2009, according
to the State Statistics Institute. The expansion prompted banks,
including  UniCredit SpA  of Italy,  National Bank of Greece SA ,
London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc  and France’s  BNP Paribas SA , to
invest in the banking industry.  New Rules  The country’s financial-services regulator gave the
industry permission to start selling lira bonds on Oct. 1,
publishing a set of rules on its website that authorizes banks
to issue debt up to a limit based on a formula taking into
account their deposits, equity, assets and capital. The maximum
issuance, set at 51 billion liras, may be expanded, chief
regulator  Tevfik Bilgin  said on Dec. 8.  Akbank and other Turkish lenders are seeking funds from the
bond market after Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and
Standard & Poors upgraded Turkey’s credit rating over the past
year. Fitch raised the outlook on its BB+ rating, the highest
non-investment grade that it uses, to “positive” from
“stable” on Nov. 24, citing the strength of Turkey’s economy
and improving public finances.  Rate Cut  The central bank reduced the  benchmark lending rate  50
basis points to a record 6.5 percent yesterday, after keeping it
steady for a year, to help curb inflows of foreign capital that
widen the current account deficit. The bank provided no further
guidance for rates.  An increase for Turkey to investment grade after next
year’s general election, set for June, would also prompt a
decline in bond yields, said  Gurol Ozer , head of fixed income
and trading at Istanbul-based Denizbank AS. Moody’s and S&P rate
Turkey two steps below investment grade.  “It’s thought that Turkey may be upgraded by the end of
next year,” Ozer said. “It’s hard to predict a floor for bond
yields right now.” Yields on two-year government debt may drop
to as low as 6 percent should inflation slow to 5.5 percent, the
central bank’s estimate for the end of next year, he said.  Mortgages Lag  Lending by banks has increased 13.7 percent this year,
outpacing the economy’s expansion, and 2011 will be a
“showcase” year for the industry, Bilgin said on Nov. 12. The
amount of mortgage debt outstanding in Turkey equals 5 percent
of GDP, according to central bank figures. That compares with
the European Union average of 49.8 percent as of 2008, according
to the most recent data compiled by the  European Mortgage
Federation .  Foreign investor holdings of Turkish domestic debt
accounted for 12.3 percent of the total in October, up from 8.9
percent in January, data on the  Treasury ’s Web site show.  Domestic investors are likely to remain the mainstay of the
lira-denominated corporate bond market, which is less liquid
than the market for Turkish sovereign debt and not that much
cheaper, said  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage about $2 billion
in emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors in London.  “The yields don’t look that enticing, the liquidity isn’t
going to be that fantastic and the spreads don’t look great,”
said Curtis, adding that his fund is “slightly” underweight
Turkish government bonds because “in real terms yields aren’t
that interesting and there are more interesting currencies to
invest in.”  The government is due to sell fewer bonds as a proportion
of debt coming due in 2011 than this year, with the rate
decreasing to 88 percent, or 135 billion liras, from 90 percent
in 2010, the Treasury said Oct. 28.  “The Treasury will need to roll over less so there will be
a little more room for private sector bonds,” Quijano-Evans
said. “Once we get into the longer maturity bonds banks may
offer, the premium will get a little more attractive over
government debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Selcuk Gokoluk  in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  