-- Vietnam Stock Index Slumps Most Since August After Moody's Lowers Rating
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-16T06:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/vietnam-stock-index-slumps-most-since-august-after-moody-s-lowers-rating.html
Vietnam  stocks  slumped, dragging
down the benchmark index by the most since August, after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered the country’s credit rating.  Vincom Joint-Stock Co. , Vietnam’s biggest publicly traded
property developer, and  Bao Viet Holdings , the nation’s largest
insurer, both slumped more than 4 percent, pacing stock
declines. Equities fell after Moody’s yesterday cut the
country’s long-term foreign-currency rating to B1 from Ba3,
citing the risk of a balance of payments crisis and a drop in
foreign reserves as inflation accelerates and the nation’s
currency weakens.  The  VN Index  slid 2.7 percent to 480.21, the biggest
decline since Aug. 24, at the 11 a.m. close on the  Ho Chi Minh
City Stock Exchange . The measure was the worst performer in Asia
today. It rallied 16 percent from a three-month low on Nov. 17
through yesterday, when the gauge closed at its highest level
since July 30. Stocks have climbed as the government took steps
to combat inflation including tightening bank lending.  “The timing of the Moody’s downgrade was just after a
three-week rise so market players may have used that as an
excuse to take profits and stay on the sidelines for now,” said
 Mark Canizares , head of equities at Manulife Asset Management
(Vietnam), which has about $280 million of assets.  Vincom retreated 4.7 percent, the most since May 19, to
102,000 dong. Bao Viet lost 4.8 percent, the biggest decline
since Sept. 10, to 69,500 dong.  ‘Debt Distress’  The Moody’s rating, four steps below investment grade,
leaves Vietnam on par with Sri Lanka and Mongolia, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratings company also highlighted
“debt distress” at state-owned Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry
Group, known as Vinashin.  The company had debt of about 86 trillion dong ($4.4
billion) as of June, the government said in August. Vinashin’s
potential failure to make debt payments is likely to undermine
the credit quality and profitability of Vietnam’s banks,
Standard & Poor’s said on Dec. 13.  FPT Corp. , Vietnam’s biggest listed telecommunications and
software company, sank 3 percent to 65,500 dong, the lowest
level since June 8.  Vietnam Export-Import Commercial Joint-Stock
Bank  lost 4.7 percent, the most since Nov. 26, to 16,400 dong.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  