-- Virgin Blue, Air NZ Win Australia Approval to Cooperate on Tasman Routes
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-16T05:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/virgin-blue-air-new-zealand-win-tasman-cooperatino-wins-australia-approval.html
Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd.  and  Air
New Zealand Ltd.  won Australian antitrust approval to cooperate
on flights across the Tasman Sea after the regulator imposed
conditions to allay its earlier objections to the plan.  The airlines will be allowed to coordinate prices,
schedules and capacity between Australia and New Zealand for
three years as long as they maintain and add seats on some
routes, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said
in a statement today.  Shares of Virgin Blue, which also won approval for a
separate accord with Etihad Airways, and Air NZ rose on optimism
the tie-up will help them compete with  Qantas Airways Ltd.  and
its Jetstar budget unit. New Zealand’s Minister of Transport is
also likely to rule on the deal within the next few days,
Auckland-based Air NZ said in a statement.  “These are truly game-changing alliances,” Virgin Blue
Chief Executive Officer  John Borghetti  said about the Air NZ and
Etihad deals in a statement. “We are extremely pleased that the
way is now cleared for us to create a truly global airline.”  Virgin Blue , Australia’s second-largest carrier, rose 5.9
percent to 45 Australian cents at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading
in Sydney. That was the biggest gain since Sept. 7. Air NZ added
1.4 percent to NZ$1.45 in Wellington trading, its highest close
since April 12.  Wellington Routes  Virgin Blue and Auckland-based Air NZ had sought approval
to cooperate for five years. The regulator, which ruled against
the pact in a preliminary opinion in September, only granted
permission until December 2013.  “The ACCC is still concerned that the alliance may affect
competition on a number of routes between Australia and New
Zealand, particularly routes involving Wellington,” Commission
Chairman  Graeme Samuel  said in the statement. “The ACCC has
imposed a number of conditions on authorization which are
designed to address these competition concerns.”  Under the Etihad pact, Brisbane-based Virgin Blue and
Etihad will be able to cooperate on prices and schedules between
Australia and Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  