-- Web Companies Urged by U.S. to Cooperate on Privacy
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-12-16T20:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/web-companies-urged-by-u-s-to-cooperate-on-privacy-policies.html
Internet companies such as  Google
Inc.  and Facebook Inc. are being urged by the government to work
with consumer groups to develop new privacy rules to protect Web
users or face regulations.  Internet companies liked the Commerce Department report on
Web privacy, released today, while consumer-protection advocates
said it left too much to the discretion of the industry to
police itself.  The Commerce Department called for the Web industry to
write voluntary codes of conduct for protecting privacy of Web
users that would be enforced by the  Federal Trade Commission .
Officials stopped short of calling for a privacy law, while
saying that if companies didn’t establish their own rules, the
department should consider asking the FTC to write regulations
or for Congress to pass a law prescribing them.  New rules have “major implications for American consumers
and American businesses that depend on e-commerce for an ever-
growing share of their sales,” said Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  in a conference call with reporters today in Washington.
“Right now there are no uniform requirements on how businesses
should handle consumer information online.”  He said the government is pushing Internet companies to
come forward with new rules because the industry was too slow in
creating comprehensive guidelines on its own. Locke said he
hoped to have new policies completed sometime next year.  Good for Industry  The U.S. is focusing on privacy as the global Internet
economy has reached an estimated $10 trillion annually,
according to an estimate by the  Information Technology and
Innovation Foundation  cited in the Commerce report. Advocacy
groups and some lawmakers are calling for better privacy
practices.  The report is “good news for Internet companies” because
it will give them latitude in the development of rules,  Rebecca Arbogast , a technology analyst for Stifel Nicolaus in
Washington, said in an interview. The Commerce Department “is
very mindful that they don’t want to kill the goose that laid
the golden egg.”  “All companies, online and offline, need to develop
transparent policies for protecting user privacy,” said  Ed Black , president of the Computer and Communications Industry
Association, which counts Google, Facebook, EBay, Microsoft and
Oracle among its members. “Privacy will become a
differentiating criterion for companies and users,” he said in
an e-mailed statement.  ‘Industry Friendly Document’  Consumer groups including Consumer Watchdog and the  Center
for Digital Democracy , both based in Washington, have raised
concerns about how Internet marketing companies compile personal
information to target online users with advertising. The FTC
said in a privacy report released Dec. 1 that data collection on
the Web is sometimes done “in an irresponsible or even reckless
manner.”  Revenue from online advertising may reach $25.6 billion
this year and $28.4 billion in 2011, up 12 percent this year and
11 percent next year, according to Brian Weiser, global director
of forecasting at Magna Global, a unit of New York-based
 Interpublic Group of Cos. , owner of advertising agencies.  Google and Facebook welcomed Commerce’s collaborative
approach, respect for innovation and its efforts to preserve the
flow of information internationally.  ‘No Fear Mongering’  “There’s no fear mongering in this report,” said Stu
Ingis, a partner at  Venable LLP  in Washington, which is advising
a coalition that represents more than 5,000 advertisers, led by
the American Association of Advertising Agencies and the
American Advertising Federation. “It recognizes the value of
the advertising market and the Internet industry for the
economy.”  The groups introduced a self regulating opt-out button in
October that allows consumers to indicate they don’t want their
online behavior to be tracked.  Google rose 70 cents to $591 a share while EBay rose 31
cents to $30.50, both at 3:50 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  Consumer groups criticized the department’s position. In
calling the report “an industry friendly document,” Consumer
Watchdog said in an e-mailed statement that the Commerce
Department “proposes relying on a failed self-regulatory model
when it’s clear that real regulations with meaningful
enforcement are necessary.”  ‘Wild, Wild West’  Chris Calabrese, legislative counsel for the American Civil
Liberties Union, also called for privacy legislation. “It’s a
wild, wild West out there in terms of consumer privacy and there
are not very many protections out there,” he said in a
conference call with reporters. “Now it’s up to Congress to
act. Congress has to create a robust set of protections.”  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a Democrat from West Virginia who
asked Facebook and MySpace Inc. in October about private
information that was leaked from their websites, said in an e-
mailed statement, “Legislation is necessary to protect
consumers. Online companies must be more accountable and our
national privacy policy must better serve consumers.”  Commerce officials didn’t take a position on the FTC’s call
Dec. 1 for giving online consumers the option not to have their
Web activity tracked.  “Do-not-track has a lot of different meanings,” said
 Daniel Weitzner , associate administrator for policy at the
 National Telecommunications and Information Administration , a
unit of the Commerce Department. “We’re interested in enhancing
consumer control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  