-- Wells Fargo Surpasses JPMorgan as Top U.S. Bank by Market Value
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-16T21:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/wells-fargo-surpasses-jpmorgan-chase-as-largest-u-s-bank-by-market-value.html
Wells Fargo & Co. , the San
Francisco-based lender that doubled its size by buying Wachovia
Corp. during the credit crisis, passed  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to
become the largest U.S. bank by stock-market value.  Wells Fargo’s market capitalization rose to $157.6 billion
at today’s close of New York trading,  surpassing  JPMorgan’s
$156.4 billion. Wells Fargo is ranked fourth by assets and
deposits, while JPMorgan is second behind Bank of America Corp.
and New York-based Citigroup Inc. is third.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, has used
acquisitions to fuel growth at Wells Fargo. The lender completed
more than 55 purchases in the past five years, led by its $12.7
billion takeover of Wachovia in October 2008, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . Wells Fargo had $622.4 billion in assets
in the quarter before it purchased Wachovia. It held $1.2
trillion in assets at the end of September.  Wells Fargo rose 0.8 percent to $30.02 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have advanced
11 percent this year, compared with a loss of 4 percent at
JPMorgan. The biggest stakeholder in Wells Fargo is  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  On May 12, Wells Fargo passed  Bank of America  as the most
valuable U.S. bank before the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company passed it the following week on May 18, according to
Bloomberg data. New York-based JPMorgan has held the lead for
most of the last two years, except for the five-month period
between February and July of this year when it repeatedly traded
places with Bank of America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  