-- Wen Visits Pakistan to Revive Road-Rail Network from China to Persian Gulf
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-12-17T08:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/wen-visits-pakistan-to-revive-road-rail-network-from-china-to-persian-gulf.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  traveled
to Pakistan today for a visit that officials say may revive a
planned road-rail network linking China to the Persian Gulf.  Pakistan also hopes to sign business agreements valued at
$20 billion with executives from companies traveling with Wen,
Defense Minister Chaudhary  Mukhtar Ahmed , said yesterday. The
Chinese leader was greeted with a 21-gun salute upon arrival at
an airbase outside Islamabad, Pakistan Television said.  Wen and Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  will meet today
to discuss how to make the Chinese-built port of Gwadar
operational, Gilani told journalists on Dec. 15, according to
the state-run  Associated Press of Pakistan . The port, which
lacks a rail or multi-lane highway link to the rest of  Pakistan ,
is envisioned as the terminus of a transport corridor that would
carry Middle Eastern oil and other goods to western China.  Chinese engineers have finished a feasibility study for a
railroad and pipeline from Gwadar to the western Chinese city of
Kashgar. It would follow the route of the China-built Karakoram
Highway, a Chinese specialist on Pakistan,  Li Xiguang , wrote on
Dec. 14  in the Global Times , an English-language website
controlled by the ruling Communist Party’s official newspaper.  A transport corridor to Gwadar “will provide China with
the shortest possible route to the oil-rich Middle East,
replacing the dangerous maritime route” around Southeast Asia,
Li wrote.  Transport Troubles  Gwadar is currently connected to the business hub of
Karachi and the rest of Pakistan by a 450-kilometer (280-mile)
road, most of it two lanes, that has suffered repeated flood
damage in recent years. “Poor road connectivity” limits its
traffic to no more than three ships at a time, said Faisal
Jawaid of port operator  PSA Gwadar Ltd. , a unit of Singapore-
based PSA International.  Wen flew to Pakistan from New Delhi, where he and Indian
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  agreed to boost bilateral trade by
two-thirds to $100 billion by 2015. The leaders omitted any
mention of tensions between their countries over China’s close
ties with Pakistan, with which India has fought three wars, two
of them over the disputed territory of Kashmir.  Gilani told reporters that Pakistan faces no threat from
the growing China-India relationship, the APP said. Pakistan’s
President  Asif Ali Zardari  has been a regular traveler to China
since heading there for his first state visit after being
elected in September 2008.  Reactor Concern  The budding bilateral relationship has triggered U.S.
concern over China’s plan to add two nuclear reactors to a
power-plant complex in Pakistan’s Punjab province. The U.S. has
said China should get approval from the 46-country Nuclear
Suppliers’ Group, which works to avoid the uncontrolled spread
of nuclear technology.  Pakistan may seek Chinese investment in five state-owned
enterprises and offer to host an electric-car manufacturing
plant, its industries ministry said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “Some of the areas of investment include steel,
automobile, electronics and domestic appliances,” it said  The ministry said it hopes Chinese businesses may put money
into Heavy Mechanical Complex Ltd., a builder of armored
vehicles for Pakistan’s military based in Taxila, near Islamabad,
the Haripur-based Heavy Electrical Complex Ltd., and the
 Pakistan Machine Tool Factory  and  Pakistan Engineering  Co. Ltd.,
which are both based in Karachi.  Wen will lay the ground for the opening of a branch of the
 Industrial and Commercial Bank of China , Li wrote. He is also
set to address Pakistan’s National Assembly.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Rupert 
in New Delhi at   jrupert3@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net , 