-- Whole-Milk Powder Surges to Three-Month High as N.Z. Drought Curbs Output
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-12-16T02:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/whole-milk-powder-surges-to-three-month-high-as-n-z-drought-curbs-output.html
Whole-milk powder prices advanced to
a three-month high as drought in New Zealand, the world’s
biggest milk exporter, curbed production, and ANZ National Bank
Ltd. forecast further increases next year.  The average spot price advanced 2.2 percent to $3,597 a
metric ton in a Dec. 15 auction, the highest level since Sept.
15, according to data on the  GlobalDairyTrade  website. Powder
for February delivery gained 3.2 percent compared with two weeks
earlier, according the website.  More expensive milk may fuel faster global food inflation,
boosting costs for consumers. The  World Food Price Index , a
gauge of 55 farm-commodity prices from the United Nations’ Food
and Agriculture Organization, climbed to the highest level in
more than two years this month on rising cereals, sugar and oils.  Milk prices may rise further after New Zealand declared
medium-level droughts in Waikato, the biggest milk-producing
region, and Northland, according to Con Williams, rural
economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. Production was falling at a
“substantial” rate as farmers in drought zones cut milking to
once a day and culled older and non-pregnant cows, he said today.  “The rate of decline and what farmers are doing is going
to impact the remainder of the season,” Williams said from
Wellington. “That’s really going to lower milk production over
the next six months.”  Lower Output  Milk output has fallen 4.7 percent on the North Island this
month compared with December last year, and declined 1.8 percent
on the South Island, according to Auckland-based  Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s largest dairy exporter.  Fonterra raised its farmer payout forecast on Dec. 10,
citing rising global prices. The company expects to pay its
10,500 farmers NZ$6.90 ($5.10) per kilogram of milk solids in
the year to May 31, compared with a Nov. 5 forecast of NZ$6.60.  Last season, Fonterra collected 4.3 percent less milk from
North Island suppliers after a drought in Northland and Waikato.
“Milk production in the North Island is declining and we know
farmers in some regions are struggling,” Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Ferrier said in a Dec. 10  statement .  The winning first-contract price for regular New Zealand
whole-milk powder, the reference point for  NZX Ltd. ’s futures
contract, rose to $3,580 a ton, according to a trade-weighted
price index calculated by Fonterra after its latest auction. The
December contract settled yesterday at $3,605.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  