-- WikiLeaks Founder Assange Released on Bail, Says He Will Continue His Work
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-12-16T18:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/wikileaks-founder-assange-released-on-bail-says-he-will-continue-his-work.html
WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange 
said he would continue his work and “protest my innocence”
after being released from a London prison on bail today.  “During my time in a Victorian prison, I had time to
reflect on the conditions of those people around the world also
in solitary confinement in conditions that are more difficult
than those faced by me,” Assange, 39, said outside the High
Court in London today, while thanking supporters who helped him
post bail. “Those people also need your attention and
support.”  Assange has been in jail since Dec. 7, when the Australian
turned himself in to U.K. police after Swedish authorities
issued a European arrest warrant. Assange is wanted for
questioning over claims of rape and molestation in Sweden.  A court ruling today upheld a Dec. 14 decision to free
Assange that U.K. prosecutors had appealed. Assange’s lawyer has
suggested the Swedish case is politically motivated by WikiLeaks
actions. WikiLeaks has drawn condemnation for posting thousands
of classified U.S. diplomatic communications and U.S. military
documents, including a video of a July 2007 helicopter attack in
Iraq that killed a Reuters television cameraman and his driver.  Electronic Tag, Curfew  Assange was released after being ordered to post bail of
200,000 pounds ($311,800), turn in his passport, wear an
electronic tag and observe an overnight curfew at a friend’s
home. At least nine of Assange’s friends and supporters agreed
to offer a total of 75,000 pounds of additional guarantees for
the bail, bringing the total commitment to 275,000 pounds.  The bail ruling “is common in extradition cases involving
foreign nationals,” said  Michael O’Kane , a fraud and regulatory
lawyer with Peters & Peters in London, who isn’t involved in the
case. “The publicity attaching to this case is also likely to
have helped Mr. Assange, as it would make fleeing the U.K.
extremely difficult.”  Assange’s lawyer,  Mark Stephens , said earlier today that
the U.K.’s appeal of bail was evidence of the “continuing
vendetta on the part of the Swedes against Assange.” Stephens
regularly represents media organizations, including Bloomberg
News.  “If justice is not always an outcome, at least it’s not
dead yet,” Assange told reporters.  Suffolk Home  After his release, Assange will stay at the Suffolk home in
eastern England of Vaughan Smith, a friend who runs a club for
journalists. Celebrities that offered to provide financial
guarantees that he wouldn’t jump bail included  Bianca Jagger ,
the former wife of  Mick Jagger , and  John Pilger , a documentary
film maker.  The arrest warrant was sought by Swedish prosecutor
 Marianne Ny , who started her investigation on Sept. 1 after a
Stockholm-based prosecutor dropped the rape charge and reduced
the molestation charges. A lawyer for the two alleged victims
appealed that decision.  The Swedish warrant covers one count of unlawful coercion,
two counts of sexual molestation and one count of rape.  Stephens has said his client has tried repeatedly to meet
with the Swedish prosecutor when he was in Sweden and that she
hasn’t directly provided evidence against him, such as text
messages between the two alleged victims.  Stephens said the Swedish case may be politically motivated
due to the WikiLeaks disclosures. U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said Nov. 29 that the Justice Department is investigating
the leaks.  Created in 2006, WikiLeaks receives confidential material
and posts it online “so readers and historians alike can see
evidence of the truth,” according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 