-- Hyundai Merchant Rises on Speculation Parent's Builder Takeover May Fail
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-12-16T07:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-16/hyundai-merchant-rises-on-speculation-parent-s-builder-takeover-may-fail.html
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , Hyundai
Group’s largest unit, rose the most in two weeks on speculation
its parent’s preliminary agreement to buy a controlling stake in
South Korea’s biggest builder may collapse.  Documents provided by Hyundai Group about its funding plans
for buying 35 percent of  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. 
were “insufficient,”  Korea Exchange Bank , one of the
shareholders selling the stake, said today by e-mail following
an Edaily report. The group submitted the documents after a
third request to provide more details on its financing.  Hyundai Merchant as of yesterday had fallen 11 percent
since Hyundai Group’s Nov. 16 selection as preferred bidder for
the builder raised concern the group could not afford the
acquisition. The group trumped a bid from Hyundai Motor Group by
offering 5.5 trillion won ($4.8 billion) for the shares, more
than double the market value, two people familiar with the
matter said on Nov. 16.  “The chances of Hyundai Group losing the preferred bidder
status are increasing,” said  Kang Seong Jin , an analyst at Tong
Yang Securities Inc. “Some buyers suffered financial problems
after hefty acquisitions in recent years, and such concerns have
weighed on Hyundai Group units.”  Hyundai Group Shares  Hyundai Merchant, South Korea’s second-biggest shipping
line, jumped 6.4 percent to 42,350 won as of the 3 p.m. close in
Seoul, the biggest gain since Dec. 2, after soaring as much as
11 percent. Affiliate Hyundai Elevator Co. rose 12 percent to
99,900 won, and Hyundai Securities Co. added 0.7 percent to
13,750 won.  Hyundai Engineering  gained 2.9 percent 66,700 won, after
rising as much as 4.9 percent, the most since Nov. 29.  The shareholders selling the stake are discussing what to
do next, the Korea Exchange Bank said today without elaborating.
They will make a decision before Dec. 22, Edaily said yesterday.  Korea Exchange Bank last week said the shareholders could
scrap the preliminary deal with Hyundai Group should it fail to
provide sufficient information by the Dec. 14 deadline.  The shareholders were seeking more details on a 1.2
trillion won loan that Hyundai Group received from Paris-based
 Natixis SA . Hyundai Group said it would give the shareholders a
confirmation letter about the loan, while declining to hand over
a copy of the agreement.  The rival offers for Hyundai Engineering from Hyundai Motor
Group and Hyundai Group, once part of the same business group,
extended a decade-long feud in one of South Korea’s richest
families.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 