-- Imax Bondholder Files Default Notice; Deadline Passes
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2007-07-03T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-03/imax-bondholder-files-default-notice-deadline-passes-update1-.html

          
          
             Catalyst Capital Group Inc., owner of
about $67 million of  Imax Corp. (IMX)  debt, issued a third ``notice of
defaults'' to the maker of giant-sized movie screens after it
missed another deadline to file financial reports.  
 Imax failed to file its 2006 annual report and valid annual
and quarterly reports from 2002 to 2006, Catalyst said in a
statement sent by its nominee Cede & Co. Catalyst ``demands''
that all defaults be remedied.  
 Imax said earlier today it expects to be able to file the
reports ``shortly.'' The Mississauga, Ontario-based company had
said it would file by June 30. On June 29 Imax said it would miss
that deadline.  
 Catalyst spokesman Gabriel de Alba declined to comment. Lisa
Murray, a spokeswoman, and Emilio Galvan, a spokesman, both with
outside public relations firm Brown Rudnick Berlack Israels LLP,
didn't return calls seeking comment. Imax spokeswoman Sarah Gormley also didn't immediately return a call.  
 Imax on March 29 delayed its 2006 annual report for a second
time this year after broadening an investigation into how it
accounted for expenses. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Ontario Securities Commission began informal
inquiries last year into Imax's bookkeeping methods.  
 Shares of Imax fell 12 cents to $4.20 at 1 p.m.  New York 
time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . They have gained 12 percent
this year. U.S. stock exchanges closed early today ahead of
tomorrow's Independence Day holiday.  
 Catalyst is a holder of record of more than 25 percent of
Imax's 9.625 percent notes due in 2010, according to the
statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Torobin at 
 jtorobin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        