-- `Black Swan' Author Taleb Says Dubai's Economy Is More Robust Than U.S.
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-10-04T09:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/-black-swan-author-taleb-says-dubai-s-economy-is-more-robust-than-u-s-.html
Nassim Nicholas Taleb, whose book
“The Black Swan” described how unforeseen events can roil
global markets, said Dubai’s economy is more robust than that of
the U.S. as its debt problem can be “controlled.”  “Even if you take perhaps the worst of emerging markets, a
place like Dubai, you realize Dubai is more robust than the
United States,” Taleb said at a mutual funds conference in
Manama, Bahrain today. “Dubai has been borrowing to put
buildings on postcards. It can stop that, but America needs to
borrow just to open the doors in the morning. That’s why I’m not
comfortable with the United States.”  Prior to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, Taleb warned that bankers were relying too much
on probability models and were disregarding the potential for
unexpected catastrophes. His book labeled these events black
swans, referring to the widely held belief that only white swans
existed until black ones were discovered in Australia in 1697,
and said that they were becoming more severe.  “Dubai, they’re not depending on debt, it’s not a chronic
debt, it’s not like the American person who has this dependency
on debt and has been building it since the 80s,” Taleb, a
former derivatives trader, said. “It’s not a great model but
it’s more robust than the United States, simply because their
debt situation can be controlled a lot better than the U.S.”  Repay Debt  U.S. President Barack Obama and his administration weakened
the country’s economy by seeking to foster growth instead of
paying down the federal debt, Taleb, said in Montreal on Sept.
24. Governments globally need to cut debt and avoid bailing out
struggling companies because that’s the only way they can shield
their economies from the negative consequences of erroneous
budget forecasts, Taleb said then.  Dubai has faced a debt crisis since November when Dubai
World, one of its three main state-owned holding companies, said
it would delay payments on about $26 billion of debt. The
second-biggest of seven states that make up the United Arab
Emirates and its state-owned companies have borrowed $109.3
billion, according to the International Monetary Fund estimates,
as the emirate strove to transform itself into a financial,
logistic and tourism hub. That is 133 percent of its gross
domestic product of $82 billion in 2008, as reported in its bond
prospectus published last month.  Obama in September proposed a package of $180 billion in
business tax breaks and infrastructure outlays to boost spending
and job growth on top of the $814 billion stimulus measure
enacted last year. The U.S. government’s total outstanding debt
is about $13.5 trillion, according to U.S. Treasury Department
figures. That is 94 percent of its 2009 GDP of $14.3 trillion,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  