-- `Pope in Hell' Funeral Protest Sparks U.S. Supreme Court Free-Speech Clash
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-04T16:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/-pope-in-hell-funeral-protest-sparks-u-s-supreme-court-free-speech-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  has said that
even outrageous speech is entitled to First Amendment
protection. That principle is about to be tested.  The justices, who opened their new term today with
arguments in two cases, this week will consider reinstating a $5
million award against a Kansas minister who staged a protest at
the funeral of a Marine killed in Iraq. Fred W. Phelps Sr. and
six relatives carried signs that said God was killing U.S.
soldiers to punish the country for accepting homosexuality. One
said “God Hates the USA” and others used an anti-gay slur.  Even those who have filed briefs in support of Phelps are
condemning his tactics, describing them as “disrespectful,”
“repugnant” and “contemptible.” They nonetheless want the
court to reject the award to the dead Marine’s father, saying
that allowing the judgment would threaten political protesters
and commentators of all stripes.  It is “one of these cases that tests our commitment to the
First Amendment,” said  Stephen R. Shapiro , legal director of
the American Civil Liberties Union, which is  asking  the court to
bar the award. “I don’t think the First Amendment permits a
jury award based upon a determination of outrageousness or
offensiveness.”  For Albert Snyder, who is suing Phelps and two of his
daughters for intentional infliction of emotional distress, the
case has little to do with speech rights.  ‘Pope in Hell’  Snyder’s only son, Lance Corporal Matthew Snyder, was 20
when he died in Iraq’s Anbar Province in 2006. The day before
the funeral, Albert Snyder learned that Phelps was planning to
turn the service into a spectacle.  On the day of the funeral, the group gathered 1,000 feet
away from the Snyder family’s  Catholic church  in Westminster,
Maryland. The demonstrators carried signs that read “Thank God
for Dead Soldiers,” “Pope in hell” and “Fag troops.” Albert
Snyder says another sign read, “Matt in hell.”  The website of Phelps’s church, the Westboro Baptist Church
in Topeka, later featured an “epic” that said Snyder and his
ex-wife “taught Matthew to defy his creator” and “raised him
for the devil.”  Snyder says he didn’t see the demonstrators that day, only
the tops of their signs. Even so, he says the Phelpses made
their presence felt, forcing a massive police presence that
included a SWAT team and a mobile command center.  “I didn’t think any human being could do the things that
they did,” Snyder said in an interview. “They mentally abused
and terrorized me at the lowest point of my life.”  Daughter Arguing Case  Phelps’s congregation has 60 to 70 members, 50 of them
family members, according to court papers. Phelps will be
represented at the Supreme Court by a third daughter, Margie, a
Westboro member who wasn’t sued by Snyder but has taken part in
other demonstrations.  Margie Phelps  said in an interview that military funerals,
including Matthew Snyder’s, have become “patriotic pep
rallies,” making them legitimate platforms for debate. Phelps
and his followers say they have picketed some 600 military
funerals.  “This little church went to that public platform to say
the right words, which are: ‘They’re dying for your sins. Start
obeying God, and they’ll stop dying,’” she said.  As many as 28 church members will be in Washington for the
argument, and some will be picketing outside, she said.  Offensive Speech  The Supreme Court has backed speech it deemed offensive
before, perhaps most memorably in a 1989 decision that upheld
the rights of protesters who burned the American flag.  “If there is a bedrock principle underlying the First
Amendment, it is that the government may not prohibit the
expression of an idea simply because society finds the idea
itself offensive or disagreeable,” the majority said in that 5-
4 decision.  In a 1988 ruling that will be a key precedent for the
Snyder case, the court threw out an award to the  Reverend Jerry Falwell  over a Hustler magazine parody that said his first
sexual encounter took place with his mother in an outhouse. The
court said Falwell, who mobilized the religious right by
founding the Moral Majority, was fair game for parody because of
his status as a public figure.  Like Snyder, Falwell had sued for infliction of emotional
distress. Snyder’s lawyers say their case is different because
their client is a private figure, not someone who thrust himself
into a public debate.  Reid and McConnell  Among those backing Snyder are 42 U.S. senators, led by
Democratic Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada and Republican
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. They say in court
papers that mourners have a right to a private, peaceful
memorial service.  Twenty-one news organizations including Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News, are joining the ACLU in urging
rejection of the award.  The case will be the second argued before the newest
justice,  Elena Kagan , a former law professor and dean whose
academic focus included the First Amendment.  A jury awarded Snyder $10.9 million, an amount later
reduced by a trial judge. A federal appeals court in Richmond,
Virginia, then threw out the entire award.  The justices’ decision to hear the case hints that they
might have questions about that ruling. Having taken the case,
they now may find it difficult to allow the award without
undermining free-speech principles, says  Peter Edelman , a
constitutional law professor at Georgetown University’s law
school in Washington.  “Maybe at the end of the day, we have to put up with the
Phelpses, whether we like it or not,” he said.  The case is Snyder v. Phelps, 09-751.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 