-- `Social Network' Fans Ignore Unflattering Zuckerberg Portrait
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/-social-network-fans-dismiss-movie-s-unflattering-portrait-of-zuckerberg.html
“The Social Network,” Hollywood’s
unflattering portrait of Facebook Inc.’s  Mark Zuckerberg , pulled
in moviegoers eager to see an account of the social-networking
website’s early days and driven founder.  Fans attending opening-weekend showings in Los Angeles and
San Francisco said they understood why some events were
fictionalized in the movie, which chronicles the acrimonious
beginnings of the world’s largest virtual gathering place.  “I know they took a lot of liberties,” Dylan Kellogg, 16
and seeing the movie for a second time, said at an AMC theater
in Glendora, California. Zuckerberg is “really smart,” he
said. “The movie portrays him as a person who’s driven by his
own goals, but I think what he made was something that’s pretty
cool for a lot of people.”  “The Social Network,” among the year’s most praised
movies by critics, follows Zuckerberg, now 26, as he rises from
social outcast at Harvard to billionaire. By the time the movie
ends, he’s become alienated from his friends by lawsuits and
squabbles over control of the company.  Made for $50 million, the  Sony Corp.  film generated $23
million in its opening weekend, according to Box Office Mojo.  “For a picture like this to hit $23 million is quite
solid,”  Brandon Gray , president of the Sherman Oaks,
California-based researcher, said in an interview.  Sales fell short of the $26 million forecast of Box Office
Guru editor  Gitesh Pandya . The film, directed by  David Fincher ,
stars Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg and  Justin Timberlake  as
Napster co-founder Sean Parker.  Aaron Sorkin  wrote the
screenplay, drawing from  Ben Mezrich ’s book “The Accidental
Billionaires.”  Feuding Founders  In the movie, Zuckerberg creates Facebook after being hired
by three other students to help them build a social-networking
site for Harvard students. The trio,  Cameron Winklevoss ,  Tyler Winklevoss  and  Divya Narendra , settled their lawsuit for $65
million in 2008. They subsequently have contested the
settlement, seeking more money.  Zuckerberg also was sued by friend and Facebook co-founder
 Eduardo Saverin , played by Andrew Garfield. Saverin settled his
lawsuit for an undisclosed amount. (A New York man, Paul Ceglia,
separately claims an ownership stake in Facebook.)  The movie raised questions about Zuckerberg’s role, said
Anthony Gardner, who saw it in San Francisco. Gardner, who uses
Facebook at least three times a day, said he’ll continue to do
so because it helps him stay in touch with friends.  “It did make me think about his ethical intentions,”
Gardner said.  In an interview with  Charlie Rose  last week, Sorkin said
he also drew from depositions and interviews with participants,
although Zuckerberg and Facebook refused to cooperate. He said
he offered multiple viewpoints because the truth was in dispute.  Classic Themes  “It’s not a movie about Facebook,” Sorkin said. “At the
center of this is a very modern invention, but the themes in it
and the story are as old as storytelling itself -- of friendship
and loyalty and betrayal and power and class.”  By its close, the movie portrayed Zuckerberg in a positive
light, said Patrick Tran, 21, after seeing it in San Francisco.  “I don’t think Mark Zuckerberg did anything wrong based on
the movie,” Tran said. “I like Facebook more after watching.”  At Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California, employees went
on an outing to watch “The Social Network,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  “To celebrate a period of intense activity at Facebook, we
decided to go to the movies,” the company said. “We thought
this particular movie might be amusing.”  Reviews  The film had a 97 percent approval rating on Rotten
Tomatoes.com. As of Oct. 3, 162 of 167 reviews posted were
positive. The only widely released films with a higher rating
this year were  Walt Disney Co. ’s “Toy Story 3,” with 99
percent, and  DreamWorks Animation SKG ’s “How to Train Your
Dragon,” with 98 percent, according to the  website .  Facebook lets users post photos, share information and send
greetings via electronic “pokes.” The company was valued at
$26.3 billion, according to SharesPost Inc., a private exchange.
Facebook has more than 500 million users, according to the
company’s  website .  Dylan Kellogg’s mother, Dawn, 46, said she wanted to see
“The Social Network” after watching Zuckerberg’s appearance on
“Oprah” to announce a $100 million donation to Newark, New
Jersey, schools. She said she didn’t expect a completely
accurate portrayal of Zuckerberg or his motives in creating
Facebook.  Her bigger concern is that Facebook has hampered
traditional forms of communication among teenagers.  “It’s almost like they don’t talk to each other,” Dawn
Kellogg said. “The art of conversation, it’s not there. It’s a
step back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles1@bloomberg.net  