-- Abu Ghraib Contractor Suit Draws U.S. Supreme Court Interest
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-04T14:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/abu-ghraib-case-involving-private-contractors-draws-top-court-s-interest.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  signaled it
may consider whether two military contractors can be sued for
allegedly abusing inmates at Iraq’s Abu Ghraib prison in a case
that could make companies more vulnerable to human rights suits.  The justices today asked the Obama administration for
advice on an appeal from 26 Abu Ghraib inmates seeking to sue
 CACI International Inc.,  which helped interrogate prisoners at
the facility, and Titan Corp., which provided translation
services. Titan has since been renamed and is now part of  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc.   The appeal asks the court to decide whether companies and
other private parties can be sued under a federal law that
authorizes some suits against foreign governments for human
rights abuses. The inmates also want the justices to consider
whether contractors are immune from state-law suits stemming
from activities that take place on the battlefield.  The inmates, who were civilian detainees, say they were
subjected to abuses by CACI and Titan employees including
beatings, sexual humiliation, exposure to extreme temperatures
and rape. In court papers, the inmates say some prisoners were
tortured into unconsciousness and several were murdered.  Abu Ghraib became an international embarrassment for the
U.S. in 2004 when photographs surfaced showing guards
mistreating inmates.  Two groups of inmates are seeking to sue under the 1789
U.S. Alien Tort Statute and District of Columbia law.  A federal appeals court in Washington rejected the suits on
a 2-1 vote last year. The majority said that the Alien Tort
Statute generally can’t be invoked against a private party and
that contractors are shielded from suits under state law for
wartime activities that are closely supervised by the military.  The justices directed today’s request to  Neal Katyal , the
acting U.S. solicitor general. Katyal took that post after
President  Barack Obama  nominated  Elena Kagan  to the Supreme
Court.  The case is Saleh v. CACI International, 09-1313.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 