-- Wynn, Sands Shares Rise After Macau Revenue Jumps 40%
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-10-04T20:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/macau-casino-sales-rise-40-in-september.html
Shares of casino owners including
Wynn Resorts Ltd. and Las Vegas Sands Corp. rose after gambling
 revenue  in Macau jumped 40 percent in September.  Revenue for  SJM Holdings Ltd. ,  Sands China Ltd.  and four
other casino operators in the world’s biggest gambling hub rose
to 15.3 billion patacas ($1.9 billion) last month from a year
earlier, Macau’s  Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau  said.  Wynn climbed 3.9 percent to $90.51 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq
trading, and Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. rose 5.9 percent to
$5.39. Las Vegas Sands jumped 3.6 percent to $36.44, and MGM
Resorts gained 1 percent to $11.36 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The four U.S.-listed companies own casinos in
Macau, the only place in China where they’re legal.  Growth in Macau is slowing from the 67 percent pace in the
first half, when an economic recovery boosted gambling. China’s
economic expansion moderated to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from 11.9 percent the previous three months as the
government introduced measures to cool its property market.  Macau growth is “still at attractive levels, even as the
rate decelerates,”  Janet Brashear , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York said in a note to clients dated
today. “The real news is the share battle under way. Reports
suggest that MGM and Melco have been particularly aggressive in
attempting to shift junket share to their casinos.”  MGM last week filed a preliminary application for an
initial public offering in Hong Kong. MGM China Holdings Ltd.,
the Macau venture between the biggest casino owner on the Las
Vegas Strip and  Pansy Ho , daughter of billionaire  Stanley Ho ,
has said it plans to sell shares in Asia this year.  Nine-Month Revenue  Casino revenue in the first nine months advanced 60 percent
to 133 billion patacas from the same period last year, according
to the government bureau. September’s results matched an
estimate by Macquarie Group Ltd.  “Asia’s macro-economic performance continues to be strong
and Macau will benefit as long as this dynamic remains,”
independent industry consultant  Jonathan Galaviz  said. “There
continues to be tremendous asset bubbles in the region. Hence,
we are also cautious on Macau due to its sensitivity to what we
see as an eventual Asia downturn sometime in 2011.”  Sands China , the Hong Kong-listed unit of billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas-based company,  climbed  6 percent to
close at HK$14.84 in Hong Kong trading, before the announcement.
Stanley Ho’s  SJM  rose 6.9 percent to HK$9.47.  Melco International Development Ltd. , which has a venture
with Australian billionaire  James Packer ’s  Crown Ltd. , advanced
6.8 percent to HK$4.23 and  Wynn Macau Ltd.  climbed 4 percent to
HK$13.96.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd.  declined 1.4 percent
to HK$6.84.  Las Vegas Sands Corp., the parent of  Sands China , in June
forecast growth of more than 30 percent for the second half,
slower than the 67 percent expansion in the first six months.  The territory surpassed the Las Vegas Strip as the world’s
biggest gambling hub in 2006, after the government ended  Stanley Ho ’s four-decade gambling monopoly and allowed the entry of
foreign operators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  