-- Adelphia's Rigases Rejected by U.S. Supreme Court on Sentences
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-04T14:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/adelphia-s-rigases-rejected-by-u-s-high-court-on-sentence-reduction-try.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  left intact
 Adelphia Communications Corp.  founder  John Rigas ’s 12-year
prison term and his son  Timothy ’s 17-year sentence, rejecting
their appeal for the second time in the corporate fraud case.  The high court, which ruled in favor of two corporate fraud
defendants in its most recent term, today refused to question a
federal appeals court ruling that upheld the sentences on the
Rigases.  John Rigas, 85, and  Timothy Rigas , 54, are serving their
terms at the low-security Federal Correctional Complex in
Butner, North Carolina. They are also facing separate criminal
charges for allegedly failing to pay taxes on money they looted
from Adelphia.  The two men were convicted in 2004 in federal court in New
York of bank and securities fraud. Jurors found that the Rigases
lied about the source of $1.6 billion used to buy Adelphia stock
and debt and stole $51 million in cash advances.  The two men spent $26.5 million in company money to buy
timberland near their home in Coudersport, Pennsylvania, and $13
million to build a company golf course on land owned by Adelphia
and their family, prosecutors said. Adelphia paid for antiques,
family residences and a personal trainer for the men, witnesses
testified.  In their unsuccessful Supreme Court appeal, the Rigases
argued that prosecutors should have disclosed notes from a
witness they interviewed. The two men also contended that the
government didn’t prove that they caused losses of more than
$100 million, a threshold that meant longer sentences.  The Rigases drew support in their appeal from five other
cable-television executives, including  Cablevision Systems Corp. 
Chairman  Charles F. Dolan .  The Supreme Court rejected an appeal by the Rigases in
2008. The justices in June gave partial victories to former
 Enron Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  and former
Hollinger International Inc. Chairman  Conrad Black .  The case is Rigas v. United States, 09-1456.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 