-- Marketing Groups to Let Consumers Limit Web Tracking
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-10-04T15:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/advertising-groups-offer-program-to-let-u-s-consumers-block-web-tracking.html
Groups representing 5,000 advertisers
from  Procter & Gamble Co.,  to AMR Corp.’s American Airlines say
they will offer U.S. consumers more control over how their
Internet browsing is used to target marketing.  Web users will be given the option to bar companies from
sending them ad messages based on tracking of their previous
online searches, according to a  statement  today by the trade
groups led by the  American Association of Advertising Agencies 
and the  American Advertising Federation .  The industry initiative is based on guidelines recommended
last year by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. The FTC’s
proposals stemmed from the agency’s continuing inquiry into how
companies tailor their advertising to individuals and whether
practices based on consumer Web browsing intrude on privacy.  “The goal of the program is to make Internet advertising
more transparent and allow consumers to have a choice about the
ads they receive,” said  Stuart Ingis , a partner at  Venable LLP 
in Washington, which is advising the groups, which include the
 Association of National Advertisers , the  Direct Marketing
Association  and the  Interactive Advertising Bureau .  “The public votes every day with their clicks,” Ingis
said in an interview. “This program is to make sure that is
preserved and can be expanded responsibly.”  Coca-Cola, Microsoft  Members of the American Advertising Federation include
Procter & Gamble, the world’s largest consumer-product company,
as well as  Coca-Cola Co.,  Microsoft Corp., and  American Airlines 
and advertising agencies such as Interpublic Group of Co.’s
McCann Worldgroup and  WPP Plc ’s Young & Rubicam Inc., according
to  the group’s website .  The groups said they will promote widespread adoption of
the plan by businesses through a national education campaign.
Beginning next year, the Council of Better Business Bureaus and
the Direct Marketing Association will enforce compliance among
member companies that choose to join the program. The Direct
Marketing Association will also make participation mandatory
among its members, according to the initiative.  Privacy advocates such as the Center for Digital Democracy,
which criticized the FTC’s recommendations last year as
ineffective, said today’s industry proposal also fell short.  “This is too little too late and doesn’t solve the
problem,”  Jeff Chester , executive director of the Washington-
based group, said in an interview today. The initiative appears
“timed to head off more comprehensive recommendations to be
made by the FTC in the upcoming weeks,” Chester said.  The previous FTC recommendations  encourage  customer
control, transparency, data security and a limited period for
keeping the customer information.  Web Icon  Under the new trade-group program, an icon will be
displayed near online advertisements and Web pages where
consumer data is collected and used for “behavioral
advertising,” according to a statement released today.  Consumers will be able to click on the icon for information
about such practices and choose whether they want their data
used to receive target ads.  Companies with more than $2 million in annual Internet
interest-based advertising will pay $5,000 to add the icon to
their Internet ads, while those spending less can use the icon
for free, Ingis said. Participating in the opt-out page will
cost $10,000 for larger companies and less for smaller firms, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sara Forden  in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 