-- Thai Court Says New Case Against Accused Russian Arms Dealer Must Proceed
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-04T11:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/thai-court-says-case-against-russian-arms-dealer-viktor-bout-must-proceed.html
A Thai court rejected a prosecutor’s
request to drop fresh charges against accused Russian arms
dealer  Viktor Bout , potentially complicating U.S. efforts to
have him extradited to face terrorism charges.  By law, prosecutors can’t drop the charges because Bout
objected to their withdrawal, the Criminal Court said in a
statement today. Prosecutors sought Bout’s extradition on six
new charges prior to an Aug. 20 ruling by an appeals court that
he could be sent back to the U.S., where a grand jury indicted
him on four charges that he plotted to kill Americans.  The court plans to rule tomorrow at 2 p.m. on whether Bout
can be extradited to the U.S. on the new charges, according to a
statement. Bout plans to file more cases to the Criminal Court
to further stall his extradition, lawyer Lak Nittiwattanawichan
told reporters.  “We will explore ways to free Bout from prison,” he said.  Bout’s case has fueled a diplomatic dispute between the U.S.
and Russia, with each country pressuring Thailand to follow its
version of events. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  called
the Aug. 20 ruling to extradite Bout “political” and summoned
Thailand’s ambassador.  The U.S.  says  the ex-Soviet air force officer ran an air
cargo network that shipped weapons to conflict zones from
Afghanistan to Rwanda. Bout has repeatedly denied wrongdoing,
saying he was framed by U.S. undercover agents who posed as
Colombian rebels during his arrest in Bangkok two years ago.  Money Laundering, Electronic Fraud  Thai prosecutors sought Bout’s extradition to the U.S. on
six new charges before an appeals court ruled on Aug. 20 that he
could be sent to America. The charges include money laundering
and electronic fraud and carry a penalty of more than one year
in jail.  Bout, 43, is charged in the U.S. with conspiracy to kill
U.S. nationals, conspiracy to kill U.S. officers or employees,
conspiracy to acquire an anti-aircraft missile and conspiracy to
provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist group.
If convicted, he may face life in prison.  Any decision on whether to extradite Bout will be based on
“international relations and the country’s benefit,” Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who has the final say on Bout, told
reporters on Sept. 30. He has urged U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  to discuss the case with Russia, he said.  “The decision may upset someone but we will follow the law
and take this time to create understanding to all parties
involved,” Abhisit said Sept. 30.  The U.S. Treasury imposed financial sanctions on Bout in
2004 and 2005. He controlled as many as 50 aircraft, according
to Amnesty International, and specialized in delivering weapons
around the world.  The U.S. was Thailand’s biggest trading partner last year,
with $16.7 billion in commerce, about 40 times more than the
Southeast Asian country’s trade with Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  