-- AIA IPO Said to Value Company at Up to $30.5 Billion
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-04T07:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/aia-initial-public-offering-said-to-value-company-at-up-to-30-5-billion.html
American International Group Inc. ’s
initial public offering of its main Asian unit values the
company at as much as $30.5 billion, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  AIG, the bailed out insurer, plans to sell about 50 percent
of AIA Group Ltd. in the initial public offering in Hong Kong,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to discuss the deal publicly. The exact
share to be sold will be determined today, the person said.  The high end of the valuation range for AIA matches the
$30.4 billion revised bid from  Prudential Plc  that AIG turned
down four months ago. At about $15 billion, the IPO would be the
largest in Hong Kong since the sale of  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.  in 2006.  Investors “are probably more tempted by a valuation closer
to $30 billion,” said  Christopher Wong , Singapore senior
investment manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which
oversees $267 billion. “The offering is already factoring in
pretty aggressive growth rates in an uncertain global operating
environment.”  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, is selling assets to
help repay its $182.3 billion government bailout.  Prudential
Financial Inc.  the second-largest U.S. life insurer, last week
agreed to pay $4.8 billion for two of AIG’s Japanese life
insurance units.  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Morgan Stanley are leading banks arranging AIA sale. The
stock is scheduled to start trading on Oct. 29.  KIA Investment  AIA operates in 15 Asian markets with 23,500 employees,
320,000 agents and more than 23 million of in-force policies,
according to a Sept. 20 statement. Its in-force policies are
worth $13.9 billion, according to a Sept. 24 report by Goldman
Sachs.  AIG had to lower the valuation of AIA to ensure a $1
billion investment from the Kuwait Investment Authority, the
Financial Times reported yesterday, citing unidentified people.
KIA agreed to invest on the basis that AIA would be valued at
$30 billion to $32 billion, the FT said.  AIG’s board approved a plan for the U.S. Treasury
Department to convert $49 billion preferred shares into common
stock so that the government can begin to wind down its majority
stake, a person familiar with the matter said on Sept. 30.  Robert Benmosche , AIG’s chief executive officer, put a
public share sale of AIA back on the table after the talks with
Prudential Plc collapsed. Patricia Chua, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for AIA, declined to comment on the valuation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  