-- AIG Said to Seek Up to $14.9 Billion in Asia Unit IPO
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   F o x   H u   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-05T04:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/aig-said-to-seek-up-to-14-9-billion-in-asia-unit-ipo-update1-.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out insurer, is seeking as much as HK$115.3 billion
($14.9 billion) in an initial public offering of its Asia unit
in Hong Kong, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company plans to sell as many as 5.9 billion shares of
AIA Group Ltd. at HK$18.38 to HK$19.68 each, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. The offering represents a stake of about 49 percent of
the company, the people said, which would value Hong Kong-based
AIA at as much as $30.6 billion.  AIG  is taking advantage of a gain in Hong Kong stocks to
attempt what may become the city’s biggest-ever IPO, moving the
insurer closer to repaying its $182.3 billion government bailout.
The offering values AIA at a premium to European rivals, based
on forecasts by the IPO arrangers.  “Many investors will have an interest in it because it’s a
sizeable issue,” said  Michiya Tomita , a Hong Kong-based fund
manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
$65 billion globally. “In terms of growth prospects, the
valuation is a little expensive because the company isn’t
focusing on China.”  AIG has an option to sell more shares in AIA, taking the
potential size of the IPO to $20.5 billion, a term sheet for the
transaction sent to fund managers showed. That would make it the
largest ever in Hong Kong, overtaking the $16 billion raised by
Beijing-based  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  in 2006,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. At the bottom end of the range,
the company will be valued at $28.5 billion.  Embedded Value  AIA had an embedded value of $22 billion at the end of May,
according to an AIG  filing  with the U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission. Embedded value estimates a life insurer’s net worth
excluding new business, using actuarial and investment return
assumptions.  Citigroup Inc. , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
of New York and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG are among the
banks arranging the sale. The stock is scheduled to start
trading on Oct. 29.  AIA’s embedded value may grow to $25.8 billion next year,
according to Sept. 24 reports by Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch
& Co. The high end of the IPO price range values the company at
1.18 times its estimated 2011 embedded value.  China Life Insurance Co.,  the nation’s largest insurer, is
valued at 2.1 times next year’s embedded value and European
insurers trade at an average of 0.8 times, according to Merrill,
which is also helping arrange the sale.  Prudential Collapse  Investors “are probably more tempted by a valuation closer
to $30 billion,” said  Christopher Wong , Singapore senior
investment manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which
oversees $267 billion. “The offering is already factoring in
pretty aggressive growth rates in an uncertain global operating
environment.”  New York-based AIG is taking the division public after
Prudential Plc backed out of a deal in June to pay $35.5 billion
for AIA. The company’s holding in AIA would fall to 33 percent
should the options to expand the IPO be used in full, terms show.  AIG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , may
use remaining shares in the company to help pay down obligations
to the U.S. Treasury Department.  Mark Herr , a spokesman for AIG,
declined to comment.  Fairholme Capital Management, the biggest private investor
in AIG, said it has provided a “firm indication of interest”
in investing about $1 billion in AIA’s IPO.  KIA, Guoco Investments  The company is a “household name” poised for expansion in
some of the world’s fastest growing economies, Miami-based
Fairholme’s founder  Bruce Berkowitz  said yesterday in a
statement. Fairholme said last week that it invested more than
$1.8 billion in AIG stock and debt, and owns about 24 percent of
AIG’s privately held common shares.  The Kuwait Investment Authority will invest $1 billion in
AIA, terms for the sale show. Companies associated with Guoco
Land Ltd. will invest $420 million, while  Peter Woo , chairman of
Wharf Holdings Ltd. will buy $200 million of stock. Kumpulan
Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan), a Malaysian state-owned
retirement fund, will invest $200 million, the terms show.  AIA’s offering would come after at least 97 companies
worldwide postponed or withdrew IPOs this year amid concern that
the global economic recovery is deteriorating, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Hong Kong’s  benchmark stock index  has advanced
about 16 percent since June 1, more than twice the advance for
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  in the U.S., helping drive an
increase in share sales.  In-Force Policies  Companies have raised $20.2 billion through IPOs in Hong
Kong so far this year, a 64 percent surge from the same period a
year ago and the second fastest rate for share sales by newly
listed companies since 1998, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  AIA had 24,500 employees and 23 million in-force policies
in 15 Asian markets by May. Its in-force policies are worth
$13.9 billion, according to a Sept. 24 report by Goldman Sachs.
The company will probably post operating profit of at least $2
billion in the 12 months ending Nov. 30, AIG said last month.  Hong Kong is AIA’s biggest market and may contribute 34
percent of operating profit this year, according to Goldman
Sachs. Thailand is the second-largest market, accounting for 22
percent, followed by Singapore at 20 percent. China is expected
to contribute 5 percent, Goldman Sachs estimates.  Benmosche hired  Mark Tucker  in July as chief of AIA. Tucker
built up the Asia operations of Prudential over 15 years before
becoming CEO of the London-based insurer in 2005. AIA last month
hired  Marc de Cure  as chief financial officer. De Cure had
previously been CFO of AMP Ltd., an Australian fund manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 