-- Air Products Executive Says Airgas Bid `Attractive'
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-04T16:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/air-products-executive-testifies-airgas-bid-attractive-in-delaware-trial.html
Air Products & Chemicals Inc. ’s
$5.5 billion bid for Airgas Inc. is an “attractive offer,” an
Air Products executive testified as the producer of industrial
gases presses its rival to consider a sale.  At $65.50 a share, Air Products would be paying “full
price,” Chief Financial Officer  Paul Huck  told a Delaware
Chancery Court judge today.  Air Products , based in Allentown,
Pennsylvania, sued Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas on Feb. 4
to force consideration of the bid.  “A number of longtime Airgas holders found it to be a very
attractive offer,” Huck testified in Georgetown, Delaware. The
courtroom earlier was closed to the public during part of Huck’s
testimony about Airgas’s value.  As part of the case, Airgas is asking Chancery Court Judge
 William B. Chandler III  to invalidate a bylaw approved by
shareholders in a Sept. 15 vote that added three Air Products
nominees to the Airgas  board . The bylaw would move Airgas’s
annual meeting to January from April at the earliest.  Airgas contends that moving up the annual meeting will
unfairly allow Air Products to try to knock more Airgas nominees
off the board and take control. Chandler has agreed to hear both
issues in the trial.  Air Products  is the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases
producer behind Praxair Inc. Air Products wants to purchase
Airgas to reacquire a “packaged-gas” business the company sold
to its rival in 2002, Huck testified.  ‘Final Offer’  Air Products has raised its bid twice from the original
$60 a share, and “$65.50 is not our best and final offer,”
Huck said. The company has a ‘reserve price” it will pay, which
is being kept confidential, Huck said.  Huck said that while some Airgas shareholders saw Air
Products’ offer as attractive enough to sell their shares,
others were stopped from selling by Airgas’s anti-takeover
defenses, including its so-called poison pill.  That defense makes takeovers prohibitively expensive. Air
Products wants Chandler to invalidate the pill to make it easier
for the buyout offer to be considered.  Under cross-examination, Huck acknowledged that Airgas’s
board isn’t obligated to negotiate with every company that makes
a buyout offer.  “A good board would talk to us,” Huck said. “They are
delaying shareholders from getting their reward.”  ‘Complete Airing’  John McGlade , Air Products’ chief executive officer, told
Chandler today that he never promised Airgas officials not to go
“hostile” with his bid for the gas provider.  Air Products officials “tried many times” to get Airgas
executives to sit down for merger talks with no success, McGlade
said.  Air Products went public with its offer only after managers
concluded its benefits weren’t “ getting a complete airing” to
Airgas shareholders, McGlade said.  Airgas  fell 39 cents to $67.91 at 12:23 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Air Products  declined $1.01,
or more than 1 percent, to $82.  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 