-- Bank of America, Airgas, Microsoft, 3M in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-04T10:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/airgas-kerviel-bob-vila-microsoft-motorola-cogent-sony-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets and deposits, delayed foreclosures after a
federal regulator called for a review because lenders may have
submitted defective documents when repossessing homes.  Bank of America will investigate all affidavits in cases
that have not yet gone to judgment in 23 states where courts
have jurisdiction over home seizures, Dan Frahm, a spokesman for
the bank, said Oct. 1. He estimated “tens of thousands” of
documents will be studied and the process will take from
“several days to a couple of weeks.”  Court documents showed  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally
Financial Inc. employees may have submitted affidavits without
confirming their accuracy. Federal lawmakers and state officials
have said such practices could amount to fraud. JPMorgan said it
will ask judges to postpone foreclosure rulings, while Detroit-
based Ally said Sept. 21 its GMAC Mortgage unit would halt
evictions.  Bank of America’s freeze “hopefully will give peace of
mind to those monitoring the industry that we’ve used an
abundance of caution that those foreclosures in process are
handled correctly,” Frahm said in an interview. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank isn’t acknowledging that its
associates made errors, Frahm said.  “The extent of the problem is enormous,” said Max Gardner,
a Shelby, North Carolina, attorney representing borrowers
alleging improper servicing practices by banks. “We have a
problem in the housing market right now, given the inability to
sell properties and declining property values, but the economic
downside from this problem is even more monumental.”  Acting Comptroller of the Currency John Walsh last week
asked the nation’s seven biggest lenders to review foreclosures
for defective documents, spokesman Bryan Hubbard said. Attorneys
general in at least six states are investigating claims that
home lenders and loan servicers took shortcuts to speed
foreclosures.  Home foreclosures in Connecticut should be frozen for 60
days because of “defective” documents, Attorney General
Richard Blumenthal said in a request to the state Judicial
Department. In California, Attorney General Jerry Brown said
JPMorgan should be asked to prove its home foreclosures are
legal, and must stop the practice if it can’t.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Airgas Trial on Air Products Bid to Focus on Annual Meeting  Airgas Inc. , trying to fend off a $5.5 billion hostile bid
from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , may face an uphill fight at
trial this week when it challenges a new bylaw that moves up the
date of its annual meeting.  Managers of Airgas are asking Delaware Chancery Court Judge
William B. Chandler III in Georgetown to invalidate the bylaw,
which shareholders approved in a Sept. 15 vote that added three
Air Products nominees to the  Airgas board .  Air Products wants its nominees to take control of the 10-
member Airgas board at the next annual meeting, set for Jan. 18,
and accept the takeover offer of $65.50 a share.  Airgas 
officials have repeatedly rejected bids from Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based Air Products, the second-biggest U.S.
industrial-gases producer behind  Praxair Inc.   “Airgas is in a tough position,” Paul Regan, a professor
at Widener University Law School in Wilmington, who teaches
courses on merger-and-acquisition law, said in a phone
interview. “It’s well-established that shareholders can vote to
amend bylaws, and I don’t think Delaware law requires a 12-month
wait between annual meetings.”  During the week-long trial set to start today in
Georgetown, lawyers for Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas will
argue that the bylaw wasn’t approved by a two-thirds majority of
investors and forces the company to hold the equivalent of two
annual meetings within a four-month period, according to court
filings.  Air Products  sued Airgas on Feb. 4, saying it violated
legal duties to shareholders by rebuffing the buyout offers.
 Airgas  filed a separate suit challenging the meeting-date bylaw
after the Sept. 15 shareholder vote. Chandler has agreed to hear
all arguments in the trial.  Air Products offered the amendment and a slate of
candidates for Airgas’s board as part of its takeover effort.
Under Airgas’s staggered board system, only a limited number of
directors are up for election at any time, making proxy fights
for control more difficult.  The bylaw to change the meeting date won 52 percent of
votes cast and 46 percent of shares eligible to vote, according
to Airgas. Shareholders also voted to oust three directors,
including Peter McCausland, the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer.  If Chandler finds the bylaw passes muster, it could have
implications for other companies that use the staggered-board
defense, Robert Daines, who teaches corporate law at Stanford
University Law School in California, said in a telephone
interview. About 40 percent of public companies have staggered
boards, he said.  A ruling against Airgas “could signal an important shift
in merger tactics and change the balance of power between
management and shareholders,” said Daines, the director of
Stanford’s Rock Center for Corporate Governance. “This could
really curtail management’s powers to discourage bids.”  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Kerviel Faces Less Jail Time Than Madoff If Convicted  If Jerome Kerviel is convicted this week of causing  Societe
Generale SA’s  4.9 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) loss, he won’t
face the kind of sentences given to financial felons such as
Bernard Madoff -- or even Nick Leeson.  French prosecutors are seeking a four-year sentence and, if
convicted, he is unlikely to serve more than two years in jail,
lawyers said. The sentencing rules in France contrast with those
in the U.S. and U.K. where authorities are increasingly trying
to make examples of white-collar criminals.  Kerviel, 33, “would face a substantial amount of jail
time” in the U.S., said Ira Sorkin, the lawyer who represented
Madoff last year when the con man was sentenced to 150 years in
prison for running a Ponzi scheme that cost investors $20
billion. “The amount of money involved would kick this up. Ten
to 20 years would not shock anyone.”  Kerviel’s unauthorized bets on futures, hidden with faked
hedges to minimize the apparent risk, reached 50 billion euros
before Societe Generale realized what the trader was doing and
began unwinding his positions. At his June trial, Kerviel
admitted to lying to his colleagues and exceeding his trading
limits, but argued that his superiors were aware of his actions.  Judge Dominique Pauthe, who led the three-judge panel at
the trial in Paris, will announce the verdict and any sentence
on Oct. 5.  For more, click here.  Potash Suit to Stop Takeover Should Be Thrown Out, BHP Says  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ’s lawsuit seeking to
block a $40 billion hostile  takeover  by  BHP Billiton Ltd.  should
be thrown out, the Australian company told a U.S. judge.  The lawsuit accusing BHP executives of making misleading
statements to drive down Potash’s stock is without merit and
should be dismissed, lawyers for Melbourne-based BHP said in a
filing Oct. 1 in a federal court in Chicago.  Potash “has failed to identify any misleading statement or
material omission by defendants, let alone meeting its burden of
pleading particularized facts” showing an intent to deceive,
BHP said in its filing.  The world’s largest maker of fertilizer, Saskatoon-based
 Potash  filed the suit on Sept. 22, one month after BHP announced
its intent to acquire the company for $130 a share.  Potash said in its complaint that it filed the case in
Chicago because BHP Chief Executive Officer Marius Kloppers
conveyed the buyout offer to Potash CEO Bill Doyle within the
court’s jurisdiction.  Potash, in separately filed papers, asked U.S. District
Judge David H. Coar on Sept. 22 to issue an order blocking BHP
from moving forward on bid until it issues “corrective”
disclosures and gives Potash shareholders 60 days to review
them.  Jamie Moser, an outside spokeswoman for Potash, declined to
comment on the filing.  “The target company has every right to dispute the
relevant (or not so relevant) facts with the bidder,” BHP’s
attorneys said in its filing. “But in the end, once both sides’
positions are in the public domain, it is up to the
shareholders, rather than the court, to resolve the dispute.”  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. v. BHP
Billiton Ltd., 10-cv-06024, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Great-West Must Repay C$456 Million, Judge Rules  Great-West Lifeco Inc.  must repay  London Life Insurance Co. 
policyholders C$456 million ($447 million) for illegally using
money in their accounts to help pay for a 1997 takeover, an
Ontario judge ruled.  Testimony during a three-month trial that ended in January
in London, Ontario, showed London Life used C$220 million of the
policyholders’ funds to help Great-West make the acquisition.  “The defendants have done indirectly what was prohibited
from being done directly,” by transferring money from the
account holders’ accounts, Ontario Superior Court Judge Johanne
Morissette wrote in an 83-page ruling Oct. 1.  Two former London Life actuaries and a Great-West
policyholder sued on behalf of 1.8 million people, accusing the
companies of illegally using the money to help pay for the C$2.9
billion acquisition. They sought as much as C$1 billion in
damages, including repayment of their money with interest and
penalties.  Great-West said in a statement that it intended to appeal
the decision.  “Regardless of the ultimate outcome of this case, all of
the participating policy contract terms and conditions will
continue to be honored,” the company said.  The judge rejected a claim that Great-West illegally
enriched itself with the transaction.  Great-West and its parent company, Power Financial Corp.,
were set on “maximizing profits at the expense of
policyholders,” Paul Bates, the policyholders’ lawyer, said
during the trial.  The company had argued the transaction was legal.  The case is Between James Jeffery and London Life
Insurance Co., SC46300, Ontario Superior Court of Justice
(London, Ontario).  Vila Can Dissolve Company That Has Rights to His Name  Bob Vila, former host of the “This Old House” home-
improvement show, can dissolve a company that holds rights to
his name and image, a Delaware judge ruled.  Vila, who spent 28 years offering home-improvement tips
over the air before his syndicated series was canceled in 2008,
told Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. in Wilmington at a June
trial that he wanted to break up the holding company that
controls his likeness, BVwebties LLC.  He disagreed with his partner’s business approach, he said.
Vila and George Hill co-managed the company for a decade.  The men’s agreement “contemplates that a member or manager
may seek judicial resolution,” Strine said Oct. 1 in a 34-page
ruling. “This is what Vila has done, and he has succeeded in
proving that dissolution is warranted,” he said.  The company operates the  BobVila.com website , which offers
a home-improvement blog and a real-estate search engine. Since
2007, Hill has stymied efforts to hire professional managers to
help the website grow, Vila said in his January 2009 lawsuit.  Strine said he will appoint Martin Mand as liquidating
trustee and have Mand retain as his counsel James Holzman of
Prickett Jones & Elliott PA, court papers show.  The judge dismissed Hill’s counterclaims for breach of the
agreement and breach of his fiduciary duty to Vila.  The case is Vila v. BVwebties LLC, 4308, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuit News  Cogent Defends 3M Sale, Says NEC Offer Not Firm Enough  Cogent Inc. , the fingerprint-identification systems maker,
defended its decision to sell out to  3M Co.  and asked a judge to
reject calls from Cogent shareholders to put the deal on hold in
favor of a higher bid from  NEC Corp.   The bid from NEC, Japan’s largest maker of personal
computers, was too late, was not firm enough and would pose
antitrust risks, Cogent’s attorney Donald J. Wolfe said Oct. 1
in a Chancery Court hearing in Wilmington, Delaware.  The investors asked Chancery Court Judge Donald F. Parsons
to halt the 3M sale and require Cogent to eliminate the deal
protections they say are precluding a firm offer from NEC.
Parsons said he will rule before 3M’s offer expires at midnight,
Oct. 7.  Cogent’s board rejected NEC’s offer of more than $1 billion
because it was not a binding bid, Wolfe said. Cogent told NEC
that “it was now or never” because 3M’s offer was definitive
and had a deadline.  An investor attorney, Michael Hanrahan, accused Cogent’s
founder and chief executive officer, Ming Hsieh, of pushing the
board to accept 3M’s lower offer of $10.50 a share, or $943
million, partly because he wanted to collect a $153,000
retention bonus.  That argument makes no sense because under an NEC sale,
Hsieh would collect $18 million more for the shares he owns,
Wolfe said in court.  The case is In Re Cogent Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
Consolidated CA 5780-VCP, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Foreclosure Errors May Cloud Ownership of U.S. Homes  U.S. courts are clogged with a record number of
 foreclosures . Next, they may be jammed with suits contesting
property rights as procedural mistakes in the foreclosure cases
cloud title establishing ownership.  “Defective documentation has created millions of blighted
titles that will plague the nation for the next decade,” said
Richard Kessler, an attorney in Sarasota, Florida, who conducted
a study in Sarasota county that found errors in about three-
fourths of court filings related to home repossessions.  Attorneys general in at least six states are investigating
borrowers’ claims that some of the nation’s largest home lenders
and loan servicers are making misstatements in foreclosures.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is asking judges to postpone foreclosure
rulings, while Ally Financial Inc. said Sept. 21 its GMAC
Mortgage unit would halt evictions. The companies said employees
may have completed affidavits without confirming their accuracy.  Such mistakes may allow former owners to challenge the
repossession of homes long after the properties are resold,
according to Kessler.  Ownership  questions may not arise until a
home is under contract and the potential purchaser applies for
title insurance or even decades later as one deed researcher
catches errors overlooked by another. A so-called defective
title means the person who paid for and moved into a house may
not be the legal owner.  “It’s a nightmare scenario,” said John Vogel, a professor
at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire. “There are lots of land mines related to title
issues that may come to light long after we think we’ve solved
the housing problem.”  Almost one-fourth of U.S. home  sales  in the second quarter
involved properties in some stage of mortgage distress,
according to RealtyTrac Inc. In August, lenders took possession
of record 95,364 homes and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836
homeowners, or one out of every 381 U.S. households, according
to the Irvine, California-based data seller.  “If I were in the title industry, or a mortgage holder, or
someone who bought a foreclosed property, this is something I
would be very worried about,” said Michael Carliner, a Potomac,
Maryland-based economic consultant specializing in housing.  Title insurers use their records and public documents to
verify a seller is the home’s true owner and that the  property 
is free from liens. They collect a one-time premium and pay
costs that may arise if someone challenges a new owner’s right
to the property. To obtain a mortgage, buyers are required to
purchase a policy to protect the lender. Many people also get a
so-called owners policy to protect themselves.  “Title is everything,” said Susan Wachter, a real estate
professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School in
Philadelphia. “There’s no collateral without possession, and
that is title.”  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Tessera Claims Sony, Renesas Infringe on Chip-Package Patent  Tessera Technologies Inc.,  a designer of packaging for
computer chips, said it sued  Sony Corp. ’s electronics unit and
 Renesas Electronics Corp.  in an effort to obtain more patent
royalties.  The lawsuit accuses Sony and Renesas of infringing a patent
related to a way of making the packaging that goes around
silicon wafers so they can be used reliably in smaller
electronics, Tessera said in a statement. The company said it
filed the complaint Oct. 1 in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Tessera Chief Executive Officer Hank Nothhaft has called
the company’s patent litigation a “strategic” effort to reach
licensing agreements after negotiations fail. The San Jose,
California-based company got almost all of its  $299.4 million  in
revenue last year from royalty and licensing fees.  Sony, based in Tokyo, makes Bravia TVs, the PlayStation 3
game console, Vaio notebook computers and Blu-ray disc players.
A Sony spokesperson didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment. Renesas, also based in Tokyo, makes chips that control
products including DVD players and vehicle air bags.  The patent, issued in 2005, is different than ones asserted
against companies including mobile-phone chipmaker Qualcomm Inc.
and memory-chip maker Nanya Technology Corp.  Tessera lost a case before the U.S. International Trade
Commission against memory-chip companies including Nanya, Acer
Inc., Elpida Memory Inc. and ProMos Technologies Inc. It won a
case against Qualcomm, Motorola Inc. and four other companies
over chips used in wireless devices. Motorola later took a
license to the Tessera patents.  Both the memory-chip and wireless-chip cases are on appeal.  Michael Jackson’s Estate Sued by Bahrain Loan Adviser  A Bahrain financial adviser that claims it helped Michael
Jackson obtain $320 million in loans in 2005 has sued the
singer’s estate for $1.2 million.  Jackson hired AQ Consulting WLL to help refinance $300
million Jackson owed to  Fortress Investment Group LLC , AQ
claimed in a complaint in federal court in New York on Sept. 30.  AQ said it secured a commitment from  Citigroup Inc.  to
refinance the debt. Fortress, which had a right of last offer
with Jackson, then agreed to refinance the loans itself. AQ got
Jackson an additional $20 million in loans, it claimed.  According to AQ, Jackson agreed to pay the firm 1 percent
of the total refinancing, or $3.2 million. He paid $2 million at
the time of closing and agreed to pay the rest from future
earnings, the financial adviser said.  Jackson died in 2009 at 50, leaving about $500 million in
debt. Since his death, the estate, the owner of interests in
songs by the Beatles and other artists, has generated more than
$250 million.  John Branca, one of the executors of Jackson’s estate,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on the suit.  The case is AQ Consulting WLL v. Branca, 1:10-cv-7496, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Microsoft Files Patent-Infringement Action Against Motorola  Microsoft Corp.  said it filed patent-infringement claims
against  Motorola Inc.  over smartphones that run on Google Inc.’s
Android operating system.  Microsoft said it filed a complaint Oct. 1 with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington, which could result
in a ban of U.S. imports of Motorola phones. A companion lawsuit
was filed in federal court in Seattle.  Microsoft, which makes the Windows Mobile operating system
for phones, in April signed a licensing agreement with HTC Corp.
and said that it was demanding royalties from other makers of
phones that run on the Android system.  The nine patents in the complaints relate to “a range of
functionality embodied in Motorola’s Android smartphone devices
that are essential to the smartphone user experience,” Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft said in a statement. They include
synchronizing e-mail, calendars and contacts, scheduling
meetings, and notifying applications of changes in signal
strength and battery power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 