-- Taiwan Dollar Pares Gains on Suspected Intervention; Government Bonds Rise
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-10-04T09:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/taiwan-dollar-strengthens-beyond-nt-31-on-inflows-government-bonds-gain.html
Taiwan’s dollar surrendered the bulk
of the day’s gains in late trading as the central bank
intervened to curb appreciation that may hurt exports, according
to two traders familiar with the monetary authority’s operations.  The island’s currency strengthened beyond NT$31 for the
first time since August 2008 on speculation overseas investors
will increase holdings of local assets as trade ties with China
improve and exports rise. A government report this week may show
overseas sales climbed for an 11th month in September and tariff
cuts outlined in a trade deal with China, the No. 1 destination
for shipments, will be phased in from Jan. 1. The Taiex Index
climbed to an eight-month high today.  “Taiwan is among the choices for international funds,”
said  Henry Lin , a foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong
Commercial Bank. “The economy will grow” because of the
island’s trade pact with China.  The currency closed 0.2 percent higher at NT$31.250 against
its U.S. counterpart, having been 1.1 percent stronger two
minutes before the end of the trading session, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. It rose as much as 0.8 percent to NT$31.066 on
Oct. 1, before surrendering almost all of the gain in late
trading on suspected intervention by the central bank.  Policy makers may become “more aggressive” in curbing
appreciation as they want the NT$31 level to hold, Lin said. The
central bank intervenes in currency markets by arranging
purchases or sales of foreign exchange.  ‘Flush With Money’  Exports rose 26.6 percent from a year earlier last month,
the same pace as in August, according to the median  estimate  of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before a finance ministry
report on Oct. 7.  Foreign funds bought $80 million more Taiwan stocks than
they sold today, boosting this year’s net purchases to $3.4
billion, exchange data show.  Taiwan’s benchmark five-year bonds advanced for a third day,
pushing the yield to its lowest level since August, on
speculation overseas investors were buying the securities to
profit as the currency appreciates.  “The market is flush with money,” said  Tommy Huang , a
bond trader at Taiwan International Securities Corp. in Taipei.
“The gains in five-year bonds are probably related to foreign
investors parking funds in short-term debt as the Taiwan dollar
strengthens.”  The yield on the 2 percent note maturing in July 2015
declined 4.4 basis points, or 0.044 percentage point, to 0.824
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market, the island’s
biggest exchange for bonds. Its price climbed 0.2088, or
NT$208.8 per NT$100,000 face amount, to 105.4956.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Yu-Huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 