-- Majority of U.K. Bank Bonuses to Go to Tax Authorities
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-10-05T09:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/majority-of-u-k-bank-bonuses-go-to-tax-authorities-cebr-says.html
Britain’s tax authorities will for
the first time take a greater proportion of financial services
bonus payments than the workers who earned the rewards,
according to the  Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd .  About 4.1 billion pounds ($6.5 billion) of the estimated 7
billion-pound bonus in the pot for 2010 will go to  Her Majesty’s
Revenue & Customs , the research company said in a statement.  “The public coffers stand to gain considerably more from
City bonuses than City workers themselves,” said  Benjamin Williamson , a London-based economist and co-author of the
findings, referring to London’s main financial district. “A
whopping 7 billion-pound bonus payout will be easier to stomach
if the lion’s share goes to the nation.”  In April, the U.K. introduced a new 50 percent tax band for
those earning more than 150,000 pounds. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  yesterday said he will block the
payment of large bonuses unless banks show they are extending
credit to households and companies.  “We will not allow money to flow unimpeded in huge bonuses
if that money does not flow out in credit,” he told
Conservative supporters at the party’s  annual conference .  The CEBR’s estimates of potential payouts stoked a hostile
reaction from labor unions already preparing to oppose the
deepest austerity cuts since World War II. Those will be
announced on Oct. 20 by the Conservative-led coalition.  ‘High-Risk Practices’  “There are many in the City still earning huge bonuses
which raise concerns that the same old high-risk practices are
at work,”  Brendan Barber , the general secretary of the  Trades
Union Congress , said in a statement. “With City firms seemingly
back to business as usual, more clearly needs to be done if we
are to avoid a repeat of the 2008 crash.”  Bonuses for 2010 will be 4 percent lower than the 7.3
billion pounds paid to staff for 2009 because trading revenue is
declining, the CEBR said in its statement.  “Trading has been relatively flat this year,” Williamson
said in an interview. “It could be 2020 before the City gets
back on its feet - if it ever does - as we have seen the gap
between London and eastern centers like Shanghai and Tokyo
narrow.”  Bonuses this year will be about a third below the record
payouts of 2007, when U.K.-based companies paid out 11.6 billion
pounds, according to Williamson.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  granted stock awards to its most
senior bankers in London in August, a person briefed on the
discussions said last week. Credit Suisse Group AG provided its
400 managing directors with a mid-year bonus after the bank cut
incentive payments last year following the imposition of a one-
time U.K. bonus tax, people familiar with the plans said.  The payout estimate for 2010 is based on projections for
companies’ full-year earnings, according to the CEBR. Most
companies have only released earnings for the first six months
of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  