-- Taliban Claim Responsibility for Attack on NATO Tankers That Killed Three
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-10-04T07:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/taliban-claim-responsibility-for-attack-on-nato-tankers-that-killed-three.html
Taliban guerrillas claimed
responsibility for an attack near the Pakistani capital that
destroyed 15 tankers carrying fuel for NATO troops and killed
three people, and said more convoys will be targeted.  Militants have now struck supply routes for the U.S.-led
force fighting in Afghanistan twice in four days, hitting fuel
and cargo shipments after Pakistan said coalition aircraft
killed three of its soldiers in a cross-border strike and sealed
a key border transit post on Sept. 30. Half of all war supplies
to Afghanistan pass through Pakistan, the U.S. military’s
Transportation Command says.  “Ten people came riding on motorcycles, shooting and then
torching the supply trucks,” Kaleem Imam, Islamabad’s police
chief, said of the incident on the city’s outskirts. Trucks
heading for the now blocked border crossing at Torkham in  Khyber
Agency  pass close to the capital.  “We are monitoring supplies and will continue attacks,”
 Azam Tariq , spokesman for Pakistan’s Tehreek-e-Taliban, said in
a phone call to Bloomberg News from an undisclosed location.  It’s “unbelievable that militants can hit international
military assistance trucks in the country’s capital with such
impunity,” said Mutahir Ahmed, a professor of international
relations at the  University of Karachi.  “NATO will continue
with its strikes unless Pakistan can stop militants from
entering Afghanistan and attacking international troops.”  ‘Fog of War’  NATO acknowledged its forces entered Pakistan’s airspace as
part of a raid on insurgents and responded to small arms fire,
the International Security Assistance Force said in a statement
Sept. 30.  The incident in the Kurram region underscores tensions
between the U.S. and Pakistani armed forces after the American
military last month escalated the number of missile strikes
against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in northwest Pakistan’s
tribal region.  Pakistan’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Husain Haqqani , said in
a  CNN interview  yesterday that “the supply line will be opened
relatively quickly.”  Haqqani linked a re-opening of the route to a Pakistani-
NATO investigation into a U.S. helicopter attack that killed
three Pakistani soldiers at a border post on Sept. 30. “Allies
have to reassure each other that if they kill the personnel of
the other side that it was basically because of the fog of war
and not because of any deliberate action,” said Haqqani. “So
we’ll investigate it jointly.”  North Waziristan  Haqqani said he had spoken to General  David Petraeus , the
U.S. commander in Afghanistan. “He understands that Pakistan
has not stopped it as a political retaliation, but actually only
to make the convoys more secure, because of the circumstances,”
Haqqani said.  Pakistan’s army began an offensive against militants based
in its rugged northwest last October. From the Taliban
stronghold of South Waziristan, fighting has now spread to six
tribal agencies in the region.  The U.S. wants Pakistan to target groups based in the
remaining region, North Waziristan, that have attacked
international troops in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 Jrupert2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 Billaustin@bloomberg.net . 