-- Tallest Man on Earth Channels Dylan; Caribou Pumps Up Serotonin
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tallest-man-on-earth-does-dylan-caribou-pumps-serotonin-october-music.html
The stage bore few props: wooden
chair, bottle of beer, mike stand, amp and guitar rack. Then the
Tallest Man on Earth entered from stage left of  Webster Hall  on
Sept. 27, blond hair in bed-head mode, slight scruff of beard.  Kristian Matsson, his normal moniker, quickly broke into “A
Field of Birds,” fingerpicking behind the raspy, weathered voice
that fans have come to adore.  Many discovered the 27-year-old Swede when he opened for
Bon Iver in 2008. Since then he has become one of the finest
folk singers around.  During “King of Spain,” Matsson’s rapid strumming conjured
a joyous feeling and the crowd began to clap along. He moved
around the stage, jumping back to the microphone and sometimes
letting the crowd fill in a line or two.  Next came “The Wild Hunt,” the title track to his beautiful
second album. The softer tune let his raw voice fill the room.  A musician who often gets compared to the young  Bob Dylan ,
Kristian at one point acknowledged a fan’s request for something
by His Bobness. He sang a couple of verses of “You’re a Big Girl
Now” before declaring this the largest venue he has headlined.
He then went into his own “The Gardner.” We quickly forgot the
Dylan moment and reconverted to Kristianity.  He apologized for having to stop to tune his guitar -- no
stagehands here -- and began to play “Where Do My Bluebird Fly”
from his debut album “Shallow Grave.” The dark song stilled the
standing crowd.  Nose to Nose  Wrapping up, he invited out Swedish singer Amanda Bergman
for a chilling rendition of “Thrown Right at Me.” The song from
his latest EP, “Sometimes the Blues Is Just a Passing Bird,” had
the two nose to nose as they sang, “You’re so beautiful now.”  Then it was all over and The Tallest Man on Earth -- who
stands about 5 foot 7 -- laid his guitar on the floor of the
stage before exiting.  A few days earlier, on Sept. 22, Caribou brought its
twisted, psychedelic electronic music to the same stage. Dan
Snaith, leader of the Canadian four-piece, had the floor
bouncing as the band laid out much of the “Swim” album,
nominated for Canada’s Polaris Music Prize in 2010.  Dressed in white, the band members arranged themselves in a
tight formation center stage as each stood within arms distance.
Color wheel images projected behind them and the synthesizer
played the beginning of “Kaili.” Snaith’s tender voice took over
as the song evolved from trance to full-on jam.  Couple of Gems  Once they settled in, the guys launched into a couple of
gems from their 2008 album “Andorra,” which won the
aforementioned Canadian prize. “Melody Day,” with Snaith on
guitar, morphed from resonating bell sounds to wobbly effects
that had my head swimming. He moved to drums for “After Hours,”
in which shimmering keyboards led to a wave of drums on which
the song surfed to a peak.  It all boiled down, however, to the set closer, “Odessa.”
One of the year’s best singles, it sent the crowd into a frenzy.
The smooth bass line, mixed with tribal effects and whispering
vocals, lead to a serotonin-releasing groove. The band returned
to encore with “Sun,” and then we hit the streets just after
midnight.  October is a tremendous month for the New York music scene.
Atlanta’s experimental and genre-bending Deerhunter come to
Webster Hall on Oct. 15. The band has just released “Halcyon
Digest” and it happens to be my front runner for album of the
year. One of the best live acts going, My Morning Jacket will
play each of their five albums over five nights at  Terminal 5  -
Oct. 18 & 19 then Oct. 21 through 23. Last, there is the CMJ
Music Marathon & Film Festival, which will flood the area with
up-and-coming bands Oct. 19 through 23.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in October.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  ( Jaime Widder  works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 