-- Halliburton Investors Draw Top U.S. Court Inquiry in Fraud Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-04T14:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/halliburton-investors-draw-top-u-s-court-inquiry-in-securities-fraud-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  signaled
interest in an appeal from shareholders trying to sue
 Halliburton Co.  for securities fraud, seeking the Obama
administration’s advice on the case.  The appeal potentially would make it easier for investors
to press class-action suits in some states. A federal appeals
court in New Orleans said the Halliburton shareholders couldn’t
sue as a group because they hadn’t established that they lost
money as a result of the alleged fraud.  The Halliburton shareholders’ lawyer,  David Boies , argued
in his appeal that the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals had
established a “virtually unattainable standard.”  The shareholders, led by the Erica P. John Fund, contend
that Halliburton from 1999 to 2001 falsified earnings reports,
played down estimated asbestos liability and overstated the
benefits of a merger. The company was led during part of that
period by  Dick Cheney , later the U.S. vice president.  The high court appeal concerns the standard that applies at
the so-called class certification stage, not at final judgment.
The Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that to recover damages
shareholders ultimately must show a direct connection between a
misrepresentation and a decline in stock prices.  Marshalling Evidence  Boies’s appeal contends that shareholders shouldn’t have to
make that showing at the class certification stage, when they
haven’t yet had a chance to marshal their evidence.  The ruling in the Halliburton case drew criticism in August
from a Chicago-based federal appeals court, which said the New
Orleans court was putting too much of a burden on investors.  Halliburton urged the Supreme Court not to hear the appeal,
saying the differences among the appeals courts weren’t
significant enough to warrant review. The Houston-based
oilfield-services company also said the 5th Circuit reached the
right conclusion.  “The evidence below showed no link between the alleged
misrepresentations and any effect on the price of Halliburton’s
stock,” the company argued. Halliburton in 2004 agreed to pay
$7.5 million to resolve a Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation of the company’s financial statements.  The justices directed today’s request to  Neal Katyal , the
acting U.S. solicitor general. Katyal took that post after
President  Barack Obama  nominated  Elena Kagan  to the Supreme
Court.  The case is Erica P. John Fund v. Halliburton, 09-1403.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 