-- Alstom to Cut 4,000 Jobs in Scaleback of Fossil-Fuel Operation
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-04T16:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/alstom-will-cut-4-000-jobs-in-u-s-europe-on-slump-in-equipment-orders.html
Alstom SA , the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker, plans to cut about 4,000 jobs after
utilities reduced orders for power-generating plants.  Coal- and gas-fired sites in Switzerland, Germany and the
U.S. will be the most affected, the company, based near Paris,
said in a statement today. Of the planned job cuts, 1,000 would
involve the non-renewal of temporary contracts, it said.  The move reflects a  slump  in big-ticket orders as utilities
postpone the construction of power plants. Alstom’s orders for
power systems and services dropped 35 percent in the April to
June period to 1.95 billion euros ($2.7 billion), and sales fell
6 percent to 3.17 billion euros.  “These markets, especially power-plant orders, have
dropped close to 50 percent,” spokesman  Stephane Farhi  told
Bloomberg News by phone today. The percentage decline is based
on gigawatts. “The recovery in these segments will be slow,”
he said.  Jobs will also be cut in the U.K., Hungary, Norway and
France, according to the statement. The power unit has a total
of 49,000  employees .  Alstom  shares declined 1.7 percent to 36.45 euros in Paris
trading. The stock has slipped almost 26 percent this year,
valuing the company at 10.7 billion euros. Rival turbine
supplier  Siemens SA  of Germany has climbed by 18 percent.  Alstom, which also makes high-speed trains and trams, said
hydro- and wind-power operations aren’t part of the cutbacks.  Like Siemens, the company has benefited from demand for
renewable-energy gear. Alstom’s recent successes include an
order to build its first wind farm in Turkey under an agreement
with a unit of Guris Construction and Engineering Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  