-- Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Rises to Record as Dollar Extends Decline
-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 2010-10-04T00:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-rises-to-record-as-dollar-extends-decline.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  
TOP STORIES:  Gold Futures Rise to Another Record as Dollar Extends Slump  Gold futures climbed to another record on investor demand
for an alternative to the slumping dollar. Silver extended a
rally to a 30-year high.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Corn Products CEO Says Volatility Will Be Challenging (Update2)  Corn Products International Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Ilene Gordon  said the recent rally and volatility in the corn
market will be challenging for her company and its customers.  Brazil to Harvest Up to 70 Million Tons of Soybeans in 2011  Soybean growers in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
producer of the oilseed, will boost output by as much as 2
percent to a record next year, Brazilian farm group SLC Agricola
SA said.  Brazil Cotton Growers to Boost Output on Price, India (Update1)  Cotton growers in Brazil, the world’s fifth-largest
exporter of the fiber, plan to increase output next year after
prices surged and India said it will scale back shipments, the
head of an industry group said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises to 26-Month High as Chinese Manufacturing Expands  Copper jumped to a 26-month high in New York after a report
showed manufacturing accelerated in China, the world’s biggest
metal consumer.  Copper Will Have Shortage Next Year, Study Group Says (Update1)  Refined copper output will lag behind demand by 435,000
metric tons next year, the first shortage since 2007, according
to the International Copper Study Group.  MINING:  Gammon Gold Acquires Capital Gold in $288 Million Deal (Update1)  Gammon Gold Inc., a Halifax, Nova Scotia-based mining and
exploration company, said it will acquire Capital Gold Corp. in
a cash-and-share transaction valued at $288 million to gain
properties in Mexico.  More Chinese Beef Eaters Will Boost Potash Prices: Chart of Day  Consumers in China and other emerging markets will use
rising incomes to buy more beef, stoking demand for fertilizers
such as potash needed to grow animal feed.  First Quantum Starts U.S Arbitration Over Congo Mines (Update2)  First Quantum Minerals Ltd., fighting to recover mining
rights in the Democratic Republic of Congo, started
international arbitration in Washington against the central
African country.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Record Gold, Rising Food Costs May Mean Inflation: Chart of Day  Record gold prices and rising agriculture costs may signal
a “coming wave” of accelerating consumer prices, according to
brokerage GoldCore Ltd.  JPMorgan Raises Gold Assumption From 2010 by 9%, Silver by 5%  JP Morgan Chase & Co. raised its gold price assumption by 9
percent to $1,200 an ounce from $1,100 an ounce.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn, Soybeans May Fall as Favorable Weather Boosts World Crops  Corn and soybeans may fall as dry weather allows for rapid
harvesting in the U.S., while rain in South America improves
soil moisture for planting crops.  Australia Clears Agrium’s A$1.2 Billion Bid for AWB (Update1)  Agrium Inc.’s A$1.2 billion ($1.2 billion) bid for AWB Ltd.,
Australia’s largest wheat exporter and No. 2 rural services
supplier, was approved by Australia’s Foreign Investment Review
Board.  Russia Lifts Ban on Pork From Two Smithfield Plants (Update1)  Russia, the fifth-largest buyer of U.S. pork last year, is
resuming imports of the meat from two Smithfield Foods Inc.
plants, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Cotton Output to Rise as Prices Rally, Group Says (Update1)  Global cotton production will rise 16 percent this year,
partly because a surge in prices to a 15-year high is
encouraging farmers to plant more, the International Cotton
Advisory Committee said.  Soybeans Plunge as Weather Aids U.S. Harvest, Brazil Planting  Soybeans fell the most in more than 14 months as dry
weather allows U.S. farmers to accelerate the pace of the
harvest, while rain in Brazil and Argentina improves crop
conditions.  Corn Futures Plunge Most Since January as U.S. Supplies Increase  Corn futures plunged the most since January after the U.S.
said supplies left from last year’s crop climbed to the highest
level since 2006.  Hog Futures Drop on Signs of Slack U.S. Demand; Cattle Fall  Hog futures fell to the lowest level since March amid signs
of lower U.S. demand and increasing pork supplies. Cattle prices
declined.  Wheat Caps Biggest Weekly Drop Since January on Russia Rains  Wheat futures fell for a fifth straight day, capping the
biggest weekly decline since January, on speculation that rain
will improve prospects for crops being planted in Eastern Europe
and Russia.  Corn Harvest in Mexico Reaches Record 25 Million Tons (Update2)  Mexico, the world’s fourth-largest producer of corn,
harvested a record 24.9 million metric tons of corn this crop
year and may increase output next year as steadier rainfall and
new technology improve yields, said Agriculture Deputy Minister
 Mariano Ruiz-Funes .  Brazil Sugar Exports Rise 31 Percent to Record in September  Sugar exports from Brazil, the world’s largest exporter,
rose 31 percent to a record in September amid strong global
demand from food makers.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Dry Index Posts Smallest Weekly Change in Five Months  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping costs,
posted its smallest weekly change in more than five months as
hire rates rose for capesize vessels and fell for panamaxes.  ECONOMIES:  Merkel Straddles Fences After Euro’s Near-Death Experience  For a fleeting moment last spring, it was possible to
believe that Europe’s economic crisis had turned Angela Merkel
into a true believer in the European cause.  Chinese Manufacturing Growth Accelerates, Survey Shows (Update2)  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, adding to signs that economic growth is
stabilizing even as the government curbs energy use and tries to
cool the property market.  Geithner Plays Down Risk of Trade Battle With China Over Yuan  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner played down the
danger of a trade war over China’s currency policy after U.S.
lawmakers took a step toward approving a bill designed to
protect against Chinese imports.  European Manufacturing Cools, Unemployment Stays at 12-Year High  Growth in Europe’s manufacturing industry slowed and
unemployment held at a 12-year high as a cooling global recovery
restrained demand.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Oil Rise, Dollar Slumps as Economic Data Top Forecasts  U.S. stocks rose, adding to the biggest September rally
since 1939, while oil climbed and copper surged to a two-year
high as American consumer spending and confidence topped
estimates and Chinese manufacturing accelerated. The Dollar
Index slid to an almost nine-month low.  Kan Says Will Sell Yen If Needed, Urges BOJ to Fight Deflation  Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he is prepared to
resume selling the country’s currency to prevent it from
strengthening and called on the central bank to do more to
bolster an economy threatened by deflation.  Program Sales Fed Crash Amid ‘Hot Potato’ Trading (Update3)  The automated sale of stock futures without regard to price
and “hot potato” trading by computer- driven firms that
briefly created an illusion of liquidity helped trigger the May
6 crash, turning an orderly selloff into an $862 billion rout as
buy orders evaporated, U.S. regulators said in a report released
today.  Crude Oil Rises on Economic Data, Caps Best Week Since February  Oil rose, capping its biggest weekly gain since February,
after economic data from the U.S. and China bolstered optimism
that demand is growing in the world’s two largest energy-
consuming countries.  SPORTS:  Europe Takes 3-Point Lead Over U.S. Into Final Day of Ryder Cup  Colin Montgomerie said he’d be happy to have his European
Ryder Cup team tied with the U.S. going into the singles matches.
A “quite amazing” performance has the home captain’s squad
with a commanding lead instead.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  