-- Asset-Backed Bond Sales Fall to Lowest in 15 Years as Consumers Cut Back
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/asset-backed-bond-sales-fall-to-lowest-in-15-years-as-consumers-cut-back.html
Sales of bonds tied to consumer debt
including credit card payments and car loans may fall short of
$100 billion for the first time in 15 years in 2010 as U.S.
households seek to save more.  Issuance of so-called asset-backed securities linked to
household borrowing stands at $80.4 billion, compared with
$110.1 billion in the same period in 2009, according to
Wells Fargo Securities data. Bond sales tied to credit card
payments fell more than 83 percent to $7 billion as lenders
funded consumer demand with money from bank deposits rather than
tapping the bond market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We are at the mercy of the economy right now,”  John McElravey , an analyst at Well Fargo Securities, said in an
interview yesterday at Information Management Network’s annual
ABS East conference in Miami. “If people have jobs they can go
out and spend.”  Declining asset-backed securities sales may translate into
lower borrowing costs for banks and finance companies that issue
the bonds as buyers crowd a shrinking market. Offerings will
likely rise in 2011, while remaining short of records set prior
to the financial crisis, McElravey said.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey last month cut their
forecast for consumer spending, projecting it will rise at a 2
percent rate in the second half of this year, down from the
previous median estimate of 2.25 percent. Household spending
climbed 3 percent on average over the past three decades and
fell 1.2 percent last year, the biggest decrease since 1942.  Consumer Restraint  While the latest figures from the Commerce Department
showed consumer purchases in August gained 0.4 percent,
unemployment hovering near a 26-year high and the loss of more
than 8 million jobs during the recession is expected to restrain
household purchases.  The U.S. personal savings rate climbed to 5.8 percent in
August, according to Commerce Department data. In August 2007,
the rate was 1.7 percent.  McElravey said he forecasts $125 billion of asset-backed
securities sales in 2011. About $135 billion of the debt was
sold last year with the aid of a U.S. program designed to
jumpstart credit markets. As much as $275 billion of the bonds
were sold when sales peaked in 2006, he said.  Top-rated securities backed by credit payments yield 58
basis points more than Treasuries, compared with 115 basis
points a year ago, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The spread soared as high as 7.69 percentage points in
December 2008 before the Federal Reserve stepped in to provide
support.  Spreads Tighten  Similar debt tied to auto loans yields about 57 basis
points more than Treasuries, compared with 79 basis points at
the start of the year, the index data show.  Accounting changes enacted in January requiring banks to
bring securitized assets on balance sheet also damped issuance
of bonds tied to credit-card payments, according to McElravey.  Slowing sales should support bond prices and could push
them higher, according to  Evan Kestenberg , an asset-backed
securities trader at the Seaport Group in Miami.  “It’s basic supply and demand,” Kestenberg said in an
interview at the conference. “You want to buy the bonds now
before they pay down or are sold to somebody else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  