-- Assupol Life of South Africa Plans to Demutualize, Sell Shares to Public
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-04T12:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/assupol-life-of-south-africa-plans-to-demutualize-offer-shares-to-public.html
Assupol Life, a South African life
insurer, plans to issue shares to the public after distributing
stock to qualifying policyholders and some staff through a
demutualization that may help raise funds for expansion.  “Our intention is to list in 18 to 24 months’ time, after
the demutualization,” Rudi Schmidt, group chief executive of
Assupol, said in a telephone interview from Pretoria today,
adding that any capital raised may be spent on buying
distribution channels for Assupol’s products. Assupol has not
yet chosen advisers for its listing, Schmidt said.  “We’ll be giving just over 400 million free shares to
qualifying policyholders and staff in the demutualization,” he
said. “The problem is that not all of them will be long-term
shareholders and may want the cash, so we’ve created a mechanism
for the conversion.”  South Africa’s two largest insurance companies,  Old Mutual
Plc  and  Sanlam Ltd. , demutualized more than 10 years ago. Since
listing in Johannesburg and London in 1999, Old Mutual’s share
price has risen 18 percent while Sanlam’s stock since late 1998
has more than quadrupled. MMI Holdings, a 30 billion-rand ($4.3
billion) company created from the merger of  FirstRand Ltd .’s
insurance unit, Momentum, and  Metropolitan Holdings Ltd. , will
be the third-biggest listed insurer when that transaction is
completed in December.  Opportunities  “We don’t see that as a threat to our business,” said
Schmidt, who has served on Assupol’s board since 2000. “It’s
part of the normal competitive environment and mergers are hard
to bed down, which gives us opportunities.”  Assupol , formed in 1913 and which targets low- to middle-
income earners, said its application for demutualization will be
heard in the North Gauteng High Court of South Africa on Dec. 9,
according to an e-mailed statement today. The insurer offers
life cover, funeral cover, investment products and retirement
annuities. In its fiscal year from 2007 to 2008, Assupol’s
revenue fell 14 percent and group operating profit dropped to
137 million rand, according to the company’s  website . It didn’t
provide further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  