-- MasterCard, Visa Settle as Amex Fights U.S. Lawsuit
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-04T23:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mastercard-visa-settle-antitrust-case-as-american-express-fights-lawsuit.html
Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc.  reached
a settlement with the U.S. Justice Department that will let
merchants reward consumers for paying with lower-cost credit or
debit cards, while  American Express Co.  vowed to fight a
government antitrust lawsuit.  Today’s settlement means that about 4 million merchants
across the U.S. that accept just Visa and MasterCard are now
free to steer customers to different credit cards or forms of
payment by offering discounts, rebates or other special
treatment, the Justice Department said. Six million more
retailers who also accept cards from American Express are still
subject to restrictions until the lawsuit is resolved, the
Justice Department said.  “We want to put money in consumers’ pockets,” said
Attorney General  Eric Holder  at a press conference. “By
eliminating credit-card companies’ anticompetitive rules, we
will accomplish that.”  Restraints on retailers by the payment networks “impose a
competitive straightjacket on merchants, restricting decisions
by them to offer discounts, benefits and choices to customers
that many merchants would otherwise be free to offer,” the
Justice Department said in its lawsuit against the three credit-
card networks. It was filed in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn,
New York.  The freedom of merchants to offer incentives to customers
for alternative forms of payment, including no-frills cards that
are cheaper for merchants to accept, had been prohibited by the
card networks.  No Monetary Obligation  Visa, based in San Francisco, and Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard won’t be required to make any payments as part of the
settlement.  Assistant Attorney General  Christine Varney , head of the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said the case won’t be
over as long as the lawsuit is pending against New York-based
AmEx.  “American Express’s rules are the most restrictive,” she
said, standing alongside Holder. They “restrain trade
unnecessarily.”  “We have no intention of settling the case,” American
Express Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth I. Chenault  said in a
statement. “We will defend the rights of our card members at
the point of sale and our own ability to negotiate freely with
merchants.”  Struggle for U.S.  David Boies , an attorney for American Express, said the
Justice Department will struggle to make a case that the
company, which processes less than 25 percent of U.S. credit-
card spending, has enough power to force retailers into
agreements.  The settlement with Visa and Mastercard will have the
ironic effect of making the market less competitive, he said.
Under the agreement, Visa and Mastercard “can pay merchants to
discriminate against American Express customers,” Boies said in
a Bloomberg TV interview. “That’s bad economics. That’s bad
antitrust law, and it’s bad for consumers.”  Retail and consumer groups including the U.S. Public
Interest Research Group, the National Federation of Retailers
and the Retail Industry Leaders Association said the settlement
is a long-awaited victory.  “Merchants, small and large, welcome today’s news,” said
 John Emling , senior vice president of government affairs for the
Retail Industry Leaders Association, in an e-mailed statement.
“Credit and debit networks operate within a broken market where
a few dominant firms set fees and dictate terms with impunity.”  ‘Swipe’ Fees  The Justice Department probe also focused on interchange,
or “swipe” fees, charged to merchants on each transaction.
Visa and MasterCard set the fees, which exceed $40 billion a
year, and pass that money along to card-issuing banks to
compensate them for the risk of lending money, the cost of
processing the payments and to help fund rewards programs.
Richer rewards programs typically carry higher interchange
rates.  “When merchants do agree to accept American Express, they
promise not to bait and switch by taking advantage of American
Express’s investments in attracting desirable card members and
then steering those customers to use cards from another
network,” AmEx Vice Chairman  Edward P. Gilligan  said in a
conference call with reporters and analysts.  The American Bankers Association said it wants to see
whether the settlement with Visa and MasterCard will result in
lower costs for consumers.  Pricing Authority  “We look forward to seeing whether their new-found pricing
authority will actually result in consumer benefit or merely be
used to pad their own bottom lines,” said Kenneth J. Clayton,
senior vice president and general counsel for card policy in an
e-mailed statement.  American Express, in vowing to fight the lawsuit, called it
“a significant retreat” from previous Justice Department
efforts to promote competition in the payments industry.  “I think the Department of Justice will have a very tough
case,” said  Janet McDavid , a partner with Hogan Lovells US LLP
in Washington, D.C., who represented American Express in a
separate case against Visa and MasterCard. “Amex doesn’t have
the market power of Visa and MasterCard; it’s not a ‘must-carry’
card. Balancing its justifications against the rules will be key
to the analysis.”  American Express fell $2.73, or 6.5 percent, the most since
Jan. 22, to $39.05 at 6:40 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading and was the day’s worst performer in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average. MasterCard dropped $2.14, or 0.95
percent, to $222.64 after falling as much as 2.6 percent
earlier.  Visa slipped 8 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $73.24 after
declining as much as 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sara Forden  in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Alec McCabe in New York at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 