-- Jaguar Owner Tata Motors Said to Raise $750 Million in Indian Share Sale
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-04T09:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tata-motors-said-to-increase-size-of-share-offer-by-43-to-750-million.html
Tata Motors Ltd. , the owner of Jaguar
Land Rover, sold $750 million of stock to reduce debt after
investors bid for more than three times the shares originally on
offer, said three people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The share sale, which started Oct. 1, was increased from
$525 million because of the demand from institutional investors,
the people said today, declining to be identified before an
official announcement.  Tata Motors also raised $750 million a year ago selling
convertible bonds and global depositary receipts to pare a debt
pile now standing at  $4.5 billion , according to Bloomberg data.
Standard & Poor’s in August raised its  rating  on the company’s
debt because of the fundraising and a rebound in luxury-vehicle
sales amid the global economic recovery.  “Their balance sheet is much healthier today,” said
 Mahantesh Sabarad , a Mumbai-based analyst at Fortune Equity
Brokers (India) Ltd. “Tata may not need to sell any more shares
after this issue as cash flows are good enough to generate funds
for debt repayment and capital expenditure.”  Tata Motors  rose  2 percent to 1,136.5 rupees at 2:06 p.m.
in Mumbai trading. The stock has gained 96 percent in the past
year, the  best performer  in the benchmark Sensitive Index, which
has risen 21 percent.  Debasis Ray , a spokesman for Tata Motors, declined to
comment on the share sale.  The issue includes $550 million of so-called A shares with
differential voting rights, the people said. The Mumbai-based
company initially planned to sell $325 million of A-shares with
an option to increase the offer in response to demand, according
to a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange today. The automaker
also sold $200 million of ordinary shares, the people said.  Citigroup, Credit Suisse  Citigroup Inc.  and  Credit Suisse Group AG  managed the sale,
according to the statement. Tata Motors offered the ordinary
shares at 1,074 rupees each and the A shares at 764 rupees,
according to a term sheet seen by Bloomberg News.  Tata Motors posted  net income  of 19.9 billion rupees ($447
million) in the quarter ended June 30, compared with a loss of
3.3 billion rupees a year earlier as demand for vehicles rose in
India and overseas. Jaguar Land Rover, which Tata  acquired  for
$2.5 billion from Ford Motor Co. in 2008, had a profit of 221
million pounds ($348 million) in the quarter.  Indian companies have raised 179 billion rupees in so-
called qualified institutional placements this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse is ranked ninth in
arranging such share sales in the period, one place ahead of
Citigroup, the data show.  GDR, Bonds  Tata said in June it planned to raise as much as 47 billion
rupees through a combination of securities. The maker of the
Nano, the world’s cheapest car, also increased the size of its
GDR and convertible bond sale in October last year by 25 percent
after the initial fund-raising target was met in less than an
hour.  India’s biggest commercial vehicle maker  sold a 20 percent
stake in its construction equipment venture to Japanese partner
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. for 11.6 billion rupees in
March. The same month, the automaker also offered to convert
some bonds into shares about a year early to reduce debt and
preserve cash.  Tata raised 41 billion rupees through a rights offer in
October 2008. The company’s founders, the Tata Group, invested
30 billion rupees by subscribing to the offer, which included
shares with lower voting rights. The ‘A’ shares entitled one
vote for every 10 shares and offered five percentage points more
dividend than ordinary shares. Tata was the first Indian company
to sell the shares with differential voting rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  