-- Latvia's Dombrovskis Rewarded With Win After Austerity
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-04T12:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/latvian-voters-give-dombrovskis-increased-mandate-even-as-budget-cuts-bite.html
Latvians returned Prime Minister
 Valdis Dombrovskis  to office with an increased mandate even
after unemployment more than doubled and average wages dropped
almost 14 percent since he took office 19 months ago.  Rather than punish Dombrovskis in Oct. 2 elections, voters
rewarded him for following through on pledges to cut spending to
secure international loans and save Latvia from bankruptcy. His
three-party coalition will have 63 seats in the new parliament,
compared with 45 of 100 today.  Dombrovskis, at 39 the youngest premier in the European
Union, took power in February 2009 after the  International
Monetary Fund  and EU withheld loans pending further austerity
measures and rioters burned a police car in the capital, Riga.
Today money is flowing from the 7.5 billion-euro ($10.3 billion)
bailout and Latvia’s economy has shown two quarters of growth
after the world’s deepest recession in 2008 and 2009.  “What happened in the election was very remarkable” since
austerity often results in a loss of power, said Vyacheslav
Dombrovsky, a lecturer at the Stockholm School of Economics in
Riga who isn’t related to the prime minister. “I did not expect
him to succeed.”  Dombrovskis’s  Unity  party won 30.7 percent of the vote,
followed by 25.7 percent for the opposition Harmony Center,
which represents Russian speakers’ interests. Unity will have 33
seats in parliament and Harmony 29, according to estimates by
the election commission.  Continuing Coalition  The two smaller coalition parties, Greens & Farmers and For
Fatherland, received 19.4 percent and 7.5 percent of the vote,
respectively. After meeting with his coalition partners
yesterday, Dombrovskis said he may ask parliament to confirm the
new government on Nov. 2.  “We have agreed with the Union of Greens & Farmers and
with For Fatherland to go forward without any delay and try to
create a new government,” Dombrovskis said on  Latvijas Radio .  The premier’s Unity party offered to cooperate with
Harmony, which could mean allowing the party to run a
ministry,  Ir.lv  reported, citing Dombrovskis. He also said that
some coalition partners were against inviting Harmony into the
government, the magazine reported.  The opposition For a Good Latvia got 7.6 percent of the
vote. The two parties that comprise For a Good Latvia won a
combined 33 seats in the 2006 election and led the four-party
coalition that preceded Dombrovskis. For a Good Latvia will have
eight seats in the new parliament.  ‘Good News’  Dombrovskis’ victory is “good news for Latvia and good
news for the economy,” said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging
markets analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, by telephone.
“He will be an inspiration for his colleagues in the EU; that
he can be re-elected even after passing austerity.”  Latvia’s credit-default swaps, which investors use to
protect against default or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, surged to 1,193 basis points in March 2009. They
fell to 328.5 basis points on Oct. 1, below the costs for
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Romania.  “The election result comes as a big relief for the
investors who have been worrying over political stability and
the future of the internationally supported economic program,”
said  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Istanbul, in a note. “Thanks to the rigorous implementation of
the economic program Latvia escaped a devaluation whose
repercussions could have been much more serious.”  Economic Contraction  The economy shrank a cumulative 25 percent in 2008 and
2009, the largest contraction in the world, according to an IMF
paper published Sept. 1. The recession came as a property boom
turned to bust and the country’s second-largest bank failed.  A government led by  Ivars Godmanis  passed a budget
containing austerity measures equal to 6.2 percent of gross
domestic product to secure the IMF-led loan. Godmanis’ Cabinet
collapsed after trust in parliament fell to a record low.  A January 2009 survey found that 4.5 percent of Latvians
trusted parliament and 7.3 percent trusted the government, the
lowest figures since the poll conducted by SKDS began in 1996.
The figures are now about 11 percent for parliament and 18
percent for the government.  ‘Mixed Blessing’  Public pressure on Dombrovskis may increase now that he’s
won an election on his own, said Dombrovsky of the Stockholm
School of Economics.  The victory is a “mixed blessing,” he said. “Now they
are in charge, it’s where the buck stops” and the country must
still pass two more difficult budgets, he said.  The government plans to cut the  budget deficit  to 3 percent
of GDP in 2012, from about 8.5 percent today, to qualify for
euro adoption. The Finance Ministry expects austerity measures
in the 2011 budget to be as much as 395 million lati ($765
million).  Dombrovskis said yesterday that he will meet with Harmony
Center leaders today about possible cooperation in parliament.
No party representing Latvia’s Russian-speaking minority, which
makes up about a third of the population, has been part of the
government since the country declared independence from the
Soviet Union in 1991.  “We have to think of ways of how to democratize parliament
and involve the opposition in its work,” said Solvita Aboltina,
a Unity member of parliament, according to the newswire Leta.  ‘Unprecedented’ Austerity  Latvia’s austerity measures were the biggest among the
three Baltic states, and were “unprecedented by historical and
international standards,” according to the IMF.   Unemployment  increased to 20.4 percent in the first
quarter, from 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007,
according to a labor force survey. The figure fell to 19.4
percent in the second quarter.  Latvia saw its first quarterly economic growth in the first
and second quarters, expanding 0.3 percent and 0.8 percent. GDP
will contract about 1.5 percent for the year, according to
Swedbank AB, the biggest bank in the Baltic states.  “By nature I’m quite a calm person,” Dombrovskis said in
a campaign documentary. “It’s difficult to irritate me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  