-- Australia September Services Industry Shrinks at Fastest Pace in 14 Months
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-04T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/australia-september-services-industry-shrinks-at-fastest-pace-in-14-months.html
Australia’s services industry
contracted last month at the fastest pace in more than a year as
demand weakened for communications and financial products.  The performance of services  index  fell 1.9 points to 45.6
in September, the lowest level since July 2009, Commonwealth
Bank of Australia and the Australian Industry Group said in
Sydney today. A figure below 50 indicates the industry is
contracting.  Today’s report suggests the central bank’s six interest-
rate increases from October 2009 to May are cooling domestic
demand even as a record mining investment boom drives down
unemployment. The Reserve Bank of Australia will decide today
whether higher interest rates are needed to avert faster
inflation amid signs that past increases are cooling the
nation’s property market.  “September’s result indicates a continuation of the
weakness that has been seen across the services sector for most
of the year,” AIG Chief Executive  Heather Ridout  said. “The
pressures on business across the services sector would intensify
if interest rates were to rise when sales are sluggish and
employment in the sector is waning.”  Nineteen of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  will increase the
overnight cash rate target to 4.75 percent from 4.5 percent at
2:30 p.m. today.  Today’s report, which is based on a poll of about 200
companies, is similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  