-- Auto-Enrollment in 401(k)s Benefits Young Savers, Financial Engines Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/auto-enrollment-in-401-k-s-benefits-young-savers-financial-engines-says.html
Automatic enrollments in U.S.
employer-sponsored 401(k) plans are helping younger workers save
enough for retirement, according to  Financial Engines Inc.   “We do see some improvements on portfolios coming at the
younger stages,” said  Jeff Maggioncalda , president and chief
executive officer of the Palo Alto, California-based company
founded by  William Sharpe , a Nobel laureate in economics. “This
study proves that automatic features are working.”  About 52 percent of workers under age 30 eligible to
automatically enroll in an investment option through their
employer have the appropriate risk and diversification for their
age to put them on a better track for retirement, compared with
12 percent of employees in that age group without access to such
a feature, according to the study released today. Financial
Engines analyzed about 2.8 million participants from 272 company
plans.  The company uses a proprietary computer model that measures
fund expenses, historical performance and an investor’s risk
level to recommend how a worker should allocate contributions.  The Department of Labor encouraged employers to
automatically enroll workers into retirement-savings accounts
after Congress passed the Pension Protection Act of 2006. The
most popular default investments are target-date funds, which
move money from riskier assets such as stocks to more
conservative investments such as bonds as an individual
approaches retirement. They attracted $45 billion last year,
according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago-based researcher.  Target-date funds may have more risk than savers think,
said Jessica Flores, managing partner of Fiduciary Compliance
Center LLC in Rydal, Georgia, a consulting firm that advises
employers with as much as $4.5 billion in retirement plan
assets. The underlying investments in funds may include riskier
assets such as high-yield bonds to improve returns, she said.  Target-Date Scrutiny  Legislators and regulators have scrutinized target-date
funds’ fees, disclosure and risk structure after some investors
lost as much as 41 percent in 2008, according to Morningstar,
while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 38 percent.  About 72 percent of Americans won’t have enough saved when
they retire, according to the Financial Engines study, which
looked at an individual’s 401(k) balance and estimated  Social
Security  benefit as well as stock market performance. The
projections don’t include other investments a worker may have
such as an individual retirement account or real estate,
Maggioncalda said.  “The bright spot that we see is for younger people
starting out,” said Maggioncalda. Those workers are more likely
to have been automatically enrolled into their investment
selection, he said. In addition to target-date funds, that may
also include a balanced fund or professionally managed account.  Risk Levels  The study said about 67 percent of participants in 401(k)
plans across all age groups need to improve their
diversification and adjust risk levels to reach retirement
goals. The report also said that the  recession  has hurt savings
rates. About 39 percent of workers aren’t contributing enough to
their accounts to receive the full employer match, up from 33
percent in 2008.  Financial Engines is an independent registered investment
adviser that provides advice online to 7.4 million 401(k)
investors through employers that have hired the company,
including about 120 businesses in the Fortune 500. The firm,
which went public in  March , also manages about $30 billion in
retirement assets.  “You’re putting a lot of responsibility on the
individual” now that more workers save for retirement through
401(k)s rather than traditional pension plans, said  Carrie Schwab-Pomerantz , president of  Charles Schwab Foundation , which
sponsors financial literacy. “Individuals have to not only make
the effort to save, they have to make the effort to choose the
investments as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 