-- Accused Tax Cheat Cohen Denies Owning New York Hotel
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-10-04T20:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tax-trial-defendant-leon-cohen-testifies-to-deny-u-s-charges.html
Hotel developer  Leon Cohen Levy ,
accused by U.S. prosecutors of hiding a $33 million hotel sale
from the Internal Revenue Service, testified that he never
cheated on his taxes or made more than $45,000 a year.  Cohen, 46, is charged with his father, Mauricio Cohen
Assor, 77, with conspiring to defraud the IRS and filing false
tax returns that hid income and more than $150 million in
assets. Prosecutors say the men, who built hotels in Europe
under the “ Flatotel ” brand, failed to declare their sale of a
New York hotel in 2000 that they owned in the names of friends,
relatives and employees.  Leon Cohen said today he never owned the Flatotel. In
testimony this morning, he said he never made more than $40,000
a year working for the hotel’s owners, a figure he later amended
to $45,000. He said he never paid taxes for his use of a Miami
Beach house that prosecutors say was once worth $26 million, or
luxury cars he drove.  “Why would I pay taxes?” Cohen told jurors in federal
court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “I was a professional person
working in a professional residence. That’s where I slept. I was
just doing my job.”  Cohen, like his father, who testified Sept. 30, said he
believed an accountant had prepared his taxes properly.  “I thought that all the returns and documents that had to
be filed had been filed, absolutely,” he said, testifying in
French through an interpreter. Closing arguments are scheduled
for tomorrow.  Prosecutors said the Cohens put $33 million in proceeds
from the New York Flatotel sale in a Swiss account of  HSBC
Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest bank by market value, and failed
to tell the IRS.  Uneducated Employees  On cross-examination by Mark Daly, a Justice Department
trial attorney, Cohen denied that his father recruited
uneducated employees to pose as company owners to shield both
men from any tax liability during the sale of the Flatotel in
New York.  “To this day, you still contend you had no ownership
interest in the Flatotel in New York?” Daly asked.  “Yes,” Cohen responded.  Cohen said he never declared any income from the sale
because he never received any.  “I didn’t make any gain or profit so I didn’t see a reason
to file a tax return,” he said.  Daly asked about a series of loan documents that Cohen
signed to buy luxury cars and real estate in which he claimed
assets ranging from $28 million to $44 million.  “You told the bank you had $44 million in assets?” Daly
asked.  “Absolutely not,” Cohen said. He said the assets belonged
to the corporation, not him.  Porsche Carrera GT  Daly asked whether a  Porsche Carrera GT , bought for
$500,000, was titled in Cohen’s name.  “Absolutely not,” Cohen said. “This vehicle was not
used, it was an investment.”  He said he only drove the car twice.  Daly showed jurors photos of rooms in the Miami Beach
mansion on Biscayne Bay where Cohen lived. Cohen denied owning
the house, saying as many as 30 people worked there on business
ventures including real estate development and luxury cars.  The house had eight bedrooms, a helipad, an exercise room,
a media room with a life-sized Darth Vader figure, and one
containing a sarcophagus, or funeral receptacle for a corpse.  The prosecutor asked the business purpose of each room,
including the “sarcophagus room.” Cohen said the room is where
employees put bags on their shoes so they wouldn’t damage the
rest of the house.  Daly also questioned him about the decision to step down as
president of a development company, American Leisure Resorts
Inc., and put his girlfriend’s sister, Ana Perez, in charge. She
had only a high school equivalency degree and her only work
experience was managing an OfficeMax store.  “In fact, you made Ana Perez president of ALR because you
knew you could control her?” Daly asked.  “I don’t think anybody can control Ana Perez,” Cohen
said.  Daly also asked about a lawyer’s letter in 2002 warning
Cohen and his father that they would owe U.S. taxes for “deemed
compensation” for the use of corporate assets. Cohen denied
reading the letter and said he didn’t recall attending a meeting
it mentioned.  The case is U.S. v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Susannah Nesmith  in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 