-- Publisher Axel Springer Said to Rule Out Higher Bid For Web Firm Seloger
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-04T15:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/axel-springer-said-to-rule-out-making-a-higher-bid-for-france-seloger-com.html
Axel Springer AG  won’t increase its
495.7 million euro ($679 million) offer for French property-
listings website  Seloger.com , according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The German publishing group will probably retain its
existing stake in Seloger and abandon efforts to take it over
entirely if its 34 euro-per-share offer fails to win over
investors, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because talks are private.  Axel Springer, based in Berlin, is targeting Seloger as
part of its effort to build digital revenue and reduce
dependence on print assets such as Bild, Germany’s most-read
tabloid newspaper. The Paris-based apartment-search site’s board
last week said the offer was “unfriendly” and undervalued the
company.  While “Seloger would be a nice asset to have,” Axel
Springer can afford to move on if forced to pay too much, said
 Andreas Heinold , an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg in
Stuttgart. “In terms of synergies it’s limited and not
essential to their strategy.”  Germany’s largest newspaper publisher, whose titles include
Die Welt and Berliner Morgenpost, is looking for acquisitions
outside Germany to bolster its digital operations. Last month
the company raised about 250 million euros through a share sale
to finance expansion. It has bought Internet-focused companies
including job-search portal StepStone ASA and women’s website-
operator AuFeminin.com SA, based in Paris.  Groupe Arnault, the investment company controlled by French
billionaire  Bernard Arnault , has also rejected the bid as too
low. Axel Springer said in early September that it bought 12.4
percent of Seloger from a group of investors including founders
 Amal Amar  and  Denys Chalumeau .  Seloger shares  fell 1.5 percent to 37 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of Paris trading, valuing the company at about 616
million euros.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 