-- Stock Crash May Lead to New Rules for Brokers, Gensler Says
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-04T16:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/may-6-stock-crash-may-lead-to-new-rules-for-brokers-cftc-s-gensler-says.html
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said the May 6 stock-market plunge raises
questions about whether brokers and traders should face new
rules for handling and disclosing orders.  Gensler, speaking today at a conference in Washington, said
brokers using computer algorithms might need to face limits on
price or the size of orders they can execute for clients. He
also questioned whether market participants might benefit from
“fuller visibility” of exchanges’ order books.  The CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission said in
a report last week that a large trader’s attempt to hedge
against losses helped set off a chain of events that sent the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  down 998.50 points on May 6. The
trader, who tried to sell 75,000 futures contracts worth $4.1
billion, used an algorithm that gave no regard to price or time.  “The large customer did not execute the trade itself, but
used an executing broker,” Gensler said at the  Wholesale
Markers Brokers’ Association  meeting. The event raises questions
about whether brokers should “have to adopt certain trading
practices when executing a large order,” he said.  Participants in the futures market can only “see up to the
tenth offer or bid in an order book,” Gensler said. Liquidity
might not have been so “overwhelmed” by a single, large sell
order on May 6 if traders had more transparency, he said.  Neither Gensler nor the regulators’ Oct. 1 report named the
seller of the so-called E-mini futures tied to the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index .  Waddell & Reed  The firm is  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. , according to two
people with knowledge of the report’s findings. The Overland
Park, Kansas-based mutual-fund company said the market can
typically absorb orders of the size it initiated.  The trade on May 6 couldn’t be handled because there
weren’t parties willing to buy the order and hold it for an
extended period of time, Gensler said.  “Much of the volume on May 6 was just positions being
moved back and forth over a matter of seconds between high-
frequency traders and other market makers,” he said. “For the
large trader’s order to actually be absorbed by the market, it
had to find fundamental or opportunistic buyers who were willing
to hold the position at least for more than a few seconds.”  The SEC and CFTC have shared the report with a panel that
will advise the regulators on new rules and recommendations
aimed at preventing another crash.  Gensler said he’s eager to hear the panel’s views on
whether regulators should require that brokers exit and enter
the market in an “orderly manner.” He also wants the group,
whose members include former CFTC Chairman  Brooksley Born  and
former SEC Chairman  David Ruder , to provide advice on whether
brokers should be obligated to monitor trades and make “non-
disruptive trading judgments.”  Gensler said he also looks forward to reviewing the panel’s
views on trading pauses that halt markets during periods of
volatility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  