-- Basel Captial Rules Alone Won't Fix `Too-Big-to-Fail' Lenders, Sants Says
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-10-04T14:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/basel-accord-alone-won-t-fix-too-big-to-fail-lenders-fsa-ceo-sants-says.html
The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision’s capital accords won’t protect taxpayers from
having to fund future bailouts without additional rules for the
largest lenders, Britain’s top financial regulator said.  “If we do not deliver on liquidity and leverage, and solve
the problem of too-big-to-fail banks, we will not be able to
deliver on the key requirement of the Basel reforms: namely
ensuring that taxpayers never have to foot the bill again,”
Financial Services Authority Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants  said in a speech at a conference in London today. “The
second phase of the work will, in my view, be more important.”  The Basel Committee of central bankers and regulators
agreed last month to more than double capital requirements for
banks after European governments spent $5.3 trillion bailing out
their banks amid the worst financial crisis in 70 years.
Governments are now trying to find ways of paying for future
bailouts by imposing additional regulations on banks beyond the
Basel rules on bank capital.  Switzerland today proposed the first capital surcharge on
too-big-to-fail banks. A government-appointed panel said UBS AG
and Credit Suisse Group AG need to hold almost double the
capital required under Basel III rules. The plans still have to
be endorsed by the government and approved by Parliament.  Sants said more international rule-making is needed to
develop the tools to dismantle large systemic institutions. His
comments were echoed by  Paul Tucker , the Bank of England deputy
governor, who also spoke at the meeting.  “The goal of the authorities in this country and
internationally is to get to a position where the largest firms
in the world can fail without taxpayers’ solvency support and
without the interruption of key financial services,” he said.
“The Basel capital accord has already come out. It’s not
exactly what we wanted, but it’s most definitely worth having.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  