-- Belgium's Flemish Nationalists Ditch Coalition Talks 113 Days After Ballot
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-04T10:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/belgium-s-flemish-nationalists-ditch-coalition-talks-113-days-after-ballot.html
Belgium’s Flemish nationalists pulled
out of talks to form a government, deepening the country’s
political stalemate 113 days after deadlocked elections.  Bart De Wever ’s N-VA party, the top vote-getter in the June
13 election, said it won’t restart seven-party coalition talks
because French-speaking parties refuse to hand more control over
personal income tax to the regions.  “We are not going to fall back into the old disease of
agreeing to a bad coalition agreement for the sake of it,” De
Wever told reporters in Brussels today. “The exercise needs to
be restarted from scratch.”  The pullout by the Flemish nationalists, who haven’t ruled
out a breakup of Belgium, puts a stable government further out
of reach after an initial bid to cobble together a coalition ran
aground on Sept. 3.  Belgian bonds  dropped after the announcement amid concern
that political instability would complicate the management of
Belgium’s debt, which at 96.7 percent of gross domestic product
is the third-highest in Europe.  Investors now demand an extra 85 basis points to hold
Belgian as opposed to 10-year German bonds, up from 81 basis
points on Oct. 1, and the extra yield, a measure of the risk of
investing in Belgium, compares with 418 basis points for Ireland
and 183 basis points for Spain.  Linguistic Divide  De Wever’s party won 27 parliamentary seats in Flanders,
the richer Dutch-speaking north of Belgium. It used the
electoral surge to try to force through a rewrite of the
constitution to give more power to Flanders and cut transfer
payments to the poorer French-speaking south.  De Wever didn’t call for new elections. He said he will
support the caretaker government led by  Yves Leterme  on any
“urgent” matters requiring parliamentary approval.  The first attempt to corral the Dutch- and French-speaking
parties into a governing coalition was led by  Elio Di Rupo  of
the French-speaking socialists, winners of 26 seats in
parliament.  The breakdown of that effort triggered recriminations on
both sides of the linguistic divide.  Laurette Onkelinx , a
French-speaking Socialist, told  La Derniere Heure  that “it’s
time to prepare for the end of Belgium.”  French-speaking parties are willing to devolve half of
overall money-raising powers to the regions, said  Jean-Claude Marcourt , the French-speaking co-chair of a working group
examining the technical details.  “Let’s all sit down at the table, there are enough
elements enabling us to reach an agreement,” Marcourt said on
 RTBF radio  today.  Flanders has progressively gained more authority in five
constitutional revamps over four decades, as its growing wealth
surpassed the older industries that concentrated power in the
French region for more than a century after Belgium’s founding
in 1830.  Some 14 percent of Belgians want to split the country up,
according to a La Libre Belgique poll published Sept. 7. The
majority, 57 percent, called for the quick formation of a
government and 12 percent wanted new elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  