-- Berner Says Renewed Asset Purchases by Federal Reserve Are `Inevitable'
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-04T16:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/berner-says-renewed-asset-purchases-by-federal-reserve-are-inevitable-.html
The Federal Reserve will begin a new
round of large-scale asset purchases to give the U.S. economy a
boost, said  Richard Berner , co-head of global economics at
Morgan Stanley in New York.  “We’re skeptical that you get a lot of bang for the buck
because there are a lot of blockages in the transmission channel
for monetary policy,” Berner said during a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “Nonetheless, with
gridlock persisting elsewhere in the policy environment, it just
seems to us like QE2 is inevitable.”  Markets have already priced in a second round of large-
scale asset purchases, also known as quantitative easing, after
being “frozen” when Congress took no action on the Bush-era
tax cuts, Berner said.  Inflation expectations have risen since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spoke in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in August, according to
Berner. Bernanke said the Federal Open Market Committee “will
strongly resist deviations from price stability in the downward
direction,” and “will do all that it can to ensure
continuation of the economic recovery.”  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected  Securities , a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 1.80 percentage points from 1.67
on Sept. 3. The figure is still less than the five-year average
of 2.10 percentage points.  “The Fed really does want to make sure that inflation
expectations are high enough so they influence the actual
inflation over time,” Berner said.  A weaker  dollar  will also support U.S. growth and help to
limit the risk of deflation, Berner said.  “Right now, interest rates are becoming increasingly an
instrument of monetary policy rather than something that is
determined by inflation growth and the risk of holding longer-
term securities,” Berner said. “When that unwinds, it means a
fairly substantial change in the prices of Treasury
securities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloombergh.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  