-- Bernanke Says Fed's Additional Asset Purchases Can Improve U.S. Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-04T23:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/bernanke-says-additional-securities-purchases-can-help-economy.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s first round of large-scale
asset purchases improved the economy and that further buying is
likely to help more.  “I do think that the additional purchases -- although we
don’t have precise numbers for how big the effects are -- I do
think they have the ability to ease financial conditions,”
Bernanke said in response to questions in Providence, Rhode
Island, at a forum with college students. He said the first wave
that ended in March was an “effective program.”  Bernanke and other Fed officials have signaled during the
past two weeks that the central bank may announce the purchase
of more Treasuries as soon as their next policy meeting Nov. 2-3
in an effort to boost economic growth and reduce an unemployment
rate persisting at 9.5 percent or higher for the past year.  Separately,  Brian Sack , the New York Fed official in charge
of carrying out FOMC decisions, said a further expansion of the
central bank’s $2.3 trillion balance sheet would help stimulate
a recovery that is forecast to be “relatively tepid.” Smaller
steps of purchases may be warranted in contrast to the last
round, Sack said in Newport Beach, California.  Richard Berner , co-head of global economics at Morgan
Stanley in New York, said a second round of large-scale asset
purchases, also known as quantitative easing, is a certainty.  “We’re skeptical that you get a lot of bang for the buck
because there are a lot of blockages in the transmission channel
for monetary policy,” Berner said during a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Nonetheless, with
gridlock persisting elsewhere in the policy environment, it just
seems to us like QE2 is inevitable.”  ‘Tough Time’  Bernanke said that it’s a “very tough time” for the U.S.
job market. The Labor Department on Oct. 8 will report on
September changes to payrolls and the unemployment rate. The
jobless rate may have climbed to 9.7 percent, according to the
median estimate of 80 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. None
expects a decline from August’s 9.6 percent. The rate reached a
26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009.  Treasuries rose, pushing two-year yields to a record low,
as reports showing orders for capital goods rose and pending
home sales climbed failed to damp speculation the Fed will
increase asset purchases.  The two-year yield fell to a record 0.3987 percent before
trading at 0.4066 percent, according to Bloomberg generic data.
The three-year yield touched 0.5892 percent.  Capital Goods  Bookings for non-military capital goods excluding planes
increased 5.1 percent, the biggest gain since March, the
Commerce Department said today in Washington. The number of
contracts to buy previously owned houses rose 4.3 percent,
topping the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, data from the National Association of Realtors showed.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said last week that
the outlook for job growth and inflation is “unacceptable” and
that the Fed will probably need to take action.  “The economy remains vulnerable to downside surprises that
could take both output and inflation further away from the
FOMC’s objectives,” Sack said.  “If we were talking about good old-fashioned monetary
policy” there’s “a lot of disagreement about that,” Sack said
in response to audience questions. “Here, we’re talking about
using an instrument that we don’t have a lot of experience with,
so it’s natural that there are differing opinions.”  Plosser Comments  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said last week
that the central bank risks its credibility by taking actions,
such as additional asset purchases, that may fail to help the
labor market.  In contrast, Dudley said last week that buying about $500
billion of securities would add as much stimulus as reducing the
Fed’s  benchmark rate  0.5 percentage point to 0.75 percentage
point, depending on how long investors expect the Fed to hold
the assets. The Fed has kept the rate near zero since December
2008.  A second round of bond purchases may merit a different
strategy than the central bank’s earlier program at the height
of the financial crisis, when the Fed used “infrequent but
large increments” to expand its balance sheet, Sack said.  “That might have been appropriate in circumstances when
substantial and front-loaded policy surprises had benefits, but
different approaches may be warranted in other circumstances,”
Sack said. “Indeed, it contrasts with the manner in which the
FOMC has historically adjusted the federal funds rate, which has
typically involved incremental changes to the policy
instrument.”  Costs, Benefits  As the central bank would also be “learning about the
costs and benefits of its balance-sheet changes as it
implemented a new program,” that “might call for some
flexibility to be incorporated into the program, providing some
discretion to change course as market conditions evolve,” Sack
said.  While buying securities would increase the interest-rate
sensitivity of the central bank’s portfolio, the Fed’s goal
would be to stimulate the economy, not generate profits, Sack
said.  “These decisions are being made to produce economic
outcomes” not “to produce a certain return on the portfolio.”  If the central bank were to suffer losses “it has no
operational consequences on our ability to conduct monetary
policy,” he said.  Sack dismissed concern that restarting bond purchases would
impair the central bank’s ability to exit the unprecedented
stimulus. Dudley said last week that a “credible plan” to
withdraw liquidity would counter the risk that inflation
expectations rise.  “I am confident that our ability to exit will not be
compromised by any further expansion of the balance sheet,”
Sack said. “In all potential circumstances, the Federal Reserve
should be able to tighten financial conditions to a sufficient
degree when appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Providence at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  