-- Billionaire Jhunjhunwala-Backed Delta Plans Casinos in Sri Lanka, India
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-10-04T06:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/billionaire-jhunjhunwala-backed-delta-plans-casinos-in-sri-lanka-india.html
Billionaire  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala -
backed Delta Corp. plans to open casinos in Sri Lanka in the
next six months to tap a surge in tourist arrivals to the island
nation after the end of a 26-year civil war.  Casino operator-Delta, which also develops property and
runs an aircraft charter service, will spend 10 billion rupees
($225 million) in the next three years in opening casinos in the
region as well as at home in Sikkim, Daman, and Goa, Chief
Financial Officer  Hardik Dhebar  said in an interview in Mumbai.
Gambling is not allowed in most Indian states.  Delta wants to benefit from a revival in Sri Lanka’s
tourist arrivals, which surged 47 percent in the first eight
months of the year, according to the nation’s tourism agency.
Shares of companies including  John Keells Holdings Plc  and
Aitken Spence & Co. have more than doubled as tourist incomes
boosts earnings at their hotels and resorts.  “We have not even scratched the surface yet” for casino
opportunities in the region, Dhebar said. “Sri Lanka is in a
hurry to start speed up the process of development and is taking
steps to ensure investment flows into the country.”  Delta  shares , which have risen 84 percent this year, rose 2
percent to a record 83.8 rupees in Mumbai at 11:08 a.m.  Faster economic growth in India and Sri Lanka is helping
boost salaries in the region increasing demand for leisure
spending, Dhebar said.  India’s economy grew 8.8 percent in the quarter ended June
30, the fastest pace in two-and-a-half years. Sri Lanka’s $42
billion economy may grow as much as 8 percent in 2010, the
central bank said on Sept. 21. The nation’s troops
defeated the separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in May
last year, ending their 26-year quest for a separate homeland
helping attract tourists and investors to the nation.  Billionaire Jhunjhunwala and investor Radhakrishna Damani
bought an 11 percent stake in the company last month.
Jhunjhunwala, with $1.15 billion in assets is India’s 57th
richest man, according to Forbes magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  