-- BMO Capital Markets Hires Five to Bolster Public Finance Group in U.S.
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-10-04T15:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/bmo-capital-markets-hires-five-to-bolster-public-finance-group-in-u-s-.html
Bank of Montreal’s  BMO Capital
Markets  unit hired five executives for its U.S. Public Finance
Group to provide investment services to non-profit institutions.  The new staffers will provide strategy and analytics for
health, education and cultural organizations, BMO Capital
Markets said in a news release today.  “With an ever-increasing demand for comprehensive
investment-banking services that meet the strategic, financial
and advisory needs of non-profit health, education and cultural
organizations, BMO Capital Markets continues to expand our
focus, capabilities and expertise for this essential industry
segment,”  Lyle McCoy , managing director and head of public
finance and infrastructure, said in a statement.  Brett Whysel , a 16-year veteran who will be based in New
York, will lead BMO’s public finance strategy and analytics
division as managing director. He previously worked at Ziegler
Capital Markets, Citigroup Global Markets and Merrill Lynch &
Co. He will report to McCoy.  In Chicago,  David Johnson  joins as managing director in the
non-profit institutions group. He previously worked at Citigroup
Global Markets, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
 Kerry Rudy  also will be a managing director in that group. He
has worked at Goldman Sachs Group and Lehman Brothers.  Lisa Conley  joins the group as director, having previously held a
similar position at Citi Markets & Banking.  Jullia Quazi is joining the San Francisco office as
director. Prior to joining BMO, she was employed by Ziegler as
director of health-care finance.  Toronto-based BMO Capital Markets is a subsidiary of Bank
of Montreal, which has more than $386 billion in assets.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  