-- BOJ Independence Challenged as Japan Deflation Continues
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-10-05T06:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/boj-independence-challenged-for-failure-to-end-12-years-of-japan-deflation.html
Increasing risks to Japan’s
recovery prompted what may become the biggest threat yet to
the Bank of Japan’s independence as politicians seek to
redress its failure to end the deflation  entrenched in the
economy  since 1998.  Your Party, an opposition group, plans to submit a bill
in the Diet session running through December that would give
the government a greater role in BOJ policymaking.  Ichiro Ozawa , a former challenger to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  whose
calls for currency intervention and enlarged fiscal stimulus
have been adopted by Kan, made a similar proposal last month.  The debate comes after BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
refused to expand monthly purchases of government bonds this
year even as deflation persisted. The bank today instead
created a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy bonds and
other assets, and pledged to keep its benchmark interest rate
at “virtually zero” until the end of deflation is in sight.  “Even if the law isn’t revised, advocating the revision
alone may have an effect of prodding the central bank to
explore more monetary stimulus -- including more bond buying
-- which may be the real intention of politicians,” said
 Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of more than
$100 billion in assets.  Shirakawa’s Concern  Shirakawa, 61, has repeatedly signaled concern that
purchases of government debt at some point will be viewed by
investors as a central bank effort to finance deficit
spending. Japan has the world’s largest public debt,
approaching 200 percent of its gross domestic product.  “If government bond purchases by a central bank are
regarded as a tool to pay for fiscal expenditure, or an act
of debt monetization, that would spur inflation expectations
and increase government bond yields,” Shirakawa said at a
forum in Kobe, western Japan, on Sept. 26.  The Nikkei reported today that the BOJ may decide to buy
securities backed by lending to small and midsize businesses,
and it may also decide to increase purchases of long-term
Japanese government bonds.  Some board members say the bank should consider
exceeding its self-imposed rule that bond holdings be kept
below the outstanding balance of banknotes issued, the report
said, without citing anyone.  Drop in Prices  Shirakawa’s intransigence has incurred the ire of
politicians pressing the bank to boost efforts to end
deflation, which erodes  corporate profits , makes debt harder
to pay back, and enhances the yen’s lure by lifting its
purchasing power. The GDP deflator, a gauge of prices across
the economy, has fallen 14 percent since 1997, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yen has surged 11 percent against the dollar this
year, the best performer among 16 most-traded currencies. It
traded at 83.64 yen per dollar at 3:38 p.m. in Tokyo, less
than 1 percent from the 15-year high of 82.88 reached on Sept.
15, which prompted Kan’s government to sell the currency in a
step unseen for six years.  “Japan is the only industrialized country which has had
 consumer price  changes of minus or zero over the past
decade,”  Keiichiro Asao , head of policy research at Your
Party, said in an Oct. 1 interview in Tokyo. “If the central
bank is a guardian of stable prices, it shouldn’t allow price
declines.”  A financial crisis in 1997-98 precipitated by bad loans
on Japanese lenders’ balance sheets stemming from burst land
and stock-price bubbles of the early 1990s set off Japan’s
deflation.  Property prices  have slumped for 17 of the past 19
years, and stocks remain 76 percent off of their 1989 peak,
according to the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average .  1998 Law  The 1998 Bank of Japan Law strengthened its independence
by ending the government’s authority to dismiss the BOJ
governor and deputy chiefs and the right of supervising BOJ
operations. It sets the bank’s mandate as “achieving price
stability, thereby contributing to the sound development of
the national economy,” and helping avert financial
instability.  Kan, as finance minister before taking the government’s
helm in June, urged the central bank to set a specific
inflation target to help end deflation, calling for a target
of as high as 2 percent. Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  told
reporters last month that it’s difficult to interpret the
current BOJ law as incorporating maximum  employment  as a goal,
signaling he may favor reexamining the legislation.  Seeking Support  Asao said his party is seeking support from members of
the ruling Democratic Party of Japan and other opposition
groups for its proposal. Your Party was formed last year and
came third in the upper house elections in July; it lacks
sufficient numbers in the lower house to introduce a bill on
its own.  Shirakawa has said he hasn’t ruled out any policy
options. The case for adding stimulus has grown with economic
reports in the past week showing Japan’s large manufacturers
growing pessimistic about the outlook, industrial production
 falling for a third month  in August, and  wage gains  coming to
a halt.  “The yen’s rapid increase is damaging exporters and
yielding a body-blow over the long-term,”  Akio Ogura ,
chairman of  Bando Chemical Industries Ltd.  in Kobe, told a
Sept. 27 business forum in Osaka that Shirakawa attended.
Authorities should try to stabilize the yen at around 90 per
dollar,  Hidetoshi Yajima , adviser of  Shimadzu Corp. , a
machinery maker in Kyoto, said at the same forum.  Bond Ceiling  The BOJ, which had kept its benchmark interest rate at
0.1 percent since December 2008, now purchases 1.8 trillion a
month of government bonds. At the current pace of buying, the
bank’s self-imposed ceiling for bond holdings will be reached
in 2014, according to Barclays Capital estimates.  The Federal Reserve, by contrast, has eschewed any such
ceiling and indicated last month it’s prepared to add to its
holdings of U.S. Treasuries. At the same time, the Fed’s
 balance sheet , at $2.3 trillion, is smaller than Japan’s
relative to the size of the economy, at about 16 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The BOJ holds about
$1.5 trillion, or about 26 percent of Japan’s GDP.  Vice Finance Minister  Mitsuru Sakurai  told reporters
last week the BOJ could explore “various” additional
measures, including an expansion of its bond purchases.  “The act of pressing the BOJ seems to represent
politicians’ performance of appealing to the public that they
are trying harder to beat deflation,” said  Seiji Shiraishi ,
chief economist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Osaka at  motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  