-- BOJ to Boost Purchases of 5-, 10-Year Japanese Bonds, Mitsubishi UFJ Says
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-04T01:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/boj-likley-to-buy-five-year-10-year-japanese-bonds-mitsubishi-ufj-says.html
The Bank of Japan will boost
purchases of five- and 10-year bonds to cut corporate borrowing
costs and spur the nation’s flagging economy, according to the
asset-management unit of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
the nation’s biggest lender.  The extra  yield  that five-year notes offer over two-year
debt narrowed to 13 basis points, the least since 2003, a sign
investors are piling into the 2015 securities as the BOJ starts
a two-day meeting today. The difference between two-and 10-year
 rates  shrank to 83 basis points, approaching a two-year low.  “Most corporate bonds in Japan are due in five to 10 years,
so they’ll want those rates to fall,” said  Hideo Shimomura , who
helps oversee the equivalent of $60 billion in Tokyo as chief
fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. “It’ll be
a surprise if they buy longer maturities.”  Japanese bonds eked out a 0.1 percent return in September,
beating Treasuries and German bunds, on speculation BOJ Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa will act after the government sold yen on Sept.
15 to halt currency gains that threaten to derail the nation’s
recovery. The BOJ won’t rule out any options, including raising
bond purchases, board member Ryuzo Miyao said Sept. 22.  BOJ to Buy  The BOJ will increase annual purchases of government bonds
to at least 35 trillion yen ($420 billion) in the coming months
from 21.6 trillion yen currently, Mitsubishi UFJ’s Shimomura
said. Benchmark 10-year yields will fall to 0.75 by Dec. 31 from
0.94 percent as of 9:34 a.m. today in Tokyo, he said.  Treasuries were little changed in September while bunds
delivered a 1.2 percent loss, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Demand hasn’t spread to Japan’s longer tenors. Forty-year
bonds  yield  87 basis points more than 10-year debt. The spread
has widened from this year’s low of 68 basis points in August.  Of 6.96 trillion yen in corporate bonds sold in Japan this
year, 37 percent was five-year debt and 27 percent carried a 10-
year maturity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of Japan officials are meeting after a surge in the
currency to the strongest level against the dollar in 15 years
threatened to stunt the nation’s recovery by curbing exports.  Growth Slowing  Economic  growth  slowed to 1.5 percent in the second quarter
from 5 percent in the prior three months.  The Federal Reserve on Sept. 21 said it is prepared to ease
monetary policy to help the U.S. economy, threatening to weaken
the dollar further against the yen.  “We are ready to implement appropriate action,” Shirakawa
said at a forum in Japan Sept. 26.  Policy makers increased bond purchases from 16.8 trillion
yen a year in March 2009 in response to the global financial
crisis that led to $1.82 trillion of losses and writedowns at
banks and financial companies globally.  The BOJ earmarks 12 trillion yen to buy bonds due in more
than 12 months and as long as 10 years. A sum of 7.44 trillion
yen is used to buy securities maturing in one year and less.  The remainder is for purchases of bonds due in 10 years and
longer, floating-rate securities and inflation-linked debt,
according to the BOJ  website .  Yield Gap Shrinks  The yield on a Bank of America index of Japanese company
bonds has narrowed to 31 basis points more than government rates
from 79 basis points when the BOJ boosted its purchases in 2009.  It’s not a sure thing the BOJ will buy bonds as soon as
this week, said Kenro Kawano, head of Japan interest rates
strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. Other options would
be increasing a 30 trillion yen loan facility or cutting the
central bank’s target for overnight lending between banks from
0.1 percent, Kawano said.  Increased government bond buying may backfire if investors
begin to speculate the BOJ is trying to finance record public
 borrowing , said Hiroaki Muto, senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which manages the
equivalent of $120 billion.  Japan’s debt is equivalent to almost twice its annual gross
domestic product, the most of 24 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  “JGB rates will be higher if there’s an impression that
the Bank of Japan is monetizing the government debt,” Muto said.  Sumitomo Mitsui, part of Japan’s third-largest banking
group, is the largest holder of government bonds among investors
required to make regulatory filings, followed by Mitsubishi UFJ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Monetizing Debt’  Shirakawa in his presentation on Sept. 26 also said that
monetizing the debt risks raising bond yields.  The BOJ has a self-imposed  limit  on government bond buying
to avoid such purchases from being regarded as funding the
public debt. The bank stipulates that purchases cannot exceed
the amount of banknotes in circulation.  America’s experience shows that bond purchases by the
central bank don’t automatically send down yields. The Federal
Reserve snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries last year.
Investors sustained a 3.7 percent loss, the first annual decline
since 1999.  Japan’s two-year notes yield just 0.13 percent, and 40-year
bonds don’t trade as much as shorter maturities, which means the
BOJ will probably avoid those two securities, said  Tsutomu Komiya , an investor at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  “Yields on bonds due in less than five years are less
attractive,” said Komiya, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$100.3 billion at the unit of Daiwa Securities Group Inc.,
Japan’s second-largest brokerage as measured by market
capitalization. “Forty-year bonds have less liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 