-- Home Loan-Linked Bond Sales Face Lingering Concern
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-10-04T20:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/bond-sales-tied-to-u-s-home-loans-face-congressional-concerns.html
Future sales of bonds backed by U.S.
home loans hinge partly on lawmakers’ acknowledging the role
such securities may play in an economic recovery, said
 Christopher Flanagan , head of research on the investments for
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Elected officials are skittish over the practice of
securitization, in which home loans are packaged into bonds,
Flanagan said today at a conference in Miami. Financial
institutions worldwide recorded more than $1.8 trillion in
losses and asset writedowns sparked by sour U.S. residential
mortgages since mid-2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The meltdown triggered the deepest recession since
World War II.  “There is a schism in Washington on this,” Flanagan said
today at a conference in Miami. Many lawmakers consider bundling
property loans into bonds a “crazy newfangled technology that
never should have seen the light of day,” he said.  Flanagan, head of U.S. mortgage and structured finance
research for BofA Merrill Lynch, spoke during a panel at
Information Management Network’s annual Asset-Backed Securities
East Conference.  Market Freeze  Issuance of so-called non-agency home-loan bonds, meaning
those without government-backed guarantees, peaked at almost
$1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before freezing as housing
prices declined, property sales fell, and  defaults  rose,
according to the newsletter Inside MBS & ABS.  In April, Redwood Trust Inc. and Citigroup Inc. partnered to
create the first private-label securities backed by new U.S.
home loans in more than two years, selling $222.4 million of the
debt. There have been no sales since.  Mortgages bought or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac,
the Federal Housing Administration and Department of Veterans
Affairs account for about 95 percent of new home lending,
according to data compiled by newsletter Inside Mortgage
Finance.  While some in Congress remain skeptical about
securitization, regulators are using the practice to resolve
fallout from the financial crisis and boost liquidity in the
economy.  On Sept. 24, the  National Credit Union Administration  said
it would package $50 billion in distressed securities from
failed credit unions for sale as $35 billion in bonds carrying
government guarantees. The debt would be mainly tied to home
loans, NCUA said.  Outlining Cures  Expanding offerings of bonds tied to consumer debt and
mortgages would help both households and businesses obtain
credit, said  Brian Lancaster , an analyst for RBS Securities Inc.
and a panelist at the Miami conference.  “Securitization is a piece of the puzzle that could really
help the economy,” he said.  Improving transparency is one way to promote mortgage-backed
bonds, according to  Anatoly Burman , an investment manager for
Stamford, Connecticut-based  Aladdin Capital Management LLC .  “More information is better than less,” Burman said.
“Investors have been fighting for more since the early 90s.
Disclosure is one of the big things we need to fight for.”  Stephen Kudenholdt , a New York-based attorney who
specializes in residential mortgage-backed securities for the
law firm SNR Denton, said strong underwriting is the industry’s
best hope of jumpstarting the private market for home-loan
securities and preventing another  bubble .  The success of any new regulations will be determined by the
answer to one question, he said: “Did they do a good job of
keeping people from lining up again at the Kool-Aid fountain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 