-- Bono Partner McKillen's Suit May Hold Key for Anglo Irish Loans
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-10-04T02:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/bono-partner-mckillen-s-lawsuit-may-hold-key-to-14-billion-in-u-s-loans.html
When Dublin property investor  Patrick McKillen  bought a 21-story Boston office tower for $170 million
in 2006, his lender,  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , helped find an
anchor tenant: itself.  Now McKillen, Anglo Irish and its U.S. headquarters at 265
Franklin St. are entangled in a lawsuit that may determine how
the bank, seized by the Irish government last year, handles more
than $14 billion of debt backed by U.S. property. The bank’s
loans are tied to buildings including a Rodeo Drive shopping
mall in Beverly Hills, California, and the century-old Apthorp
apartment building on New York’s Upper West Side.  “Anglo Irish ramped up its U.S. lending and has a book of
loans that would be very appealing to real estate opportunity
funds,” said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real Capital Analytics
Inc. in New York. “Big real estate players have tried to pursue
purchasing Anglo’s assets but have been tripped up by
uncertainty around who is actually in control: the bank or
NAMA.”  McKillen’s suit against Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency -- itself a tenant of his in Dublin -- adds to the
financial chaos surrounding the bailout of the nation’s banks.
The government said last week that it will take control of
Allied Irish Banks Plc, the second-biggest lender, and inject
extra cash into Anglo Irish, pushing the cost of the rescue to
as much as 50 billion euros ($69 billion). A hearing on whether
the case may proceed is set for tomorrow in Dublin’s Commercial
Court, a division of the High Court.  Banks ‘Lent Recklessly’  “The Irish people are entitled to be angry with the
bankers, who lent recklessly over a considerable period of time
in the earlier part of this decade,” Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters in Dublin on Sept. 30.  NAMA was established as Ireland’s “bad bank” in April
2009 to buy 81 billion euros of property loans from five Irish
lenders, and so far the banks have sold loans at an average
discount of 52 percent. NAMA can take a developer’s entire
portfolio of loans from the banks, rather than just the non-
performing ones.  The 55-year-old McKillen, whose business partners have
included Irish rock singer Bono, contends that NAMA has no right
to seize any of the 2 billion euros of loans linked to him,
according to his spokeswoman, Breda Keena. He says the loans,
some of which are in the U.S., shouldn’t be transferred to NAMA
because they are still performing, according to Keena.  ‘No Right’  Moving them to the agency could harm him as a borrower
because the loans could be sold at a discount to a creditor less
interested in preserving a property than retrieving the cash,
according to  Mike Soden , who in 2004 stepped down as chief
executive officer at  Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s largest
lender by market value. It could also harm his reputation by
associating him with toxic borrowers, said Hugh Byrne, a Dublin-
based lawyer and co-author of a book on NAMA, “The National
Asset Management Agency Act 2009: Annotations And Commentary”
(Bloomsbury Professional).  McKillen is suing NAMA over plans to take over 80 million
euros of loans he has with Bank of Ireland. Banks aren’t named
as defendants. He is “reserving his rights” to use the case to
prevent seizures of loans linked to lenders including Anglo
Irish and Irish Nationwide Building Society, the Irish Times
 reported  July 15.  “Paddy contends that NAMA has no right to take his loans
at all,” Keena said in an e-mail.  Stiglitz’s Role  He has the support of  Joseph Stiglitz , 67, the Nobel Prize-
winning professor of economics at Columbia University and former
chief economist at the World Bank. Stiglitz, who has filed an
affidavit related to the case with the Irish courts, has
 criticized  Ireland’s decision to set up NAMA and last year said
on Irish television that it would be “criminal” for NAMA to
overpay for soured loans.  If McKillen succeeds in keeping his loans out of NAMA,
others may follow suit, said  Karl Whelan , a former economist at
the Federal Reserve in Washington who is now a professor of
economics at University College Dublin.  “Developers who have a mixed bag of good loans and bad
loans may challenge having these sent over to the agency on an
individual basis,” Whelan said in an interview. “This would
really change the dynamics of NAMA.”  Private equity firms including  Blackstone Group LP  and
Colony Capital LLC have discussed buying Anglo Irish’s U.S.
loans, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
talks.  ‘Scratching the Surface’  Anglo Irish had 2.4 billion euros of U.S. loans “held for
sale” to NAMA at the end of June, with the exception of 700
million euros that are “loans to U.S. customers which the bank
expects to sell outside of the NAMA process,” the bank said in
its latest financial statements. The entire U.S. loan portfolio
was 10.7 billion euros at the end of June.  Dublin-based  Anglo Irish , once Ireland’s biggest publicly
traded lender to property developers, boosted U.S. lending
sevenfold in four years to 9.3 billion euros at the end of 2008.
That was about 13 percent of its total loans at the time, its
financial reports show. It wasn’t the only bank to plunge into
the U.S. real estate market during the boom years: Allied Irish
was among lenders hit by Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village,
Manhattan’s largest apartment complex, which defaulted in
January.  “The Anglo management team was saying in 2006 and 2007
that the opportunities for earnings growth in the medium term
would come from the U.S.,” said  James Forbes , a senior equity
strategist at Irish Life Investment Managers in Dublin. “They
said that they were only scratching the surface with their
operations in Boston, New York and Chicago.”  Miami, Detroit, L.A.  David Drumm , 43, who headed Anglo Irish’s U.S. lending
business before becoming CEO in 2005, expanded the geographical
reach of a lender that Real Capital Analytics said made just two
real estate loans outside Massachusetts or New York between 2000
and 2004. In 2005, Anglo Irish loaned to properties in at least
14 U.S. cities, including Miami, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles
and Washington, Real Capital said.  It backed at least $2.4 billion of Manhattan real estate
deals between 2005 and 2009, helping finance the renovation of
the Apthorp, a 12-story property built in 1906 with 163
apartments and a 117-car parking garage, as well as the purchase
of a Ralph Lauren store on Madison Avenue and 72nd Street on the
Upper East Side and a Holiday Inn on Lafayette Street in SoHo.  “Anglo honestly perceived the U.S. market to be a safer
bet,” said Constantin Gurdgiev, who teaches finance at Trinity
College in Dublin. “They ran out of the capacity, effectively,
to grow aggressively in the Republic.”  Bono, The Edge  In McKillen, the bank had a client with U.S. ambitions of
his own. The Belfast-born entrepreneur, who got his start in
Dublin, had invested in everything from five-star London hotels
to Dublin shopping centers and the Clarence Hotel on the River
Liffey, where  Bono  and  The Edge  of U2 are co-owners, before
making a foray to the U.S. in 2006.  That year, he bought three Boston properties with about
$200 million of Anglo Irish loans through his flagship Clarendon
Properties (Holdings), of which he owns 50 percent. The
acquisitions included the Anglo Irish headquarters on Franklin
Street, from where the bank financed U.S. loans.  At the end of June 2008, U.S. properties returned more than
16 million euros of rent to McKillen’s company, according to
Irish corporate filings.  “He has no loans for land or development,” Keena said in
an e-mail. “His strategy is to invest in prime property assets
that produce income.”  Framed McKillen Mementos  The U.S. properties are “95 percent” rented, and the
loans are “fully performing and fully compliant,” Keena said.  Not all Anglo Irish’s U.S. clients can make that claim.
Anglo Irish has loans to 19 U.S. properties that Real Capital
classifies as “distressed,” including the Channelside
waterfront retail center in Tampa and Detroit’s  Alden Park
Towers .  The bank has marked almost 1.5 billion euros of U.S. loans
as impaired since the end of March 2009, according to its
financial statements. Another 1 billion euros is “past due but
not impaired,” according to the statements.  At Anglo Irish’s U.S. headquarters on the 19th floor of the
Boston tower, employees with Irish and American accents
discussed weekend plans on the afternoon of Oct. 1. The office,
overlooking the harbor and the city’s Irish South Boston
neighborhood, is decorated with framed photographs of properties
bought with the bank’s loans, such as the Rodeo Drive mall, an
office tower on 41st Street in Manhattan and two of McKillen’s
Boston properties, including the Franklin Street tower itself.  “Tough times,” said one employee, wearing jeans and a
blue-and-white checked shirt, who said he’s worked at the bank
for six years and gave only his first name, Ben. “We’re doing
the best we can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  