-- Boston Properties to Buy Boston's John Hancock Tower
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-04T20:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/boston-properties-to-buy-boston-s-john-hancock-tower.html
Boston Properties Inc.  agreed to buy
Boston’s John Hancock Tower, New England’s tallest building, for
$930 million as the office landlord seeks to expand in the city.  The company will pay $289.5 million in cash for the 62-
story tower and assume about $640.5 million in debt, according
to a statement from the real estate investment trust. Boston
Properties already owns the Prudential Center in the city’s Back
Bay area, where it has its corporate headquarters.  “We’ll have a dominant position in the Back Bay, which is
we think the best long-term value in terms of a location,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Mortimer Zuckerman  said in
a phone interview. “And this is one of the iconic buildings of
Boston, one of the very few. So it’s right in our sweet spot,
because that’s the kind of building we like to build or buy.”  The deal adds another trophy to a collection that already
includes, besides the Prudential Center, New York’s General
Motors Building and  601 Lexington Ave. , the slant-topped
skyscraper known until last year as Citigroup Center. Zuckerman
told analysts on a conference call in July that the company is
focused on finding buying opportunities.  Last month, Boston Properties closed on the $275 million
acquisition of 510 Madison Ave., a newly built 350,000-square-
foot (32,516-square-meter) Manhattan tower, from an affiliate of
developer  Harry Macklowe , who had to sell properties after
taking on too much debt.  Normandy, Five Mile  The seller of Hancock Tower is a joint venture between
affiliates of Normandy Real Estate Partners and Five Mile
Capital Partners. The purchase, which also includes an eight-
level parking garage, probably will be completed by the end of
the year, Boston Properties said.  The I.M. Pei-designed glass tower, completed in 1976, is
“the iconic building of the Boston skyline,” said  Dave Geltner , professor of real estate finance at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts. “It
catches the setting sun in a certain way. It’s a sculpture as
much as it is a building.”  The Hancock Tower was one of the most prominent properties
to get caught up in the decline in real estate values following
the 2008 credit crash. Normandy and Five Mile bought the 790-
foot building at auction in March 2009 for $661 million, about
half what Broadway Partners paid for it in 2006. The Copley
Square skyscraper was the crown jewel of a 10-building portfolio
Broadway had acquired from Beacon Capital Partners LLC in 2006.  Significant to City  “Normandy and Five Mile always recognized the significance
of the John Hancock Tower to the city of Boston,” the companies
said in a statement today. “We focused on restoring this unique
property to its first-place role in this great city. We’re
pleased to have arrived at a place where that responsibility can
be passed with confidence to a new owner.”  The deal is an example of how pricing has rebounded for a
select group of high-quality assets in the most attractive
investment markets, such as New York and Washington, as well as
Boston, Geltner said. As of July,  commercial real estate prices 
nationwide were 43 percent below their 2007 peak, Moody’s
Investors Service said last month.  “The acquisition growth story for REITs is starting to
materialize as maturing debt for overleveraged assets, capital
availability and price discovery are all prompting
transactions,”  Sheila McGrath , an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette
& Woods Inc. in New York, wrote in a research note today. She
has a “market perform”  rating  on Boston Properties.  13 to 14 Bidders  About 13 to 14 groups bid for the building, said Rob
Griffin and  Ed Maher , Cushman & Wakefield Inc. brokers who
represented the sellers.  Boston Properties agreed last week to buy Bay Colony
Corporate Center, an office park in the Boston suburb of
Waltham, Massachusetts, for about $185 million. McGrath said
both deals are examples of “an opportunity that arose from an
overleveraged situation.”  “We have to take advantage of these opportunities,” said
Zuckerman, whose company  had cash  or equivalents of $1.7 billion
at June 30. “These kinds of buildings aren’t always available.
You just have to be available to move when they are.”  The Hancock Tower fits in with his company’s “long-term
view of the world,” in which it holds properties of the highest
quality in the center of the most expensive markets, he said.
Renters gravitate to those properties during tough times,
according to Zuckerman.  “You look around the world of REITs and you find another
strategy that has worked better than that, and I’ll adopt it,”
he said.  Low Vacancies  At midyear, Boston’s central business district had one of
the lowest “Class A” office vacancy rates in the U.S. at 11.8
percent, Cushman & Wakefield reported. The Back Bay neighborhood
had an overall vacancy rate of 9.4 percent.  Boston Properties fell 7 cents to $83.57 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  have
gained 25 percent this year.  Zuckerman’s REIT already owns 48 properties in its home
market, including buildings in Boston’s suburbs, according to
its  website . As of June 30, it had 9.4 million square feet of
properties in the Boston area.  The Hancock Tower has about 1.7 million square feet of
rentable office space. The building’s offices are about 80
percent occupied, according to data from  CoStar Group Inc. , a
Bethesda, Maryland-based real estate information service. That
should rise to about 92 percent when Bain Capital LLC moves in,
CoStar reported. The private-equity firm agreed in May to take
208,000 square feet in the tower.  “The Bain lease was the coup,” said Cushman’s Maher. “It
completely changed the perception of the building around from
last year, when it was a poster child for foreclosure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  