-- BP to Raise $2.7 Billion in Its 1st Issue of Bonds in Euros in Two Years
-- B y   S o n j a   C h e u n g   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-10-04T15:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/bp-plans-to-sell-about-1-5-billion-euros-of-bonds-in-two-parts.html
BP Plc  plans to raise 2 billion euros
($2.7 billion) from its first fixed-rate bonds in the currency
in almost two years.  The company is offering 1 billion euros of four-year notes
at 135 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate and seven-
year bonds with a spread of 160 basis points, a banker involved
in the sale said. BP issued $3.5 billion of five- and 10-year
debt Sept. 28 according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It sold
750 million euros of three-year bonds in November 2008.  BP is taking advantage of renewed investor demand for its
securities after  Standard & Poor’s  confirmed an A grade ranking
on the company’s bonds Sept. 24. Credit-default swaps linked to
the notes surged after a rig explosion Apr. 20 caused the
largest offshore U.S. spill in history, signaling a possible
downgrade to junk. The contracts fell 2 basis points to 159
today, according to data provider CMA, down from 594.5 June 29.  “BP is offering investors more pickup than a typical A
rated company,” said  Anke Richter , a strategist at Conduit
Capital Markets in London. “The firm is still tainted, but
wants to get the deal done so is paying more.”  The bonds are offering a yield more in line with a BBB
rated company than debt ranked three steps higher at A, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The average spread
investors demand to hold five-year BBB debt from industrial
companies is 146 basis point more than swaps, while the typical
spread on A-rated bonds with an average five-year maturity is 73
basis points.  ‘Very Attractive’  Toby Odone , a spokesman for BP in London, confirmed the
sale of bonds but declined to comment on the price and size of
the sale.  “The yields offered on BP’s bonds are very, very
attractive for the rating,” according to  Tatjana Greil Castro ,
who manages about $1 billion of high-yield debt at Muzinich &
Co. Ltd. in London. “There may still be issues for
shareholders, but for creditors there’s no real risk of damage
from the spill. It’s such a big company.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to debt agreements. A basis point on a
contract protecting 10 million euros of debt from default for
five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  High-yield, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  BP is also close to signing as much as $5.25 billion of
loans backed by oil sales, according to bankers involved in the
transaction.  It’s seeking as much as $3 billion of loans backed by
income from its Angolan operations and up to $2.25 billion of
loans linked to revenue from the Azeri-Chirag-Deepwater Gunashli
field off the coast of Azerbaijan.  “If the loans are well-received, BP will probably take as
much as possible,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in London. “The financing is relatively cheap
and there is demand for it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  