-- Bovespa Rises a Sixth Day, Led by Homebuilders, After Election
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-04T20:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/brazil-real-strengthens-bovespa-futures-fall-after-presidential-election.html
The  Bovespa  rose for a sixth day,
with homebuilders leading the equity index’s longest winning
streak in two months, one day after Brazil’s first round of
presidential elections.  Gafisa SA  led a real-estate stocks rally after economists
raised their 2010 economic growth forecast for the fifth
straight week while traders reduced bets for borrowing-cost
increases.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA  rose to a record
as the 76 percent premium on China Petrochemical Corp.’s
purchase of a stake in Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian unit implied a
higher value for the country’s oil assets.  The  Bovespa  rose 0.2 percent to 70,384.92, the highest
level since April 15, as of the 4 p.m. New York time close.
Thirty-eight stocks rose on the index while 28 fell. The real
dropped 0.5 percent to 1.6987 per dollar. The yield on the
interest-rate futures contract due January 2012 fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 11.43 percent.  “I wouldn’t expect the stocks to react a huge amount,
because I don’t think there’s that huge divide that you often
get in countries,” said  Jerome Booth , who helps oversee about
$35 billion in assets as co-founder and head of research at
Ashmore Investment Management Ltd. in London. Regardless of who
wins, “for stocks, the tax issue is important. There’s a
concern there might be an additional tax or other measures.”  Raise Taxes  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last month the
government may raise taxes on foreigners’ fixed-income
investments to stem gains in the real. That would add to a 2
percent levy, known as IOF, imposed in October last year on
foreign purchases of equities and bonds. The Bovespa fell 2.9
percent, the most in four months, the day the tax was
implemented.  Dilma Rousseff , who served as cabinet chief under President
 Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, finished first in the first round of
the election yesterday and will face her main rival, former Sao
Paulo Governor  Jose Serra , in a runoff after failing to capture
a majority of votes.  “Irrespective of who wins, the pillars of stability will
remain in place,” said  Philip Poole , the global head of macro
and investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management, which
oversees more than $400 billion. Poole spoke in an interview on
Bloomberg TV.  Ashmore’s Booth said he expects both candidates to seek tax
reform and greater infrastructure investment. “I’m very
optimistic we’ll see strong, pro-reform government,” he said.  Volatility may still increase ahead of the second round on
Oct. 31, Bank of America Corp. said.  “As up until two weeks ago Rousseff seemed to be headed
for a landslide victory, markets have been pricing extremely low
political noise ahead and will likely have to adjust,” wrote
Bank of America economists including  Virgilio Castro Cunha  in a
note to clients today.  Strengthening Real  Brazil’s gross domestic product may expand 7.55 percent
this year, according to the median estimate in a central bank
survey of about 100 economists.  Gafisa , Brazil’s second-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, increased 2.7 percent to 13.86 reais as
the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index  gained 0.8 percent.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  may be active this month as
investors speculate the next government’s policy toward the
state-controlled oil company may shift, according to  Kelly Trentin , head analyst at Spinelli Corretora in Sao Paulo.  If Serra gains ground against Rousseff in the presidential
race, Petrobras stock may benefit “because Lula’s government
proved quite interventionist in the company,” Trentin said in a
phone interview last night.  Petrobras fell 0.4 percent to 27.38 reais while  OGX
Petroleo , the oil company controlled by Brazilian billionaire
 Eike Batista , jumped 2.3 percent to 22.70 reais.  Oil Premium  Sinopec Group, as China’s second-largest energy company is
known, agreed Oct. 1 to pay $7.1 billion for a 40 percent stake
in Repsol’s Brazil unit. That amounts to $15 a barrel compared
with the $8.50 that Petrobras paid last month for assets in
Brazil, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 10.4 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 10.9 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index and 14 times for Mexico’s IPC index,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa
trades at 15.6 times the reported profits of its companies.  “Once the election is past, the market is expecting some
kind of movement in the IOF” to stem the appreciation of the
real, said  Eduardo Roche , who helps oversee 3 billion reais
($1.8 billion) at Banco Modal SA in Rio de Janeiro. “It’s
expected for fixed income; for stocks we don’t know. That would
be a very negative surprise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  