-- Brazil Real May Face `Slow Depreciation,' Credit Agricole's Kotecha Says
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2010-10-04T04:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/brazil-real-may-face-slow-depreciation-credit-agricole-s-kotecha-says.html
Brazil’s real may be set for a “slow
depreciation” as the nation’s presidential election enters a
runoff, though “robust” inflows of funds are likely to spur a
rebound, according to Credit Agricole CIB.  Dilma Rousseff  leads in the race to succeed President Luiz
Inacio Lula da Silva with 46.9 percent of the vote after 99.6
percent of the ballots cast were counted. She will face former
Sao Paulo State Governor and Health Minister  Jose Serra , who had
32.6 percent. Polls had predicted that Rousseff would lead the
field and possibly win an outright victory.  “Normally, going into elections, you’d expect a bit more
uncertainty but the real’s resilience has continued,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global foreign exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole in Hong Kong, said in a telephone interview. “Because
there’s a runoff now, that might add a little more uncertainty
and keep the real slightly under pressure, at least to a slow
depreciation.”  The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.6897 per dollar on Oct.
1, before yesterday’s election. The decline trimmed the
currency’s gains for the week to 1.3 percent, still its best
performance since June.  While the currency may show some initial weakness,
“positive” foreign investor sentiment and fund inflows may
drive “further gains” after the Oct. 31 runoff, according to
Kotecha. He predicts the real will strengthen to around 1.67 per
dollar over a “few weeks” following the next vote.  “Investment flows are pretty robust and foreign sentiment
remains pretty upbeat,” the strategist said. “There may be a
slight transition or there’ll be a slight surprise but I don’t
see any long-standing impact on the real if we do see the
unexpected candidate coming to power.”  Brazil equity funds attracted $348 million in the final
week of September, the most in 48 weeks, according to data by
EPFR Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  