-- Brazil Real Drops as U.S. Growth Concern Overshadows Election Speculation
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-04T18:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/brazil-real-gains-as-second-round-vote-may-delay-measures-to-curb-advance.html
Brazil’s real fell as concern the
global recovery is slowing overshadowed speculation the
government may postpone measures to curb the currency’s gain
over the past three months after yesterday’s presidential
election failed to produce a winner.  The real fell 0.1 to 1.6914 per U.S. dollar at 2:40 p.m.
New York time, from 1.6897 on Oct. 1. It is up 4.7 percent in
the past three months.  Manufacturing orders in the U.S. declined a more-than-
estimated 0.5 percent in August, overshadowing a second monthly
increase in contracts to purchase previously owned homes and
spurring investors to sell emerging-market assets, said
 Francisco Carvalho , head of currency trading at BGC Liquidez
DTVM in Sao Paulo.  “We see this as the external outlook strengthening the
dollar,” said Carvalho.  Former cabinet chief  Dilma Rousseff  finished first in
Brazil’s presidential election and will face her main rival,
 Jose Serra , in a runoff on Oct. 31 after failing to capture a
majority of votes.  The real may gain this month as the runoff discourages the
government from following through on a threat to take measures
to stem the rally, according to Nomura Securities International
Inc.  “Now with another month to go, I think that these measures
are not going to be announced and therefore, you know, we could
see the currency appreciate a little bit actually,”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities in New
York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Real Rally  The real’s appreciation accelerated last month as state-run
oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s $70 billion share offering
lured foreign investment. It is up 37 percent since the end of
2008, the second-biggest advance in the world after the
Australian dollar.  Brazil’s central bank bought $9.4 billion dollars in 24
business days in September, outpacing the $6.7 billion it bought
in October 2009 when it imposed taxes on overseas purchases of
stocks and bonds to stem the real’s rally.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned on Sept. 27 of a
global “currency war” as the government weighs a higher tax on
capital inflows.  Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s handpicked
successor, won 46.9 percent, while former Sao Paulo Governor
Serra had 32.6 percent with more than 99 percent of the ballots
counted. Green Party candidate  Marina Silva , who came in third
with 19.3 percent, didn’t declare her support for either of her
rivals in the second round.  Brazilian policy makers will “shy away from any heavy-
handed measures to stem the appreciation until after the
election is complete,” said  Nick Chamie , head of emerging-
markets research at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
11.42 percent. The Bovespa stock index was little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  