-- Brazil Raises Tax on Foreign Fixed-Income Investments
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-05T00:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/brazil-will-double-foreign-fixed-income-investment-tax-to-4-mantega-says.html
Brazil doubled a tax it charges
foreigners on investment in fixed-income securities in a bid to
stem gains in the real, which reached its strongest in more than
two years last week.  The government of Latin America’s biggest economy will
raise its so-called IOF tax on fixed-income investments by
foreigners to 4 percent from 2 percent beginning tomorrow,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia today.
Brazil first slapped a 2 percent tax on foreign investments in
October 2009.  Mantega said Brazilian interest rates, at 10.75 percent for
overnight loans between banks, are too high and luring
speculative capital as the U.S. lets its currency weaken and
takes the Chinese yuan with it. The steeper tax discourages such
capital inflows into Brazil, he said.  “Many countries are taking currency measures and no one is
sleeping on the job,” Mantega said. “The tendency is toward
weakening their currencies.´´  The real fell 0.5 percent today to 1.6979 per U.S. dollar,
before the Finance Ministry’s announcement. The real has gained
36 percent since the end of 2008, the second-best performer
after the Australian dollar among the 16 most traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The increase in the tax rate was significant,”  Silvio Campos Neto , chief economist at Banco Schahin SA, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “At least in the short term the
market will see some gains in the dollar.”  Benchmark Rate  Central bank policy makers increased the  benchmark interest
rate  to 10.75 percent from a record low 8.75 percent this year
to contain inflation. Brazil’s real interest rate, which takes
inflation into account, is the highest amid the Group of 20
nations.  Mantega said the tax measure seeks to protect both
exporters and domestic producers that are facing competition
from cheaper imports.  The minister said he will call on his
counterparts at the International Monetary Fund meetings in
Washington this week to take coordinated action and resume
fiscal stimulus so there’s less need to boost exports.  Trade War  “It’s not only a currency war, it tends to become a trade
war and this is our concern,” Mantega said.  Brazil’s  trade surplus  narrowed to $16.8 billion in the 12
months through September, the lowest in more than seven years,
as the cheaper dollar boosted imports and held back exports.  Other Latin American countries are also attempting to curb
currency appreciations. Chile’s President  Sebastian Pinera  said
today he will meet with policy makers at the central bank this
week to discuss ways to address the currency’s gains. Colombia’s
President  Juan Manuel Santos  called for “bold and creative”
action to weaken the Colombian peso in an Aug. 11 statement.  A year ago, Mantega implemented a 2 percent tax on
purchases by foreign investors of real-denominated, fixed income
securities and on purchases of stocks. He said then the move was
to avoid “excess speculation” in Brazil’s capital markets.  The tax increase announced today affects only fixed-income
investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  