-- Brightrust Plans $240 Million Fund-of-Funds Betting on Small Japan Buyouts
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-04T01:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/brightrust-plans-240-million-fund-of-funds-betting-on-small-japan-buyouts.html
Brightrust PE Japan Co. , a private-
equity investment advisory firm, plans to raise as much as 20
billion yen ($240 million) for a fund-of-funds that will invest
in Japanese buyouts of small and mid-sized firms.  Brightrust is talking “unofficially” to potential
institutional investors at home and abroad to raise about 10
billion yen to 20 billion yen, said Joji Takeuchi, co-founder
and chief executive officer of the Tokyo-based firm. He declined
to elaborate on the timing of the fund.  Private-equity deals in Japan have on average returned 44
percent in the past decade, based on Brightrust’s data.
Opportunities exist in smaller deals amid a dearth of bigger
transactions such as the J.C. Flowers & Co. and Ripplewood
Holdings LLC-backed $1.2 billion buyout of  Shinsei Bank Ltd.  in
2000, Takeuchi said.  “The sweet spot for private-equity investments in Japan is
in small-to-mid companies that have been the backbone of the
country’s growth,” Takeuchi, 51, said in an interview in Tokyo
on Oct. 1. “Many of Japan’s smaller enterprises have great
technologies, services and products, yet they remain under-
managed, and that makes them attractive for investments.”  Brightrust was founded in 2007 by Takeuchi, former global
co-head of trading at General Re Financial Products, and Shunji
Tanefusa, former president of Mizuho Capital Partners Co.  Japan Focus  The planned fund, which will spread investments across a
variety of holdings, will invest in about five to 10 Japan-
focused buyout funds that put their money in deals ranging from
about 1 billion yen to 10 billion yen, Takeuchi said.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors to take over
companies using a mix of cash and debt with the intention of
selling them at a profit. Recent Japan deals include Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co.’s agreement in June to buy Usen Corp.’s
human resources business -- its first in the nation.  Overseas investors have been put off the Japanese private-
equity market by concerns such as waning economic growth,
political turmoil and the difficulty of finding bigger deals
such as the Shinsei purchase, Takeuchi said.  “Large deals are simply rare, just because Japanese
companies are typically small,” Takeuchi said. “It must be
very difficult for overseas investors to do comprehensive
research of the Japanese fund universe and to grasp the best
opportunities available. That’s where we see our value added.”  Betting Smaller  Private-equity deals in Japan over the past decade averaged
$18 million per buyout with a holding period of 3.2 years,
according to data compiled by Brightrust based on analysis of 90
out of 192 exits. The funds’ gross internal rate of return stood
at 44 percent on a weighted-average basis.  Brightrust aims to benefit from investments in mid-sized
Japanese companies that are less vulnerable to economic swings,
those that are looking for successors as their management  ages ,
and firms with ample cash and low debt that are seeking to
expand through takeovers, Takeuchi said.  Investors also have opportunities to tap into the wealth of
Japanese companies that are benefiting from economic growth in
China and elsewhere in Asia, he said.  “Despite the perception people generally have about Japan’s
private-equity market, some general partners can find good deals
at cheap prices,” Takeuchi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 