-- Buffett’s China-Gushing Optimism Sells Like Sex: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-04T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/buffett-s-china-gushing-optimism-sells-like-sex-william-pesek.html
Warren Buffett  says China’s BYD Co.
has “momentum.” It may have more to do with his name than the
company’s.  Such is the power of the most famous investor. Buffett,
worth $47.5 billion, according to Bloomberg data, homes in on a
Shenzhen  automaker  and its stock heads for the stratosphere.  This dynamic works both ways. Add a China element to any
company or trend, and success is virtually assured. China is the
economic equivalent of sex -- it sells. Buffett knows how
dabbling in Asia’s hottest economy makes headlines. He also
knows how to turn on the charm, as he did in China last week.  The marriage of Buffett’s suddenly unbridled optimism and
China’s perceived invulnerability is a fascinating milestone.
Just two years after pushing a “ buy American ” campaign,
Buffett is leaning toward a “buy Chinese” one.  In reality, the Buffett gush-fest is a reminder of the
precariousness of the global economy. It’s one in which the
biggest economies and the savviest investors may be relying too
much, too soon, on a developing nation.  At roughly a third the size of America’s, China’s economy
has a way to go to dominate the rest of the world. Yet Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. claims that China will surpass the U.S. by 2027
has morphed into a given. And dangerously so.  It’s possible that China won’t experience a major crisis in
the next 17 years. It’s still highly unlikely. For a generally
poor nation at China’s level of development, 5 percent growth
would be such a crisis.  Buffett’s Opportunities  Enter Buffett, who said China’s progress is unlike anything
“in history” and that he expects “large” investment
opportunities. Given China’s success at raising hundreds of
millions out of poverty and steering around the global crisis,
betting against it sounds like a fool’s game.  Also, a country that is run like a company has great appeal
to a value investor. With each impressive gross-domestic-product
figure, we see investors, banks and corporate executives toss
even bigger bets China Inc.’s way. We seem not to care how it’s
happening, whether it’s sustainable or what laws are violated.  Just as with BYD, expect Buffett’s name to be used to
justify fresh speculation of China’s unstoppable economy.
China’s latest bubble seems to be in the idea that nothing can
go wrong. Here, BYD may be an intriguing microcosm of China.  Never Mind  Never mind the specifics of China’s boom or risks ranging
from excessive pollution, bad loans and instability. Never mind
which World Trade Organization rules are trounced in the
process, which regional agreements about territorial claims are
blown off, which despots are financially supported to win access
to national resources, which websites are banned or how an
undervalued currency is damaging job creation in other
 developing nations .  As long as China grows 10 percent, all’s well? Nope. The
vast majority of Chinese don’t live near the skyscrapers, five-
star hotels and swanky restaurants of Shanghai or Beijing. They
are largely poor and their purchasing power is curtailed by a
currency policy that helps the billionaires. The widening rich-
poor divide is a major risk to stability in an economy that
recently surpassed Japan’s.  Count BYD Chairman  Wang Chuanfu  among the ranks of the
wildly rich. For him, Buffett’s $232 million investment in 2008
was a winning lottery ticket. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Vice
Chairman  Charles Munger  told CNBC that BYD may become one of the
most successful companies that “ever existed.”  Broken Promises  That sentiment isn’t universally shared. BYD is having
trouble living up to the hype. Its F3 sedan, China’s best-
selling car in 2009,  could be mistaken  for Toyota Motor Corp.’s
Corolla. It won’t deliver electric cars to California this year
as promised. And its E6 car will get about 100 fewer kilometers
out of a six-hour charge than the company announced at the
Detroit auto show in January 2009.  Terry Gou , chairman of Foxconn Technology Group, which
makes parts for Apple Inc. iPhones, accuses BYD of stealing
trade secrets. That, Foxconn claims in court documents, helped
BYD double revenue from its handset business from 2005 through
2007. BYD countersued, claiming Foxconn gathered false evidence
and conspired to hurt its business.  Gou is critical of Buffett, too. “He doesn’t know the
technology,” Gou told Bloomberg Businessweek last month,
referring to the batteries used in electric vehicles and plug-in
hybrids. “He just used his name to speculate on the stock.”  Complacency Risks  Also, China’s Ministry of Land and Resources is
investigating BYD over the illegal use of farmland it agreed to
buy in Xi’an from a local economic-development agency.  Anyone who stops by China can’t help but be wowed. Its
high-speed trains and airports make America look like a theme
park celebrating antiquated technology. The confidence of
China’s business elite is underpinned by booming growth, $2.5
trillion of currency reserves and 1.3 billion people determined
to become wealthy.  The risk is that optimism feeds complacency about China’s
daunting challenges. It’s also that we latch on to China as a
growth engine before we know what will become of it. Buffett may
be the Sage of Omaha, but predicting China’s trajectory is
beyond even sages in Beijing.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  