-- Bulgaria Wants Nabucco Pipeline Loan to Be an Off-Budget Item
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-10-04T15:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/bulgaria-wants-nabucco-pipeline-loan-to-be-an-off-budget-item.html
Bulgaria  will ask the European Union
to allow hundreds of millions of euros worth of loans to build
its section of the Nabucco natural-gas pipeline to be an off-budget item.  “If Nabucco is really an EU priority, then countries
building the pipeline shouldn’t be sanctioned for excessive
budget deficits, which will be fuelled by the funds they spend
on Nabucco,” Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  told reporters in
Sofia today.  The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm, has given
Bulgaria until the end of 2011 to bring its  budget gap  within
the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product. The
Cabinet of the EU’s poorest country by per-capita GDP plans to
narrow the shortfall to 2.5 percent next year from 4.8 percent
in 2010, after the recession eroded revenue.  The 7.9 billion-euro Nabucco pipeline is designed to carry
gas more than 3,300 kilometers (2,050 miles) from  Turkey  to
 Austria  to reduce European dependence on Russia. The venture is
counting on gas from the  Caspian region  and Iraq to fill the
link.  The EU has pledged to give 200 million euros ($274 million)
to the pipeline. The venture partners, which include Budapest-based Mol Nyrt., Bulgargaz EAD, Romania’s Transgaz SA Medias,
Ankara-based Botas, Germany’s  RWE AG (RWE)  and  OMV AG (OMV)  of Austria
will fund 30 percent of the cost, Nabucco has said.  Bulgaria and Turkey plan to build a pipeline linking the
two countries’ natural gas grids, which will help Bulgaria buy
gas from Turkey and diversify Russian supplies of the fuel. The
connection will be used later as part of the Nabucco pipeline
whenever it starts operating, Borissov said.  “We plan to ask the EU to give us 65 million euros of the
200 million euros pledged for Nabucco to build the grid
connection because it is part of the future Nabucco project,”
Borissov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  