-- California Pension Strips BlackRock of $1 Billion Real-Estate Portfolio
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-04T20:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/california-pension-fires-blackrock-unit-as-fund-manager-on-stuyvesant-loss.html
The California Public Employees
Retirement System, the largest public pension fund in the U.S.,
said it replaced a unit of  BlackRock Inc . as the manager of its
$1 billion apartment complex real-estate portfolio.  The decision comes after Calpers, as the fund is known, was
forced to write off a $500 million investment with BlackRock in
New York City’s Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village through a
partnership with Tishman Speyer Properties LP. Calpers said it
was consolidating the apartment portfolio with  GID Investment
Advisers LLC,  an affiliate of The General Investment &
Development Cos.  Calpers suffered a 37 percent loss in its real-estate
holdings in the fiscal year that ended June 30, a decline
equivalent to 1.3 percent of the pension’s market value at the
time. Despite the loss, the fund earned 11.4 percent for the
year as its stocks, bonds and private-equity funds rose.  “By consolidating our core multifamily portfolio under a
single partner/manager, we anticipate lower costs, improved
efficiency and enhanced performance,” said Ted Eliopoulos, who
heads Calpers’ real-estate investment division  BlackRock Realty Advisors had managed the apartment complex
portfolio since 1998. BlackRock’s real estate unit teamed with
Tishman Speyer to buy the Manhattan developments for $5.4
billion in 2006. The pension said last November it was reviewing
its ties with the New York company following the loss.  BlackRock  is the largest global investment management firm,
with $3.2 trillion in assets.  BlackRock Comment  “As a matter of policy, we do not comment on client
activity,” said Lauren Terngrove, a spokeswoman for BlackRock,
in an e-mail.  Closely held GID will manage investments in 57 apartment
projects with 14,674 units in 13 states valued at about $1.1
billion, Calpers said. Boston-based GID currently manages about
$5.3 billion worth of apartments at 127 properties across the
U.S., according to the release.  Calpers also wrote off a $970 million investment last year
in the Newhall Ranch project north of Los Angeles. The
developer, LandSource Communities Development LLC, entered
Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization after failing to
restructure debts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 