-- California Has to Delay Bills to Avert IOUs, Controller Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-04T16:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/california-may-have-to-issue-ious-as-bills-piled-up-during-budget-impasse.html
California  may have to issue IOUs
unless lawmakers agree to delay paying some of the bills that
accumulated as Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and legislative
leaders negotiated a budget compromise, a spokeswoman for the
controller’s office said.  The deferrals are needed because California racked up $8.4
billion of delinquent bills as it operated without a spending
plan for more than three months, said Hallye Jordan, spokeswoman
for Controller  John Chiang . That’s more than the $5 billion
bridge loan Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  is lining up from a group of
Wall Street banks to tide the state over.  Schwarzenegger and top lawmakers said Oct. 2 that they
agreed on how to close a $19.1 billion deficit and end a
stalemate that has left the most populous U.S. state without a
spending plan since the July 1 start of its fiscal year. Chiang
said repeatedly that a prolonged impasse could force him to
issue IOUs for a second-straight year in order to conserve cash
to make priority payments such as debt service.  “Nobody wants to do IOUs because of the damage it will do
to our credit ratings right as we will need to borrow,” Jordan
said. “IOUs are an option nobody wants.”  The governor and the legislature must approve delayed
payments, Jordan said. Chiang hasn’t decided how many or which
bills to recommend they put off paying, Jordan said.  Better-than-expected tax receipts from September and
significant savings built into the budget may lower the amount
that needs to be put off, she said. The state’s cash purse will
drop to about $1.2 billion by Oct. 28, she said.  Deferred Bills  Lockyer has said he will repay the bridge loan with
proceeds from the sale of about $10 billion of revenue
anticipation notes, a type of short-term tax-exempt municipal
bond that states and local governments commonly use to pay bills
until tax revenue arrives later in the year.  Those notes would likely be sold within six weeks of budget
passage, according to the treasurer. He hasn’t been able to
borrow the money because the promise to repay the notes must be
included in the budget.  State finance officials already deferred paying $2.9
billion of subsidies to schools and counties in September to
make sure there’s enough money for  bondholders . That was on top
of $3.2 billion the state pushed back in July.  Lawmakers and Schwarzenegger, a 63-year-old Republican,
refused to disclose details of their deficit-cutting agreement.
They did say the accord doesn’t raise taxes, as sought by
Democrats, nor does it dismantle the state’s welfare system, as
proposed by Republicans.  Budget Process  A public hearing on the proposal is scheduled for Oct. 6,
with Senate and Assembly votes planned the next day. California
requires a two-thirds vote in both houses to pass budgets, and
neither party holds enough seats to meet that threshold.  California, with the world’s eighth-largest  economy , issued
$2.6 billion of IOUs last year after a similar stalemate. That
was only the second time since the Great Depression that the
state had to use warrants to cover costs and conserve cash.
Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service cut the state’s
credit rating when the IOUs began last year.  The state’s constitution says lawmakers must send a budget
to the governor by June 15, about two weeks before the start of
the fiscal year. The Legislature has met that deadline five
times in the last 30 years. The fiscal 2008 budget was sent to
Schwarzenegger on Sept. 16 of that year and signed into law on
Sept. 23, the latest the state went without a spending plan
until this year.  In January, Standard & Poor’s cut California’s credit grade
to A-, its lowest among U.S. states, citing fiscal imbalances
and recurring cash-flow problems. S&P has said it may reduce the
state’s rating again if the budget crisis worsens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  