-- Schwarzenegger Has Power to Order Worker Furloughs, California Court Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-04T18:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/california-s-schwarzenegger-can-order-worker-furloughs-state-court-rules.html
California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  had the authority to furlough state workers last
year to save money during a budget crisis, the California
Supreme Court ruled today.  Schwarzenegger, who in July 2009 faced a $24 billion
deficit, ordered more than 150,000 state workers to take time
off without pay through June 30. Employees were directed to take
at least two days of mandatory unpaid time off each month. A
union representing state engineers sued, claiming the furloughs
amounted to an illegal pay cut.  The San Francisco-based court ruled today that while
California state law didn’t give Schwarzenegger authority to
unilaterally order the furloughs, a bill passed by lawmakers in
February 2009 revising the state budget to reduce worker
compensation validated the governor’s furlough plan.  “I have had to make very difficult decisions in response
to the worldwide economic collapse, including furloughs for
state workers and line-item vetoes to balance our budget,”
Schwarzenegger said in an e-mailed statement today. “These
decisions were absolutely necessary to keep our state
functioning.”  The budget revision cut appropriations for worker pay by
almost $671 million, according to today’s ruling.  ‘Financial Pain’  “The furlough program may have satisfied the governor’s
need to inflict financial pain on the state work force. But we
now know it did little to save money for California taxpayers,”
said Patty Velez, president of the California Association of
Professional Scientists, in an e-mailed statement. The group is
also a plaintiff in the state engineers’ lawsuit.  The Republican governor, who now faces a $19.1 billion
deficit in the most populous U.S. state, extended the furloughs
in July to cover the current fiscal year, saying they will last
until a budget is enacted.  Schwarzenegger and legislative leaders announced Oct. 1
that they reached an agreement on a deficit-cutting plan and
expect to put it up for a vote Oct. 7.  In a separate ruling today, the California Supreme Court
upheld a lower court decision to throw out a petition by
advocates for low-income Californians challenging
Schwarzenegger’s use of his line-item veto authority to trim
more than $250 million in state funding for public health and
domestic-violence service programs.  The furlough case is Professional Engineers in California
v. Schwarzenegger, S183411, California Supreme Court (San
Francisco). The line-item veto case is St. John’s Well Child and
Family Center v. Schwarzenegger, S181760.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 