-- California Water Sells $2 Billion in Year's Third-Biggest Tax-Exempt Issue
-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/california-water-sells-2-billion-in-year-s-third-biggest-tax-exempt-issue.html
The California Department of Water
Resources leads issuers this week with a $1.9 billion offering,
the year’s third-largest, as its relative borrowing costs have
shrunk 73 percent since May.  California , the lowest-rated U.S. state, entered a record
fourth month without a completed budget last week. While the
state can’t sell debt without a budget, agencies still can, said
 Bud Byrnes , chief executive officer at Encino, California-based
RH Investment Corp.  The department’s debt has a higher ranking than the state’s
general obligations, which carry A1 from Moody’s Investors
Service, because they’re backed by revenue from consumer
electricity bills. The securities are rated Aa3 by Moody’s and
AA- by Standard & Poor’s, both fourth-highest investment grade,
compared with AA by Fitch Ratings, one level above.  “The Department of Water Resources is one of the few state
names that is not tainted,” Byrnes said. “Its power bonds and
water bonds out-trade the state’s general obligation bonds.”  Last month, the University of California sold $486 million
in taxable Build America Bonds with pricing for the May 2050
maturity at 250 basis points above 30-year Treasuries, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called spread for a 40-
year maturity of the federally subsidized debt that the
university sold in December was 225 basis points. A basis point
is 0.01 of a percentage point.  Previous Sale  Sacramento-based DWR, which regulates and manages the
state’s water usage, sold $2.9 billion in tax-exempt revenue
bonds in May, the largest of its kind this year. The 10-year
securities traded Sept. 27 at an average yield of 2.73 percent,
or 12 basis points above top-rated debt, compared with a spread
of  45 basis points  on the sale date, according to Municipal
Market Advisor’s data.  The state sold $2.5 billion in general obligations in
March, pricing 11-year bonds to yield 4.54 percent, which was
 144 basis points  above a comparable-maturity index of AAA debt
from MMA, an independent research firm based in Concord,
Massachusetts. The securities traded Sept. 24 at an average
yield of 3.44 percent, or 69 basis points above the index.  Bonds maturing in May 2020 in this week’s sale are forecast
to yield 50-55 basis points above Thomson Reuters Municipal
Market Data AAA curve, according to a person with knowledge of
the deal, who declined to be named because the transaction
hasn’t been completed. The MMD index yielded 2.34 percent on
Oct. 1.  ‘Significant Savings’  “With this kind of size, you have to have levels that will
garner enough interest,” said  Regina Shafer , who oversees $5.3
billion in tax-exempt municipal bonds as assistant vice
president of fixed-income investments for USAA Investment
Management Co. in San Antonio. “Either way they’ll have
significant savings from what they’re refunding. It’s certainly
a good time.”  States and municipalities are poised to sell about $10.9
billion in securities this week,  the most since March 26 , a 14
percent increase since last week, Bloomberg data show.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt general obligations  due in
10 years  climbed for a fourth-consecutive day Oct. 1, rising 1
basis point to 2.65 percent, the highest level in more than a
week, according to MMA data.  California is using the money to help pare costs on debt
residents are still paying for the energy crisis in 2001 and
2002, when electricity prices jumped in part because power-
trading companies worked to manipulate prices.  The state bought electricity on behalf of privately owned
utilities that couldn’t pass along the cost to customers, paying
for it with $11 billion of debt in 2002.  A portion of the sale will also end interest-rate swap
agreements, according to a Sept. 24 Fitch report.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY, the largest issuer of
municipal debt in 2009 after California, plans to sell about
$1.15 billion in tax-exempts and taxable Build Americas this
week. The personal-income tax revenue bonds, which carry a top
rating from Standard & Poor’s, will be used to fund projects for
the State University of New York and City University of New
York, in addition to grants for educational facilities. M.R.
Beal & Co. will lead the marketing. (Updated Oct. 4)  NEW YORK CITY, the most-populous U.S. city, is borrowing
$1.3 billion this week. The city will offer $800 million of
taxable debt, including $650 million of Build America Bonds,
earmarked for capital projects. The remaining $150 million in
traditional taxables will be sold competitively on Oct. 7. New
York also is offering $500 million in tax-exempts to refinance
existing debt and convert $90 million in outstanding variable-
rate demand notes to fixed-rate bonds. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch will lead underwriters marketing the securities, which are
rated AA by S&P and Fitch, third-highest, and Aa3, one level
lower by Moody’s. (Updated Oct. 4)  METROPOLITAN PIER & EXHIBITION AUTHORITY , a municipal
corporation created by the Illinois General Assembly that owns
and manages Chicago’s McCormick Place convention facility and
Navy Pier, plans to sell $940 million in tax-exempt revenue
bonds as early as this week. They are secured by the authority’s
tax revenue and will refinance $900 million of existing debt as
well as fund construction and renovation. Underwriters led by
Morgan Stanley will market the securities, top-rated by S&P, and
AA- by Fitch, fourth-highest. (Updated Oct. 4)  GEORGIA , which sold part of its loan fund to help balance
its 2011 budget, plans to sell about $975 million in taxable and
tax-exempt general obligation bonds through competitive sales
tomorrow, to fund projects at more than a dozen state agencies
and refund $321 million of prior issues. Georgia, which has $8.3
billion in outstanding general obligations, carries top credit
scores from the three major ratings companies. (Updated Oct. 4)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at +1= 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 