-- Canadian Imperial Bank Plans Covered Bonds in First Australian Dollar Sale
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-10-05T05:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/canadian-imperial-bank-plans-covered-bonds-in-first-australian-dollar-sale.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,
the nation’s fifth-biggest bank, is planning a sale of the first
covered bonds denominated in Australian dollars in more than
three years.  CIBC hired Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., HSBC
Holdings Plc and UBS AG to manage the sale, according to an e-
mailed statement from HSBC today. The notes, which are the
Toronto-based lender’s first offering in Australian dollars,
will be backed by assets of Canada’s national housing agency,
the statement said.  “Globally, Australia is a high-yielding country and
investors are attracted to the currency exposure at the
moment,”  David Goodman , head of asset-backed research at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney, said by phone today. “People
are looking to buy Aussie dollar products.”  The Reserve Bank of Australia has led Group of 20 members
by raising the benchmark interest rate in six quarter-
percentage-point steps to 4.5 percent since October last year,
helping fuel an 8.6 percent surge in the nation’s currency last
month and pushing it toward parity with its U.S. counterpart.
Dexia Municipal Agency, the funding unit of Brussels-based
lender Dexia SA, was the last issuer of Australian dollar-
denominated covered bonds when it sold about A$29 million ($28
million) of the notes in July 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Balance Sheet  Covered bonds, mostly sold by European banks, attract
higher ratings than regular notes because they’re backed by
assets such as mortgages that stay on the lender’s balance sheet
and can be sold in a default.  CIBC’s bonds will be marketed in Australia, according to a
person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be named
as details are private.  Compagnie de Financement Foncier, the funding unit of
 Credit Foncier de France , is considering selling covered bonds
in Australian dollars as it seeks to diversify its investor
base,  Paul Dudouit , head of medium- and long-term funding at the
Paris-based company, said last week.  “We’ll probably see more foreign issuers selling covered
bonds in Australia,” driven by demand from local banks for
liquid assets as capital requirements are toughened globally,
Westpac’s Goodman said.  Australian banks are barred from selling covered bonds
because the home loans used as security wouldn’t be available to
repay depositors if the lender defaulted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 