-- Canadian Dollar Declines From a Two-month High Before Unemployment Report
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-04T20:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/canadian-dollar-declines-from-a-two-month-high-before-unemployment-report.html
Canada’s dollar weakened from a two-
month high versus its U.S. counterpart before a report later
this week that economists predict will show the nation’s
employers added jobs.  The Canadian currency, which tends to track movements in
stocks and crude oil, the nation’s largest export, has traded at
weaker levels after reaching par with its U.S. cousin in April
on concern a softening U.S. economy will crimp exports. Stocks
declined and oil was little changed.  “If the world starts to believe the U.S. is going to be
really, really bad, that’s not going to be great for Canada,”
 Michael O’Neill , managing director at Knightsbridge Foreign
Exchange Inc., said by phone from Toronto. “For the next little
while, it’s a bearish picture. All the good news for Canada has
already been priced into the rate.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.3 percent to C$1.0225 per
U.S. dollar at 4:24 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0197 on
Oct. 1. It touched C$1.0180, the strongest since Aug. 6. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.79 U.S. cents.  Canada’s employers added 10,000 jobs to payrolls last
month, after a 35,800 gain in August, according to the median of
16 economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News. Statistics
Canada is due to release the report on Oct. 8 in Ottawa.  Jobs Data  “The key on the data front is employment on both sides of
the border on Friday,”  Firas Askari , head currency trader in
Toronto at Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-largest lender,
wrote in an e-mail. “The risk is now tilted to a bigger number
out of Canada. In the interim, look to buy the Canadian dollar
in the C$1.0350 area.”  The Standard & Poors’ 500 index fell as much as 1.3 percent
before closing at 1,137.03, down 0.8 percent. Crude for November
delivery fell as much as 1 percent and gained as much as 1
percent, before closing at $81.67 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  “With commodities also expected to be range-bound through
year-end, drivers of significant Canadian-dollar strength from
here seem few and far between,”  Shaun Osborne  and  Jacqui Douglas , currency strategists at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit, wrote in a note to clients today, citing Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney’s  “cautious” comments on the
economic outlook.  Carney  prompted speculation interest rates in the country
won’t rise further this year when he said Sept. 30 in a  speech 
in Windsor, Ontario, that economic growth has slowed more than
expected and “the unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook
warrants caution.”  Benchmark Odds  After the benchmark overnight rate was raised by quarter
percentage points at each of the June, July and September
meetings, the probability of a similar increase at the Oct. 19
meeting has dropped to “only 12 percent,” from between 40
percent and 50 percent two weeks ago, Bank of Montreal’s Askari
said.  “People were buying Canada in part because they thought
the bank of Canada was going to be hiking rates,” said O’Neill
at Knightsbridge, referring to the Canadian dollar. “That’s
been on hold after Carney’s remarks last week.”  The government 2-year note’s  yield  fell 1 basis point, or
0.1 percentage point, to 1.36 percent after touching the lowest
since Sept. 8, tracking U.S. two-year yields, which fell to a
record low 0.3987 percent on speculation the Federal Reserve
will increase asset purchases. The price of Canada’s 2 percent
security maturing in September 2012 was at C$101.20.  Canada’s government bonds have made investors 7.1 percent
this year, according to a Bank of American Merrill Lynch index.  The loonie has gained 1.2 percent this year against a
basket of currencies from 10 developed-world nations, according
to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weight Currency Indices. The median
of a Bloomberg News survey or 33 analysts projects the Canadian
currency will end the fourth quarter at C$1.04, compared with
$1.03 at the end of the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  