-- Canada Stocks Slip as Gold Miners Fall; Telecom Companies Rise
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-04T21:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/canadian-stocks-fluctuate-as-energy-producers-advance-gold-shares-slip.html
Canadian stocks  declined for a third
day, led by gold producers, after the precious metal fell from a
record as the U.S. dollar strengthened.  Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest producer of the
metal, slipped 1.8 percent. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
increased 1.9 percent, after the Conference Board of Canada said
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s hostile bid for the company would have
“few” negative effects on the province. TMX Group Inc. fell
0.4 percent after announcing plans to create a trading platform
that will compete with Alpha Trading Systems and other
companies.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX  Composite Index slipped 40.14
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,322.94 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. Gold
fell in New York after the U.S. dollar rebounded from the lowest
level in more than six months against the euro. Gold producers
make up 11 percent of Canadian stocks by market value.  “It’s a currency-induced selloff that’s potentially in the
works today,” said  Bob Decker  who helps manage C$4.2 billion
($4 billion) at Aurion Capital Management in Toronto. The market
is “likely to have a bit of a corrective phase in the next six
weeks.”  The S&P/TSX completed a third-straight weekly advance Oct.
1, after U.S. income and spending and Chinese manufacturing
increased more than economists forecast. The index surged 9.5
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, the biggest
quarterly gain in a year.  “After such a strong September it’s not unusual to see a
small pullback,” Decker said. “There’s sort of a wait-and-see,
show-me attitude right now.”  Bullion Producers  Barrick Gold  declined 1.8 percent to C$47.09. Goldcorp
Inc., the world’s second-largest gold producer by market value,
fell 1.3 percent to C$43.98.  Northgate Minerals Corp., a gold producer with mines in
Canada and Australia, fell 5.5 percent to C$2.94. The shares
have fallen 16 percent since Sept. 28, as the company said it
was selling $150 million in debt that can be converted to stock
to finance a portion of the development costs of its Young-
Davidson gold mine near Matachewan, Ontario.  “Gold is kind of flat, but stocks in the gold sector stay
pretty volatile.” said Marcus Xu, director of equity
investments at Genus Capital Management in Vancouver, which
manages about C$1.7 billion.  Few Effects  Potash Corp. rose 1.9 percent to $147.70. BHP’s $40 billion
hostile bid for the company would have “few” negative effects
on the province of Saskatchewan apart from C$2 billion  in lost
revenue, the Conference Board said in  a report posted on a
Saskatchewan government website.  TMX Group fell 0.4 percent to C$31.46. The owner of the
Toronto stock exchange said it will create an alternative
trading platform to compete with Alpha Trading Systems and other
companies that have taken market share from Canada’s biggest
bourse.  An index of  telecommunications services  companies in the S&P/TSX
was the best performing group and the only one posting a gain as
the phone companies followed their U.S. peers higher. The index
of Canadian carriers rose 1.6 percent, erasing a 1.1 percent
decline Oct. 1.  Rogers, BCE  Rogers Communications Inc., Canada’s largest wireless
carrier, led the group, advancing 1.9 percent to C$38.80. Rogers
last week agreed to pay C$103.2 million to buy back 2.9 million
shares. BCE Inc., the nation’s largest phone company, rose 1.5
percent to C$33.49. Telus Corp., the nation’s third-largest
wireless phone company, gained 1.9 percent to C$46.  “There’s sort of a bounce in these stocks on relatively
late volume after a selloff on Friday,” said  Luc Girard , who
helps manage about C$18 billion ($17.5 billion) as a director of
the portfolio advisory group at Desjardins Securities in
Montreal.  Crude oil for November delivery declined 11 cents from an
eight-week high to $81.47 a barrel as U.S. stocks slipped and
orders for U.S. capital goods increased.  TransCanada Corp., the country’s biggest pipeline operator,
advanced 0.4 percent to C$38.26.  Questerre Energy Corp.  rose 3.3
percent to C$1.90 for the second-biggest gain in the S&P/TSX.
The shares fell 28 percent on Oct. 1 after the company announced
project delays.  Brookfield Properties Corp. rose 3.8 percent to C$16.82 for
the biggest gain in the S&P/TSX. The company will replace the
semicircular marble stairs of the Winter Garden, the centerpiece
of the World Financial Center, as part of a $50 million
overhaul, three people briefed on the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 