-- Catastrophe Bonds Jump to Five-Year High as U.S. Escapes Storms
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/catastrophe-bonds-reach-highest-since-katrina-year-as-u-s-escapes-storms.html
Catastrophe bonds, used by investors
to bet against natural disasters, rose to the highest since
2005, the year of Hurricane Katrina, as the most powerful storms
missed the U.S. in the first two-thirds of the Atlantic season.  The  Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index  rose 0.3 percent
to 97.65 on Oct. 1. The benchmark, which prices on Fridays, has
advanced every week since mid-July.  The U.S. and its oil and gas platforms in the Gulf of
Mexico have escaped a direct strike from hurricanes this year.
Fourteen  named storms  have formed this Atlantic season through
Oct. 1, three more than the average for an entire season, which
runs from June through November.  “Investors are willing to take more of a risk than they
were,” said  Brett Houghton , a fixed-income trader at Rochdale
Securities LLC. “We’re probably two-thirds of the way through
hurricane season and there hasn’t been a serious threat yet to
the U.S. mainland. It has not been a hurricane season that’s
problematic in an insurance industry context.”  The Swiss Re index, which doesn’t reflect interest
payments, fell 6.6 percent in 2005, the year Katrina struck New
Orleans. The hurricane killed more than 1,800 people along the
Gulf Coast and caused levees in New Orleans to fail, flooding 80
percent of the city. It caused more than $40 billion in insured
losses, the Insurance Information Institute said.  ‘Additional Demand’  The index declined into the first part of the 2006
hurricane season, then advanced until November 2007 when it
peaked at 97.6. Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008, and the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., sent the bonds into a
slump through the middle of last year. Funds from cat bonds were
invested in asset-backed securities and Lehman was unable to
meet commitments to compensate for losses on the holdings.  The benchmark has advanced about 9.9 percent from its low
of 88.85 in June of last year.  “Pricing will continue to go up,” Houghton said. “The
supply-demand dynamic is in favor of a lot of additional demand
coming into the market.”  Insurers sell catastrophe bonds and use the funds to cover
claims if a disaster strikes. The securities pay higher-than-
benchmark interest rates to investors who risk losing their
principal in the event of a disaster that meets certain
conditions. Treasury two-year yields touched a record low Oct. 1
as a report showed U.S. manufacturing growth slowed.  La Nina  The  U.S. Climate Prediction Center  cut its forecast on Aug.
5 for the hurricane period to a range of 14 to 20 named storms,
down from 14 to 23. The center  said  on Sept. 9. that La Nina, a
weather pattern that reduces high-altitude winds, may contribute
to increased Atlantic hurricane activity. It may also help
suppress hurricane formation across the central and eastern
tropical North Pacific through November.  Swiss Reinsurance Co., Allianz SE and  American
International Group Inc. ’s Chartis property-casualty unit were
among sellers of a total of more than $2.6 billion in cat bonds
in the first three quarters of this year, an increase of about
60 percent from the same period in 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Hurricane Igor, the Atlantic season’s  most powerful  so far,
hit Bermuda Sept. 20 and later caused heavy rain in
Newfoundland.  The most active part of the season is usually from mid-
August through late October, according to  Dennis Feltgen , public
affairs officer for the National Hurricane Center. “Anybody
thinking that the season is over is kidding themselves,” he
said on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 