-- CB Richard Ellis Hires Nina Kampler From Hilco to Boost Americas Retail
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/cb-richard-ellis-hires-nina-kampler-from-hilco-to-boost-americas-retail.html
CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. , the
largest commercial property brokerage, hired  Nina Kampler  as
senior managing director to help expand the company’s retail
real estate business in urban areas throughout the Americas.  Kampler will oversee retail real estate in and around New
York City as well as in other metropolitan areas in the Americas
for CB Richard Ellis, the Los Angeles-based brokerage said today
in a statement. She comes from  Hilco Real Estate LLC , where she
was executive vice president and helped store chains
restructure.  Store closings have slowed and retailers are starting to
grow again, Kampler, 51, said in a telephone interview last
week. Thirty-seven percent of merchants surveyed by the National
Retail Federation and KPMG LLP said they plan to expand this
year, according to a report released in April. That’s up from 18
percent a year earlier.  “Retailers, in order to stay afloat, are going to at some
point need to start growing again,” Kampler said in a telephone
interview last week.  National retail chains including  Circuit City Stores Inc. ,
Linens ‘n Things Inc. and Finlay Enterprises Inc. went out of
business during the recession. Blockbuster Inc., the world’s
biggest movie-rental company, filed for bankruptcy last month,
and Chief Executive Officer  James Keyes  said he will evaluate
“every single store.”  Even store chains without financial problems shut some
locations and tried to renegotiate leases as shoppers cut their
spending, Kampler said.  Before joining Hilco in 2004, Kampler was vice president of
retail and real estate counsel at  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp.  in New
York. She graduated from New York University School of Law and
has bachelor’s and master’s degrees in international politics
from the University of Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  