-- Celgene to Issue $1.25 Billion of Debt in Debut Sale After Boosting Size
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-04T20:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/celgene-to-issue-1-25-billion-of-debt-in-debut-sale-after-boosting-size.html
Celgene Corp ., the maker of blood-
cancer drugs, plans to issue $1.25 billion of debt in its debut
bond sale after increasing the size of the offering.  The company may issue 5-, 10- and 30-year senior unsecured
bonds as soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Proceeds may be used to develop clinical and pre-
clinical programs and to expand international operations, the
company said today in a regulatory filing that didn’t include
the sale’s size, maturity or timing.  Celgene is marketing debt for the  first time  after the
second-busiest month of U.S. corporate bond sales on record with
$160.6 billion of issuance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Pharmaceutical companies including  Warner Chilcott
Plc ,  Medco Health Solutions Inc.  and  Allergan Inc . sold $4
billion of notes, as borrowing costs for investment-grade
issuers tumbled to record lows.  The 5-year notes may yield 125 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, the 10-year debt may pay a spread
of 150 basis points and the 30-year bonds may pay a 200 basis-
point spread, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Celgene earlier marketed $1 billion of 5- and 10-year debt,
the person said. Proceeds also may be used for capital
expenditures, strategic transactions and to meet working capital
needs, Celgene said in the regulatory filing.  Credit Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service ranked the notes Baa2 and
Standard & Poor’s graded them BBB+, one step higher, the credit
rating companies said in separate statements.  Price guidance on the bonds is tighter than for a typical
company with such ratings. The average A rated bond, two steps
higher than BBB+, has a spread of 166 basis points as of Oct. 1,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporates, A
Rated index.  Celgene, which agreed to buy Abraxis BioScience Inc. in
June for $2.9 billion in cash and stock to acquire a solid-tumor
medicine, said in its most recent quarterly filing that it may
pursue “an offering of debt securities, to maintain financial
flexibility.”  Debt from pharmaceutical companies has returned 11.8
percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Pharmaceuticals index. That compares with 11.2 percent on
investment-grade securities, and 12 percent on high-yield notes,
the index data show. Pharmaceuticals’ 3.7 percent return in the
third quarter fell short of the 4.9 percent gain on investment-
grade debt and 6.7 percent on high-yield.  Yields on investment-grade company debt fell to 3.645
percent on Sept. 28, the lowest in Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data going back to Oct. 31, 1986, and were 3.693 percent
on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  