-- Centrica to Start Supplying Natural Gas From Sewage to U.K. Homes Today
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/centrica-starts-supplying-natural-gas-from-sewage-to-u-k-homes.html
Centrica Plc  will begin feeding
biomethane gas from sewage into the U.K.’s natural gas network
today, as the country’s biggest energy supplier seeks to trim
carbon emissions.  The project will supply enough gas for 200 homes using
anaerobic digestion to treat waste from Thames Water Ltd.
customers, Centrica said in a statement today. The biogas
produced is then cleaned to remove any odor and fed directly
into the gas network.  Biomethane could account for about 15 percent of the
British domestic gas market by 2020, Centrica said, citing
National Grid Plc statistics. The U.K. consumed 86.5 billion
cubic meters of natural gas in 2009, according to BP Plc’s
statistical review. Over 50 percent of the country’s gas is
imported from Norway, Qatar and mainland Europe.  “Biogas has exactly the same emissions as regular gas, but
it’s renewable so we’re not depleting fossil fuel resources and
we’re not taking the gas from other countries,” said  Martin Orrill , project manager at the Didcot Renewable Gas Project.  The technology to upgrade biogas to grid standards is
relatively new and uneconomic without feed in tariffs, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance analyst  Irmgard Herold  said in an interview.
About 30 biogas-injection plants already exist in Germany and an
additional 40 are under development, she added.  The British government is  considering  adopting a renewable
heat incentive to subsidize the development of technologies
including biomass boilers and biomethane-to-grid projects. A
payment of 5 pence to 7 pence a kilowatt hour for gas from
renewable sources would be the “right amount” to boost
investment in the technology, Orrill said.  The average person produces about 30 kilograms (66 pounds)
a year of waste suitable for producing biomethane. This means
Britain’s 62.5 million people could generate enough renewable
gas to meet the annual demand of about 200,000 homes, Centrica
said. The Windsor, England-based utility and its partners spent
six months and about 2.5 million pounds developing the Didcot
project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 