-- Cerberus's Tower Automotive Plans IPO to Repay Debt
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-04T23:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/cerberus-s-tower-automotive-plans-122-2-million-ipo-update1-.html
Tower Automotive LLC , the automobile
parts supplier owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, plans to
raise $106 million in an initial public offering to repay debt.  A total of 6.25 million shares will be offered at $15 to
$17 each, Livonia, Michigan-based Tower Automotive said today in
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
underwriters, led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  Citigroup Inc. 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , have an option to buy an additional
937,500 shares at the same price range, which would increase the
proceeds from the IPO to $122 million.  Tower Automotive, once the world’s largest maker of car and
truck frames, sought protection from creditors in 2005 after
auto sales fell and steel  prices  increased. New York-based
buyout firm Cerberus, which acquired the company for $1 billion
when it exited bankruptcy in July 2007, is selling a stake after
nine of the 10 U.S. initial offerings in September posted gains
and auto sales rose at the fastest pace in more than a year.  Prior to the IPO, the auto-parts supplier plans to change
its name to Tower International Inc., according to its filing.
The shares will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol TOWR after the offering.  GM IPO  General Motors Co., 61 percent owned by the U.S.
government, will seek to raise $8 billion to $10 billion next
month, a smaller initial offering than the Detroit-based
automaker originally targeted, two people familiar with the
matter said in September.  Tower Automotive plans to use the IPO proceeds to pay a
portion of its debt, which totaled $654 million at the end of
June, according to the filing.  Revenue at the maker of frames and other chassis parts fell
25 percent to $1.63 billion last year, the filing showed. Tower
Automotive’s sales have risen 41 percent to $980.8 million in
the first six months of 2010. The company hasn’t reported an
annual profit since  Cerberus  took it over.  Cash for Clunkers  Tower Automotive may be benefiting from U.S. auto sales in
September that accelerated to the fastest pace since the federal
government’s “cash for clunkers” incentive program last year
as deliveries by the top 14 automakers all rose.  Sales last month rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate
of 11.8 million, compared with 9.4 million a year earlier,
according to researcher Autodata Corp., based in Woodcliff Lake,
New Jersey. In August 2009, the pace was 14.2 million, aided by
the federal subsidy for fuel-efficient models.  The month’s stronger sales, bolstered by Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford Motor Co.’s 41 percent gain, are a sign that
the car market and the broader economy may have bottomed out and
that a slow, stable recovery is under way, said  Jesse Toprak ,
vice president of industry trends for Santa Monica, California-
based TrueCar.com.  U.S. IPOs Rebound  While IPOs in the U.S. have also rebounded in the past
month, private equity-backed offerings this year have fallen 1.3
percent in the first month of trading in 2010 after averaging
gains every year since at least 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg
and Greenwich, Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC show.  Apollo Global Management LLC  and Warburg Pincus LLC in New
York, and Washington-based Carlyle Group have all sold stakes in
companies this year that left IPO buyers with losses, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Separately,  NetSpend Holdings Inc.  plans to raise $222
million by selling 18.53 million shares in an IPO this month,
according to its SEC filing today and Bloomberg data.  The Austin, Texas-based provider of reloadable prepaid
debit cards is offering the shares at $10 to $12 each, the
filing showed. NetSpend will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the ticker  NTSP .  A total of six companies have planned initial offerings in
the U.S. this week after nine of last month’s 10 U.S. IPOs
posted advances.  Campus Crest Communities Inc. , the student
housing developer based in Charlotte, North Carolina, plans to
raise $411 million in what would be the biggest initial offering
of the period after delaying its sale last week.  U.S. Federal Properties Trust Inc. , the real estate company
that manages properties leased to the U.S. government, delayed a
$289 million initial sale that was scheduled for today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 