-- Chalice Gold Likely to Start Production, Exports From Eritrea in Two Years
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-04T10:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/chalice-gold-likely-to-start-production-exports-from-eritrea-in-two-years.html
Chalice Gold Mines Ltd. , an
Australian explorer for the metal, will begin output at the Koka
deposit in  Eritrea  in two years after spending more than $147
million developing the mine.  The company, based in West Perth, expects to begin exports
of 104,000 ounces per year in late 2012 or early 2013, Managing
Director  Doug Jones  said in an e-mailed response to questions on
Oct. 1. Shipments over the seven-year life of the mine are
expected to total 720,000 ounces, he said.  The Horn of Africa country needs funds from mining to
support an economy that the International Crisis Group last
month described as being in “ free fall .” The economy shrank 1.1
percent from 2004 to 2008, according to the  International
Monetary Fund ’s website.  “Large-scale gold production, expected to begin in 2010,
would improve the state’s foreign-currency position,” the ICG
said in the Sept. 21 report.  Nevsun Resources Ltd. , based in
Vancouver, is scheduled to start producing gold, copper and zinc
at the Bisha mine later this year.  Eritrea is under United Nations sanctions for its alleged
support of al Qaeda-linked terrorists fighting to topple the
Western-backed government of Somalia. In December, the Security
Council voted 13-1 to freeze the assets of Eritreans designated
by a committee of the 15-nation panel and ban them from travel.
It also imposed an arms embargo, authorized the inspection of
cargo going into or out of the country on the Red Sea, and
demanded that it settle a border dispute with neighboring
Djibouti.  Eritrea’s Foreign Ministry called the sanctions
“unjustifiable.”  ‘Repressive’  Human Rights Watch  has described Eritrea as “one of the
most closed and repressive states in the world.” The nation is
on a permanent “war footing,” has “thousands of political
prisoners” and independent media and civil society are non-
existent, according to an April 2009 report by the New York-
based advocacy group.  Eritrea has been ruled by President  Isaias Afeworki , a
former rebel leader, since it gained independence from Ethiopia
in 1993.  Mineral resources including 3 million ounces of gold, 41
million ounces of silver, 1.6 billion pounds of copper and 4.2
billion pounds of zinc have been identified in Eritrea over the
past 10 years, according to  Mining Journal , a London-based
newspaper. A total of 16 mining companies from seven countries
are engaged in 34 projects in the country, it said last month.  “By the standards of established mining countries such as
Australia, Canada, Chile or even many of the West African
countries, the exploration potential has hardly been touched,”
Jones said.  Weapons Purchases  The government may use proceeds from mining revenue to
enhance its military capacity, since its relations with
neighbors are tense, the ICG said. As many as 100,000 people
died in the two-year conflict with Ethiopia.  “I think they’re more likely to spend it on
infrastructure,” Jones said. “However, it’s a sovereign country
and the government can spend it where they want.”  Calls made on Oct. 1 to the  Eritrean Mines and Energy
Ministry  in Asmara, the capital, didn’t connect.  The Koka deposit was discovered in 1998 and development of
the project was delayed by a war with neighboring Ethiopia that
began that year and ended in 2000; a moratorium on exploration
by the government in 2004; and the global financial crisis in
2008, Jones said.  “Koka will not be a big mine, but our financial models
suggest it will be a significant contributor to government
revenue over its seven-year life,” he said.  The Eritrean government owns 10 percent of the Zara
Project, where the Koka deposit is based, and has an option to
buy a further 20 percent, Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 