-- Cherry Jones Tarts Up Shaw’s Brothel-Owning Mrs. Warren: Review
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-04T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/cherry-jones-tarts-up-shaw-s-brothel-owning-mrs-warren-review.html
“Mrs. Warren’s Profession” is one
of  Bernard Shaw ’s earlier, somewhat less accomplished plays, but
it has always been a favorite with actors and audiences; the
present  Roundabout Theatre Company  revival brings back to
Broadway  Cherry Jones , one of our most beloved actresses.  Two parallel themes run through it. There is the
respectable bourgeoise, Mrs. Kitty Warren, who, in partnership
with Sir George Crofts, Baronet, turns out to be running a
successful chain of brothels across the Continent. And there is
her daughter, Vivie, who did brilliantly on her mother’s money
at Cambridge University, but, being Shaw’s New Woman, is now
determined to be a lawyer and make it strictly on her own.  Vivie is wooed both by Sir George, 25 years her senior and
wealthy enough to make her comfortable, and penniless Frank
Gardner, a charming young playboy who offers romance. Totally
unswayed by the former, she also ends up rejecting the latter,
choosing celibacy and a law career.  There is also Mr. Praed, a cosmopolitan, art-loving friend
of Mrs. Warren’s, whom Vivie turns down as a travel companion;
and, further, the Reverend Samuel Gardner, Frank’s
moralistically disapproving father, whose rectory is close to
the Warren cottage in Surrey, and who, it turns out, has quite a
checkered past himself.  Shady Business  So we have all kinds of shady business hiding behind a
facade of respectability, or, as Shaw himself put it, “We
praise female virtue highly and pay it poorly, and pay female
vice highly whilst we deplore it verbally.” When the truth
transpires, Vivie’s explosive rebellion is complete.  British actors often excel at conveying social shadings,
required for Kitty Warren, who, while outwardly respectable, is,
as Shaw stipulates, “a genial and fairly presentable blackguard
of a woman.” This subtle ambiguity even so fine an American
actress as Jones cannot quite manage without slipping into
vulgarity. But there is worse.  For Vivie, the English actress  Sally Hawkins  has been
imported, presumably on the basis of her title role in Mike
Leigh’s film “Happy-Go-Lucky.” Vivie is something else: Under
the semblance of an alabaster princess lies a young woman of
easeful poise and strength. Lacking both talent and appeal,
Hawkins gesticulates incessantly, fidgets intemperately, walks
funnily and tosses her head rather like a social-climbing
charwoman.  Mercenary Baronet  Adam Driver similarly lacks the looks and charm Frank must
have, and his excessively singsong way with a British accent is
no help either.  Edward Hibbert ’s Mr. Praed is, as is his custom,
more epicene and waspish than warmly amiable. Mark Harelik’s
mercenary baronet and Michael Siberry’s double-bottomed rector
are very fine, but cannot redeem the rest.  Doug Hughes, a talented director, given his two leads, was
unable to create the right atmosphere of decorum punctured by
the one’s laissez faire and the other’s rebellion needed for the
proper dramatic momentum. Contributing to this failure are the
good  Catherine Zuber’s  uncharacteristically unbecoming costumes,
the gifted David Van Tieghem’s inappropriate music, and Tom
Watson’s unfortunate hair and wig design, which, for example,
makes Mrs. Warren look rather like Sweeney Todd’s Mrs. Lovett.  A final faux pas: Shaw expressly wanted to go down in
history as Bernard, dropping the George. Enlightened
scholarship, responsible theaters and the definitive edition of
the works follow this injunction. The Roundabout, by George,
lags behind.  At the American Airlines Theatre, 227 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org .
Rating: * 1/2  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 