-- Chile's Pinera to Discuss Peso Appreciation With Central Bankers This Week
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-04T15:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/chile-s-pinera-to-discuss-peso-appreciation-with-central-bankers-this-week.html
Chile’s President  Sebastian Pinera 
said he will meet with policy makers at the central bank this
week to discuss ways to address the peso’s appreciation.  “I hope to get answers that are adequate given the gravity
of the problem,” Pinera said in an  interview  today with Chile’s
radio association, known as Archi for its initials in Spanish.
“We need an exchange rate that gives us stability and makes our
export sector competitive.”  The peso fell 1.1 percent to 485.95 per dollar at 11:51
a.m. New York time, from 480.85 on Oct. 1. Chile’s peso has
gained 11 percent against the U.S. dollar in the past three
months, the most among Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The peso has appreciated in part because of high copper
prices and  economic growth  and is within a “coherent” range,
central bank board member  Rodrigo Vergara  said in an Oct. 3
interview with  La Tercera . The peso is approaching values that
would put it out of that range, the Santiago-based newspaper
quoted him as saying.  Other Latin American nations with fast-growing economies
are considering measures to curb the appreciation of their
currencies. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , 61, said
Sept. 27 that the government is considering implementing a tax
on short-term, fixed-income investments as other countries
engage in a “currency war” to weaken their exchange rates and
bolster exports. The real has gained 5 percent against the
dollar in the past three months.  Colombia central bank policy makers said at the Sept. 24
board meeting they would coordinate with the government ways to
strengthen instruments used to intervene in the currency market
after pledging to buy at least $20 million daily to stem a rally
in the peso, which has gained 4.8 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  