-- Chile Peso Falls the Most in Three Months on Pinera, Copper Price Decline
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-04T18:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/chilean-peso-falls-for-the-first-time-in-two-weeks-on-pinera-copper-price.html
Chile’s peso fell the most in three
months after President  Sebastian Pinera  said the central bank
can do “more” to stem the appreciation of the currency, and as
copper prices fell.  The peso fell 1.1 percent to 486.21 per dollar at 2:42 p.m.
New York time, from 480.85 on Oct. 1. This is the largest fall
for the peso since June 29.  Pinera wants to meet “soon” with policy makers at the
central bank to discuss ways to better coordinate the bank’s
monetary policy with the government, he said in an interview
with La Tercera  newspaper  that was published yesterday.  “Pinera’s statements during the weekend strengthened the
dollar versus the peso,”  Matias  Madrid, an economist at Banco
Penta, said in a telephone interview. “Falling copper prices
and the retreat in global equities didn’t help either.”  “More always can be done,” Pinera said when asked if
policy makers could be more proactive on the peso. Chile is
starting to show symptoms of so-called “Dutch disease,” which
happens when an economy’s currency strengthens on exports of
natural resources, Pinera said. “We have to prevent the surge
in the mining industry from punishing everyone else in the
export sector, especially agriculture.”  Chile’s government is “concerned” about the peso’s
appreciation, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said today after
meeting with central bank policy makers in Santiago.  The Pinera administration and central bank “always” can
better coordinate policies, Larrain told reporters, adding that
the government respects the bank’s autonomy and wouldn’t ask it
to intervene in the currency market.  Copper in London for delivery in three months fell 0.4
percent to $8,064 per ton, while the  MSCI World index  retreated
0.9 percent to 1,174.18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  