-- China May Be Target of More Subsidy Complaints in Europe, Trade Chief Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2010-10-04T15:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/china-may-be-target-of-more-subsidy-complaints-in-europe-trade-chief-says.html
China should brace for more subsidy
complaints by European manufacturers, Europe’s trade chief said,
in a sign of growing Chinese commercial tensions with the West.  The European Union opened its first inquiry into alleged
trade-distorting government aid by China in April in a case
involving EU imports of paper, and began the second probe last
month covering shipments of wireless modems to Europe. Both
cases, which stem from complaints by paper makers in Europe
including Sappi Ltd. and Belgian modem producer  Option NV , could
lead to punitive EU tariffs against China.  “I expect that it will become a trend,” EU Trade
Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  said in an interview today in
Brussels. “What European companies see as unfair competition
has to do with subsidization. I expect that there will be more
and more complaints.”  EU anti-subsidy duties against China would open a new front
in Europe’s battle to slow imports of Chinese manufactured goods
and may sharpen political tensions. Europe already imposes
levies to counter below-cost -- or dumped -- imports of Chinese
goods ranging from textiles and chemicals to shoes and bicycles.
China, the world’s most populous country, faces EU  anti-dumping
measures  on about 50 products, more than any other nation.  The prospect of broader European trade protection against
China comes as the EU and the U.S., seeking to bolster western
exporters and narrow their trade deficits, press China to let
its currency strengthen as the global economy recovers from the
financial crisis. EU officials including Jean-Claude Juncker,
who heads a group of euro-area finance ministers, plan to raise
the matter with Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao in a meeting
tomorrow in Brussels.  U.S. Legislation  The U.S. House of Representatives last month approved a
measure that would allow domestic companies to petition for
higher American import duties against China to compensate for
the effect of a weak yuan. The Senate plans to take up its
version of the legislation after elections in November,
according to sponsor  Charles Schumer  of New York.  De Gucht expressed concern about an undervalued yuan while
predicting it would appreciate “over time” as a result mainly
of domestic Chinese considerations rather than western demands.  “There is a real problem with the value of the Chinese
currency,” he said. “I have my doubts whether you can
influence that by international pressure. I continue to believe
that over time the Chinese currency will appreciate, but this
will rather be I think on the basis of internal requirements
than international pressure, mainly, for example, the risk that
they would get into an inflationary spiral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
 Maryam Nemazee  in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  