-- China's Snub of Yuan Pleas Fuels Doubts on Europe Growth
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-05T09:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/china-s-wen-seeks-currency-stability-rebuffs-u-s-call-for-revalued-yuan.html
China’s snub of pleas for a faster
appreciation of the yuan triggered concern that Europe’s
faltering economic recovery may suffer a further blow.  European officials voiced disappointment today that China
didn’t go beyond a June pledge to ease the yuan away from a
dollar peg, leaving the euro at the mercy of depreciating
currencies in China, the U.S., Japan and Britain.  “If the euro continues to bear a disproportionate burden
in the adjustment of global exchange rates, the recovery of the
euro-area’s economy might be weakened,” European Union Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters after a Europe-
China economic summit in Brussels today.  China’s rebuff and Japan’s efforts to weaken its currency
reflect the limited coordination of international economic
policy and make it harder for the 16-nation euro region to
export its way toward a stronger rebound from the deepest
 recession  in seven decades.  Europe’s economy is showing signs of slowing after growth
spurted to 1 percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in
four years.  Unemployment  held at the highest in more than 12
years in August and  manufacturing  weakened in September.  The euro region’s trade deficit with China widened to 48.1
billion euros ($66 billion) in the first half of 2010 from 45.1
billion euros a year earlier. Unlike the U.S., Europe’s overall
trade account is in surplus, estimated at 1.9 billion euros for
the first seven months.  China’s moves to boost the yuan since June have been “not
exactly what we would have hoped ourselves,” European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said after the meeting.  Yuan Peg  Amid criticism from the U.S. and Europe, China has capped
the yuan’s gains at about 2 percent against the dollar since the
People’s Bank of China loosened a two-year peg of 6.83 per
dollar in June.  “This is certainly not the kind of leap forward that, for
example, the United States and maybe to a certain extent also
the European Union, had expected,” EU Trade Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “I
have my doubts whether you can influence that by international
pressure.”  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the
Chinese government doesn’t feel that it is under pressure to
budge on currencies and declined to say whether today’s European
pleadings will have an effect.  ‘Exchanging Views’  “It’s not really about putting pressure, it’s just
exchanging views as always,” Zhou said in a post-meeting
interview.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  opposed a sudden currency
realignment, saying yesterday that “we should intensify
macroeconomic policy coordination, manage with caution the
timing and pace of an exit strategy from economic stimulus and
keep the exchange rates of major reserve currencies relatively
stable.”  Wen took part in today’s EU-China economic consultations,
along with Zhou and Finance Minister  Xie Xuren . The euro region
was represented by Trichet, Rehn and Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the committee of euro finance
ministers.  While the European side said Wen promised greater currency
flexibility, perceptions diverged over the pace and extent of
any revaluation of the yuan. The Chinese officials skipped the
post-meeting press conference. Wen will hold a separate meeting
with EU leaders tomorrow.  ‘Broadly Undervalued’  “There’s a divergence of analysis between the Chinese
authorities and the European authorities,” Juncker said. “We
think the Chinese currency is broadly undervalued.”  The euro has risen 15 percent against the dollar and 5
percent against the Japanese yen in the past four months. Since
China’s currency shadows the dollar, the euro has gone up
against the yuan as well.  Facing a slowing recovery, the Bank of Japan today pledged
to keep its main interest rate at “virtually zero” to ward of
deflation and to expand its balance sheet. The loosening of
policy pushed down the yen against the dollar and euro.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
relying on asset purchases to brighten the economy and may
engage in further buying.  U.S. impatience with China mounted on Sept. 29 when the
House of Representatives passed a measure that would let
American companies seek import duties to prevent Chinese
manufacturers from using an artificially weak yuan as a
competitive tool. The measure won’t go to the Senate until after
U.S. congressional elections in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  