-- China Holdings of Korean Bonds Almost Tripled in First Nine Months of 2010
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-04T04:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/china-holdings-of-korean-bonds-almost-tripled-in-first-nine-months-of-2010.html
China’s holdings of South Korean
government bonds almost tripled in the first nine months of this
year as policy makers shifted part of the world’s largest
foreign-exchange reserves out of dollars.  The amount of  Korean Treasury bonds  owned by China totaled
5.15 trillion won ($4.6 billion) at the end of September, 175
percent more than at the start of the year, according to data
released today by South Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service.
Chinese  holdings  of U.S. Treasuries fell 5.4 percent in the
first seven months of 2010 to $846.7 billion, U.S. data show.  “China continues to diversify its foreign-exchange
reserves away from dollars to help contain risk,” said  Choi Seok Won , a fixed-income analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in
Seoul. “It also may want to prevent its currency from
strengthening against the won and the yen to protect exports.”  South Korea’s won strengthened 9.4 percent against the
dollar in the past three months, Asia’s best performance, and
all 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg outperformed the
greenback. The  Dollar Index , a gauge of the U.S. currency’s
strength, ended last week at the lowest level since January.  Korean government debt has handed investors an 8.2 percent
return this year, according to an  index  compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc. The securities have delivered a profit in each of
the last nine months, the best winning streak since Bloomberg
records began in 2002.  China’s holdings of South Korean notes account for less
than 0.2 percent of its $2.45 trillion reserves, which are being
more heavily invested in Japan. The third quarter’s increase of
$1 billion for KTBs, little changed from $1.1 billion in the
previous three months, compares with  net purchases  of Japanese
debt totaling $7 billion in July alone.  Overseas investors’ holdings of Korean debt fell 0.1
percent in September to 74.6 trillion won, today’s data showed.
Foreigners owned 6.7 percent of the country’s outstanding bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 