-- China Bashers Pass Buck on What’s Ailing U.S.: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-10-04T01:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/china-bashers-pass-buck-on-what-s-ailing-u-s-kevin-hassett.html
China bashing is all the rage in
Washington, as politicians of both parties blame the world’s
fastest-growing major economy for high jobless rates in the U.S.  Such a popular target is China that the U.S. House of
Representatives, all but paralyzed by the prospect of next
month’s election, easily passed a bill last week that might
impose tariffs on China in retaliation for currency
manipulation.  Blaming China is fun for the political and intellectual
elites because it allows them to ignore their own failures.
Gridlocked politicians on both sides of the aisle are equally
attracted to the claim. The problem with U.S. growth isn’t that
we have an out-of-control government and the second-highest
corporate tax rates on earth; it’s all China’s fault.  As political scapegoating goes, this is easy -- too easy.
In truth, the impact on the U.S. economy of a change in Chinese
currency policy could well be so small that it would be almost
impossible to detect.  First consider the arguments of those who say the U.S.
would see significant benefits from a more freely floating yuan.  C. Fred Bergsten  of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics  testified  in the House last month that
“elimination of the Chinese misalignment would create about
half a million U.S. jobs, mainly in manufacturing and with
above-average wages, over the next couple of years.”  Toward Equilibrium  How to accomplish that? Bergsten estimates that an
appreciation of about 25 percent against the dollar would be
necessary to restore an equilibrium exchange rate. When he
testified on Sept. 15, the yuan had risen at an annualized rate
of only about 4 percent since June, when the Chinese government
pledged more flexibility. The growth rate does seem to have
increased since Sept. 15.  Bergsten recommends that the U.S. designate China as a
“currency manipulator” and encourage other nations to apply
pressure on China to change its policy. He also says the U.S.
should engage in “countervailing currency intervention,” which
means purchasing yuan to offset China’s dollar purchases.  There is a good deal of academic disagreement over the
Bergsten analysis. Helmut Reisen, head of research at the OECD
Development Center, part of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development,  wrote  in April that “it is far
from assured” that an appreciation of the yuan would influence
current account balances.  He added, “There is a clear political focus on the
bilateral U.S.-Chinese trade balance, but bilateral imbalances
are of no economic interest -- there are more than two countries
in the world.”  Ripple Effects  Philip Levy , my colleague at the American Enterprise
Institute, shares this view. The ripple effects throughout the
trading world of a more flexible yuan could be enormous,
diluting the specific impact on any one country, even if that
country is the U.S.  If we buy fewer imports from China, we might just buy more
from some other country. A sign that this effect might be
important,  Levy argues , is that even while Chinese imports into
the U.S. have been surging, total Asian imports have been
roughly constant. This suggests that at least part of the impact
of a change in Chinese currency policy would be a tweak in U.S.
trade with Malaysia or Japan.  Economist  Ray Fair  of Yale University attempted to account
for ripple effects in a  paper  that analyzed the macroeconomic
impact of Chinese revaluation.  “The estimated effects on U.S. output and employment are
modest,” he wrote. “Positive effects on U.S. output from a
decrease in imports from China are offset by negative effects on
U.S. output from increased inflation and from a decrease in U.S.
exports to China because of a Chinese contraction.”  History as Guide  History also is a guide. If changes in the exchange rate
are truly a big deal, then the U.S. trade deficit with China
should have decreased during the Chinese currency appreciation
from 2005 to 2008. Instead, it grew.  Then there’s the question of scale.  Assume that starting in August 2008, when China’s last
revaluation ended, U.S. imports from China started tracking
those of  Japan , another big Asian trading partner of the U.S.
that does let its currency float. Under that scenario, imports
from China this year would have been about $27 billion lower. In
a $14 trillion economy, that is hardly enough to have much of an
impact on jobs, especially if imports from other countries
increase.  Economic policies with uncertain benefits can be defensible
if they carry no cost. Bashing China has real costs: It might
cause a trade war reminiscent of the one that put the world
economy into a death spiral in the 1930s. And it definitely
distracts attention from the need for government policies that
directly help the U.S. economy and those looking for jobs.  So isn’t it time we left China alone?  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  