-- Chinese Banks Agree to Extend $267.8 Million of Loans to 3 Greek Shippers
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2010-10-04T12:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/chinese-banks-agree-to-extend-267-8-million-of-loans-to-3-greek-shippers.html
Chinese state-run banks agreed to
$267.8 million in loans to three Greek shippers during a weekend
visit to Athens by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , marking the first
time such transactions have been exclusively financed by Chinese
lenders, the Greek Prime Minister’s office said.  A $5 billion shipping fund will be set up to tighten
relations between China’s and Greece’s maritime industries and
facilitate the sale of Chinese-built vessels to Greek owners,
Wen said two days earlier.  Diana Shipping Inc ., Angelicoussis Shipping Group, and
Cardiff Marine Inc., the private shipping arm of ship owner
George Economou, received loans.  Diana, which owns bulk carriers, obtained an $82.6 million
loan from the Export-Import Bank of China, according to a
statement e-mailed late yesterday from Prime Minister  George Papandreou’s  office.  DnB NOR ASA , Norway’s largest bank, acted as agent for the
10-year loan, which will be used to part finance $118 million
for two new bulk ships, each of which has a carrying capacity of
206,000 deadweight tons, that have been ordered from China
Shipbuilding Trading Co. and Jiangnan-Changxing Shipbuilding Co.
Delivery is scheduled for the second and third quarters 2012,
Athens-based Diana said today in an e-mailed statement.  Angelicoussis, based in Athens, obtained a $111 million
loan from the Export-Import Bank, with DnB NOR acting as agent,
and Cardiff Marine obtained a $74.2 million loan from China
Development Bank Corp.  Cardiff Marine company also signed a cooperation agreement
with the China Classification Society, which assesses the
classes of vessels. The Greek shipper will use the loan to pay
for a very large crude oil tanker, Hellenic Shipping News
reported earlier today. China’s Jiangsu Rongsheng Heavy Industry
Group Co. announced an order on Aug. 24 for two VLCCs from
Cardiff Marine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tugwell  in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  