-- Citigroup, Ally Sued for Racketeering Over Database
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-10-04T21:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/citigroup-ally-sued-by-homeowners-alleging-racketeering-over-mortgages.html
Citigroup Inc.  and  Ally Financial
Inc.  units were sued by homeowners in Kentucky for allegedly
conspiring with Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. to
falsely foreclose on loans.  The lawsuit, filed as a civil-racketeering class action on
behalf of all Kentucky homeowners facing foreclosure, also names 
as a defendant Reston, Virginia-based MERS, the company that
handles mortgage transfers among member banks. The suit claims
that through MERS the banks are foreclosing on homes even when
they don’t hold titles to the properties.  “Defendants have filed foreclosures throughout the state
of Kentucky and the United States of America knowing that they
were not the ‘owners’ or beneficiaries of the loan they filed
foreclosure upon,” the homeowners wrote in their complaint
filed Sept. 28 in federal court in Louisville, Kentucky.  The homeowners claim the defendants filed or caused to be
filed mortgages with forged signatures, filed foreclosure
actions months before they acquired any legal interest in the
properties and falsely claimed to own notes executed with
mortgages.  The lawsuit is one of multiple cases against MERS and banks
alleging that the process allows wrongful foreclosures. Several
of these cases, combined in a multidistrict litigation in
Phoenix, were dismissed Sept. 30, with the judge allowing the
plaintiffs to re-file their complaints.  ‘Inflammatory’  “The allegation is inflammatory and without merit and we
intend to defend our position fully in a court of law,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Ally, said in an e-mailed statement.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment. Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for MERS, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  The Kentucky suit claims MERS and the banks violated the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, a law
originally passed to pursue organized crime.  “RICO comes in because the fraud didn’t just happen
piecemeal,” Heather Boone McKeever, a Lexington, Kentucky-based
lawyer for the homeowners, said in a phone interview today.
“This is organized crime by people in suits, but it is still
organized crime. They created a very thorough plan.”  The suit, which includes claims of fraud, also names as
defendants other banks, real-estate law firms and document-
processing companies.  In the Phoenix litigation, U.S. District Judge  James A. Teilborg  found that the mortgage banks properly named MERS as
the nominee for the original lenders and that the plaintiffs
didn’t include enough detail in their allegations that the banks
formed MERS to conspire to deprive homeowners of their property.  ‘Straw Man’  Last year, the Kansas Supreme Court found that MERS’s
relationship to the lenders is “akin to that of a straw man”
and that it didn’t have rights over the mortgage at issue.  “Having a single front man, or nominee, for various
financial institutions makes it difficult for mortgagors and
other institutions to determine the identity of their lenders
and mortgagees,” the Kansas court said.  The case is Foster v. Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., 10-cv-611, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Kentucky (Louisville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 