-- Claim Jumper, Lehman, DBSD, QOC, Visteon: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-04T11:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/claim-jumper-dbsd-us-fidelis-naknek-electric-blackstone-bankruptcy.html
Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, the
operator of a chain of 45 western-themed restaurants in eight
states, is hoping for a successful auction when the operation
goes up for bid on Oct. 28.  A mini-auction was held in bankruptcy court last week when
the restaurant chain sought approval of sale procedures. The
company was proposing for the so-called stalking horse at the
auction to be a company formed by Black Canyon Capital LLC and
Bruckmann Rosser Sherrill & Co. Inc. Black Canyon is an
affiliate of the unsecured mezzanine lender, according to court
papers.  The Black Canyon group was initially offering $24.5 million
cash, plus the assumption of up to $23.3 million in liabilities.
In addition, the buyer would collateralize $5 million in
existing letters of credit.  Landry’s Restaurants Inc. , another restaurant operator,
appeared at the hearing and raised the price while committing to
bid without a breakup fee, Claim Jumper lawyer  Robert Jay Moore 
said in an interview. Landry’s, based in Houston, ultimately
raised the cash portion of its bid to $27.5 million.  Black Canyon raised its cash offer to $27 million and
likewise agreed to drop a breakup fee.  The bankruptcy judge selected Black Canyon as the stalking
horse, Moore said. Moore is a partner in the Los Angeles office
of  Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP .  Competing bids are due Oct. 24. The hearing for approval of
the sale will be Nov. 2, Moore said.  Landry’s bought  Oceanaire Inc. , a chain of bankrupt seafood
restaurants, following an auction in April.  At a hearing on Oct. 6, Claim Jumper will face opposition
from the creditors’ committee on the subject of financing. The
committee believes the company doesn’t need $5 million in
secured financing for the Chapter 11 case that began Sept. 10.  The committee argues that the company may never need the
so-called debtor-in-possession loan if the sale of the business
is completed the week the bankruptcy court gives approval. Or,
if there is a draw on the loan facility, the loan would be
repaid at closing a few days later.  The committee contends the loan is designed to give liens
to pre-bankruptcy lenders on assets that aren’t already their
collateral. The loan would also end up giving the lenders
proceeds from assets that aren’t currently their collateral, in
the committee’s opinion.  In addition to the secured debt, Claim Jumper owes $111.8
million on subordinated notes. The petition says assets are
worth more than $50 million while debt exceeds $100 million.  The case is In re Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, 10-12819,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  SunCal and Lehman File Dueling Chapter 11 Plans  SunCal Cos., a California developer, filed a Chapter 11
plan on Sept. 30 alongside a competing plan by affiliates of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , which are part-owners and lenders
to the SunCal projects.  A hearing will be held Nov. 5 for approval of disclosure
statements explaining the competing plans.  SunCal’s plan would provide for selling the properties.
While Lehman would be permitted to bid cash at the sales, Lehman
couldn’t bid its secured debt in lieu of cash. SunCal would hold
sale proceeds pending the resolution of lawsuits disputing the
validity of the Lehman claims. Among other things, SunCal wants
the Lehman claims subordinated on account of Lehman’s conduct
before and after SunCal’s Chapter 11 filing.  Lehman’s plan would give it ownership of the properties
while money would be made available in the nature of a
settlement to make some payments to creditors with lower
priorities.  Although SunCal filed a disclosure statement, it didn’t
technically speaking file the Chapter 11 on account of the so-
called automatic stay in Lehman’s Chapter 11 case. SunCal is
seeking a modification of the automatic stay in the Lehman
Chapter 11 case.  The SunCal cases with the competing plans involve about 20
companies. SunCal says that Lehman values the properties at $461
million while SunCal says the value is $246 million. Lehman’s
disputed claim is $1.94 billion, SunCal says.  The SunCal Chapter 11 filings occurred in November 2008
after Lehman’s insolvency shut off funding for the projects.
SunCal was California’s largest developer of master planned
communities, with 250,000 residential lots and 10 million square
feet of commercial space in 50 projects. Not all SunCal projects
are involved in the cases involving the dueling plans.  The case in which the papers are filed is In re Palmdale
Hills Properties LLC, 08-17206, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central
District of California (Santa Ana).  DBSD Wins FCC Approval of Transfers to Enact Confirmed Plan  DBSD North America Inc., which won approval of a Chapter 11
plan in a November confirmation order, is now able to enact the
plan after the Federal Communications Commission approved
license transfer applications.  DBSD filed a notice with the bankruptcy court on Sept. 30
saying that the FCC approved license transfers.  In confirming the plan, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert E. Gerber  crammed down on two classes of creditors, one the first-
lien creditor  DISH Network Corp.  and the other including
unsecured creditor  Sprint-Nextel Corp.  Both DISH and Sprint-
Nextel opposed approval of the license transfers by the FCC.  Under a prior court order, DBSD was required to give notice
of license approval so DISH and Sprint-Nextel would have time to
obtain a stay pending appeal and thereby prevent the plan from
being implemented. If the plan were consummated, the appeal
might become moot.  DBSD, based in Reston, Virginia, is a development-stage
company providing wireless communications by satellite to mass-
market customers in North America where traditional cellular
service isn’t available. It placed a geosynchronous satellite
into orbit in April 2008. To read about Gerber’s 67-page
confirmation opinion and details of the plan, click here to see
the Oct. 28, 2009, Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  DBSD’s petition listed assets of $630 million and debt of
$813 million as of March 31, including $51 million in first-lien
debt. The Chapter 11 filing was caused in part by the
illiquidity of $98 million in auction-rate securities purchased
in 2008.  The case is In re DBSD North America Inc., 09-13061, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Founding Atkinson Brothers Settle US Fidelis Claims  The Atkinson brothers, who founded  US Fidelis Inc. , agreed
to settle lawsuits brought against them and their wives by the
company and the official creditors’ committee. The brothers and
their families will give up all their assets while the wives
will each retain $500,000 plus specified jewelry and
automobiles.  The settlement with Cory and Darain Atkinson and their
wives will be up for approval at an Oct. 20 hearing.  If it turns out that assets were hidden, the creditors can
automatically file a $50 million consent judgment against Darain
and a $40 million judgment against Cory.  US Fidelis was a marketer of automobile service contracts.
Under the control of a chief restructuring officer, the company
sued the brothers to recover $101 million claimed to be
“wrongfully and improperly appropriated” from the company.  Wentzville, Missouri-based US Fidelis stopped writing new
business in December and filed for reorganization on March 1.
The petition by the Wentzville, Missouri-based company listed
assets of $74.4 million and debt of $25.8 million, including
$14.5 million owed to a secured creditor.  The case is In re US Fidelis Inc., 10-41902, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Missouri (St. Louis).  Neff Implements Reorganization Plan for Wayzata to Take Over  Neff Corp ., a closely held equipment-rental company,
implemented on Oct. 1 the Chapter 11 plan that the bankruptcy
judge approved in a Sept. 16 confirmation order.  Completed less than five months after the prepackaged
reorganization began, the plan allows Neff to reduce debt by
$400 million while transferring ownership to Wayzata Investment
Partners LLC, the winner at auction with a bid to pay $73
million cash for second-lien creditors owed $299 million.
Second-lien creditors were also allowed participate in an
equity-rights offering.  First-lien term loan lenders, owed $87.9 million, could
elect between being paid in full with interest at the default
rate or participating in the $181.6 million rights offering
backstopped by Wayzata.  The plan included a $1.8 million “gift” from the buyer to
holders of senior notes claims. Other unsecured creditors carved
up a $365,000 cash “gift” from the buyer. Both groups were
predicted to have a recovery of about 5 percent.  Confirmation of the plan was facilitated by a settlement
with unsecured creditors. For details on the company’s finances
and the original plan, click here for the May 17 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Wayzata and  Apollo Capital Management  together owned more
than 67 percent of the first-lien debt.  Miami-based Neff, with 63 branches in 14 states, listed
assets of $299 million and debt totaling $609 million.  The case is In re Neff Corp., 10-12610, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  Life-Insurance Policy Owner QOC Files Bankruptcy in Florida  QOC I LLC, a purchaser of life insurance policies in the
so-called life settlement market, filed a Chapter 11 petition on
Oct. 1 in Florida after death benefits paid on the polices
proved insufficient to cover premiums and service debt.  QOC owes $135 million to the secured creditor  Wells Fargo
Bank NA . The debt matured.  The company was formed in 2007 and purchased 295 life
insurance policies from individuals age 60 or over. It currently
owns 283 policies on the lives of 223 individuals with face
values totaling $550 million. QOC says that the discounted value
of the policies is $164.5 million.  Boca Raton, Florida-based QOC said euphemistically that
“policy maturations” had proven “less frequent” than
projected.  A court paper said that the company will explore a sale of
the portfolio.  In the life settlement market, companies like QOC buy a
policy for less than the death benefit from the owner of a
policy on an individual’s life. The price is higher than what
the policy owner would receive were the policy instead
surrendered. After buying the policy, QOC must continue paying
premiums until the insured individual’s death.  The case is In re QOC I LLC, 10-40153, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  Naknek Electric Power Company Files Chapter 11 to Void Liens  Naknek Electric Association Inc. , a non-profit corporation
supplying electric power to Naknek, Alaska, filed a Chapter 11
petition on Sept. 29 in Anchorage to set aside judgment liens.  The association has a diesel-powered electric generation
plant with 591 customers who are members of the cooperative. The
largest consumers are fish processors, according to a court
filing.  The association is developing a geothermal plan that would
supply 60 percent of peak electric demands in summer.  In July, CoBank ACB recorded a judgment for $6.9 million.
In the same month,  Baker Hughes Oilfield Operations Inc. 
recorded a $3.6 million judgment. Both judgments became liens on
the association’s property.  The association already filed suit in bankruptcy court
seeking to set aside the judgment liens as preferences. The
association relies on the theory that securing a previously
unsecured debt is a preference that the bankruptcy judge can set
aside as long as the security interest was obtained within 90
days of bankruptcy.  The association also owes $3.1 million to the Rural
Utilities Service, an agency of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The association says that the agency has a first
lien.  The existing plant has a depreciated value of $8.7 million,
a court filing says.  The case is In re Naknek Electric Association Inc., 10-
00824, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  Watch List  American Apparel Denies FIT Hiring is for Bankruptcy  American Apparel Inc.  agreed on an amendment of loan
covenants with secured lender Lion Capital LLC, the Los Angeles-
based designer, manufacturer and apparel retailer said in a
statement on Oct. 1.  A company lawyer said in an interview that FTI Consulting
Inc. wasn’t hired to advise on a bankruptcy restructuring. To
read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  American Apparel reported a $42.8 million net loss for the
first quarter on revenue of $121.8 million. The loss from
operations in the first quarter was $21.6 million. The company
is late in filing financial statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for the second quarter.  Deloitte & Touche LLP, the auditor for 2009, resigned and
said the company “has not maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting.” Deloitte warned that it needed
further information to be sure there should be no change in the
2009 financials.  Harrisburg Seeks State Assistance After Missing Payments  The mayor of Harrisburg, the capital city of Pennsylvania,
applied for the city to join the Act 47 program in which the
state provides oversight and assistance in attempting to work
out financial problems.  The city council last week voted to retain lawyers and
other bankruptcy advisers.  The city has missed $8 million in bond payments this year
and has another $44 million due by Dec. 15, the mayor said in
her application. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Harrisburg owes more than $210 million on bonds sold to
finance an incinerator that converts trash to energy.  The bonds are insured by  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.   Briefly Noted  Visteon Consummates Confirmed Reorganization Plan  Visteon Corp . implemented the Chapter 11 reorganization
plan on Oct. 1 that the bankruptcy judge approved when he signed
a confirmation order on Aug. 31. The plan reduced debt by about
$2.1 billion, to $600 million from $2.7 billion. For details on
Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Visteon began the court reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co .  Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Downgrade  Dynegy Downgraded by Moody’s on Blackstone Acquisition  Dynegy Holdings Inc.  was lowered by one grade on Oct. 1 to
a Caa1 corporate rating by Moody’s Investors Service on
increasing likelihood that the Houston-based independent power
producer will be acquired by  Blackstone Group LP .  Moody’s acted when a 40-day so-called go-shop period
expired. Blackstone intends on acquiring Dynegy in a $4.7
billion transaction, including assumed debt.  Moody’s said Dynegy’s financial condition in 2011 and 2012
will be “quite fragile,” given free cash flow and operating
cash flow that are both projected to be negative.  Liquidity would be improved by the sale of 3,884 megawatts
of generating capacity in California and Maine to  NRG Energy
Inc.  The sale would reduce Dynegy’s capacity by 38 percent,
Moody’s said. Long-term debt would remain nearly the same,
Moody’s observed.  The downgrade was the third from Moody’s since April 2009.
At the last downgrade in July, Moody’s noted that earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were about
30 percent lower than the year before. Moody’s also mentioned
“substantial negative free cash flow” resulting from
“required environmental capital spend on its Midwestern
generation fleet.”  Houston-based Dynegy has 12,000 megawatts of electric
generating capacity, according to Moody’s.  Bank Failures  Two Bank Failures Bring Year’s to Total to 129  Banks in Florida and Washington were taken over by
regulators on Oct. 1, bringing total bank failures for the year
to 128.  Combined, the new failures cost the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. about $155 million  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The list of the FDIC’s “problem” banks rose to 829 at the
end of the second quarter, up from 775 at the close of the first
quarter.  There were 140 bank failures in 2009, five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  Advance Sheets  Recording Tax Deed Isn’t Violation of Automatic Stay  Recording a deed after bankruptcy didn’t violate the so-
called automatic stay when the bankrupt had lost everything but
naked legal title before bankruptcy, U.S. District Judge  Colleen Kollar-Kotelly  in Washington ruled on Sept. 29.  Under procedures in the District of Columbia, someone who
buys real property at a tax sale must wait six months to
foreclose. In the meantime, the owner has the right to redeem
the property by paying the taxes.  After six months, the purchaser can start a foreclosure
action. According to the law in the district, a final judgment
of foreclosure extinguishes the owner’s equitable interest in
the property. The owner retains legal title until the buyer pays
taxes and a deed is recorded, the judge explained.  In the case before the court, the foreclosure judgment
didn’t become final until after bankruptcy. The bankrupt didn’t
seek a stay, Kollar-Kotelly said. Later during bankruptcy, the
buyer obtained and filed a deed.  The bankruptcy judge, upheld by Kollar-Kotelly, found no
violation of the automatic stay. She said that the bankrupt
retained only “bare legal title.”  Kollar-Kotelly said that the issue was undecided in the
District of Columbia Circuit. She followed a ruling by the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York.  The case is Foskey v. Plus Properties LLC (In re Foskey),
09-02280, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 