-- Clarke Seeks Companies to Open Factories in U.K. Prisons to Raise Money
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-05T13:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/clarke-seeks-companies-to-open-factories-in-u-k-prisons-to-raise-money.html
The U.K. government plans to invite
private companies to employ inmates in prisons as part of an
attempt to cut reoffending and raise money for victims.  Companies will benefit from a captive workforce while
prisoners working 40-hour weeks will gain experience of regular
employment and be able to raise money for their families, with a
fifth of the cash going to victims’ groups, Justice Secretary
 Ken Clarke  today said in a speech to the Conservative Party
conference in Birmingham, central England.  “We have to try to get those with the backbone to go
straight, to handle a life without crime when they’ve finished
their punishment,” Clarke said. “We will make it easier for
prison governors to bring more private companies into their
jails to create well-run businesses, employing prisoners in 9-
to-5 jobs.”  The coalition government is looking for companies that
carry out labor-intensive work in fields where it is difficult
to recruit staff, such as recycling and data entry. Facilities
will be built in existing prisons and the government is also
exploring the possibility of pairing with the private sector to
build a new prison with a factory at its center.  The plan builds on training already done in prisons by
companies including  National Grid Plc  and  Cisco Systems Inc .,
Clarke told delegates.  “I hope to see many, many more companies like these
stepping in and offering their expertise to organise productive
industries in many of our prisons,” he said.  Companies will have to prove that the work done by
prisoners will not take jobs from people in the outside world
and their jobs will be paid at the minimum wage of 5.93 pounds
($9.40) an hour. Prisoners will be allowed to keep 10 pounds a
week to spend in prison, with the rest going to victims, the
costs of being kept in jail and to prisoners’ families if they
are on benefits.  “Most prisoners lead a life of enforced, bored idleness,
where even getting out of bed is optional,” Clarke said. “We
need to instil in our jails a regime of hard work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in Birmingham at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  