-- McNabb Leads Redskins Past Eagles; Jets Rout Bills: NFL Week 4
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mcnabb-leads-redskins-past-eagles-17-12-jets-rout-bills-38-14-nfl-week-4.html
The New York Giants totaled 10
quarterback sacks in a 17-3 win over the Chicago Bears that
leaves one undefeated team in the National Football League.  Ahmad Bradshaw  rushed for 131 yards and a touchdown for
the Giants, who knocked Bears quarterback  Jay Cutler  out of the
game with nine first-half sacks last night at New Meadowlands
Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  “We have outstanding pass-rushers and the ability to get
to the quarterback on every play,” said defensive end  Osi Umenyiora , who had a team-high three sacks. “As soon as we
limited their running attack, we knew we were going to get
after (Cutler) and I think we did a pretty good job of that.”  Chicago, which was among three unbeaten teams entering
Week 4 of the NFL season, fell to 3-1. The Pittsburgh Steelers
were also denied a 4-0 start, losing at home 17-14 to the
Baltimore Ravens on an 18-yard touchdown by  T.J. Houshmandzadeh 
with 32 seconds left. The 3-0 Kansas City Chiefs, who were off
this week, are now the NFL’s lone unbeaten team.  The Giants improved to 2-2 with last night’s win and move
into a tie atop NFC East Division with the Washington Redskins,
who defeated the Eagles 17-12 yesterday in  Donovan McNabb’s 
return to Philadelphia. McNabb, who played his first 11 NFL
seasons with the Eagles, got a standing ovation during pre-game
introductions at Lincoln Financial Field.  Washington ended its two-game losing skid, while the
Eagles lost for the first time in three starts after
quarterback  Michael Vick  left the game with a rib injury.  Jets’ Rout  The New York Jets pushed their winning streak to three
games by beating the Buffalo Bills 38-14 behind two touchdowns
apiece by  Dustin Keller  and  LaDainian Tomlinson .  The Super Bowl-champion New Orleans Saints beat the
winless Carolina Panthers 16-14 behind 46-year-old kicker  John Carney , while  Josh Scobee  booted a 59-yard field goal as time
expired to earn the Jacksonville Jaguars a 31-28 defeat of the
Indianapolis Colts.  At New Meadowlands Stadium, the Giants limited the Bears
to 22 yards of offense during the first half and Cutler didn’t
return after halftime because of a concussion. Six Giants
defenders had sacks during the first two quarters.  Cutler’s replacement,  Todd Collins , left the game after a
hard hit in the fourth quarter. New York’s sack total was two
short of the NFL record.  The Giants were nursing a 3-0 lead until Bradshaw scored
on a three-yard run with 2:58 remaining in the third quarter.
 Brandon Jacobs  added a two-yard touchdown run with 4:38 left in
the fourth quarter after the Bears pulled within 10-3.  McNabb’s Reception  McNabb, 33, said he hoped to hear some cheers upon his
return to Philadelphia and was greeted with an ovation when he
was introduced before the game.  He had a 92-49-1 record and took the Eagles to the
conference championship five times, yet was often criticized by
the city’s fans for failing to win a Super Bowl title.  The Philadelphia crowd booed McNabb when he threw a 31-
yard touchdown pass to  Chris Cooley  to give the Redskins a 14-0
first-quarter lead.  Vick left the game after getting injured on a quarterback
run on the next-to-last play of the opening quarter. Vick had
led the Eagles to consecutive wins after replacing the injured
 Kevin Kolb  during a Week 1 loss. Kolb completed 22 of 35 passes
for 201 yards, one touchdown and an interception.  After Kolb’s pass into the Redskins’ end zone was
intercepted on the game’s final play, Eagles coach  Andy Reid 
hugged McNabb at midfield.  “I was kind of overwhelmed,” McNabb said about the
reception in Philadelphia. “When you come back to a place
where you played so long and gave so much for, to get received
like that, it says a lot.”  Tomlinson’s Game  In Orchard Park, New York, Tomlinson topped 100 yards
rushing for the first time since 2007 as the Jets sent the
Bills to their first 0-4 start in six years.  Tomlinson ran for 133 yards while  Shonn Greene  added 117
rushing yards for the Jets, who have won three in a row since
an opening-week loss to the Ravens.  “They knew we were coming in to run the football and we
still ran for 273 yards,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said during a
news conference.  Elsewhere in Week 4, it was Atlanta 16, San Francisco 14;
Cleveland 23, Cincinnati 20; St. Louis 20, Seattle 3; Denver
26, Tennessee 20; San Diego 41, Arizona 10; Houston 31, Oakland
24; and Green Bay 28, Detroit 26.  The New England Patriots visit the Miami Dolphins tonight.
Kansas City, Dallas, Minnesota and Tampa Bay were off this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 