-- Convertibles Beats Bonds as Investors Wager on Stock Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-05T17:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/convertibles-beat-bonds-as-investors-wager-on-stock-rally-credit-markets.html
Convertible securities are beating
the U.S. corporate bond market by the most in more than 10 years
as investors wager stocks will outperform company debt paying
record-low yields.  Debentures that can be exchanged for shares returned 4.42
percentage points more than company bonds in September, the
biggest gap since August 2000, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. El Paso, Texas-based Western Refining
Inc.’s 5.75 percent convertible notes due in June 2014, the most
traded of the securities yesterday, rose to the highest level
since January.  Investors are seeking to profit from the rally in equities
by buying convertible bonds, which are deemed safer than stocks
should the economy slip back into recession. Junk bond prices
are above par for the first time since 2007 and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index trades at 15 times the past 12 months’
earnings, a 28 percent discount based on its 20-year average.  “Either bonds are a bubble or stocks are cheap,” said
 Edward Silverstein , a senior managing director who helps manage
$2.7 billion of convertible bonds at MacKay Shields LLC in New
York. “You basically have an investor that’s scared.”  Convertible bonds may also protect fixed-income investors
from companies taking on debt to boost their share price through
stock buybacks or mergers at the expense of credit quality, said
 Hans Mikkelsen , credit analyst at Bank of America Corp.  “If you just buy a corporate bond, you only get the
negatives,” Mikkelsen said.  Low-Cost Financing  Companies from Microsoft Corp. to PepsiCo Inc. and Hewlett-
Packard Co. are taking advantage of low-cost financing to
purchase their stock, announcing buybacks of at least $258
billion this year, compared with $52 billion in the first three
quarters of 2009, according to data compiled by Birinyi
Associates Inc.  U.S. corporate bond yields fell to a record-low 4.618
percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Borrowers issued $1.9 billion of U.S. convertible bonds in
September, 26.7 percent more than the prior month, Bloomberg
data show. Sales this year of $22.4 billion compare with $35.3
billion in all of 2009 and $61.3 billion the year before.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar
maturity government debt was unchanged at 172 basis points, or
1.72 percentage point, down 8 basis points from Sept. 1,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate index. The spread has ranged from a low this year of
142 basis points in April to a high of 201 in June. Average
yields were 3.45 percent.  Markit CDX Index  A measure of corporate credit risk in the U.S. fell. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-
default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 4.5 basis points to a mid-price of 100.55 basis points
as of 1:03 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The
index is trading at the lowest since a new version started on
Sept. 20.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. The swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Downside Protection’  Convertible bonds returned 5.52 percent in September and
gained 7.78 percent in the first nine months of 2010, while
company debt handed investors 1.1 percent last month and 11.4
percent through Sept. 30.  The S&P 500 returned 8.92 percent in September and gained
3.9 percent in the first three quarters of 2010.  Western Refining’s $215.5 million of convertible bonds rose
0.75 yesterday to 85.5 cents on the dollar, Trace data show. The
securities traded as low as 71.5 cents in February.  Convertible bonds “still have downside protection if
there’s a double dip situation,” Mikkelsen said. “The stock
market has really lagged the recovery in the corporate bond
market.”  Knight Capital Group Inc.  shut its convertible-bond trading
desk in Greenwich, Connecticut, a person with direct knowledge
of the situation, who declined to be identified because the
company hasn’t officially released the information, said last
week.  Kara Fitzsimmons , a spokeswoman for the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based company, declined to comment.  Revival Signs  Offerings showed signs of a revival in September, said
 Roland Hotz , who manages the equivalent of more than $4.1
billion globally at Fisch Asset Management in Zurich.  “The new issue market was poor until the end of August.
September was actually quite good,” Hotz said. “Using a
convertible reduces the issuer’s interest burden and that’s
attracted some high-yield companies. There hasn’t been much
investment-grade issuance because they can already finance
themselves at a low coupon.”  The  Federal Reserve  has driven down corporate borrowing
costs by holding interest rates between zero and 0.25 percent
since December 2008 amid the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, one of
four nonfinancial U.S. companies with top AAA credit ratings,
sold $4.75 billion of bonds on Sept. 22, including 3-year, 0.875
percent notes, the lowest coupon on record for the maturity.  “The real trigger point is going to be rates,” said  David Clott , portfolio manager in Westborough, Massachusetts at Aviva
Investors’ Global Convertibles Fund, which has assets of about
$1.95 billion. “If you see rates back up 100 basis points or
so, that will be the trigger for convertible bond market to open
up and we’ll see more issuance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  