-- Cotton Falls to Two-Week Low as India Resumes Exports; Orange Juice Drops
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-10-04T20:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/cotton-falls-to-two-week-low-as-india-resumes-exports-orange-juice-drops.html
Cotton futures fell to a two-week low
as India, the world’s second-largest grower, ended a six-month
ban on exports by issuing permits for shipments of 1.75 million
bales. Orange juice declined.  Louis Dreyfus Corp., the biggest cotton trader, was among
10 companies that won permits after the government resumed
bookings Oct. 1, the textiles ministry said. India, the second-
largest exporter, halted overseas sales in April to boost
domestic supply. Cotton prices soared 30 percent over three
months, touching a 15-year high, amid tight supplies.  “The pipeline shortage that existed up to now is going to
get cancelled out,” said  Peter Egli , the director of risk
management in Chicago for Plexus Cotton Ltd., a U.K.-based
merchant. “We’re going to have plenty of cotton for the time
being.”  Cotton for December delivery fell 0.19 cent, or 0.2
percent, to settle at 97.83 cents a pound at 2:48 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, after touching 95.31 cents, the lowest
price for a most-active contract since Sept. 16. Last week, the
commodity dropped 1.9 percent, the first decline in six weeks.  India still has export  licenses  available for 3.75 million
bales for shipment beginning Nov. 1, the textiles ministry said.  World output is forecast to increase 16 percent to 25.2
million tons this season, compared with 21.8 million the year
before, the International Cotton Advisory Committee said on Oct.
1.  ‘Large Supply Response’  “During the 2010/11 crop year, a large supply response
will begin to push prices lower,” JPMorgan Chase Bank NA said
in a commodities report last week. “Toward the end of 2011,
prices should fall back below 75 cents a pound.”  The U.S., the largest exporter, has had a good harvest,
said Egli of Plexus Cotton. “The weather has been nearly
perfect in most areas,” he said.  U.S. farmers collected 19 percent of the crop as of Sept.
26, compared with 8 percent a year earlier, according to the
U.S. Department of Agriculture. Warm and sunny weather provided
excellent harvest conditions in the Mississippi Delta growing
region, the agency said in a report on Sept. 27. The USDA will
provide an update later today.  Orange Juice Drops  Orange-juice futures fell for the second straight session
as the  dollar  strengthened against the euro, eroding the appeal
of raw materials priced in the U.S. currency.  “Across the board, commodity markets are weaker,” said
 Boyd Cruel , a senior analyst at Vision Financial Market in
Chicago. “The dollar strength right now is pushing commodities
lower.”  The dollar rose as much as 0.6 percent against a basket of
six major currencies and is heading for the biggest gain since
Sept. 15.  Orange-juice futures for November delivery declined 1 cent,
or 0.6 percent, to settle at $1.5465 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE.
Earlier, the price fell as much as 1.3 percent to $1.5355 a
pound. The commodity dropped 1.6 percent last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  