-- Swiss Stocks Decline; Syngenta Drops as Credit Suisse Advances
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-04T12:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/credit-suisse-ems-chemie-holding-nestle-von-roll-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss equities declined for a sixth
day, the longest losing streak in almost five months, before a
report that may show U.S. factory orders declined in August.  Syngenta AG, the world’s largest maker of agricultural
chemicals, fell 1.2 percent, while Novartis AG retreated 0.9
percent.  EMS-Chemie Holding AG  sank 3.8 percent after UBS
downgraded the maker of engineering plastics for cars and
electronics. Credit Suisse Group AG advanced 1.2 percent as,
along with UBS AG, the bank said it expects to meet additional
capital requirements set by the Swiss authorities without having
to sell new shares.  The  Swiss Market Index  fell 28.12, or 0.5 percent, to
6,256.05 at 2:32 p.m. in Zurich. The gauge has dropped 4.4
percent this year as concern intensified that some European
countries will default on their debt. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  also declined 0.5 percent today.  “One supportive factor for stocks has diminished with the
rally in asset prices,” Nomura Holdings Inc. strategists said
in a note dated yesterday. “Cash levels, either within
portfolios or more broadly across the economy, can no longer be
said to be high.” Even so, the strategists said they continue
“to see stocks supported by a combination of QE and an
allocation shift from bonds.”  In the U.S, a report from the Commerce Department at 10
a.m. will probably show that factory orders fell 0.4 percent in
August, following a 0.1 percent increase a month earlier.  In a separate report, the National Association of Realtors
will probably say that the number of contracts to buy previously
owned homes in the U.S. increased for a second month in August.
The association’s  index of pending home resales  rose 2.8 percent
in August after a 5.2 percent gain the prior month, according to
the median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Both reports are due at 10:00 a.m. Washington time.  Syngenta Declines  Syngenta  retreated 1.2 percent to 242.10 Swiss francs as
chemical makers’ shares fell across Europe. The shares of
drugmaker Novartis AG dropped 0.9 percent to 55.45 francs, the
fourth consecutive loss.  EMS-Chemie  dropped 3.8 percent to 153.90 francs. UBS cut
its recommendation to “sell” from “neutral,” noting that
“EMS shares have been the best performers year-to-date in our
Swiss Chemicals universe.”  ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, slid 0.9 percent to 20.67 francs, while Adecco SA, the
world’s largest supplier of temporary workers, declined 1.1
percent to 50.50 francs.  Credit Suisse , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, rose 1.2
percent to 42.28 francs. UBS added 0.2 percent to 16.70 francs.
Credit Suisse and UBS need to hold almost double the capital
required under Basel III rules, said a Swiss government-
appointed panel, proposing the first capital surcharge on too-
big-to-fail banks.  The banks will have to hold total capital equal to at least
19 percent of their assets by the end of 2018, compared with the
10.5 percent level that the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision announced last month. Switzerland’s two largest
banks expect to comply with the rules without selling new
shares, they said today in separate statements. The banks are
already required to hold more capital than international rivals
as regulators apply a so-called Swiss finish.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 