-- Sara Lee LBO Speculation Triggers Record Jump in Credit Swaps
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-04T21:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/credit-swaps-soar-on-sara-lee-computer-sciences-as-investors-bet-on-lbos.html
Credit-default swaps protecting
against losses on the debt of  Sara Lee Corp . soared as private-
equity firms targeted the company for a takeover, triggering
jumps in contracts tied to borrowers from  ConAgra Foods Inc . to  Computer Sciences Corp .  Five-year swaps on Sara Lee, the maker of Jimmy Dean
breakfast foods, rose to a record after Bloomberg News reported
the company held talks in recent months with Apollo Global
Management LLC that failed to result in a deal. Yesterday, the
New York Post said the company rejected a $12 billion leveraged
buyout offer from KKR & Co.  Record sales of high-yield bonds and a rally in leveraged
loan prices are increasing the likelihood of acquisitions that
saddle the target company with speculative-grade debt. That’s
inflating credit-swaps prices for corporations considered to be
the most probable buyout targets by investors and analysts. Sara
Lee, whose swaps surged in 2006 on leveraged takeover
speculation, has characteristics private-equity firms may find
appealing, said Gimme Credit LLC analyst  Craig Hutson .  “They’ve always been a name that’s been included in LBO
chatter,” said Hutson, based in  Chicago . While not likely the
company’s first preference, “they have a lot of cash on their
balance sheet,” he said. “And they have assets that
individually might be of interest to other suitors,” giving a
private-equity firm “an exit strategy.”  Factory Orders  Contracts on Computer Sciences, which jumped last month
after a Jefferies & Co. analyst said it would make an attractive
target, increased to the highest since December 2008.  Swaps on the debt of ConAgra, the Omaha, Nebraska-based
maker of Banquet and Healthy Choice dinners, climbed to the most
since February 2009 on speculation that private-equity firms may
seek takeovers of other food and beverage companies, according
to Tim Backshall, chief strategist at Credit Derivatives
Research LLC in Walnut Creek,  California .  A benchmark gauge of corporate credit risk in the U.S. rose
from a two-week low after a drop in American factory orders
triggered caution before the start of the earnings season.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 105
basis points as of 5:06 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd.  Potential Candidates  Manufacturing orders in the U.S. declined 0.5 percent in
August, following a revised 0.5 percent increase a month earlier
and exceeding the median estimate of a 0.4 percent drop from 64
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Credit swaps typically rise for companies deemed potential
candidates for leveraged buyouts because private-equity firms
historically have borrowed two-thirds or more of the deal price.
The debt added to the company’s balance sheet erodes its  credit
quality  and leads to ratings downgrades.  “Once you’re in the crosshairs, it’s pretty difficult to
get investors comfortable,” Stephen Antczak, head of U.S.
credit strategy at Societe Generale in New York, said of
companies perceived by bondholders as LBO targets.  Buyouts appear more likely as investor appetite for
speculative-grade loans and bonds has grown. Leveraged-loan
prices climbed last week to 90.46 cents on the dollar, the
highest since May 18, from 59 cents in December 2008, according
to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index.
Companies have sold $200.2 billion of high-yield bonds in the
U.S. this year, surpassing the all-time annual amount with
almost three months to go in 2010.  KKR Offer  High-yield, high-risk loans and bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Swaps on  Downers Grove , Illinois-based Sara Lee jumped 64.5
basis points to a mid-price of 139 basis points as of 4:13 p.m.
in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. That’s
the biggest one-day jump and the highest on record, prices from
London-based data provider CMA show.  Sara Lee undertook a strategic review in August and chose
not to explore a sale of the company, said a person, who
declined to be identified because the discussions were private.  The maker of packaged bread, meat and coffee is instead
focusing on the sale of its fresh bakery business and has
received interest in the unit from other food companies in
first-round bidding, one person said. The business may fetch $1
billion to $1.5 billion, according to the person.  The company got the KKR offer about six weeks ago, the Post
reported yesterday, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the situation. Mike Cummins, a Sara Lee spokesman, declined to
comment. Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman at New York-based KKR,
also declined to comment.  Jefferies Analyst  Swaps on Computer Sciences climbed 15 basis points to a
mid-price of 158 basis points, the highest since December 2008,
CMA prices show. The contracts have jumped 53 basis points since
Sept. 9, the day before a report by Jefferies analyst Joseph Vafi saying that the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company may
make an attractive takeover target for a private-equity company.  ConAgra swaps jumped 14 basis points to 64 basis points,
CMA prices show.  That private-equity firms were discussing a Sara Lee buyout
“raises the possibility of other bigger deals getting done,”
Backshall said.  Jeff Mochal, a ConAgra spokesman, declined to comment.  Swaps tied to  Sealed Air Corp ., based in Elmwood Park,  New
Jersey , climbed to the highest since April 2009, rising 13 basis
points today to 215, CMA prices show. They’ve climbed 67.5 basis
points in the past two months.  The risk for bondholders of a Sealed Air buyout increased
after Hefty trash-bag maker Pactiv Corp. agreed on Aug. 17 to be
bought by Rank Group Ltd. for about $4.5 billion, Egan-Jones
Ratings Co. in Haverford,  Pennsylvania , said in a report last
week.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  