-- Crude Oil Rises to Eight-Week High as Reports Signal U.S. Economic Growth
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-04T15:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/crude-oil-increases-to-eight-week-high-on-signs-of-u-s-housing-stability.html
Crude rose to an eight-week high as
U.S. capital goods orders climbed and contracts to purchase
previously owned homes gained, signaling the economic rebound of
the world’s biggest oil-consuming country is accelerating.  Oil advanced as much as 1 percent after the Commerce
Department reported today that orders for non-military capital
goods excluding planes expanded 5.1 percent, the biggest gain
since March. The National Association of Realtors’ index of
pending home resales grew for a second month in August.  “The pendulum appears to have shifted,” said  Michael Fitzpatrick , a broker with MF Global in New York. “There’s a
more positive outlook about the economy.”  Crude oil for November delivery rose 26 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $81.84 a barrel at 11:24 a.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Futures touched $82.38, the highest level
since Aug. 6.  Brent crude for November settlement rose 17 cents to $83.92
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Houston Ship Channel will remain closed to most vessels
until late tomorrow because of damage to an electrical tower.
Tankers use the channel that connects the Gulf of Mexico to the
Port of Houston to deliver crude oil to refineries in the
Houston-Texas City-Baytown area.  “The oil picture turned bullish last week when we had some
better-than-expected macro data in the U.S,” said  Gerrit Zambo ,
a trader with Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “It is still all
on the hope that the economic recovery will speed up. The U.S.
is doing everything to push the economy and the important factor
is the dollar.”  Stronger Dollar  The dollar strengthened from a six-month low against the
euro as concern about Europe’s sovereign-debt reduced demand for
assets in the region. The 16-nation euro declined 0.6 percent to
$1.3705, after increasing to $1.3807, the highest level since
March 17.  Money managers including hedge funds and other speculators
increased their  net-long positions  in New York crude futures by
10,583, or 10 percent, to 116,906 contracts in the seven days
ended Sept. 28, according to data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 