-- CVC, Lion Capital Raise Buyout Loan Prices as Funds `Pile In' to New Deals
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-10-04T13:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/cvc-lion-capital-raise-lbo-loan-prices-on-growing-fund-demand.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Lion
Capital LLP are among private-equity firms taking advantage of
growing demand from non-bank lenders to raise loan prices.  Leveraged loans sold to funds and institutional investors
this year priced at an average of 98.3 percent of face value,
compared with 97 percent for average deals a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The demand is eroding
so-called original issue discounts, or OIDs, which reduce
proceeds for borrowers and boost investor returns.  Investors are increasing allocations to leveraged loans as
floating-rate assets gain favor amid predictions central banks
will have to raise rates as the economic recovery takes hold.
Funds dedicated to investing in loans had a record $5.8 billion
of inflows this year, with $1.17 billion committed in September
alone, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm
 EPFR Global , which started tracking the data in 2007.  “The market is starved of new issuance so people are just
piling up on those new deals,” said  Zak Summerscale , London-
based head of European portfolio management and trading with
Babson Capital Management LLC, which oversees more than $128
billion. “Original issue discounts in recent deals have become
very tight.”  Disappearing Discounts  Lion Capital last week offered to sell non-bank lenders a
seven-year term loan used to fund its bid for French frozen-food
retailer Picard Surgeles at 99.75 percent of face value,
Bloomberg data show. The London-based buyout firm also cut the
fee to banks participating in the deal after receiving demand
for more than three times the amount on offer, a person involved
in the transaction said today.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. last week priced loans to finance
its buyout of vending-machine business Autobar Group Ltd. at 99
percent of face value, the top end of the guidance of between
98.5 percent and 99 percent.  Investors prefer floating-rate investments when they expect
interest rates to rise. Borrowing costs are at record lows
around the world in the wake of the deepest financial crisis
since the Great Depression. The Federal Reserve will raise its
federal funds target rate to 0.75 percent in the fourth quarter
of next year, from the current range of zero to 0.25 percent,
according to the median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  New York-based Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. in March
raised 510 million pounds ($807 million) of leveraged loans for
its buyout of pet accessories supplier Pets at Home Ltd. at no
discount, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Expensive’  “New deals in Europe are more expensive than the secondary
market, which just doesn’t make sense,” Summerscale said.  Leveraged loans are used by private-equity firms to pay for
acquisitions. The debt burden is assumed by the target company
and repaid with its cash flow, and forces its credit rating to
drop to below investment-grade, or below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Traded loans are valued at an average 86.5 percent of face
value on the secondary market, or 719 basis points more than
benchmark lending rates, according to London-based Henderson
Global Investors Ltd. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Newly-issued loans sold to funds paid an average interest
margin of 504 basis points in the third quarter of the year,
compared with 512.5 basis points in the first quarter, according
to Fitch Ratings.  Leveraged loans returned 2.5 percent in Europe in the third
quarter, the most this year. Full-year returns may be 7 percent,
Henderson estimates.  High-yield bonds, share sales, and tenor extensions have
helped reduce European leveraged-loan maturities in 2012 by 52
percent and those for 2013 by 21 percent in the past 18 months,
according to Henderson Global. Borrowers in Europe have repaid
14.4 billion euros of loans held by funds this year, compared
with 3.5 billion euros in the same period of last year,
according to S&P’s Leveraged Commentary & Data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  