-- Dead Director Doesn’t Help Opening of Berlin’s Schiller Theater
-- B y   S h i r l e y   A p t h o r p
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/dead-director-doesn-t-help-opening-of-schiller-theater-in-berlin-review.html
It is hard to stage an opera when the
director dies six weeks before the premiere -- especially when
it’s the world premiere of a work without a plot.  Christoph Schlingensief  was meant to direct Jens Joneleit’s
“Metanoia” at the  Berlin Staatsoper ’s temporary home at the
Schiller Theater. While the decrepit Staatsoper on Unter den
Linden is given a EU240 million ($329 million) overhaul, the
company and its leader,  Daniel Barenboim , have decamped across
town for three years.  The premiere on Sunday, presented as a homage to the dead
director, attracted Berlin’s cultural and political elite who
joined a curious public for a muted event more uncertain than
celebratory.  Battling lung cancer, Schlingensief produced so much work
around his own decline that there always seemed cause to hope.  In the end, it was too late to find a replacement. Nor had
the director left enough material for his team to realize his
vision for Joneleit’s impenetrable opus.  The result, explained a disarming note in the program book,
was “neither a requiem nor a new production, also not a
production in the style of Schlingensief... we don’t really know
what it is.”  After 70 minutes of Joneleit’s determinedly formless music,
the audience was at least as confused as the production team.
The opera, at Schlingensief’s instigation, is an exploration of
philosopher  Friedrich Nietzsche ’s “The Birth of Tragedy From
the Spirit of Music.”  Dreams, Delirium  Rene Pollesch’s libretto -- something about Apollonian
dreams and Dionysian delirium -- comes over as a random collage
of nonsense.  “Cheap coffee is just as good as expensive stuff!” sings
the choir. “When your hand itches at night, who does it belong
to?” asks the character tenor.  The idea is to present something so undefined that the
audience itself can decide what it should be about. If it can be
bothered.  The chorus stands in rows attired in spectacularly
unflattering yellow body-stockings, while the five soloists wear
flesh-colored baroque dress. The set which explores
Schlingensief’s idea of independent internal organs includes
snatches of black-and-white film (some of it vaguely
pornographic).  Annette Dasch ,  Daniel Schmutzhard ,  Graham Clark , Anna
Prohaska and Alfred Reiter all sing Joneleit’s disjointed lines
with finesse, while Barenboim keeps the orchestra together and
motivated.  The only clear success is the Schiller Theater, opened
after a EU24 million makeover. Airy, comfortable, and with a
warm, clear acoustic, it is everything the Staatsoper’s own
building has not been. For an interim space in a bankrupt
capital, this is luxury.  “Metanoia” plays until 16 October and returns next July.
For further information, visit  http://www.staatsoper-berlin.org .  ( Shirley Apthorp  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Shirley Apthorp in Berlin at  Sarabande@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 