-- Deutsche Bank Wins Ruling to End Dispute With Two Indonesian Businessmen
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-04T10:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/deutsche-bank-wins-order-for-singapore-end-to-indonesia-dispute.html
Deutsche Bank AG won a court order
that a company controlled by two of Indonesia’s richest men must
end legal attempts outside Singapore to regain pledged shares
that Germany’s biggest bank sold.  Beckkett Pte, controlled by  Sukanto Tanoto  and  Hashim Djojohadikusumo , can’t pursue duplicate proceedings after six
years in the Singapore courts, Singapore High Court Judge  Judith
Prakash  said in  SGHC 284&notShowClose=y] a ruling  made public today.  The ruling was made on an appeal by Deutsche Bank, which
had asked Beckkett to withdraw a separate Indonesian lawsuit
from 2008, and challenged a February decision by Singapore’s
assistant registrar not to order the Indonesian proceedings to
be halted. Singapore’s Court of Appeal last year ruled that the
bank didn’t take proper steps to sell the shares in companies
including coal miner PT Adaro Indonesia at the best price.  Beckkett, which had pledged the shares as collateral for a
1997 loan to its unit PT Asminco Baru Utama, was entitled to
have any losses determined. The Court of Appeal also allowed
Deutsche Bank to make a counterclaim for an outstanding loan.  “Beckkett had no business starting the Indonesian action
in the first place,” Judge Prakash wrote. “There was no excuse
for it to attempt to bypass a possibly unfavorable decision of
the Singapore courts by taking action in Indonesia.”  Laurel Teo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for Beckkett,
declined to comment, as did  Michael West , a Hong Kong-based
spokesman at Deutsche Bank.  Tanoto, with a fortune of $1.9 billion is Indonesia’s
eighth richest person while Djojohadikusumo is ranked 21 with a
wealth of $500 million, according to Forbes Asia’s December 2009
rankings.  Deutsche Bank sold the shares to PT Dianlia Setyamukti
after PT Asminco Bara Utama defaulted on a $100 million loan in
November 2001. Dianlia is controlled by  Edwin Soeryadjaya ,
Indonesia’s 16th richest person according to Forbes Asia.  The case is Beckkett Pte Ltd. v Deutsche Bank AG and Anor.
S326/2004 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  