-- Lula Rates Subsidy to Hand Successor Inflation `Challenge': Brazil Credit
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-10-04T21:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/development-lending-may-give-lula-successor-more-inflation-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s state development bank is
 charging the least  relative to the country’s benchmark interest
rate in 18 months, a sign President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s
successor may struggle to keep inflation in check.  The difference between the central bank’s 10.75 percent
overnight Selic and the government lender’s  long-term rate  that
monetary authorities agreed last week to keep at 6 percent grew
to 475 basis points from 275 in March, as policy makers boosted
borrowing costs to contain price increases. The gap is the
largest since March 2009 when it was at 500 basis points.  Brazil’s benchmark lending rate, the second-highest among
the Group of 20 countries after Argentina’s, may climb 150 basis
points next year as the government-run bank known as BNDES
provides record subsidized credit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose 23 basis points
last month to 11.50 percent, implying an increase in the Selic
to at least 12.25 percent by the end of 2011, the data show.  “BNDES reduces the effectiveness of the monetary policy,
not only due to this differential, but also to the volume of
this lending,” said  Zeina Latif , a senior economist for Latin
America at RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo. “We have the
central bank tightening and on the other hand an expansionary
policy by BNDES. The challenge for the new administration in
terms of the economic policy is to decelerate bank lending by
the BNDES and reduce spending.”  Second Round  Brazilian voters pushed the election for president into a
second round yesterday, after no candidate won more than 50
percent in the initial ballot. Lula’s former cabinet chief,
 Dilma Rousseff , will face former Sao Paulo Governor  Jose Serra 
in a runoff later this month, electoral authorities said.  In their campaigns, both Rousseff, 62, and Serra, 68, vowed
to keep inflation under control.  Annual inflation as measured by Brazil’s benchmark IPCA-15
 price index  quickened to 4.57 percent in the 12 months through
mid-September from 4.44 percent in mid-August.  Brazil’s local-currency 10-year bonds due in 2021 yield
11.9 percent compared with 7.9 percent on comparable securities
in India, 7.4 percent in Russia and about 3.3 percent in China.  Lending Grows  BNDES, based in Rio de Janeiro, more than doubled lending
to Brazilian companies to 137.4 billion reais ($82 billion) last
year -- exceeding the $72.2 billion lent globally by the World
Bank in the fiscal year ended in June. The bank granted 135
billion reais in loans in the 12 months through July, 12 percent
more than a year earlier. As of July, BNDES had also approved
future loans for projects worth 182 billion reais.  The lending is helping fuel the expansion in Latin
America’s largest economy. Gross domestic product will grow more
than 7 percent this year for the first time since 1986,
according to central bank estimates.  The central bank, led by President  Henrique Meirelles ,
lifted the overnight rate three times this year from a record
low 8.75 percent before holding it unchanged on Sept. 1. The
National Monetary Council, which sets the BNDES lending rate and
is headed by Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , has kept it
unchanged at 6 percent since July 2009.  Alexandre Schwartsman , the chief economist at Banco
Santander in Sao Paulo, estimates every percentage-point gap
between the long term rate of BNDES, known as the TJLP, and the
Selic costs the government about 4 billion reais.  Alternative Sources  The increase in BNDES loans and the level of subsidies
reduce the incentive for companies to seek alternative sources
of funding, hurting the development of the country’s capital
markets, according to Schwartsman.  “You distribute free lollipops and then you say the
national lollipop industry is unable to supply the demand,”
Schwartsman said in a phone interview. “And then you increase
the supply of free lollipops. This is a curious way of
stimulating the market.”  Rousseff said in May the government doesn’t have the
resources to fund all long-term investments and that Brazil will
need to rely more on the capital markets for investments,
according to a transcript of an interview on her  website .  Mantega said in a July 23 interview that the government was
considering tax breaks to stimulate long-term lending in a bid
to reduce the burden on BNDES.  “BNDES needs to rely more on the market and less on the
government” he said.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell two basis points to 11.42 percent today at
5:10 p.m. New York time.  Yields Fall  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point to 204,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years using credit-default swaps was unchanged at 113 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.6979 per dollar today.  Dollar Purchases  Brazil’s central bank has purchased dollars every day since
May 7, 2009, to slow the currency’s advance. The real may
strengthen ahead of the presidential runoff,  Tony Volpon , a
Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities International Inc.
in New York, said in a telephone interview yesterday. The
election results probably will discourage the Finance Ministry
from taking measures to stem the appreciation before the next
round of voting, he said.  “Given the fact we’re going to have a second round, the
fact that Dilma’s poll numbers have steadily gotten worse, from
a policy perspective I would expect them not to do anything that
could be seen as controversial or headline-grabbing,” Volpon
said.  Policy makers cut their 2011 inflation forecast last week
to 4.6 percent from 5 percent in June. Inflation will converge
to the central bank’s 4.5 percent target as the economy expands
at a level more “consistent” with its long-term equilibrium,
the central bank said in a Sept. 30 report.  Brazil’s Treasury lent 205 billion reais to BNDES by
transferring to the bank public bonds since 2008, helping spark
an increase in the country’s gross debt to 59.4 percent in
August from 56.4 percent in December 2006, when the central bank
series starts. The government approved on Sept. 27 an additional
loan of as much as 30 billion reais that will be used by BNDES
to pay for shares in state-owned oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA .  ‘Dangerous’  The Finance Ministry declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement and referred to Lula´s decision on Sept. 27 to inject
up to 30 billion reais into the BNDES to support Petrobras’s
share sale without hurting the bank´s lending ability.  Total outstanding loans by BNDES will jump to 10.9 percent
of gross domestic product next year from 6.3 percent when Lula
first took office in 2003, according to estimates by  Alexandre Andrade , an economist at Sao Paulo-based research company
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada. The rate was at 9.8 percent in
August.  “To use the BNDES to increase even more the government’s
development project instead of stimulating private investments
is dangerous,” Felipe Salto, an analyst at Tendencias
Consultoria, said in a phone interview. “Brazil needs a
development bank because it is necessary to fuel infrastructure
investments, but there is a limit. To issue 200 billion reais in
debt, increasing the fiscal risk, to grant loans to half a dozen
companies doesn’t make sense from the economic point of view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 espinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  