-- Dolphin Energy Monthlong Maintenance Will Cut U.A.E. Fuel Supply in Half
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-10-04T13:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/dolphin-energy-monthlong-maintenance-will-cut-u-a-e-fuel-supply-in-half.html
Dolphin Energy Ltd., the Abu Dhabi
state-controlled venture transporting natural gas to the United
Arab Emirates, said monthlong maintenance planned at facilities
in Qatar in February will cut fuel supply in half.  Work to inspect two gas-processing units at Ras Laffan and
one offshore platform in Qatari waters will reduce fuel supply
to 1 billion cubic feet a day from Feb. 1 to Feb. 28, Dolphin
Energy said in an e-mailed statement today.  The maintenance will be conducted when gas demand is low
and will be coordinated with consumers to reduce disruptions,
Dolphin Energy said in the statement. The company carried out
similar maintenance in 2009 and 2010, it said.  Dolphin first announced plans for the maintenance in a
newspaper advertisement published yesterday. The company
published a tender seeking two offshore accommodation rigs to
support work at seaborne platforms in Qatari waters starting
Feb. 1, according to the ad carried in the Dubai-based newspaper
 Gulf News . Dolphin issued the tender to hire the rigs for 28
days, with possible extensions of as much as two months.  The Dolphin pipeline, 51 percent-owned by Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala Development Co., imports about 2 billion cubic feet of
gas daily under long-term supply contracts with state-run Qatar
Petroleum. The U.A.E., which holds about 7 percent of global
crude oil reserves, needs to import gas to fire power plants as
domestic energy demand grows.  Dolphin, in which  Total SA  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. 
each hold a 24.5 percent stake, has the capacity to increase
imports to 3.2 billion cubic feet a day. Abu Dhabi is one of
seven sheikhdoms comprising the U.A.E.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 