-- Dutch Anti-Islamic Politician Wilders Opposes Judges In Race-Hate Trial
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-10-04T13:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/dutch-anti-islamic-politician-wilders-stands-trial-for-insulting-muslims.html
A lawyer for  Geert Wilders , a Dutch
political leader who has agreed to support the country’s
minority government, challenged the impartiality of judges at
the first day of his trial over his comments about Muslims.  Wilders’s lawyer Bram Moszkowicz criticized Jan Moors, who
presides over the three-judge panel, for comments on his
client’s refusal to testify. Wilders, founder and head of the
Freedom Party, went on trial today for inciting hatred and
insulting Muslims.  “You’ve given the impression” that “we are no longer
facing an unprejudiced judge, so I will challenge you,”
Moszkowicz told the Amsterdam court. The trial was halted and
other judges, led by Judge  Frans Bauduin , will decide tomorrow
at 2:00 p.m. whether a new panel should be chosen.  Wilders, 47, is being prosecuted for calling the Koran
“fascist” and comparing it to  Adolf Hitler ’s book Mein Kampf
in a 2007 Dutch  newspaper  editorial, which led to complaints. A
year later, he released the movie “Fitna,” in which he calls
on Muslims to rip out “hate-preaching” verses from the book.  Moors said the court “reads newspapers and watches
television nowadays” and that Wilders has been blamed by others
for being “good in taking a stand and then avoiding a
discussion.” By remaining silent “it seems you’re doing that
today as well.”  “I find it scandalous that the presiding judge interprets
this and comments on it,” Wilders told the court. “With this
presiding judge and such a panel of judges, a fair trial isn’t
possible anymore.”  Minority Government  The trial coincides with the formation of a new minority
government led by the Liberal Party and Christian Democratic
Alliance, which relies on Wilder’s Freedom Party to pass
legislation. The government plans to ban full-face Islamic
veils, an issue for Wilders’ party, which more than doubled its
representation in parliament in June elections.  “With me, the freedom of speech of many, many Dutchmen is
on trial,” Wilders told the court. “I’ve said everything I
have said and won’t take a word of that back.”  Prosecutors in 2008 initially decided against charging
Wilders, saying his comments are part of the public debate and
are covered by freedom of speech rules. The Amsterdam Court of
Appeal last year overruled that decision. More than 40 people
reported the editorial comments to the police while others
complained about the film, prosecutors said.  ‘Obvious’ Insult  “The Court of Appeal considers criminal prosecution
obvious for the insult of Islamic worshippers,” when Wilders
compared parts of Islam with Nazism, the appeals court ruled,
forcing prosecutors to charge Wilders. “Sowing hatred in a
democratic system of law is so severe, that there’s a public
cause to draw a line in public debate.”  Wilders, who has a bleached-blond bouffant hairstyle, is
charged with insulting a group of people, inciting hatred and
inciting discrimination with his comments, the prosecution said
on its  website . He faces as long as a year in  prison  or a fine
of as much as 7,600 euros ($10,400), prosecutor spokesman
Franklin Wattimena said.  Wilders, who is under constant police protection, will
plead via his lawyer on Oct. 19. Judges are then scheduled to
rule on Nov. 4, according to the court’s  website .  The Netherlands, the fifth-largest economy in the euro
zone, has about 850,000 Muslims, forming 5 percent of the
population, according to the Dutch statistics bureau’s 2006
 data . Most Muslims in the country are of Turkish or Moroccan
origin.  ‘Islamization of Europe’  “The Islamization of Europe continues all the time but the
West has no strategy for dealing with the Islamic ideology,
because our elites say that we must adapt to them rather than
the other way round,” Wilders said in a  speech  Oct. 1 in Berlin
at a gathering of the newly founded anti-Islam party called
“Die Freiheit,” which is German for “freedom.”  Wilders released his film “Fitna” on the  Internet  in
March 2008. The 17-minute movie features verses from the Koran
alongside images of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The movie
led to protests in majority-Muslim countries including Indonesia
and Pakistan and prompted calls for a boycott of Dutch products
in Malaysia.  “From the strong language he uses outside, he has now been
reduced to a gagged man, who declines himself the freedom of
speech” in court, Mohamed Rabbae, a former lawmaker and
chairman of the National Moroccan Council, said in an interview
today. Rabbae is one of the people who filed a complaint over
Wilders comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 