-- Eagles' Quarterback Vick Injures Rib Cartilage, Not Ruled Out for 49ers
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-10-04T16:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/eagles-quarterback-vick-injures-rib-cartilage-not-ruled-out-for-49ers.html
The  Philadelphia Eagles  will wait
until later in the week to decide if quarterback  Michael Vick 
can play against the San Francisco 49ers with damaged rib
cartilage, coach  Andy Reid  said today.  Vick was injured in yesterday’s 17-12 loss to the
 Washington Redskins . Reid said the National Football League team
will wait before naming a starter for the Oct. 10 game at San
Francisco’s Candlestick Park.  “We’ll see how he feels,” Reid said at a press
conference. “This is going to be one of those day-to-day, week-
to-week things. Our docs will keep a close eye on it.”  Vick, 30, was sandwiched by Washington cornerback  DeAngelo Hall  and safety  Kareem Moore  near the goal line late in the
first quarter at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia and
left the game. He completed 5-of-7 passes for 49 yards and
rushed three times for 17 yards.  Kevin Kolb  replaced Vick and was 22-of-35 for 201 yards and
one touchdown pass, rushing twice for 21 yards.  Vick started the season backing up Kolb, 26, then moved
into the starting lineup after Kolb suffered a concussion in the
first game against the  Green Bay Packers .  Reid said Vick had no broken ribs, but that the injury was
high on the rib cage near the sternum and that the player was
sore.  “We’ll see how Michael does here,” Reid said. “If he is
as sore as he is today, then Kevin will take the snaps” when
the team returns to practice in two days.  Vick led the Eagles to consecutive victories over the
 Detroit Lions  and  Jacksonville Jaguars , throwing for six
touchdowns and no interceptions.  Sunday’s loss dropped the Eagles to 2-2, tied with the
Redskins and  New York Giants  for the lead in the National
Football Conference’s East Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  