-- ECB Buys Most Bonds Since June as Ireland Sparks Drive to Calm Markets
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-10-04T14:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/ecb-buys-most-bonds-since-june-as-ireland-sparks-drive-to-calm-markets.html
The European Central Bank stepped up
its government bond purchases last week, buying the most in more
than three months to calm bond markets.  The Frankfurt-based central bank said it bought 1.38
billion euros ($1.9 billion) of bonds last week, up from 134
million euros the previous week.  The ECB will take term deposits tomorrow to mop up 63.5
billion euros of liquidity created by bond purchases settled up
to last week, it said in a statement today. The ECB began the
bond-purchase program on May 10 to stabilize markets rocked by
Greece’s fiscal crisis.  The cost of insuring against default on Portuguese
government debt surged to a record last week, while Irish  bond
spreads  widened the most since the introduction of the euro. A
750 billion-euro backstop arranged by the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund has failed to allay investor concern
that some of the euro region’s so-called peripheral countries
may buckle under the weight of their debt.  “The ECB was likely just assisting portfolio adjustments
during this difficult week, which would have risked an even
larger spread explosion otherwise,” said  Christoph Rieger , head
of interest-rate strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “For
next week, we are looking at a lower purchase volume again by
the ECB.”  ECB council member  Axel Weber  said in an interview with
Bloomberg News on Aug. 19 that the purchase program should
remain “limited and focused.”  The “sharp increase” is a “firm reminder that the
European sovereign-debt crisis is not over yet,” said  Martin van Vliet , an economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “However, the
ongoing discomfort with the purchases of some notorious hawks on
the Governing Council means the ECB is unlikely to become as
active in the markets again as in May/June.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  