-- Ecuador Plans Changes to Law That Prompted Uprising (Correct)
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-10-05T22:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/ecuador-plans-change-to-police-salary-law-that-prompted-uprising-last-week.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph of story published Oct. 4 to show
that minister referred to economic groups and remove reference
to bond default.)  Ecuador’s congress plans changes to a
salary law that prompted protests last week, including
“additional compensation” for police and members of the
military, congress President Fernando Cordero said today.  Cordero, a member of President Rafael Correa’s ruling
Alianza Pais party, said in an e-mailed statement that congress
will revise a public service law that cut wages and benefits.
Lawmakers must take up the matter “immediately,” he said.  “This needs to be part of a national debate,” Cordero
said. Calls seeking comment from President Rafael Correa’s
office weren’t answered.  Correa has blamed opposition political parties and
“traitors” for last week’s uprising by police and some
military members, which left eight dead and 274 wounded in what
he is calling a coup attempt. The government said in a statement
today it hasn’t finished investigations into the disturbances.  Some “economic groups” are angry with government
policies, Economic Policy Minister Katiuska King said today.  The “profound and radical” changes carried out by
Correa, who was briefly trapped Sept. 30 by police demonstrating
against the salary law, led unspecified business groups to
“conspire against the government,” King said today to
reporters in Quito. She declined to provide names of those
responsible or evidence for her claims.  Economic Changes  A government victory over protesters has emboldened the
country’s leaders to seek further economic changes, King said.  “Let’s not fool ourselves, this was a conspiratorial
attempt by economic groups,” King, a 34-year-old economist,
said today at the nation’s central bank headquarters. Government
reforms “aren’t aesthetic, they are profoundly revolutionary.”  Markets have begun to calm down after the political turmoil
last week, which shouldn’t affect investments because companies
are already accustomed to political instability, Melania
Gutierrez, chief executive officer at Guayaquil-based brokerage
Casa de Valores Advfin SA, said today.  “There were moments of tension, but markets are beginning
to return to normal,” Gutierrez said in a telephone interview.
“Companies that trade on the market haven’t been affected
because investors are used to Ecuador’s political movements.”  Bond Performance  The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015
narrowed 2.3 percentage points to 12.73 percent at 5:34 p.m. New
York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., its steepest
decline since May 2009. The bond’s price rose 7.5 cents to 87.5
cents on the dollar.  Ecuadorean sovereign debt is the second-riskiest after
Venezuela’s among 15 emerging markets tracked by JPMorgan,
according to the bank’s EMBI+ indexes.  A state of emergency, called after hundreds of police and
armed forces blocked roads, shut the nation’s two major airports
for several hours and sprayed the president with tear gas last
week, will end tomorrow night at midnight.  The government now plans to “deepen” tax reforms to
redistribute wealth to the nation’s poor and cut the public
workers to increase government efficiency and reduce waste, King
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at   ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  