-- Emanuel Gets Earful in Chicago Listening Tour for Mayoral Run
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/emanuel-hears-jeers-criticism-on-listening-tour-for-chicago-mayoral-run.html
Rahm Emanuel , four days removed from
the second most powerful job at the White House, learned
yesterday that coming home to Chicago isn’t always so sweet.  Rivals to the throne of retiring Mayor  Richard M. Daley 
sent supporters to challenge the former White House chief of
staff. Protesters jeered his role in President  Barack Obama ’s
support for Wall Street banks. And black voters criticized him
for what they said was the administration’s inability to help
Chicago communities suffering from unemployment.  Emanuel, 50, crisscrossed the nation’s third-largest city
to talk to residents ahead of a potential mayoral bid, a tour
that gave him a fresh reminder that any campaign will test his
reputation for deal-making, stamina and political toughness.  “I’m a middle child,” he told three men seated at a south
side restaurant long frequented by vote-courting lawmakers,
explaining that his own upbringing prepared him for political
fights. “You know what our motto is? War or peace, we can do
either one.”  As Emanuel tried to leave, another man made it clear the
day wouldn’t unfold to the tune of the blues standard “Sweet
Home, Chicago.”  “You are going to be asked some hard-ball questions, and
get your bat out,” said Paul Johnson, 49, who complained to
Emanuel that the Obama administration has failed to deliver
enough economic stimulus dollars to his south-side neighborhood.
“Welcome to Chicago.”  Emanuel responded: “Great. Thank you.”  Dodge Minivan  He also received hugs, words of support and requests for
autographs as he traded Air Force One for a Dodge minivan.
Emanuel shook hands on a train platform, greeted diners at
restaurants, strolled past storefronts and visited a bowling
alley during his first day on the campaign trail after resigning
his White House post Oct. 1.  His tour took him to neighborhoods that are predominantly
black and Latino, both groups critical to political success in a
city where non-Hispanic whites constitute 32 percent of the
 population .  Daley said Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t seek re-election to a
seventh term. The city, with a 10.8 percent unemployment rate in
August and an  estimated  $654.7 million deficit for 2011, has
been led by the current Daley or his father, the late  Richard J. Daley , for almost 43 of the past 55 years.  Emanuel declined to answer most questions from reporters.
While he hasn’t formally announced that he’s running, Emanuel
told reporters that he anticipates voters will consider him
qualified for the job.  “Yes, I am,” he said. “But look, they’ll judge that.”  Among the commuters he happened to shake hands with at the
day’s first stop was  Jerry Roper , president of the  Chicagoland
Chamber of Commerce .  Crowded Field  “I think his chances are the same as the other 18 to 20
candidates,” Roper later said. “We feel it’s critical that we
have a candidate who totally understands the fiscal
responsibilities of running a corporation that’s probably north
of $25 billion, someone that can produce a jobs agenda.”  Emanuel represented parts of Chicago’s north side and
northwest suburbs as a Democratic congressman from 2003 until
his appointment by Obama.  If he enters the race, Emanuel could tap the $1.1 million
he has in his congressional campaign fund, and he knows the
Chicago donor community well. He earned at least $17 million a
decade ago during three years of investment banking, after
leaving President  Bill Clinton ’s White House, where he was a
political director and senior adviser.  Home Front  Emanuel can’t live in his own home in Chicago while
exploring a mayoral bid because he hasn’t been able to persuade
the tenant in his 2,719-square-foot home to move out before the
lease expires in June. A reporter asked if this would raise
residency-requirement issues for him.  “I think the main issue, really, is not my residency, but
the residents of the city of Chicago and their concerns,” he
said. “People are enthusiastic, energized. They love their
city. They know it’s got challenges. And I think that’s what
they want to talk about.”  A growing list of candidates is exploring bids for the
office following Daley’s announcement that he wouldn’t run
again.  Gery Chico , a former Daley chief of staff whom the mayor
appointed as chairman of the City Colleges of Chicago Board,
announced his campaign last week.  Other potential candidates include  Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart ; state Senator  James Meeks , minister of one of Chicago’s
largest churches; Democratic U.S. Representative  Luis Gutierrez ;
and former U.S. Senator  Carol Moseley Braun , who conducted her
own listening tour yesterday.  Danny Davis , a black congressman from Chicago who is
considering a mayoral bid, said he wouldn’t support Emanuel.  ‘Not the Center’  “Rahm is not the center of our interests in the mayoral
election,” Davis said. “If you’re going to be mayor of
Chicago, there are segments of the community that are always
interested in having the most progressive mayor we can find.”  Nov. 22 is the last day to file nomination papers for the
Feb. 22 election. If no candidate gets more than 50 percent,
there will be an April 5 runoff for the top two vote-getters.  Before leaving the train station yesterday morning, Emanuel
was approached by a motivational speaker from Chicago named
Nathaniel Henry, 40. He handed Emanuel an autographed copy of
his book.  The title: “ Never Anything Too Easy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 