-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for Fourth Day to Highest Level Since 2008
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-04T15:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-amid-china-economy-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day, sending the index to the highest since June 2008,
after a report showed China’s service industries expanded and
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his nation will boost domestic demand.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.3 percent to
1,089.40 at 11:07 a.m. New York time.  The MSCI China Index ,
which tracks Chinese shares traded in Hong Kong, rose 1.5
percent. Brazil’s real strengthened 0.2 percent versus the
dollar and the  Bovespa index  of stocks climbed 0.1 percent as
analysts said a presidential runoff between  Dilma Rousseff  and
 Jose Serra  will be positive for the country’s financial markets.  China Mobile Ltd.  and China Life Insurance Co. rallied more
than 1 percent in Hong Kong trading after Wen told CNN that
China will address “structural problems” in its economy. A
September purchasing managers’ index released yesterday by the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing rose to 61.7 from
60.1 in August. The figure follows a jump to a four-month high
for the manufacturing PMI announced on Oct. 1, showing sustained
momentum in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Premier Wen is “very constructive in terms of wanting to
keep the world economy running,”  Benjamin Pedley , head of
investment strategy for North Asia at HSBC Private Bank, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “The cup is now
becoming half full, rather than half empty.”  Wen, speaking in an interview with CNN that was taped on
Sept. 23 and broadcast yesterday, said his nation “can rely on
stimulating domestic demand to stabilize and further grow the
Chinese economy.” Separately, he told Greek lawmakers in a
visit to Athens that China supports a stable euro and won’t
reduce its holdings of European bonds.  Record Highs  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index  jumped 1.9 percent to a
record, while the Jakarta Composite Index gained 0.6 percent to
an all-time high for a seventh straight day. India’s  Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  added 0.2 percent and Russia’s
Micex Index increased 0.7 percent.  Manufacturing orders in the U.S. increased 5.1 percent in
August, the biggest gain since March, a sign companies are
replacing outdated equipment, the Commerce Department said today
in Washington.  The extra yield  investors  demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 2.74 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. The
yield difference on Brazilian debt compared with U.S. Treasuries
widened two basis points to 2.05 percentage points.  Rousseff  finished first in Brazil’s presidential election
yesterday and will face her main rival Serra  in a runoff later
this month after failing to capture a majority of votes.  ‘Pillars of Stability’  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s handpicked successor
won 46.9 percent, while former Sao Paulo Governor Serra had 32.6
percent with more than 99 percent of the ballots counted. Green
Party candidate  Marina Silva , who came in third with 19.3
percent, didn’t declare her support for either of her rivals.  The presidential runoff is “positive” for Brazil’s
financial markets because it will force the candidates to
provide more information about their economic policies, RBC
Capital Markets strategists said in an e-mailed note today. The
runoff will help ease investor concern that Rousseff will pursue
a “more interventionist agenda or move towards a less centrist
policy,”  Frederick Searby , a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
New York, wrote in a report.  “Irrespective of who wins, the pillars of stability will
remain in place,”  Philip Poole , the global head of macro and
investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management, which
oversees more than $400 billion, said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with  Francine Lacqua .
“The Brazil story remains very strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  