-- Emotional Hunter Mahan Finds Ryder Cup Loss to Europe Hard to Deal With
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-04T18:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/emotional-hunter-mahan-finds-ryder-cup-loss-to-europe-hard-to-deal-with.html
Hunter Mahan  was blaming himself for
the U.S. loss of the Ryder Cup to Europe. His teammates thought
otherwise.  Mahan was defeated by  Graeme McDowell  in the final singles
match today as Europe defeated the U.S. 14½ to 13½ at Celtic
Manor in Newport, Wales. The 28-year-old was visibly upset
afterward.  “Well, I’m just proud to be a part of this team,” a teary
Mahan said at a news conference. “It’s a close team and … .”
He couldn’t finish.  “We are all proud to be part of this team,”  Phil Mickelson , sitting next to Mahan, quickly chimed in as he put
his arm around the resident of Colleyville, Texas.  The U.S. had battled back from being three down to tie
with only the Mahan-McDowell match left. After McDowell
made a birdie to take the 16th hole, Mahan had to win the final
two holes for a tie match that would have left the final score
14-14 and allowed the Americans to retain the trophy
they won in 2008.  Mahan was forced to take chances. He left his tee shot on
the par-3 17th hole short of the green and flubbed his second
shot. Needing to hole out to have any chance, his third shot
came up short and Mahan conceded McDowell’s 4-foot par putt,
ending the match in Europe’s favor.  Steve Stricker  said all of the U.S. players were to blame
for the close loss, not Mahan.  “We can all look back and we can all think about a shot
here or there that could have turned the match to make up that
one point, and you hate to see Hunter go through what he’s going
through, because it really shouldn’t have come down to that,”
he said.  Cink’s Support  Stewart Cink  was more vocal in his support of Mahan, who
Lost for just the second time in eight Ryder Cup matches.  “If you go up and down the line of the Tour players in
Europe and U.S. and asked them if you would like to be the last
guy to decide the Ryder Cup, probably less than half would say
they would like to be that guy and probably less than 10
percent of them would mean it,” Cink said. “Hunter Mahan put
himself in that position today. It’s a selfish spot in the game
of golf, and Hunter Mahan performed like a champ out there
today. And I think it’s awesome. Not many players would want to
do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 