-- Sydney May Turn `Hungry Mile' Into $5.8 Billion Midtown
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-04T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/lend-lease-s-5-8-billion-barangaroo-project-will-create-sydney-midtown-.html
Lend Lease Group  aims to lure
financial companies to a defunct shipyard on the fringe of
Sydney’s business district, creating a rival banking center.  Australia’s largest developer is spending A$6 billion ($5.8
billion) on the Barangaroo site, the country’s biggest project,
1 kilometer (0.6 mile) northwest of the city center. It will
boast offices with almost double the area per floor of Sydney’s
existing towers, making them better suited to trading floors and
modern open-plan work spaces.  Redevelopment of the last available land parcel in the city
will transform the “ Hungry Mile ,” where harbor laborers in the
1930s went to find work, into an alternative financial center
similar to London’s Canary Wharf or New York’s Midtown. To do
so, it will have to draw firms away from the Martin Place to
Circular Quay area which today houses companies including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , UBS AG and  Macquarie Group Ltd.   “They’re creating a new world down there,” said James
Patterson, Sydney-based senior managing director at  CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc. , the world’s largest commercial property
broker. “The city’s got buildings that are ageing, so the
design with the big floors, the environmental standards, that’s
the next stage of where Sydney’s going to go.”  Midtown Manhattan, home to Times Square and the Empire
State Building, has attracted firms including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  and  Citigroup Inc.  away from their traditional Wall Street
home. London’s Canary Wharf, also built on former docklands, has
won tenants such as  Barclays Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc  since the
first tower was completed in the early 1990s.  Awaiting Approval  Still, Lend Lease’s redevelopment, which will take up about
a third of the 22-hectare (54-acre) site, isn’t without
detractors, with opponents raising concerns about design,
contamination on the site, transport and the project’s
environmental credentials.  Lend Lease, which expects to start construction on the
publicly owned land by the end of the year, is awaiting state
government approval on changes to the existing plan -- including
a 60,000 square meter (645,840 square feet) increase in floor
space -- that will allow its proposal to proceed, said  David Hutton , group head of development at the Sydney-based company.
No date has been set for a decision.  The plan for  Barangaroo South  -- by  Rogers Stirk Harbour +
Partners , which designed Madrid’s Barajas Airport and the
 Pompidou Center  in Paris --  shows  a fan of about 14 buildings,
including three commercial and three residential towers on six
hectares overlooking Darling Harbour, flanked by a waterfront
promenade. A 40-story hotel with oval-shaped floors will be
built on a pier jutting into the water, designed to evoke the
ships that sailed into Barangaroo in its former life.  Public Spaces  The rest of Barangaroo will be split between cultural and
public uses in the middle, and a park in the north. Barangaroo
is named after an Aboriginal woman who opposed conciliatory
talks with British colonizers. She was the wife of Bennelong,
after whom the site of the Opera House is named.  The project will add about 300,000 square meters of offices
and about 1,500 homes, with half the total area remaining public
space, Lend Lease’s plans and the Rogers Stirk  website  show. The
commercial buildings will have floors as large as 2,000 square
meters each, said Hutton.  “Sydney is Australia’s financial capital, but it doesn’t
have many relevant buildings for the financial services
sector,” said  Kevin George , head of leasing at  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. , one of the brokers responsible for finding tenants
for Barangaroo. “A lot of bigger tenants in the financial
services sector in Hong Kong, Singapore, London, New York are
taking buildings with very big floor plates. Barangaroo is able
to provide those types of buildings in Sydney.”  Tenants, Vacancies  Lend Lease has received “serious commercial interest” for
more than half the site and will announce three tenant
agreements by the year’s end, said spokesman Greg Flynn.  Sydney city office vacancies will fall to 2.8 percent in
January 2014, when the first Barangaroo commercial tower is
scheduled to be completed, from 8.5 percent in July, according
to estimates from real-estate consultant  Colliers International .  Barangaroo will meet 40 percent of expected office demand
over the next 10 years, Lend Lease’s Hutton forecasts. Rents
will be similar to premium towers such as  Aurora Place , the
Sydney home of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , and  Chifley
Tower , where  UBS  is located, said John Hickey, international
director for office leasing at real estate company DTZ, also
involved in finding tenants.  Companies pay net rents of as much as A$1,100 a square
meter in Sydney’s most expensive commercial buildings, said
George of Jones Lang LaSalle, the second-largest publicly traded
commercial property broker.  ‘Major Trend’  Companies including  KPMG ,  Westpac Banking Corp.  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP already have their offices in the
western part of the business district and Barangaroo will draw
others, Hutton said.  “The western edge of the city has started to see a major
trend,” Hutton said. “Barangaroo will be the major contributor
to accommodating that growth.”  The residential, retail and commercial mix -- a first for a
major development in Sydney -- will see some 30,000 people
living and working in the area and contribute A$1.5 billion to
the New South Wales state economy every year, the  Barangaroo
Delivery Authority , which is overseeing the project, estimates.  Barangaroo’s green credentials are a selling point for Lend
Lease, which is targeting a carbon-neutral development. The
buildings’ design and its own alternative energy generation will
cut emissions by about 80 percent, Lend Lease said, with carbon
offsets and outside facilities compensating for the rest.  A waste treatment plant, recycling and offsite rubbish
processing will help meet Barangaroo’s zero waste target and
export more water to surrounding areas than it uses, Lend Lease
said in an e-mailed statement.  Opposition  “The key criteria on a tenant’s shopping list is the
environment,” DTZ’s Hickey said. “Barangaroo ticks all the
boxes in terms of the credentials that a lot of the big
employers in town, that their staff, are demanding.”  Not everyone is convinced.  Chris Harris , a Greens party
member of the Sydney City Council, criticized the carbon offset
purchase and outside waste treatment plans and said the project
is unlikely to live up to its environmental claims.  “Barangaroo will be a lost opportunity to do something
that sets new standards and seriously addresses the climate-
change impact of a large urban development,” Harris said in a
statement.  Community groups have raised concerns about the release
into Sydney Harbour of buried contaminants when excavation
begins at Barangaroo, which is in an area that was a gas plant
in the 1800s, and are calling for shorter buildings and no
hotel. They’ve also questioned the likelihood that a light-rail
extension to service Barangaroo will be built.  Legal Action  Ian Campbell, chairman of the  Barangaroo Action Group , an
organization opposing the project, said the group will take
legal action if Lend Lease’s requests to amend the existing area
plan and to begin work are approved.  NSW state Premier  Kristina Keneally  last week took direct
control of the project from the planning minister, saying some
groups sought to “derail” it. Sydney Lord Mayor  Clover Moore 
resigned from the Delivery Authority last month, citing concerns
about its transparency and lack of public involvement.  Starting excavation would enable the removal of
contaminants, funded by the company’s payments to the state,
Hutton said. A court case wouldn’t hamper the start of
construction, he said.  Alternative Design  Philip Thalis, founder of  Hill Thalis Architecture + Urban
Projects , whose design won a global competition in 2006 and was
subsequently replaced by Lend Lease’s plan, argued against the
concentration of buildings.  “Lend Lease is proposing seven of the tallest buildings in
Sydney in one enclave,” Thalis said. “What attracts people in
great cities is the public space and where it is.”  The opposition is “mystifying,” given the need for such a
project and the efforts to reduce its environmental footprint,
said  Aaron Gadiel , chief executive officer of the  Urban
Taskforce , a developers’ group based in Sydney.  “The project is unprecedented,” he said. “It’s a great
opportunity to have a fully masterplanned site, almost with a
blank canvas. Sydney’s CBD has evolved gradually over 220 years
and it’s never had this luxury before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 