-- Enea Rallies on Report Bids for Treasury-Held Stake May Reach $1.9 Billion
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-04T14:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/enea-rallies-on-report-bids-for-treasury-held-stake-may-reach-1-9-billion.html
Enea SA , Poland’s third-largest power
utility, jumped to a one-year high after a newspaper reported
investors seeking to buy a majority stake from the government
may offer 19 percent more than the stock’s market price.  Enea  soared as much as 7 percent to 22.3 zloty and closed
at 22.12 zloty as of 4:30 p.m. Warsaw, valuing the company at
9.8 billion zloty ($3.4 billion). The main WIG20 Index rose 0.9
percent.  The government, which is selling 51 percent of the utility
as part of a plan to raise 25 billion zloty from asset sales in
2010, is waiting for final bids by tomorrow after short-listing
five investors in August. The transaction is set to be the
biggest sale of state assets to a single investor this year.  Bids for Enea may be as high as 5.6 billion zloty, or 19
percent above the Oct. 1 closing price, Rzeczpospolita newspaper
reported on Oct. 2, without citing anyone. The government is
“certain” to receive offers from GDF Suez SA, Electricite de
France SA and Kulczyk Investments, according to the paper.  Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the Treasury Ministry,
declined to comment on the report when contacted by phone.
Wewior reiterated the ministry plans to close the sale by the
end of the year.  Poland wants the successful bidder of Enea to pay a 10
percent to 20 percent premium over the company’s share price,
Deputy Treasury Minister Jan Bury said on Sept. 8. The ministry
has never identified the bidders.  Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd. and Rothschild Polska
Sp. z o.o. are advising the government on the Enea sale,
according to the ministry’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  