-- Merck Fosamax Verdict Cut to $1.5 Million From $8 Million
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-04T22:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/merck-fosamax-verdict-reduced-to-1-5-million-from-8-million.html
A federal judge cut a jury award
against  Merck & Co.  in a lawsuit over its  Fosamax  osteoporosis
drug to $1.5 million from $8 million while upholding the verdict
in the case.  U.S. District Judge  John F. Keenan  in Manhattan today
denied Merck’s request for a defense verdict or a new trial. The
case resulted in a verdict for Shirley Boles, a 72-year-old Fort
Walton Beach, Florida, woman who claimed she developed
osteonecrosis of the jaw, or so-called jaw death, from taking
Fosamax.  Keenan ruled that the $8 million verdict was unreasonably
high. He said Boles may choose between a reduced award of
$1.5 million or a retrial to determine damages.  “A significant damage award is warranted, but the
$8 million deviates substantially from what would be reasonable
compensation,” Keenan wrote.  Merck said it will appeal Keenan’s refusal to throw out the
verdict entirely or to order a new trial.  “Both the finding and the amount of compensatory damages
are against the weight of the evidence,”  Bruce N. Kuhlik ,
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck’s general counsel,
said in a statement. “The evidence showed that Fosamax did not
cause the plaintiff’s injury and that it is a safe and effective
medication that was properly designed.”  More Cases  The Boles suit was the second of two bellwether cases to
reach a verdict before Keenan, who is overseeing federal Fosamax
litigation nationwide. The first trial resulted in a verdict for
Merck. A third case is set for trial this month. In an order
dated Sept. 23, Keenan ordered an additional two bellwether
cases to be tried next year.  Fosamax plaintiffs claim Merck misrepresented the drug’s
safety and failed to warn doctors and patients that it might
hamper blood flow to the jaw, causing jawbone-tissue death.  Fosamax, available in pill or liquid form, is part of a
group of medicines known as bisphosphonates.  Merck had argued that the behavior of one of Boles’s
lawyers, Gary Douglas, at the trial was so outrageous that a new
trial was required.  “Mr. Douglas delivered his argument in an agitated tone,
scuttling about the well of the courtroom, oddly gesturing,
singing, and laughing, a style that may best be described as
manic,” Keenan wrote.  ‘Unintelligible Rambling’  Keenan, who also referred to Douglas’s “often
unintelligible rambling” and said his behavior at the trial
“fell far shy of the standards for professional conduct,” said
he didn’t believe a new trial was warranted. Instead Keenan
fined Douglas $2,500.  Tim O’Brien, another Boles lawyer, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on today’s ruling.  “The hundreds of judges who have seen Mr. Douglas’s
careful and responsible advocacy understand that he respects the
court process,” said Michael S. Ross, a lawyer who represented
Douglas in opposing the fine. “He respectfully disagrees with
the language used by Judge Keenan” in the opinion.  Ross said Douglas is considering whether to appeal the
fine.  The case is Boles v. Merck & Co., 06-cv-09455, and the
lawsuits are combined in In Re Fosamax Products Liability
Litigation, MDL 1789, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 