-- Merkel Steps Up Efforts to Curb Bonuses at Commerzbank, Hypo Real Estate
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-10-04T09:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/merkel-steps-up-efforts-to-curb-bonuses-at-commerzbank-hypo-real-estate.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government plans to tighten curbs on bonuses for staff at banks
including Commerzbank AG and  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG  that it
bailed out during the financial crisis.  The government is examining ways to cap variable
compensation for the highest-paid managers below executive-board
level, a move that would involve changing existing employment
contracts, Finance Ministry spokesman  Michael Offer  said in an
e-mailed statement.  “State aid is nothing other than taxpayers’ money,”  Leo Dautzenberg , finance spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union, said today in an interview. “Legally, it’s all well and
good for bank executives to make and receive pay commensurate
with their performance. But when a bank is dependent on state
aid, that has to be reflected in the rewards.”  Merkel, whose coalition trails the opposition in polls, is
stepping up her efforts to target bankers’ pay amid public
outrage over a widening gap between rich and poor. While Hypo
Real Estate awarded staff 25 million euros ($34 million) in
bonuses last year, the government said Sept. 27 that long-term
welfare recipients will get an extra monthly allowance of 5
euros.  Germany enacted caps in 2008 on bonuses of 500,000 euros
for executive-board members at institutions that received
government funds. A clause in the law governing the Soffin bank-
rescue fund obliges those banks to pay managers an amount that’s
“adequate” to their performance.  Soffin Guarantees  Merkel’s government is closing its 480 billion-euro Soffin
fund to new applicants at the end of the year. Set up in 2008 to
keep Germany’s financial system afloat during the crisis, Soffin
guaranteed 174.5 billion euros in liabilities and injected 29.3
billion euros in cash into Commerzbank, Hypo Real Estate, Aareal
Bank AG and WestLB AG as of Sept. 30, it said on its Web site.  Sixty-eight managers at the four banks earn more than
500,000 euros per year, Der  Spiegel magazine  reported in this
week’s edition, citing an internal document drawn up by the
Soffin bank-rescue fund. Offer denied that the government wants
to cap pay at 500,000 euros.  “Banks that have received an equity injection from the tax
payer also have to accept the government’s assessment of what
adequate compensation is,”  Michael Meister , finance spokesman
in parliament for Merkel’s CDU, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “While this is already true for executive board
members, the pay rules imposed by the government must be applied
to all employees.”  The coalition aims to reach an agreement with the Justice
Ministry by Oct. 6 on the legal procedures needed to change
banking staff contracts to incorporate the pay caps, Dautzenberg
said. That same day, the Finance Committee is due to hold an
open hearing on the so-called Bank Restructuring Bill now going
through parliament which will incorporate the legislation.  “We’re aiming to use the current legislative process to
come to reasonable, but also legally compliant solutions that
are transparent, sustainable and performance related,” the
Finance Ministry’s Offer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  