-- Ernst & Young's Work on Lehman's Client Assets Probed by U.K. Regulators
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-04T16:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/ernst-young-s-work-on-lehman-s-client-assets-probed-by-u-k-regulators.html
Ernst & Young LLP is being
investigated by Britain’s accounting regulator over its reports
on  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s compliance with U.K. rules
governing the protection of client money.  The probe will cover Ernst & Young’s conduct in preparing
compliance reports for Lehman’s London-based European unit for
the year ended Nov. 30, 2007, the  Financial Reporting Council 
said in a statement on its website today.  The reports at issue were on Lehman’s compliance with the
 Financial Services Authority ’s client-asset rules known as CASS,
which are intended to segregate customer assets from those of
the company to protect them during liquidation. An independent
tribunal will hear the complaint, the agency said.  Lehman filed the  biggest bankruptcy  in U.S. history in
September 2008 after mounting losses on mortgage-backed
securities spooked investors and creditors. The New York-based
investment bank’s failure helped trigger a freeze of global
credit markets.  The probe is “part of an industry wide consultation” that
involves other auditors, Ernst & Young spokeswoman Sarah Jurado
said in a statement. “We will cooperate fully with the
investigation.”  The probe is separate from the accounting regulator’s
investigation announced in June which covers Ernst & Young’s
auditing of Lehman transactions known as Repo 105s. Those deals
helped Lehman downplay its leverage in late 2007 and 2008,
according to a 2,200-page report. The report filed in March by
bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas  in New York said Ernst & Young
could be accused of “professional malpractice” for its role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  