-- Erste Sees Return of Credit Growth, Less Bad Debt
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2010-10-04T16:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/erste-sees-return-of-credit-growth-less-bad-debt-in-east-europe-in-2011.html
Erste Group Bank AG  Chief Executive
Officer  Andreas Treichl  expects a return to credit growth and
fewer bad-debt charges in most of eastern Europe next year as
economies recover and clients increase borrowings.  Erste, eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender by assets,
expects loan volume growth in the “mid-to-high single digits”
and “resilient” margins in 2011, Treichl told analysts and
investors at a meeting in Dubrovnik today.  Provisions for bad loans, which have eaten up more than
half of Erste’s operating profit in each of the last five
quarters, will start to decline in most of eastern Europe, Chief
Risk Officer  Bernhard Spalt  said. Still, bad-debt charges will
continue to rise in Romania next year as austerity measures
including tax increases prolong the economic slump, Spalt added.  Erste and competitors including  UniCredit SpA ,  Raiffeisen
International Bank-Holding AG  and  OTP Bank Nyrt.  have been hurt
by an increase in bad debt in eastern Europe since 2009 as most
of the former Communist part of the continent contracted
following years of rapid growth.  Treichl said today the region would enjoy higher growth
than Western Europe in the long term.  Bailout Funds  The  company  has already complied with the new Basel III
bank capital rules due to be phased in through 2019, even after
items such as state bailout funds and hybrid debt that don’t
count under the rules are deducted, Treichl said.  Once the deductions are included, the bank’s common equity
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, was 7
percent at the end of June, he said.  “Erste Group already meets the 2019 target,” the CEO
said. The bank “doesn’t need or intend” to sell shares,
including for paying back the 1.2 billion-euro ($1.7 billion) in
state aid, he said.  Treichl said he expected European Union lawmakers to
discuss the implementation of Basel III in March 2011 at the
earliest, and that Erste would consider from that point on how
and when to pay back the state aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 