-- Tesoro Fined $2.39 Million for Anacortes Refinery Blast That Killed Seven
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-10-04T21:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tesoro-fined-2-38-million-for-anacortes-refinery-blast-that-killed-seven.html
Tesoro Corp . was fined $2.39 million
by Washington regulators, the largest penalty for workplace
safety violations in the history of the state, for an April 2
explosion at its Anacortes refinery that killed seven people.  Tesoro was cited for 39 “willful” violations and five
“serious” violations of state workplace safety and health
regulations, the Washington Department of Labor and Industries
said in a press release today. The company could’ve prevented
the accident, the agency said.  The findings are the result of a six-month investigation
into the most deadly U.S. refinery accident since 2005, when 15
people were killed by an explosion at BP Plc’s Texas City,
Texas, refinery. Tesoro, based in San Antonio, is the largest
independent refiner on the U.S. West Coast.  “This explosion and the deaths of these men and women
would never have occurred had Tesoro tested their equipment in a
manner consistent with standard industry practices, their own
policies and state regulations,”  Judy Schurke , director of the
state agency that oversees workplace safety and health, said in
a statement.  The state’s findings are the first to be released from a
number of investigations begun in the days after the blast,
including an internal company probe and one by the  Chemical
Safety and Hazard Investigation Board , a federal agency. Both of
those investigations are ongoing.  Company Review  “We have undertaken a review of the equipment and piping
at the refinery,”  Lynn Westfall , a spokesman for Tesoro, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are working hard for a safe
resumption of operations at Anacortes.”  Tesoro has 15 business days to respond to the violations
and appeal the ruling, Michael Silverstein, assistant director
for the department, said in a press conference. If it chooses to
appeal, the fines would be stayed while the case is heard,
Silverstein said.  “Relative to how most of these accidents go, that seems
like a fairly significant fine but not something that would be
material to the firm,” said  Roger Read , an analyst with Natixis
Bleichroeder LLC in Houston who has a hold rating on the shares
and doesn’t own any. “Between insurance, cash on hand, cash
flow, they should be able to absorb a fine of that size.”  The greater damage to Tesoro’s balance sheet has been the
shutdown of the Anacortes refinery since the blast, Read said in
a telephone interview.  Permission to Operate  The refinery, capable of handling 125,000 barrels a day,
was shut after the explosion damaged crude-processing equipment.
Tesoro must address the violations at the plant to get
permission to operate, Silverstein said.  Westfall wouldn’t comment on when the refinery may restart,
saying the company would need time to look through the
violations cited by the state. He also declined to comment on
whether the company would appeal the fine.  The Anacortes blast was caused by the rupture of a 30-foot-
long cylinder known as a heat exchanger, releasing vapor that
ignited, the state investigation found. The heat exchangers had
a long history of leaking, Silverstein said in the press
conference.  Five percent of U.S. refineries have had significant
incidents in the last two years, Robert Hall, the Chemical
Safety Board’s lead Anacortes investigator, said on April 5.  The Chemical Safety Board is currently investigating
incidents at six other refineries, including a January 2008
explosion at BP’s Texas City refinery that killed one worker and
an explosion at Silver Eagle Refining Inc.’s Woods Cross, Utah,
refinery, according to its website.  Refinery Violations  Tesoro is the subject of a separate ongoing Chemical Safety
Board investigation into an Oct. 21 fire at its Salt Lake City
refinery.  The Anacortes refinery was cited for  17 “serious”
violations  last year, according to the federal government’s
Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Fourteen were
dismissed during settlement negotiations and fines were reduced
to $13,850 from an initial $85,700 proposed penalty.  The plant, located about 60 miles (96 kilometers) north of
Seattle, makes gasoline, jet fuel and diesel for markets in
Washington and Oregon.  Tesoro fell 23 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $13.18 at 4:15
p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The
shares have fallen 3.2 percent since the April 2 explosion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  