-- Essdar of Dubai Seeks Gulf Bank Portfolios for New Distressed Debt Fund
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-04T07:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/essdar-of-dubai-seeks-gulf-bank-portfolios-for-new-distressed-debt-fund.html
Essdar Capital Managers Ltd., the
distressed debt funds company whose major shareholder is the Abu
Dhabi royal family, will seek to buy bad loans from banks across
the Gulf Arab region as it plans a new $500 million fund.  The loans at banks in countries including the United Arab
Emirates and Kuwait will offer “a very consistent long-term
opportunity” in the next three to five years,  Suketu Sanghvi ,
Essdar’s senior managing director, said in an interview in Dubai
on Sept. 30. Essdar will seek to purchase these loans at 20 to
30 cents on the dollar and will sell assets backing the loans or
set new terms on them, Sanghvi said.  Non-performing loans soared in the U.A.E. and across the
Gulf as economic growth slowed after the global credit crisis
sparked loan defaults. Provisions for bad loans at U.A.E. banks
rose 41 percent in August from a year ago to 37.2 billion
dirhams ($10.1 billion), according to the  central bank .  A Cayman Islands-based partner of Essdar in June bought 99
percent of two notes sold in 2006 by Oman’s  Blue City
Investments 1 Ltd . at a 37 percent discount to its face value.
The Blue City hotel and residential project was stalled after
disputes between the shareholders and as the decline in real-
estate prices halted projects across the Gulf.  Essdar, based in Dubai, is pushing to get access to $250
million of cash with Blue City and land valued at over $1
billion, Sanghvi said.  In Saudi Arabia, the Saad and Algosaibi business groups
defaulted on at least $15.7 billion of loans in 2009. In April,
Kuwait-based International Investment Group KSCC defaulted on
its $200 million Islamic bond.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  