-- Mets Fire Jerry Manuel, Relieve Omar Minaya After Again Missing Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-04T20:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mets-fire-jerry-manuel-relieve-omar-minaya-after-again-missing-playoffs.html
Jerry Manuel  was fired as manager of
the New York Mets, who missed the postseason for the fourth
straight year with one of the biggest player payrolls in Major
League Baseball.  The Mets also said that  Omar Minaya  would be relieved of
his duties as general manager and executive vice president of
baseball operations. There was no immediate word on successors
for Manuel, 56, or Minaya, 51. Minaya said he was leaving the
team.  The Mets had a 79-83 record this season and finished in
fourth place in the five-team National League East Division.
Manuel’s two-year, $3 million contract expired at the end of the
season and the Mets said in a statement that they wouldn’t pick
up his option or offer a new deal. Minaya has two years and
about $2.5 million left on his contract.  “We are extremely disappointed in this year’s results and
the failures of the past four seasons,”  Jeff Wilpon , the Mets’
chief operating officer, said in a news release. “We need to
hire a new general manager with a fresh perspective who will
transform this club into a winner that we want and our fans
deserve.”  Manuel, 56, had a 204-213 record with the Mets since
replacing  Willie Randolph , who was fired in June 2008. His
tenure was marked by injuries to key players such as  Carlos Beltran  and  Johan Santana , legal problems for All-Star relief
pitcher  Francisco Rodriguez  and a sea of empty seats at the
Mets’ two-year-old, $850 million Citi Field.  Madoff Impact  At a news conference, Chief Executive Officer  Fred Wilpon 
said the Mets “absolutely” have the financial resources to
pursue free agents and field a winning team.  Later, in an interview on WFAN Radio, Jeff Wilpon said the
Mets hadn’t been financially damaged by the family’s investment
losses in the billion-dollar fraud scandal involving  Bernard Madoff .  “At no time did the Madoff incident, nor will it, have any
impact on the day-to-day operations of the New York Mets,” Jeff
Wilpon said. “We are not broke.”  Manuel was among three managers ousted on the day after the
regular season ended. The Milwaukee Brewers fired  Ken Macha 
following two seasons that produced a 157-167 record, and the
Pittsburgh Pirates dismissed John Russell after his teams lost
299 games in three years.  The NL Central Division-champion Cincinnati Reds,
meanwhile, rewarded manager  Dusty Baker  with a two-year contract
extension after he led them to their first postseason berth in
15 years.  Early Questions  Manuel’s status had been in question since early this
season. Jeff Wilpon traveled to Atlanta in May to meet with
Manuel and Minaya about the team’s early season struggles.  The Mets then moved 10 games over .500 after posting an 18-
8 record during June before a 9-17 record in July. They also had
a losing record in August and September, then finished 2-1 in
October with a 2-1, 14-inning loss to the last-place Washington
Nationals yesterday.  “We weren’t able to keep the pace we had in the first
half,” Mets third baseman  David Wright  said on Sept. 21, when
the team was officially eliminated from postseason contention
with a road loss to the Florida Marlins. “In the second half,
we went into a tailspin, especially offensively.”  Big Payroll  The Mets added All-Star outfielder Jason Bay during the
offseason and began this season with a $132.7 million player
payroll, according to the  Associated Press , the fifth-highest
among baseball’s 30 teams. They were tied for 11th in the majors
with 20-1 odds of winning the World Series, according to Las
Vegas Sports Consultants, which advises Nevada sports books on
gambling lines.  Bay, who signed a four-year, $66 million contract, hit .259
with six home runs in 95 games before his season was ended on
July 23 following a concussion. Beltran didn’t join the Mets
until mid-July after having knee surgery in January without the
team’s approval.  The Mets lost Rodriguez in August to a torn ligament in the
thumb of his throwing hand, an injury sustained during a fight
at Citi Field with the grandfather of his children.  As the team had problems on and off the field, attendance
declined in the second season at Citi Field.  While the cross-town rival New York Yankees led the major
leagues with total attendance of 3.8 million this season, the
Mets drew 2.6 million. When rookie Dillon Gee beat Pittsburgh in
his second major-league start on Sept. 13, there were only about
8,000 fans in the stadium, far below the announced attendance of
24,384 that reflects tickets sold.  Postseason Drought  The Mets have now failed to reach the postseason in nine of
the last 10 years, while the Yankees have made the playoffs 15
times in 16 seasons and won five World Series titles in that
span.  Minaya, 51, was under contract through 2012 at about $1.2
million annually. He had a three-year extension that kicked in
after the 2009 season.  “When you look at the last few year, it hasn’t happened,”
Minaya said in televised comments to reporters. “I totally
agree that a change was needed. I told them it was the right
decision.”  He also said that he and the Mets had discussed another
front-office job but that he was no longer a part of the
organization.  Minaya had helped transform the Mets after he took over
following the 2004 season. He signed Beltran and All-Star
pitcher  Pedro Martinez , and hired Randolph as manager. In 2006,
the Mets won the division for the first time in 18 years.  Collapse  The following year, the team had one of the biggest
collapses in baseball history to miss out on the playoffs after
holding a seven-game lead with 17 to play.  Minaya added Santana with a $137.5 million contract before
the 2008 season. When the Mets got off to a 34-35 start,
Randolph was fired. The Mets surged under Manuel before losing
their grip on the division and getting eliminated from
postseason contention in the final game of the year for the
second straight season.  Minaya joined the Mets in 1997 as an assistant general
manager. He left in 2002 to become general manager of the
Montreal Expos, making him the first Hispanic person to hold
that position in Major League Baseball.  Torre Mentioned  Joe Torre , who managed the New York Yankees to four World
Series titles before joining the Los Angeles Dodgers, told
ESPN.com last month there was “no question” he would listen if
the Mets contacted him about succeeding Manuel. Torre later
apologized for the remarks after Manuel complained.  Former Mets skipper  Bobby Valentine  and  Wally Backman , a
former Mets player who’s now a minor-league manager in the
organization, are also candidates. Possible replacements for
Minaya include former San Diego Padres Chief Executive Officer
 Sandy Alderson  and Tampa Bay Rays Vice President of Baseball
Operations  Gerry Hunsicker , the New York Post said.  Manuel was voted the American League’s Manager of the Year
in 2000, when he had 95 wins with the Chicago White Sox.  After replacing Randolph in 2008, Manuel finished out the
season with a 55-38 record and the Mets missed the playoffs by
one win. Last season, the team slumped to a 70-92 mark under
Manuel after being beset by injuries to All-Star players such as
Beltran,  Jose Reyes ,  Carlos Delgado  and Santana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  