-- Euro Falls on Concern Debt Issues Will Hamper Economic Recovery
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-04T06:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/euro-falls-on-concern-debt-issues-will-hamper-economic-recovery.html
The euro fell from a six-month high
against the dollar as Europe’s sovereign debt concerns reduced
demand for the region’s assets.  The single currency dropped against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts after the Financial Times reported Ireland’s budget
deficit this year will be higher than earlier forecast, and
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said the euro’s
future is “looking bleak.” The yen halted a four-day gain
versus the dollar on speculation the Bank of Japan will take
additional credit-easing measures at its two-day meeting
starting today.  “There are lingering worries over Europe’s fiscal and
economic situation,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of
foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s
largest currency broker. “This may lead to selling of the euro
and buying of the dollar and the yen.”  The euro fell to $1.3764 as of 7:02 a.m. in London from
$1.3791 in New York last week, after rising to $1.3807 earlier
today, the strongest level since March 17. The euro was at
114.71 yen from 114.78 yen. The yen traded at 83.35 per dollar
from 83.22, after earlier weakening to 83.87.  Ireland’s budget figures due today are a result of a
slowing economy rather than a reduction in project tax receipts,
the Financial Times said, citing unidentified officials.  Anglo Irish  Ireland said on Sept. 30 it is taking control of Allied
Irish Banks Plc and putting more money into the already
nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp., raising the cost of
stabilizing its financial system to as much as 50 billion euros
($68.8 billion).  Stiglitz said the euro is under pressure because some
countries such as Germany are running trade surpluses while
Ireland, Portugal, Greece and others have deficits, according to
the Sunday Telegraph.  The Bank of Japan begins a two-day policy meeting today in
Tokyo at which policy makers are expected to discuss the need
for additional measures to spur growth.  The Bank of Japan is expected to increase its 30-trillion
yen ($359 billion) credit program for lenders to encourage bank
lending when the meeting ends tomorrow, 14 of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News said. One economist forecasts the
bank cut the overnight loan rate to zero from 0.1 percent and
buy more government bonds.  “Expectations that the BOJ will do something at its policy
meeting are bolstering the equity markets,” said  Shinichi Hayashi , a dealer in Tokyo at Shinkin Central Bank. “This may
be leading to selling of the yen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 