-- Euro's Gains Against Yen May Stall on Weekly Ichimoku: Technical Analysis
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2010-10-04T22:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/euro-s-gains-versus-yen-may-stall-on-weekly-ichimoku-technical-analysis.html
The euro’s three-week rally against
the yen may stall as it approaches a key level of resistance on
a weekly  ichimoku  chart, Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. said, citing
trading patterns.  The euro’s short-term conversion line has stayed below the
longer-term baseline, suggesting the currency is losing
momentum, said  Hiroyuki Tanaka , chief technical analyst at the
unit of Japan’s second-largest banking group. The 16-nation
currency is also close to retracing 50 percent of its decline
from April to August, a major level of resistance based on the
Fibonacci series, he said.  While the euro has risen to a four-month high versus the
yen it “has not regained the 120 yen mark, which was the
starting point of its subsequent decline,” Tokyo-based Tanaka
said. “It is natural for a rise in a certain currency pair to
take a breather at a key technical level.”  The euro traded at 114.07 yen as of 7:17 a.m. in Tokyo,
after climbing from a nine-year low of 105.44 yen on Aug. 24.
The currency rose to 115.29 yen yesterday, the strongest level
since May 18.  Prior to its recent rally, the euro declined from a high of
127.92 on April 5 to its low on Aug. 24. The 50 percent
retracement of that decline would be around 116.68 yen,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The conversion line on a weekly ichimoku chart of the euro
is at 110.155 yen and the baseline is 116.68. On a daily chart,
the top of the so-called ichimoku cloud stands at about 110.  Decline Limited  “Even if the euro were to fall after failing to break
through upside resistance, its decline is likely to be limited
to around 110 yen, which is the top of a daily ichimoku cloud,”
Tanaka said.  Ichimoku analysis is used to predict a currency’s direction
through analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows.
The conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest
low over the last nine trading days. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 days.  A cloud refers to the area between the first and second
leading span lines on the chart and is used to show an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  Fibonacci analysis is based on a theory that prices rise or
fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low. A
break above resistance, where sell orders may be clustered, or
below support, where there may be buy orders, indicates a
currency may move to the next level.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Hiroko Komiya  in Tokyo at 
 Hkomiya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 