-- Euro Drops From High Against Dollar on Concern About Banks, Yen Declines
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-04T16:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/euro-drops-from-six-month-high-versus-dollar-on-concern-banks-lack-capital.html
The euro declined from the highest
level against the dollar since March as concern Europe’s major
banks are undercapitalized made the region’s assets less
attractive to investors.  The yen fell against the dollar on speculation the Bank of
Japan will expand stimulus measures at a two-day meeting that
ends tomorrow. The euro also slid versus the dollar on
speculation its 11 percent rally in the third quarter, its
biggest since 2002, is overdone.  “The euro is coming off a six-month high because it’s had
a steep upward channel,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market
analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut. “Investors are thinking, ‘How high can I go, how
much do I dare to push it before the market bites me back?’ ”  The euro slid 0.7 percent to $1.3684 at 12:11 p.m. in New
York, from $1.3791 on Oct. 1. It touched $1.3807 earlier today,
the highest level since March 17. The euro depreciated 0.6
percent to 114.04 yen, from 114.78 yen. The yen slid 0.1 percent
to 83.34 per dollar, from 83.22.  The 16-nation currency weakened today versus most of its
major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as a Swiss government-
appointed panel said UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG should
almost double the capital required under Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision rules announced last month.  Switzerland’s biggest banks should hold total capital equal
to at least 19 percent of their assets, weighted according to
risk, compared with the 10.5 percent level the Basel Committee
announced last month, the Swiss panel said.  ‘Weakness in Europe’  “The talk about the need for Basel 3 changing restrictions
is highlighting the banking sector weakening and highlighting
weakness in Europe particularly,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank
of Nova Scotia currency strategist in Toronto.  The seven-day relative strength index of the euro versus
the dollar was 72 today after touching 86 on Oct. 1. Readings
above 70 indicate an asset may be poised for a reversal.  The dollar remained higher against the euro today after a
report showed the number of contracts to purchase previously
owned U.S. homes increased in August more than forecast.  The National Association of Realtors’ index of pending home
resales gained 4.3 percent after a revised 4.5 percent advance
in July. The median forecast of 39 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 2.5 percent increase.  The dollar tumbled in the third quarter versus the euro on
speculation the Federal Reserve will increase purchases of U.S.
debt to keep interest rates low and support the economy.  ‘Structural Concerns’  “There are still structural concerns on the euro, and
unless there is something to remind the market of QE2 fears,
today we will continue to see the euro slide,” said  Brian Kim ,
a currency strategist at UBS AG in Stamford, Connecticut.  Brazil’s real appreciated 0.1 percent to 1.6875 versus the
dollar after the failure of yesterday’s presidential election to
produce a winner boosted speculation the government may postpone
measures to curb the currency’s gain.  The former cabinet chief  Dilma Rousseff  finished first in
Brazil’s presidential election to succeed President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva and will face her main rival,  Jose Serra , in a
runoff Oct. 31 after failing to capture a majority of votes.  “We remain hesitant to make any currency calls with
regards to the election, as we believe markets are fine with
either Rousseff or Serra,” said  Win Thin , a senior currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.  Japan’s central bank began a two-day policy meeting today
in Tokyo at which policy makers are expected to discuss the need
for additional measures to spur growth.  Bank of Japan  The Bank of Japan is expected to increase its 30 trillion
yen ($359 billion) credit program for lenders to encourage bank
lending when the meeting ends tomorrow, 14 of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News said. One economist forecasts the
bank will cut the overnight loan rate to zero from 0.1 percent
and buy more government bonds.  The top foreign-exchange forecaster,  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said the Japanese
government’s current approach to reining in the yen by
intervening will fail.  “Any attempt to drive the yen lower with intervention is
unlikely to succeed unless it is backed up with much more
aggressive easing measures from the Bank of Japan,” said
Osborne. He earned the top spot among foreign-exchange
forecasters for the six quarters ended on June 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yen strengthened to a 15-year intraday high of 82.88
against the dollar on Sept. 15, prompting Japan to intervene in
exchange markets for the first time since 2004 and sell the
currency as part of efforts to stoke the economy by making the
country’s exports more competitive. Japan sold 2.12 trillion yen
($25 billion) from Aug. 28 through Sept. 28, the Ministry of
Finance said Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  