-- Ex-Moscow Mayor Luzhkov Disparages Medvedev's Democracy, Vows to Fight On
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-10-04T10:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/ex-moscow-mayor-luzhkov-disparages-medvedev-s-democracy-vows-to-fight-on.html
Yury Luzhkov , whom President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired as Moscow mayor last week, disparaged the state
of democracy in Russia and vowed to form an independent
political movement.  Luzhkov, 74, made his first public comments since his
dismissal in a 12-page interview published today in  The New
Times  magazine, vowing to fight any criminal charges that might
be filed against him and defending his record as Moscow’s mayor
for 18 years.  “I will fight for my honor, because I still have it,”
Luzhkov said. “I honestly served Muscovites, and no one can
claim I did anything in a criminal way.”  Medvedev cited a “loss of confidence” when he fired
Luzhkov on Sept. 28 following a series of programs on state-
controlled television that accused the mayor of corruption and
favoritism to his wife, billionaire developer  Yelena Baturina .
Luzhkov, dubbed “the last Mohican” by state news service  RIA
Novosti , was the final regional strongman to be forced off the
national stage as Medvedev brings in a team of younger leaders
loyal to the Kremlin.  While Luzhkov vowed to form a movement that would fight for
Russia’s democratization, he said it wouldn’t take part in next
year’s parliamentary election or the 2012 presidential contest.
Luzhkov last week quit Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s ruling
United Russia party, which the ex-mayor helped to found.  ‘Kremlin’s Command’  Luzhkov faulted United Russia for lacking the independence
to defend him as he faced mounting pressure to resign and said
the media campaign against him was conducted “on the Kremlin’s
command.” He said he wouldn’t fight his dismissal as he doesn’t
believe the Supreme Court would rule against the president.  Presidential spokeswoman  Natalya Timakova ’s mobile phone
was switched off today. The New Times said interview requests to
Medvedev, Putin, Timakova and other Kremlin officials went
unanswered at the time of publication.  “I didn’t see any issues or complaints about me,” Luzhkov
said. “I saw something else: the start of the election
campaign, where Moscow must vote the way the highest leadership
wants it to. And here there was some mayor who could suddenly
act up. They needed one of their own.”  Until a replacement is found, Moscow is being run by a
Luzhkov deputy,  Vladimir Resin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  