-- Mexico Boom Biggest in Americas as Drug Criminals Lose to Nafta
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-10-04T17:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mexico-boom-biggest-in-americas-since-02-as-drug-criminals-lose-to-nafta.html
For all of the killings of elected
officials at war with the criminal drug gangs, there is no
stopping the  Mexican investment boom  thanks to the 16-year-old
trade agreement that is buoying Latin America’s second-largest
economy.  Mexico’s stocks, bonds and currency are beating the U.S.
and Brazil for the first time since 2002, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Dollar debt issued by Mexico is returning 16
percent in 2010, more than the 14 percent for Brazil bonds and
8.8 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of America Corp.  The  IPC stock index  is up 5.3 percent, compared with a 2.8
percent advance for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 and 2.4 percent
gain for the  Bovespa . The peso rallied 4.5 percent against the
dollar this year, surpassing the Brazilian real’s 3.2 percent
increase.  “The reality is that you will continue to see companies
making long-term investments,” said  Guillermo Osses , who helps
oversee $50 billion in emerging-market assets at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest bond fund manager. “We still have significant exposure
in Mexico.”  The North American Free Trade Agreement that took effect in
1994 continues to lure investors even as Mexico confronts its
worst-ever drug violence. The  treaty  signed with the U.S. and
Canada caused overseas  sales  to quadruple. In the first seven
months of this year, Mexico’s share of U.S. exports rose while
China’s fell, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.  Gross
domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
most since 1998, boosted by U.S. demand for everything from
refrigerators to cars.  Growing Partnership  “Since 1995, the advantage that Mexico has as a partner
with the U.S. in Nafta has been growing,” said  Sergio Luna , the
head economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in Mexico City.  Investors poured $2 billion into  Mexican equities  in the 12
months to July, reversing a $470 million net withdrawal in the
year-earlier period, according to EPFR Global, a research firm
in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  The IPC index will climb 6.5 percent in the next year,
compared with 15 percent for the Bovespa, according to Bank of
America forecasts on Sept. 16. The S&P 500 will gain 4.3 percent
by the end of this year, according to the average estimate of 11
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The violence is negative “from a human perspective,” said
Pimco’s  Osses . “But from an investor perspective it’s not that
big of a problem.”  ‘Tragic Dimensions’  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in 2024
dropped to an all-time low 6.36 percent on Aug. 20, following a
record three-month-long decline in consumer prices through June.  The peso is forecast to climb 2.3 percent by the end of
next year, compared with a 0.6 percent drop for the real,
according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The peso fell 0.6 percent versus the dollar by 1:25 p.m.
today in New York, while yields on Mexico’s 10 percent bond due
in 2024 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
6.46 percent. The IPC index of stocks gained for a third day,
rising 0.2 percent.  “Drug-related violence in Mexico has increased, and even
spilled over to areas in the country previously thought to be
immune,” said  Stefan Hofer , an emerging-markets equity
strategist at Bank Julius Baer & Co. in Zurich, which oversees
about $160 billion worldwide. “While the security situation is
an important issue to watch, and has many tragic dimensions,
international investors have not been dissuaded from investing
in Mexico.”  Eleven Mexican mayors have been killed since the start of
the year, adding to gang violence that killed more than 28,000
people since President  Felipe Calderon  took office in 2006.  Mass Murder  Gunmen kidnapped Edelmiro Cavazos, the mayor of Santiago in
Nuevo Leon state, on Aug. 15. He was found bound and shot on the
side of a mountain road on Aug. 18.  Marco Antonio Leal , the
mayor of Hidalgo in the border state of Tamaulipas, was
assassinated while driving on Aug. 29. Alexander Lopez, mayor of
El Naranjo in San Luis Potosi state, was shot as he sat at his
desk on Sept. 8.  Gustavo Sanchez, the interim mayor of Tancitaro in
Michoacan state, was found on a country road on Sept. 27. His
corpse showed signs that he had been stoned to death, state
officials said.  Seventy-two murdered migrants were discovered at a ranch in
Tamaulipas on Aug. 25. Two days later in the same state, a car
bomb exploded outside the offices of  Grupo Televisa SA , the
world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster.  Mexico’s push to draw tourists, the country’s third-biggest
source of dollar inflows after oil and remittances, is getting
more difficult as the violence persists. Eight Mexicans were
killed in an attack on Aug. 31 at a bar in the resort city of
Cancun.  College-Age Tourists  Hotels in Acapulco and Cancun had a smaller-than-normal
influx of college-age customers in March, according to tour
operators. The number of spring breakers handled by travel
service StudentCity dropped 45 percent from last year in
Acapulco and 30 percent in Cancun, Christina Ferraro, an event
organizer for the company, said in March.  Mexico’s international tourism  revenue  fell 15 percent last
year, the first decline in a decade, as swine flu drove down
spending by travelers to $11.3 billion. While spending by
visitors rose 6.8 percent in the first six months of the year to
$6.5 billion from the same period in 2009, the amount is still
down 11 percent from the first six months of 2008.  “If tourism is affected, it’s not so much from the drug
violence but from issues here in the U.S., such as the economic
crisis,” said  Francisco Alzuru , who helps manage about $200
million in emerging-market assets at Hansberger Global Investors
in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “The impact of the swine flu was a
major one.”  Biggest Threat  Fifty-seven percent of business executives say the drug war
is the biggest threat to the economy in Mexico, Latin America’s
second-largest after Brazil, according to a July survey
published by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, up from 49 percent in
March and 22 percent in December 2009. Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said Sept. 1 that violence from organized crime is
shaving 1.2 percentage points off economic output a year.  “The federal government reiterates that it will continue
working for the security of its citizens with all the state
resources at its reach,” Calderon said in an e-mailed statement
on Sept. 8.  Expanding Economy  The International Monetary Fund forecasts Mexico’s economy
will expand 4.5 percent this year after shrinking 6.5 percent in
2009, the biggest rebound among the world’s largest nations
after Russia.  Sales  at retailers in the U.S., Mexico’s largest
trading partner, climbed in August for a second consecutive
month, allaying concern the world’s largest economy will stumble
in the second half.  Mexican production of cars and light trucks rose 53 percent
in August from the same month a year earlier, the nation’s
Automobile Industry Association said on Sept. 8 in a statement
distributed in Mexico City. Exports increased 58.1 percent from
a year ago to 175,904 cars and light trucks.  Mexico’s exports to the U.S. gained market share from China
during the global financial crisis as companies benefited from
lower shipping costs from a border country, said  Luis De la Calle , a former Mexican negotiator for Nafta.  ‘Competitive Destination’  “Mexico is perceived as good diversification of risk
versus China,” said De la Calle, who is now a partner at Mexico
City-based business adviser De la Calle Madrazo Mancera SA.
“Mexico is a competitive destination for manufacturers and
corporations.”  In the first seven months of the year, Mexico’s share of
U.S. exports rose to 12 percent from 11 percent a year earlier.
China’s share fell to 18.1 percent from 18.7 percent, according
to the U.S. Commerce Department.  Companies from Tlalnepantla-based  Mexichem SAB , Latin
America’s largest plastic pipemaker, to  Grupo Carso SAB , the
holding company controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , helped
lead gains in Mexico’s benchmark stock index this year. The IPC
index trades for 15.8 times analysts’ estimates for 2010
earnings, more than the 13.4 times for the Bovespa and a 13.7
price-to-earnings ratio for the S&P 500.  The violence hasn’t kept  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, and Purchase, New York-based  PepsiCo Inc. , the world’s
largest snack-food maker, from investing in Mexico.  Volkswagen plans to start construction this year on a plant
in Silao, Mexico, that will have a capacity to produce 330,000
engines annually. The project will create about 700 jobs in the
city “over the medium term,” the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
company said in a Sept. 22 statement.  “The Nafta agreement helped Mexico and provided support,”
Pimco’s  Osses  said. “The influence that the drug violence has
on business isn’t that significant at this point. Volkswagen
decided that it’s not going to prevent them from investing in
Mexico.”  Pepsi’s  local unit  took out a full page ad in the
Monterrey-based El Norte newspaper on Sept. 30, pledging $20
million for a food research center in the region and promising
to maintain its presence in the country’s north.  “We’re proud of our roots with 81 years in Monterrey,”
the ad said. “We’re here today, and we’ll be here tomorrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  