-- Mexico Risks Budget Shortfall If Oil Price Estimated Changed, Meade Says
-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-10-04T15:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mexico-risks-budget-shortfall-if-oil-price-estimated-changed-meade-says.html
Mexican lawmakers shouldn’t increase
the estimated oil price and boost spending plans for next year
because such a move may lead to a budget shortfall, said Deputy
Finance Minister  Jose Antonio Meade .  Meade made the comment after Luis Videgaray, head of the
budget committee in the lower house of Congress, said in a Sept.
23 interview that opposition lawmakers may call for a higher oil
price and wider deficit for next year’s budget.  “Changes to the economic figures that aren’t backed by the
law or by a good analysis of the best information available run
the risk of leading to a budget that isn’t adequately funded,”
Meade said in an Oct. 1 telephone interview.  President  Felipe Calderon  on Sept. 8 proposed a 2011 budget
that estimates oil selling for $63 a barrel, a deficit of 0.3
percent of gross domestic product and no changes to tax law. The
opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, wants to
lower the value-added tax to 15 percent from 16 percent, a
proposal that the government opposes.  Meade also said the government won’t release information
about hedges on the price of oil until the end of this year.  The Finance Ministry doesn’t have an alternate spending
plan if lawmakers cut the value-added tax, Meade said. The move
would reduce public revenue by 33 billion pesos ($2.6 billion),
Carlos Perez, deputy coordinator for Calderon’s National Action
Party in the lower house of Congress, said Sept. 20.  ‘Only Plan’  “The ministry’s only plan is to support the budget package
under the terms that were proposed,” Meade said. “The ministry
is convinced that this package is consistent with the economic
program that we need for next year.”  The lower house must approve the income portion of the
budget by Oct. 20 and the spending portion by Nov. 15.  Mexican law requires that the budgeted oil price be
determined by a formula that uses variables such as the average
price for Mexican crude in prior years and West Texas
Intermediate futures prices.  Meade declined to confirm a Sept. 27 report by the
Financial Times that the government is hedging 2011 oil exports
at a price of between $65 and $70 a barrel.  Mexico normally hedges its oil exports to cover a possible
revenue shortfall if production falls. The country hedged 2009
exports at $70 per barrel when the Mexican mix of crude oil for
export dropped to as low as $28.40 a barrel that year. Mexico
made more than $5 billion on those hedges, then-Finance Minster
 Agustin Carstens  said in December 2009.  Oil Hedges  Mexico lost out on 300 billion pesos ($23.3 billion) of oil
revenue in 2009 as production at state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos
fell at the fastest rate since 1942 and crude prices dropped by
about half from a record $147.27 a barrel in July 2008.  Mexico’s government and central bank don’t plan to change
in the short term the amount of dollars they buy to boost
foreign reserves, Meade said. The country will continue
accumulating foreign reserves, he said.  Mexico is auctioning $600 million in dollar options
monthly. The central bank sold $600 million in September and
received bids for $2.2 billion, according to its website.  “Even if the level of reserves is higher than what Mexico
has had historically, it’s not excessive in comparison with the
rest of the world,” Meade said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  