-- Experimental Sex Practiced More Often By Americans
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-04T18:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/experimental-sex-practiced-more-often-by-americans-study-finds.html
About 85 percent of men reported in a
study that their partner had an orgasm during their most recent
 sexual event . The number dropped to 64 percent when women were
asked whether they reached climax their last time.  The difference is probably due to poor communication
between the genders, said  Pepper Schwartz , a professor of
sociology at the University of Washington in Seattle who wasn’t
involved in the survey. Research like this can help people talk
to each other about sex, she said in a telephone interview.  The study, conducted by scientists from the  Center for
Sexual Health Promotion  at Indiana University, surveyed 5,865
people aged 14 to 94 about their sexual activities, profiling
what sex acts they engaged in and what precautions they took. A
similar study was published in 1994 by University of Chicago
researchers. Americans have become more experimental in the 16
years between the reports, the researchers wrote.  “The era of wham-bam, thank you ma’am is over,” Schwartz
said.  The survey, reported in the  Journal of Sexual Medicine ,
found that adult men and women usually engage in more than one
act in each encounter. Men are more likely to orgasm when sex
includes vaginal intercourse, according to the report. Women are
more likely to climax when they engage in a variety of
activities, including oral and vaginal intercourse.  Compared with the 1994 study, “more men and women have
engaged in oral sex and a significantly greater proportion have
engaged in anal sex,” the researchers wrote.  Women 20 to 49  About 40 percent of women ages 20 to 49 and of men ages 25
to 59 have had anal sex, the study found. More than 80 percent
of women aged 20 through 49, and over 85 percent of men the same
age had received oral sex, the study found.  About a third of national health-care costs is related to
sexuality, wrote former U.S. Surgeon General  Joycelyn Elders  in
a related editorial. For doctors to provide information and
adequate treatment to their patients, they need to know what the
community’s sexual behavior is, Elders wrote.  “If men don’t have accurate communication it’s because
women aren’t giving it to them,” said Schwartz, of the
University of Washington. “We have a long way to go with how
comfortable we are with sex, and how honest we are about it.”  New Acquaintance  Women over age 50 were more likely to reach orgasm if they
had sex with a casual or new acquaintance rather than in a
relationship; 81 percent reported orgasm with a non-relationship
partner. This compares with 58 percent reporting an orgasm with
a sex partner they are in a relationship with. This may be
because a long-term partner is less likely to engage in romance,
flattery and attention, Schwartz said.  About 22 percent of men said they used  condoms  during the
last 10 times they had sex; 18.4 percent of women said their
male partners used condoms. The researchers suggest this is
because men have more partners than women.  The people least likely to use condoms were over the age of
50, and those most likely to use condoms were adolescents, where
82.8 percent reported using the prophylactic during their last
act of vaginal sex.  “Younger kids have grown up with the AIDS threat,”
Schwartz said. “It’s what they expect, and if someone doesn’t
want to use a condom, they’re like, ‘What, are you kidding?’
Older people don’t have the same health attention, in part
because no one wants to know about their sexuality at all.”  The study surveyed a nationally representative sample of
the U.S. population, the researchers reported. It can’t be
generalized to gay, lesbian or bisexual individuals because the
sample may obscure data points involving minority groups, the
authors wrote.  The study was funded by  Church & Dwight Co. Inc. , the
makers of Trojan condoms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .
20578Z US <Equity> CN 