-- Extending Israeli Construction Freeze Is `Very Difficult,' Steinitz Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-04T22:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/extending-israeli-construction-freeze-is-very-difficult-steinitz-says.html
Israeli Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  said it would be “very difficult” for his government
to renew a freeze on settlement construction in return for
American security assurances, as the U.S. has proposed.  “It was a unilateral gesture,” Steinitz said in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg News in New York, referring
to a 10-month suspension of construction ordered by Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu . “You don’t negotiate on unilateral
gestures. You negotiate on peace settlement.”  The U.S. is proposing a 60-day renewal of a suspension on
Israeli construction in the West Bank, according to a person
briefed by American officials. The building ban lapsed Sept. 26,
raising concerns the Palestinians would carry out a threat to
leave the talks just weeks after the U.S.-mediated diplomacy
began.  Steinitz said there was no “reciprocity” or flexibility
from the Palestinian Authority during the freeze. “To come now
and to demand more is very problematic,” he said. “When you
are making a unilateral gesture it is not open to negotiation.”  “I want you to understand that it is very difficult from
our point of view,” Steinitz said.  Netanyahu told his Cabinet yesterday that he is trying to
keep the peace negotiations from falling apart over Palestinian
demands that he freeze construction again.  “We are engaged in sensitive diplomatic contacts with the
Americans in order to find a solution that would permit a
continuation of the talks,” Netanyahu said, according to a
transcript e-mailed by his office in Jerusalem.  Mitchell’s Trip  Netanyahu spoke after U.S. Middle East envoy  George Mitchell  returned to Washington to discuss the results of his
shuttle diplomacy during the past week. Mitchell conferred with
the Israeli leader and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas .  Abbas said he will make a final decision on whether to
continue the negotiations with Israel on Oct. 8 after talking
with leaders of the Arab League at a meeting in Libya.  Steinitz didn’t shut the door on a deal with the U.S. He
said Israel’s government and the Obama administration were
“considering some solutions together” and that he couldn’t
predict whether an agreement would be reached.  “I hope we will figure out something that can help,” he
said. “It is now under negotiation.”  Israeli building crews began work last week at settlements
including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa and Adam, according to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which represents
more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  Settlements Added  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  The  United Nations  says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  