-- Fast Retailing May Decline in Tokyo on Weakest Uniqlo Sales in Seven Years
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2010-10-04T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/fast-retailing-s-uniqlo-sales-drop-as-japan-s-warmer-weather-hurts-demand.html
Fast Retailing Co. , Asia’s largest
listed clothing retailer, may fall in Tokyo trading after its
Uniqlo chain posted the biggest drop in monthly domestic sales
in more than seven years.  Sales at Uniqlo stores open at least a year in Japan
plunged 24.7 percent in September from a year earlier, the
Yamaguchi, Japan-based retailer said yesterday. That’s the
biggest decline since February 2003, according to company data.
 Fast Retailing  rose 0.3 percent to 11,770 yen in Tokyo trading
before the announcement yesterday.  “The result may prompt some investors to sell their
shares, as they worry that the company may report lower earnings
this fiscal year,”  Mikihiko Yamato , an analyst at Japaninvest
KK in Tokyo, said by telephone. He  recommends   buying   Fast
Retailing  shares.  Demand for jackets, long-sleeved shirts and other autumn
apparel was “weak” last month because of the hot weather, said
Daisuke Hase, a company spokesman. The average temperature in
Tokyo was 25.1 degrees Celsius (77.2 degrees Fahrenheit) in
September, 1.6 degrees hotter than the seasonal norm, the
weather agency said on its  website .  Uniqlo’s same-store sales surged 32 percent in September
last year.  Apparel retailer  Point Inc.  and Japan’s second-largest
department-store operator  J. Front Retailing Co.  also said the
hotter weather reduced demand for warm clothes last month. Point
said last week that sales at stores open at least a year slipped
13 percent, while J. Front said that sales fell 3.7 percent.  Fast Retailing last week opened its first flagship Uniqlo
store in Osaka as part of a drive to open bigger outlets in
Japan. The company’s chief executive officer and biggest
 shareholder  is  Tadashi Yanai , who was named Japan’s richest man
by Forbes Asia magazine in its January issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  