-- Verizon Wireless Investigated by the FCC for `Mystery' Data Charges
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-04T20:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/fcc-investigating-verizon-wireless-for-mystery-fees-charged-to-customers.html
Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S.
wireless company, is under investigation by the Federal
Communications Commission for charging 15 million customers
“mystery” fees for data use on their mobile phones.  The FCC began its investigation 10 months ago after
customers complained about the fees, the FCC said in an e-mail
statement yesterday. Verizon Wireless has reportedly put the
amount of the overcharges at more than $50 million in the past
two years, the commission said.  Verizon will give refunds to 15 million customers in the
next two months as compensation for incorrect data billing, the
 company  said in a separate statement yesterday. Most of the
refunds will be $2 to $6. Current customers will get a credit to
their account, while former subscribers will be sent checks, the
company said.  “ Verizon Wireless  issues credits to customers from time to
time based on regular review and monitoring,” Mary Coyne,
deputy general counsel at Verizon Wireless said in the
statement. “When we identify errors, we remedy them as quickly
as possible.”  The billing mistakes happened when customers without data
plans were charged for sessions they didn’t initiate, Basking
Ridge, New Jersey-based Verizon said. Most of the errors
resulted from software in customers’ phones that sent or
received data, Verizon said. Other customers were charged by
mistake for accessing the Web.  FCC Investigation Continues  The FCC said it will continue to explore Verizon’s
practices and may penalize the company.  “We’re gratified to see Verizon agree to finally repay its
customers,” said  Michele Ellison , Enforcement Bureau Chief at
the commission. “But questions remain as to why it took Verizon
two years to reimburse its customers and why greater disclosure
and other corrective actions did not come much, much sooner.”  The investigation comes amid heightened FCC scrutiny of
carriers’ billing practices,  Rebecca Arbogast , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note to investors today. The
FCC has also reviewed termination fees carriers charge customers
who end their two-year contracts early, and the agency plans to
consider proposals that would force phone companies to alert
customers who pass certain usage measurements, preventing
unexpectedly high bills, Arbogast said.  Verizon Communications Inc. , which owns the wireless
company with  Vodafone Group Plc. ,  gained  14 cents to $33.03 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. The shares
have risen 6.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  