-- FCC Seeks More Information on Comcast-NBC Agreement
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-10-04T21:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/fcc-asks-for-more-information-from-nbc-universal-on-comcast-deal.html
U.S. regulators examining  Comcast
Corp. ’s bid to buy NBC Universal asked the companies to answer
more questions about their advertising and broadcast agreements,
raising the potential for the merger to take longer to complete.  The Federal Communications Commission in a second
information request today said it wants to know about NBC
Universal’s top advertising partners, its advertising revenue
and cable carriage agreements for NBC and Telemundo broadcast
stations. Comcast, the largest U.S. cable-television company,
was asked about agreements with other TV-service providers to
carry its programming such as E! and the Golf Channel.  “This latest request for information further reduces
chances for FCC action on the proposed transaction by the end of
the year,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst with
Medley Global Advisors LLC, said in an e-mail.  Comcast, which proposed the $28 billion takeover of General
Electric Co.’s NBC Universal on Dec. 3, still expects regulatory
approval by the end of this year,  Sena Fitzmaurice , a
spokeswoman for the Philadelphia-based company said today. These
types of FCC “requests are not uncommon,” she said.  The previous information request by the FCC was on May 21,
and the companies responded by July 6. The FCC and the U.S.
Justice Department are reviewing the takeover, which would give
Comcast control of NBC’s television network, broadcast stations,
cable channels such as USA Network and Bravo, a movie studio and
the Telemundo Spanish-language network and TV stations.  E!, Oxygen, USA  The FCC in its latest request asked for copies of
agreements New York-based NBC Universal has to distribute its
USA, Oxygen, Chiller and Sleuth through TV-service providers led
by  Time Warner Cable Inc. , DirecTV, Dish Network Corp., Verizon
Communications Inc. and AT&T Inc.  Comcast was asked about agreements to carry channels the
cable company owns including E!, regional sports networks, the
Golf Channel, Style, Versus and Sprout. The FCC lodged 31
information requests for Comcast, and 10 for NBC Universal.  Comcast is “moving as quickly as we possibly can” to
close the transaction by the end of year, Chief Financial
Officer  Michael Angelakis  told investors Sept. 22. FCC Chairman
 Julius Genachowski  at a Sept. 23 news conference declined to say
when the agency would complete its review.  Merger Opposition  Bloomberg LP and advocacy groups such as Common Cause and
Free Press today said Comcast is trying to create “an aura of
inevitability” around its proposed purchase.  Comcast named Chief Operating Officer  Stephen Burke  last
week to replace  Jeff Zucker  as chief executive officer of NBC
Universal, and Burke has been at NBC headquarters “as if the
merger was a foregone conclusion,” the groups, as the Coalition
for Competition in Media, said in a letter addressed to
President Barack Obama.  Regulators “must have the time they need” to judge the
deal, the coalition said in the letter distributed by e-mail.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the merger as it is currently proposed.  “For a lobbying coalition funded by our competitors to
imply the review of this transaction has not been deliberate and
thorough is insulting to the Congress, the FCC, and the
Department of Justice,” Fitzmaurice said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 