-- Fed's Sack Says Additional Bond Purchases Would Foster Growth
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-10-04T17:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/fed-s-sack-says-additional-bond-purchases-would-help-stimulate-recovery.html
Brian Sack , the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York’s markets group chief, said a further expansion of
the central bank’s balance sheet would help stimulate an
economic recovery that is forecast to be “relatively tepid.”  “The  expansion  of the securities portfolio to date has
helped to foster more accommodative financial conditions, and
further expansion would likely provide additional
accommodation,” Sack said in a speech today to a CFA Institute
conference in Newport Beach, California.  “Balance-sheet policy can still lower longer-term
borrowing costs for many households and businesses, and it adds
to household wealth by keeping asset prices higher than they
otherwise would be,” Sack said.  Central bank policy makers are debating how to deploy tools
for more stimulus after the Federal Open Market Committee said
on Sept. 21 that it’s prepared to take action “if needed” to
spur growth and achieve its mandate of stable prices and full
employment.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said last week that
the outlook for U.S. job growth and inflation is
“unacceptable” and that the Fed will probably need to take
action, one of the clearest signs that policy makers will start
a second round of unconventional accommodation as soon as the
FOMC’s meeting Nov. 2-3. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  also said
last week that the central bank has a duty to aid the economy.  “The economy remains vulnerable to downside surprises that
could take both output and inflation further away from the
FOMC’s objectives,” Sack said.  ‘Significant’ Effect  U.S.  stocks  dropped and two-year Treasury yields fell to a
record low after reports on American home sales and factory
orders failed to assuage concerns that the recovery is slowing.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1 percent to 1,134.30 at
12:50 p.m. in New York and the yield on the two-year Treasury
note fell as low as 0.3987 percent.  Lowering long-term interest rates by restarting purchases
of Treasuries or mortgage debt would have a “significant”
effect on the economy by supporting the value of homes and
stocks, making housing and refinancing mortgages more affordable
and reducing the cost of capital for businesses, Dudley said
last week.  The impact of expanding the central bank’s balance sheet
“remains a point of ongoing debate,” Sack said. It is
“difficult to calibrate” the costs and benefits of additional
bond purchases, he said.  ‘Old-Fashioned Monetary Policy’  “If we were talking about good old-fashioned monetary
policy” there’s “a lot of disagreement about that,” Sack said
in response to audience questions. “Here, we’re talking about
using an instrument that we don’t have a lot of experience with,
so it’s natural that there are differing opinions.”  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said last week
that the central bank risks its credibility by taking actions,
such as additional asset purchases, that may fail to help the
labor market.  In contrast, Dudley said last week that buying about $500
billion of securities, for example, would add as much stimulus
as reducing the Fed’s  benchmark rate  0.5 percentage point to
0.75 percentage point, depending on how long investors expect
the Fed to hold the assets. The Fed has kept the rate near zero
since December 2008.  A second round of bond purchases may merit a different
strategy than the central bank’s earlier program at the height
of the financial crisis, when the Fed used “infrequent but
large increments” to expand its balance sheet, Sack said.  ‘Front-Loaded Policy’  “That might have been appropriate in circumstances when
substantial and front-loaded policy surprises had benefits, but
different approaches may be warranted in other circumstances,”
Sack said. “Indeed, it contrasts with the manner in which the
FOMC has historically adjusted the federal funds rate, which has
typically involved incremental changes to the policy
instrument.”  As the central bank would also be “learning about the
costs and benefits of its balance-sheet changes as it
implemented a new program,” that “might call for some
flexibility to be incorporated into the program, providing some
discretion to change course as market conditions evolve,” Sack
said.  While buying securities would increase the interest-rate
sensitivity of the central bank’s portfolio, the Fed’s goal
would be to stimulate the economy, not generate profits, Sack
said.  ‘No Confusion’  “There should be no confusion, no mistake, that we’ve put
duration risk onto the Fed’s balance sheet,” Sack said. “These
decisions are being made to produce economic outcomes” not “to
produce a certain return on the portfolio.”  If the central bank were to suffer losses “it has no
operational consequences on our ability to conduct monetary
policy,” he said.  Sack dismissed concern that restarting bond purchases would
impair the central bank’s ability to exit the unprecedented
stimulus. Dudley said last week that a “credible plan” to
withdraw liquidity would counter the risk that inflation
expectations rise.  “I am confident that our ability to exit will not be
compromised by any further expansion of the balance sheet,”
Sack said. “In all potential circumstances, the Federal Reserve
should be able to tighten financial conditions to a sufficient
degree when appropriate. The ability to pay interest on
reserves, in combination with the ability to drain reserves as
needed, will give us sufficient control of short-term interest
rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  