-- Final Blow to Crist May Be Delivered by Florida Voters Upset With Economy
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/final-blow-to-crist-may-be-delivered-by-florida-voters-upset-with-economy.html
Four years ago, when  Charlie Crist 
campaigned for governor in the gated villages of southeast
Florida, he  boasted  that he expected to win two terms. By 2008,
he was touring those retirement communities with Republican
presidential candidate  John McCain  as a rising star in the party
under consideration for a vice presidential bid.  Now, as he runs for the U.S. Senate, Crist is returning to
 Kings Point ’s manmade lakes and shuffleboard courts to plead
with the retirees to support him again -- this time trailing in
the polls and without the Republican Party behind him.  “I am an independent candidate for the United States
Senate; I need the people,” the governor told a crowd at the
Kings Point clubhouse in Tamarac. “It’s almost like jumping out
of an airplane and not knowing if you have a parachute.”  Crist’s descent, and his uphill run as a candidate willing
to compromise in a year defined by partisan combat, may be the
nation’s best barometer of the voter anger facing both parties
in a struggling economy.  “About a year ago I had predicted he would end up running
as an independent, but I thought he would win,” said  Lance deHaven-Smith , a political science professor at Florida State
University in Tallahassee. “Now, I just don’t see him getting
much traction.”  Abandoning the Party  Crist, 54, has seen his approval ratings plummet since he
abandoned the Republican Party in April after lagging behind
 Marco Rubio , a former Florida House speaker backed by the Tea
Party movement, in the campaign for the Republican Senate
nomination.  Polls now show  Crist about 12 points behind Rubio in
the general election and with an 8-point lead over four-term
congressman  Kendrick Meek , the Democratic candidate.  Like other incumbents across the U.S., Crist was blamed by
voters for the weak economy. Florida was one of  only two states ,
along with Maryland, to see its  unemployment rate  rise in
August, reaching 11.7 percent, compared with the 9.6 percent
 national rate , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The
state has the  second-highest  foreclosure rate in the country,
behind Nevada, more than twice the national average, according
to  RealtyTrac , an Irvine, California-based data provider.  Crist, who won the 2006 governor’s race with 52 percent of
the vote, also drew ire from Republicans for his willingness to
work with Democrats on judicial appointments and environmental
issues. These included  blocking  a coal-fired power plant from
being built near the Everglades and convening a climate-change
 summit  -- stances that won him the  nickname  “governor green.”  Across the Aisle  Unlike Democratic and Republican incumbents who have tried
to rally their base by promising to either support or block the
White House agenda, Crist says he’ll work with both parties.  It’s a message he has taken all over the state of  18.5
million  people, from the vote-rich Democratic retirement
communities lining the east coast, to Republicans in his home
base of St. Petersburg, and even into the Hispanic community in
Miami -- a stronghold for Rubio, 39, a Cuban-American, and Meek,
44, a black lawmaker.  Under a silver tinsel Star of David hanging above the stage
at Temple Beth Shalom in the Century Village community west of
Boca Raton, Crist, a former state attorney general and
legislator, criticized Congress’s lack of action on immigration
and Social Security, and for its health-care law.  “There are things we could do to improve all these things
if we simply put you first,” he told 300 retirees, who yelled
for him to speak louder as they ate a catered kosher breakfast
of bagels and coffee cake.  ‘A National Statement’  As a sign of bipartisanship, Crist touted an endorsement by
 Robert Wexler , a seven-term former Democratic congressman from
the area who’s so beloved by retirees that three times he ran
unopposed.  “If  Charlie Crist  wins, it will be a national statement
that people are fed up with the bitterness and the anger,” said
Wexler, whose father,  Sonny , lives in the development.  That’s a statement neither party wants to see. Both
Democrats and Republicans have poured money and manpower into
this swing state. And Crist has seen his fundraising drop
without the support of the Republican Party.  Rubio raised $4.5 million in the April-June quarter, more
than double the $2.1 million collected by Crist, according to
U.S. Federal Election Commission reports. Independent groups
have also been active: The U.S. Chamber of Commerce spent $1
million on advertising against Crist, and American Crossroads, a
political action committee tied to Republican strategist  Karl Rove , has spent almost $250,000 on pro-Rubio mailings, FEC
reports show.  Bush Backs Rubio  Crist “just doesn’t have much of an organizational
foundation anymore without the party,” said deHaven-Smith.  Rubio does. Former Governor  Jeb Bush , an adviser to the
Republican nominee, built a voter-turnout operation to support
his brother’s presidential campaigns in 2000 and 2004. And
 Barack Obama ’s 2008 campaign developed the Democratic
infrastructure that brought record numbers of blacks to the
polls. Democrats hope to rally those voters on behalf of Meek,
with visits by Vice President  Joe Biden , former Vice President
 Al Gore , and former President  Bill Clinton .  At a Sept. 23 meeting of the Miami-Dade teachers union,
Meek asked the audience to remember their “true blue friend.”  Some teachers and other Democrats have tried to hedge their
bets by cultivating Crist, who they say has a better shot of
beating Rubio. In May, the Florida Education Association  jointly
endorsed  both candidates, citing Crist’s veto of a Republican
bill that would have made it easier to fire teachers.  ‘On the Line’  “I’m leaning towards Crist because he went out on the line
for us at a time we needed him,” said Seth Patterson, 34, an
elementary school music teacher in Miami-Dade County.  Meek said in an interview that Crist is “standing on a
bubble.” The Democrat has gained support since defeating  Jeff Greene , a  billionaire  investor, to win the Democratic primary in
August and leads Crist among Democrats by 7 points, according to
a September Mason-Dixon poll.  Some troops are falling in line for Meek. “I’m here to
give all the support for Democrats,” said  Daphne Campbell , a
Haitian-American state representative from the heavily Haitian
section of northeast Miami.  While Democrats hustle for votes, Rubio is riding a tide of
voter frustration with the economy. He’s a favorite of the Tea
Party, a collection of activists who oppose big government. And
he has been embraced by Republican Party officials.  No Anarchist  Rubio stresses the urgency of blocking the Democratic
agenda on taxes, spending and health care. Still, he’s careful
not to go too far.  “I’m not an anarchist; there’s an important role for
government to play,” he said, amid booths selling rifles,
shotguns and ammunition at a Fort Myers gun show. “But when you
go beyond what government should be doing, you end up hurting
our country.”  Earlier that day, a crowd of Republicans surrounded Rubio
as he made his way into the windowless backrooms of the party
headquarters in Broward County.  “The Republican establishment did not endorse me,” Rubio
said. “I said I’m getting in this race because no one else
running will be someone who will stand up to Washington.”  That appeals to Republicans.  “You don’t feel like you can trust a moderate,” said
Matthew Parkman, 32, a Republican business school student laid
off from his job as a land surveyor earlier this year. “Crist
was a grit-your-teeth kind of vote.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  