-- English Says Kiwi Dollar Unlikely to Drop as Growth Slows
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2010-10-04T18:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/finance-minister-english-says-kiwi-is-unlikely-to-decline-as-growth-slows.html
New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said the nation’s currency is unlikely to weaken even as
economic growth slows and the central bank puts interest-rate
increases on hold.  “We would prefer our dollar to be a bit more competitive
in these circumstances,” English said in a telephone interview
from London yesterday. “We don’t see much likelihood of that.”  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the “Kiwi” after the
country’s indigenous flightless bird, has appreciated almost 13
percent against the U.S. dollar in the past four months. That’s
undermining an economic recovery already burdened by weak
household spending, a stagnant  housing market  and last month’s
magnitude 7 earthquake that destroyed buildings and shut
businesses in the South Island city of Christchurch.  “The strength of the kiwi is one of the headwinds for our
recovery,” English said. “Usually at this stage of a recovery
the dollar has dropped against the U.S. considerably and that
beefs up our export sector. That hasn’t happened.”  The kiwi rose to 74.19 U.S. cents after the comments were
published before easing back to 74.09 at 7.15 a.m. in
Wellington, little changed. While English said U.S. dollar
weakness is partly to blame for the currency’s gains, New
Zealand’s relatively high interest rates are also making its
assets more attractive.  At 3 percent, New Zealand’s  benchmark rate  is one of the
highest in the developed world. It compares with 0.5 percent in
the U.K. and 1 percent in the  euro region . The U.S.’s key rate
is close to zero.  Rates on Hold  New Zealand’s economy  expanded  0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the first, less than a quarter of the 0.9 percent
growth forecast by the Reserve Bank.  English said while the economy is unlikely to fall back
into recession, the risks to the outlook are “on the negative
side” and growth may not reach the Treasury’s forecast of 3
percent this year. The Reserve Bank has postponed further rate
increases and won’t raise borrowing costs as much as initially
planned, he said.  “It’s lowered the curve looking out over the next 18
months fairly significantly,” English said. “Where six months
ago people were assuming a reasonably steep rise in interest
rates, that looks less likely.”  The central bank, which has raised its key rate twice this
year in quarter-point steps, may now keep it on hold “into next
year,” English said. “Nevertheless -- and that will put some
pressure on consumers -- interest rates are going to rise. It’s
going to be another headwind for the recovery as they move into
gradually raising interest rates again.”  Fiscal Consolidation  English is in Europe to meet U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
and international credit rating companies before flying to
Washington for a meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  English said he’s interested in learning more about the
U.K. government’s plans for fiscal consolidation and improving
public-sector efficiency.  New Zealand remains on target to return to a budget surplus
in 2016, even though the slower economic recovery “puts some
risk” on tax revenues, he said.  Fitch Ratings yesterday affirmed its AA+ rating on New
Zealand with a negative outlook and English said he doesn’t
expect any change in the country’s ratings in the near term.  “We would hope looking out over the next few years,
though, that relative to others our ratings can improve,” he
said.  Silver Lining  English said the main reason for the deterioration in New
Zealand’s short-term growth outlook is that households are
adjusting to the post-crisis world “more quickly than we
thought.”  “The savings rate has increased quite significantly and
consumption has been flat now for a good 18 months,” he said.
“While in the short term it means there is a bit less certainty
about the speed of the recovery, in the longer term it’s the
right kind of adjustment.”  Longer-term growth prospects remain “pretty good” as New
Zealand rebalances its economy away from domestic consumption
and toward greater export competitiveness, English said.  “We happen to be fairly positive about our export story,”
he said.  Commodity prices  “have been holding up” and
“underlying demand for our products is strong.”  New Zealand has also focused on exporting more to faster-
growing economies in the Asia-Pacific region, for example by
signing a free-trade agreement with China.  Exports to China  “By 2015, Australia and China will represent 40 percent of
our exports,” English said. “The markets that are struggling
particularly with the aftermath of the financial crisis -- being
the U.K., the U.S. and Europe -- are becoming less significant,
but still high-value export destinations.”  In his discussions with U.S. officials, English said he’d
be “particularly interested in their view about exchange-rate
policy,” notably regarding China’s yuan.  “We’re obviously not a participant in the debate, but an
appreciating yuan is bound to help us with the shift in focus of
our export market to China,” he said. “We’re doing well with
the rate as it is, we just want to get a better feel for how the
rates are going to move.”  English said a tax package introduced by the government on
Oct. 1, which lowered income taxes and raised the rate of sales
tax to 15 percent from 12.5 percent, was part of its efforts to
rebalance the economy.  “We’re making significant changes to our tax system
because we’re not going to get structural change through the
exchange rate,” he said. “We’re going to work on the bits we
can influence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brockett  in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  