-- Flaherty May Lift 2010 Canada Revenue Forecast in Budget Update
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2010-10-04T20:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/flaherty-may-lift-2010-canada-revenue-forecast-giving-scope-for-stimulus.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s next budget update may increase forecasts for 2010
revenue, giving the governing Conservatives scope to pay for
additional stimulus measures.  Canada’s economy will expand 3 percent this year, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 13 of the 14 forecasters that Flaherty
consults for the fiscal update. That’s up from a 2.6 percent
forecast in the March budget and would produce about C$20
billion ($19.5 billion) more in output than earlier projected.  Faster growth this year may help Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  maintain efforts to shift his focus to eliminating the
deficit, even as pressure grows from businesses and lawmakers
for additional stimulus. Flaherty last week scaled back his plan
to raise employment insurance premiums next year, citing
concerns about a fragile recovery.  “I suspect that’s at least part of the reason they decided
to scale back the EI increase because they did realize this
year’s finances are on a better-than-expected track,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto.  Any fiscal leeway will be limited, though, as growth slows
in coming years, economists said.  The economy will grow 2.5 percent next year, according to
the Bloomberg survey, down from a forecast of 3.2 percent in the
March budget. Growth will average 2.7 percent through 2015,
lower than the 2.9 percent average projected in the government’s
fiscal plan released earlier this year.  Weaker 2011 Growth  “That’s approximately a wash,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief
economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “The current
fiscal year will provide a better starting point for revenues,
and all of that will be given back by the weaker growth in the
subsequent year.”  Flaherty’s office declined to say when the minister will
release the next budget update. Flaherty met economists from
banks, universities and research institutes in Ottawa today. The
government’s budget assumptions are “on track” and the
estimates collected from economists last month are still valid,
Flaherty told reporters following the meeting.  Last week, Flaherty said Canada’s  deficit  in the fiscal
year that ended March 31 may exceed the prior estimate of a
record C$53.8 billion. Faster revenue in 2010 suggests the
government will be able to narrow the budget gap beyond the
projected C$49.2 billion for the current fiscal year.  This would let the government carry less debt than
initially projected over the next five years, so interest
payments may be lower than budgeted, said  Pedro Antunes  of the
Conference Board of Canada, one of the organizations surveyed by
Flaherty.  “The starting point is important because you are not
carrying as much debt,” said  Antunes , director of economic
forecasting at the Conference Board. The debt burden “is better
than expected,” he said.  Nominal Output  Nominal output, which isn’t adjusted for inflation and is
the broadest measure of the tax base, will expand 5.9 percent in
2010, the survey said, a full percentage point more than
forecast by the government in March. Nominal output will grow
4.6 percent next year, compared with a 5.4 percent initial
budget forecast.  Lawmakers from all three opposition parties have called on
the government to use any additional fiscal leeway this year to
extend parts of its two-year, C$47 billion ($45.5 billion)
 stimulus package  beyond March 2011.  Flaherty on Sept. 30 said he will raise premiums for
employment insurance by 5 cents per C$100, less than the 15 cent
increase recommended by an independent panel, a measure that
will cost the government C$1.2 billion in forgone revenue next
year.  Following are the details of the Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilan Kolet  in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 