-- Florida Employee Pension Unfunded Liabilities Grow (Correct)
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-07T14:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/florida-employees-unfunded-pension-liabilities-grew-in-2010-after-losses.html
(Corrects second, fourth and fifth paragraphs to show asset
changes reflect payments of benefits in story published Oct. 4.)  Florida’s pension system, the fourth-
largest in the U.S., can afford to cover only 87.9 percent of
the benefits it promised because of losses from the recession
since 2008, according to the state’s actuaries.  The plan’s underfunding widened from 89.3 percent last
year,  Robert S. Dezube, consulting actuary for Milliman Inc.,
told the Florida Retirement System Actuarial Assumption
Estimating Conference today. Fund gains of 9.7 percent after
payment of benefits over the year ended in June weren’t enough
to outweigh the losses recorded due to a “smoothing” technique
that spreads large declines or increases over five years.  “We really didn’t make any headway over the year,” said
Amy Baker, chief economist for the Legislature, in a telephone
interview. “We would have had to have spectacular market
performance or a legislative change that would have increased
the contribution rate.”  Florida remains well over the minimum 80 percent funding
level recommended by experts, according to the Pew Center on the
States. In 2008, the state was one of only four to have a fully
funded pension system, the Pew Center said in a February report.
Its assets fell 21.5 percent after benefit payments to $99.6
billion in the year ended June 2009, according to the annual
report of the State Board of Administration. Before benefits,
the decline was 19 percent, the SBA said. Over the same period,
the Standard & Poor’s 500 fell 30 percent.  Asset Rebound  In fiscal 2010, assets regained 9.7 percent of their value
after benefits, closing the year at $109.3 billion, according to
a September presentation to the Investment Advisory Council of
the Florida State Board of Administration, which runs the
pension system. Without benefit payments, the gain was 14
percent, the SBA said.  In May, Governor Charlie Crist vetoed a bill that would
have increased contributions to the pension fund to make up for
the unfunded liabilities starting in fiscal 2012. The
Legislature will probably take up the issue again in its next
session, Baker said.  The projections were based on average annual returns of
7.75 percent over the long term, the same as last year, Dezube
said. That return assumes that about 11 percent of the pension
funds’ assets would go into so-called alternative investments,
including private equity and hedge funds, said Kevin SigRist,
deputy executive director of the State Board of Administration.
The board adopted an asset-reallocation plan in June that would
expand its alternative investments.  “Inevitably, if you want to make 7.75 percent, you have to
have risk,” SigRist told the conference.  The pension system losses have become an issue in Florida’s
race for governor. Republican Rick Scott, a former health care
executive, said Democrat Alex Sink, the state’s chief financial
officer and one of three pension trustees, was responsible for
the decline. Sink responded that Scott was “scaring” retirees
into thinking their pensions are at risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 