-- Fortress's Levinson to Lead Asia Expansion in Buyout Firm's Singapore Move
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-04T01:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/fortress-s-levinson-to-lead-asia-expansion-in-buyout-firm-s-singapore-move.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC ’s  Adam Levinson , co-chief investment officer of global macro funds,
will move to Singapore to lead the New York-based buyout and
hedge-fund firm’s expansion in Asia.  Fortress will have an investment team of about 10 people in
its new office in the city-state, Levinson, 40, said in an Oct.
1 interview from New York. He will start working in Singapore
early next year.  The firm, whose stock has  dropped  81 percent since it went
public in 2007 before the buyout market froze, will consider
launching an Asia-focused macro fund as early as next year,
according to Levinson. The shares were up 25 percent in the
third quarter. Macro funds seek to profit from broad
economic trends by trading currencies, bonds, stocks and
commodities.  Global managers such as New York-based Soros Fund
Management LLC, founded by billionaire  George Soros , and
London’s Algebris Investments LLP are establishing presences in
Asia for the first time or, like Fortress, returning as the
region’s economic growth outpaces the rest of the world.
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., which oversees more
than $100 billion of reserves, said Sept. 29 that Asia will
contribute half of global economic expansion this year.  “The opening of our Singapore office underscores our long-
term commitment to the Asia markets and our pursuit of
disciplined strategic growth in the region,” Fortress Chief
Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  said in the same interview.  Buyout Targets  Fortress closed its Hong Kong office, which was headed by
 Stanley Ku , at the end of 2008, as the global financial crisis
forced investment firms and banks to cut back Asian operations.  Fortress, which managed $41.7 billion as of June 30, is
considering making more  private-equity  investments in the region,
said Mudd, 52. It also plans to seek more assets from Asian
investors as the fund-raising environment has improved, he said.  The Singapore office will be a “key hub of the firm’s
investment and business development activities in Asia,”
Fortress said in a statement. The firm also has offices in
London, Frankfurt, Tokyo, Rome and Sydney.  Levinson will lead Fortress’s Asia-specific macro-trading
activities from the Singapore office, according to the firm.
 Michael Novogratz , co-chief investment officer of macro funds
and a Fortress principal, will still be based in New York.  The macro funds had  assets  of $3.1 billion as of June 30.
The Fortress Macro Offshore Fund LP returned 2.3 percent after
fees in the first half, while the Drawbridge Global Macro Fund
Ltd. gained 2.1 percent.  Fortress plans to trade more Asian securities, Levinson
said.  ‘Real Time’ Opportunities  “The Asia region has long been a major focus of our
liquid-markets business, and we believe the region will continue
to present attractive opportunities for us to leverage our
global-macro capabilities,” Levinson said.  Hedge funds are drawn to the high economic growth in Asia
and “pricing inefficiencies” that offer arbitrage trading
opportunities in the region’s equity, bond and derivative
markets, said  Frank Brochin , managing director at New York-based
StoneWater Capital LLC, which invests in Asian hedge funds.  “There’s something to be said for being there in real
time,” Levinson said. “It makes our existing business better
and it presents an opportunity to create an Asia-focused
business.”  Levinson, who joined Fortress in 2002, serves on the firm’s
operating and management committees. He was previously a fund
manager at  Paul Tudor Jones ’s Tudor Investment Corp. and a
proprietary trader at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., spending nine
years in the bank’s Hong Kong, Tokyo and London offices managing
portfolios focused on  Group-of-10  and emerging-market risk,
according to the statement.  New Plan  Ku was the firm’s only manager in Hong Kong when that
office was closed two years ago. The decision “didn’t represent
any long-term view around the region,” Levinson said.  The plan with the Singapore office is “substantively
different,” Mudd said. “It’s building an office around a core
set of Fortress capabilities, with the leadership of a senior
person in the middle of it.”  The firm hasn’t reported a profit under generally accepted
accounting principles since March 2007, shortly after its
initial public offering. Fortress’s pretax distributable
earnings, which exclude some compensation costs and other items,
rose 24 percent to $73 million in the second quarter as the
stock-market recovery boosted assets and fees.  To diversify revenue and add traditional assets, Mudd
agreed in February to buy Logan Circle Partners LP for about $21
million. The purchase of the fixed-income manager from
Guggenheim Partners LLC added $11.5 billion in assets.  Fortress is “cautious” about making any acquisitions in
Asia as it will focus on building its Singapore operation, Mudd
said.  “If there’s any other strategy that comes further down the
road, we’ll know that better in a year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  