-- Franc Gains Versus Euro as Debt Concern Returns Before Greek Budget Plan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-04T15:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/franc-gains-versus-euro-as-debt-concern-returns-before-greek-budget-plan.html
The Swiss franc strengthened versus
the euro and reached a record against the dollar on speculation
that nations on Europe’s periphery will struggle to repair their
finances and drag down regional growth.  The franc snapped a three-day drop versus the single
European currency as stocks declined. Ireland’s  central bank 
lowered its forecast for economic growth this year and said the
government must make greater cuts than previously planned to
reduce its record budget deficit. Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz  said the euro’s future is “looking bleak.”  “The market focus has come back a little bit to the
problems within the eurozone, pressuring the euro-Swiss,” said
 Lutz Karpowitz , a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt.  The franc was 0.8 percent stronger at 1.3321 per euro as of
4:11 p.m. in London, and earlier recorded its biggest intraday
advance in over two weeks. It dropped 1.6 percent in the third
quarter, its first quarterly decline against the 16-nation
currency since the three months ending June 2009.  The Swiss currency also appreciated 0.1 percent versus the
dollar to 97.29 centimes, after earlier advancing to a record
97.05 centimes, according to Bloomberg data. The  Stoxx Europe
600 Index  fell 0.4 percent to 258.09, its lowest level in over a
month.  Economic Data  The Irish economy, as measured by gross domestic product,
will expand 0.2 percent this year instead of 0.8 percent
forecast in July, the Dublin-based central bank said today. It
lowered its growth forecast for next year to 2.4 percent from
2.8 percent. The Financial Times today reported Ireland’s budget
deficit this year will be a higher-than-forecast 11.9 percent of
national income.  The franc may be supported versus other currencies because
the Swiss National Bank is unlikely to enter the global
“devaluation game,” Schneider Foreign Exchange said.  “The devaluation toolbox should remain closed unless
money-supply growth begins to portend a more deflationary
environment,”  Stephen Gallo , London-based head of market
analysis at Schneider, wrote in a note today.  In June, the Zurich-based central bank signaled it will
phase out its 15-month policy of countering franc gains through
purchases of foreign currencies to protect exports and fight
deflation. It said on Sept. 16 that it would only take
“measures necessary” if there was any “renewed threat of
deflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  