-- WG's Greenwood, Guilty of Fraud, Sells $1.9 Million Teddy Bears
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/fund-manager-greenwood-guilty-of-fraud-to-sell-1-9-million-teddy-bears.html
A collection of teddy bears valued at
as much as 1.2 million pounds ($1.9 million) will be sold at a
London auction by a hedge-fund manager who has pleaded guilty to
fraud charges, art dealers said.  Paul Greenwood , the former general partner in WG Trading
Co., is the seller of 1,300 vintage Steiff teddy bears and soft
toys at  Christie’s International  on Oct. 13, the dealers said.  “Greenwood is the seller,” Jasper Pearson, partner in the
U.K.-based antique teddy-bear dealers  Sue Pearson , said in an
interview. “Greenwood’s collection is of extraordinary quality.
He only bought museum-grade pieces in mint condition.”  Fred Hafetz , Greenwood’s lawyer, did not immediately reply
to an e-mail asking for comment. Christie’s does not publicly
comment on the identities of sellers. “The vendor is
anonymous,” spokesman Matthew Paton said.  Greenwood and  Steve Walsh , his fellow manager of WG Trading
and WG Investors, were indicted in July 2009 on charges that
they conspired to defraud investors of $554 million. The U.S.
said the scheme stretched from 1996 until their arrest in
February 2009.  Greenwood told U.S. District Judge  Miriam Cedarbaum  in
Manhattan on July 28 this year that he had surrendered his
assets to the government, saying they would be auctioned off.
Cedarbaum said Greenwood, who remains free on bond and is co-
operating with the U.S. against co-defendant Walsh, may face as
long as 85 years in prison and hundreds of millions of dollars
in fines. She set a Dec. 1 sentencing date.  Metal Stud  The hedge-fund manager bought from auctions and dealers
that were able to offer rare and unique pieces by  Steiff , the
world’s oldest and most avidly collected manufacturer of soft
toys, said Pearson. The German maker, founded in 1880 near Ulm,
created the “teddy” bear in 1902, following its adoption as a
political mascot by President  Theodore “Teddy” Roosevelt .
Then, as now, Steiff toys are distinguished by the presence of a
trademark metal stud in the ear.  Greenwood said on July 28, 2010, that he had taken in
excess of $75 million from clients.  Christie’s sale includes a Steiff “Harlequin” bear,
dating from about 1925, featuring alternating halves of red and
blue plush. Acquired in June 1999 at the German company’s annual
auction of toys, it is “possibly unique” and is estimated to
fetch between 50,000 pounds and 80,000 pounds, said Christie’s.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in a  release 
on July 29, said the money taken was used “to purchase
multimillion dollar homes, a horse farm and horses, luxury cars,
and rare collectibles such as Steiff teddy bears.”  Greenwood also settled civil claims brought by the SEC,
agreed to refrain from violating securities laws and to pay yet-
to-be determined disgorgement and penalties, the SEC said in the
July  statement .  Water Bottle  A lace-up teddy bear with a hot-water bottle carries a high
estimate of 30,000 pounds at the auction. Just 90 examples of
the Hot-Water Bottle Bear were made by Steiff between 1907 and
1914, said Christie’s.  “I’d be surprised if there were more than 10 of these left
in the world,” Daniel Agnew, Christie’s specialist consultant
for the sale, said in an interview. “The collector specialized
in the more unusual things, oddities that were never factory-
produced. The majority of the lots date from before World War
II, which is the stronger collecting market.”  Auctions for vintage teddy bears reached their zenith in
December 1994 when a Japanese museum paid a record 110,000
pounds for a Steiff toy dating from about 1906 at Christie’s.
Since then, auction prices have fallen, Agnew said.  “High prices were paid for bears that have now turned out
to be not so rare,” he said. “Some postwar examples are
selling for a quarter of what they were at the height of the
market.”  Bonzo, Mickey  More than 80 percent of the sale’s 641 lots are Steiff
animals. One of a small number of samples of a never-
manufactured Bonzo the Dog toy is estimated to fetch up to
20,000 pounds, while a perfectly preserved couple, Mickey and
Minnie Mouse, has an upper valuation of 15,000 pounds.  Christie’s has put a low estimate of 800,000 pounds on the
collection that has been amassed over the last 15 years.  According to his plea agreement, Greenwood will have to
forfeit at least $331 million to the government, representing
the money he and Walsh obtained from their securities and wire
fraud. Greenwood also agreed to pay the U.S. an $83.5 million
judgment, the proceeds he “personally obtained” as a result of
the fraud.  The case is SEC v. WG Trading Investors, 09-1750, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 