-- LG Electronics Seeks $60 Million From Whirlpool in Dryer Advertising Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-04T22:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/lg-electronics-seeks-60-million-from-whirlpool-in-dryer-advertising-case.html
LG Electronics USA Inc.  asked a
federal court jury to award it $60 million in profits the
company’s attorney said  Whirlpool Corp.  reaped by falsely
advertising the steam capabilities of its clothes dryers.  LG lawyer  Lawrence Desideri  made his request to the panel
of 10 women and one man today at the start of what is expected
to be a three-week trial at the U.S. courthouse in Chicago.  “Whirlpool falsely represented that its dryers created and
used steam,” when in reality they didn’t, Desideri said. That
misrepresentation, he said, injured consumers and his client, a
unit of Seoul-based LG.  This is the third legal clash between the appliance
manufacturers this year as Whirlpool in March won a $1.78
million judgment against LG in a fight over patented
refrigerator technology. One month earlier, the American company
lost a bid to have its rival’s refrigerators banned from the
U.S. market.  Both companies claim to make a dryer that removes wrinkles
and odors from clothing using hot water vapor.  Whirlpool, based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, in 2007
brought to market its Duet dryer, which injected a cold-water
mist into the heated dryer drum, which its attorney today said
created steam.  Six months later, LG introduced a unit that heated water
past 212 degrees Fahrenheit (100 degrees Celsius) to vaporize
it, then injected the resultant cloud into a slowly tumbling
cold dryer.  ‘Create Steam’  “You don’t need two sources of heat to create steam,”
Whirlpool attorney Stephen Morrison told the jury today in his
own opening statement.  A dryer in which the air temperature is 150 degrees and
some of the drum surfaces reach 300 degrees does the same job as
the LG model featuring a “teapot type of thing,” he said.  Desideri said Whirlpool had sold more than 600,000 of its
steam dryer units, reaping $346 million in revenue by violating
U.S. and Illinois false-advertising laws.  “It doesn’t boil water. It doesn’t create steam,” the LG
lawyer said.  “They want to define steam in their own way,” Morrison
countered, hewing to a theme of clothes, consumer choice and
competition. “This case ought to be decided in the showroom,
not the courtroom,” he said.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in February ruled
LG hadn’t violated a Whirlpool patent on ice storage. One month
later, Whirlpool won its judgment against LG after a seven-day
trial in Wilmington, Delaware, in which a jury also rejected an
LG claim of patent infringement.  The Chicago case was filed in January 2008.  The case is LG Electronics USA Inc. v. Whirlpool Corp.,
08cv242, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 