-- Gates Gives $35 Million to Boost Community College Graduation
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-10-04T22:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/gates-gives-35-million-to-boost-community-college-graduation.html
The  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation 
will donate $35 million over the next five years to boost
graduation rates at U.S. community colleges.  The program, called “Completion by Design,” will give
grants to groups of community colleges in nine states that
develop plans to address the needs of low-income students, the
Seattle-based foundation said today in a  statement . Seventeen
percent of first-time, full-time Hispanic students and 14
percent of black students graduate community colleges within
three years, compared with 22 percent overall, the foundation
said, citing federal data.  “Most students today who are pursuing an education beyond
high school are also balancing the demands of work and family,”
 Melinda Gates , co-chair of the foundation and wife of  Bill Gates , the billionaire chairman of Microsoft Corp., said in the
statement. “Yet colleges haven’t adapted to this new reality.
Completion by Design will give enterprising colleges the
resources they need to pursue what works for students.”  President  Barack Obama  today emphasized the role of
community colleges in preparing students for the job market, as
he announced an initiative linking companies including Oak
Brook, Illinois-based  McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, and Hartford, Connecticut-based  United
Technologies Corp.  in partnerships with schools. Tomorrow, the
White House will hold the first Summit on Community Colleges,
hosted by  Jill Biden , the wife of Vice President  Joe Biden  and a
teacher at a community college. Melinda Gates is scheduled to
speak at the event.  The states whose community colleges were selected to
compete for the Completion by Design grants are: Arizona,
California, Florida, Georgia, New York, North Carolina, Ohio,
Texas and Washington.  “When I was growing up, we led the world in the number of
college degrees awarded,” Melinda Gates said in prepared remarks
for tomorrow’s speech. “Now, we’re twelfth. Times have changed,
and we must change, too. When community colleges prepare all
their students for a successful career, then the future of our
economy will be secure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 