-- General Electric Signs $700 Million in Contracts for New Saudi Power Plant
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-04T14:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/ge-wins-700-million-in-equipment-contracts-for-saudi-arabian-power-plant.html
General Electric Co.  signed
agreements to supply gas turbines and services valued at $700
million for a new Saudi Arabian power plant as well as a broad
wastewater treatment accord for the country.  GE, whose equipment generates one-third of the world’s
electricity, will supply seven 7FA-model natural-gas turbines as
well as service and parts over 20 years for the Riyadh PP11 at
Dhuruma, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) west of the Saudi
capital of Riyadh, the company said in a statement today.
Shipments start next year for operation in mid-2012.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is tapping faster-
growing emerging-market regions like the Middle East, where
energy products and service agreements have totaled $11 billion
in the past two years. Saudi demand for electricity is rising 8
percent a year, according to Saudi Electricity Co., and GE
equipment generates 20,000 megawatts there.  Dhuruma Electricity Co. was formed by Saudi Electricity and
a consortium of GDF Suez of France, Aljomaih Group of Saudi
Arabia and Sojitz Corp. of Japan.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. 
of South Korea is overseeing plant design and construction.  GE also signed an agreement with Miahona, a unit of the
Arabian Company for Water and Power Development Ltd., for
sustaining a reliable water supply and treating wastewater, a
market the company estimates will reach $3.4 billion in the
seven years ending in 2016.  GE Energy is based in Atlanta and is the world’s biggest
provider of power-generation equipment. It accounted for $37
billion of the parent company’s $156.8 billion in sales last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  