-- Bunds Climb on U.S. Easing Speculation; Greek Bonds Advance
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-04T16:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/german-bonds-rise-on-concerns-about-peripheral-euro-area-countries-debt.html
German 10-year  bonds  rose for the
first time in three days as stock losses and speculation the
Federal Reserve and Bank of England may soon expand asset
purchases boosted demand for government securities.  Greece’s bonds beat other peripheral debt as its government
forecast budget deficits will fall this year and next year. The
extra yield investors demand for holding Greek debt instead of
German bunds fell for a seventh day, the longest stretch since
July last year.  Brian Sack , the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s markets group chief, said a further expansion of the
central bank’s balance sheet would help stimulate an economic
recovery that is forecast to be “relatively tepid.”  “Bunds are helped by the probability that the Fed and the
Bank of England may soon resume their quantitative-easing
programs,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in
Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and
money managers. “I don’t expect a strong rally from here given
yields are already at extreme levels.”  The 10-year bund yield fell 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 2.26 percent at 4:27 p.m. in London. The
price of the 2.25 percent security maturing in September 2020
rose 0.28, or 2.8 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,372) face amount, to
99.96. The 2-year yield slipped 2 basis points to 0.84 percent.  Greece’s Bonds  Greece’s bonds stayed higher after the government forecast
its budget deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product
will fall to 7.8 percent this year and to 7 percent next year
from 13.6 percent in 2009.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou , elected a year ago today,
is trying to show investors that Greece can stay the course of a
deficit-cutting drive that has slashed wages and pensions and
led to street protests. Greece is seeking to return to bond
markets next year after investor concern that the country would
default on 300 billion euros of debt led to a surge in borrowing
costs and prompted the EU-led rescue.  “It’s a very challenging budget,” said Nicholas Magginas,
an economist at National Bank of Greece SA, the country’s
largest lender. “It is increasingly likely that a less
optimistic projection for revenue will be adopted. There will
also be pressure to even that out with more spending cuts.”  Irish bonds extended gains even after the country’s central
bank cut its forecast for economic growth this year and next.  Peripheral Debt  The European Central Bank stepped up its government bond
purchases last week, buying the most in more than three months
to calm bond markets. The Frankfurt-based central bank said it
bought 1.38 billion euros of bonds last week, up from 134
million euros the previous week.  The yield on 10-year Greek securities fell 15 basis points
to 10 percent, while the Irish yield declined 18 basis points to
6.27 percent. The Spanish bond yield of the same maturity
declined 4 basis points to 4.05 percent.  The difference in yield between 10-year Greek bonds and
German bunds fell to 775 basis points from 785 basis points last
week after Chinese Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  told Greek
lawmakers in Athens yesterday that China supports a stable euro
and won’t reduce its holdings of European bonds.  Greek bonds gained almost 5 percent in the third quarter,
the first positive return since the third quarter of 2009. The
gain beat a 2 percent return from German debt during the same
period, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Further Action  Fed policy makers are now debating how to deploy tools for
more unconventional easing.  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too long,” New York Fed President  William Dudley  said last week.  Dudley estimated that $500 billion of purchases would add
as much stimulus as reducing the Fed’s benchmark rate by 0.5
percentage point to 0.75 percentage point, depending on how long
investors expect the Fed to hold the assets. The Fed has kept
the target rate for overnight loans at a record-low range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Further gains in German bonds may be limited ahead of bond
sales on Oct. 6.  Germany  plans to sell as much as 5 billion
euros of notes maturing in 2012 and one billion euros of 10-year
inflation-protected debt. France will sell bonds maturing in
2020, 2026 and 2029 on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
   smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  