-- Germany’s Steinbrueck Says Greece Was Just ‘a Foretaste’: Books
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/germany-s-steinbrueck-calls-greece-a-foretaste-for-deformed-euro-books.html
The world is a grim place in the wake
of the financial crisis, and it won’t get better soon, says  Peer Steinbrueck , the German Social Democrat who served as finance
minister under  Angela Merkel  from 2005 to 2009.  Steinbrueck, 63, is the country’s first senior government
official then in office to write a book about the cascade of
disasters triggered by the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  He proved an adept crisis manager, winning praise from
across the political spectrum.  Yet he devotes only a relatively short passage of his new
book to an insider’s account of the crisis. “Unterm Strich”
(“On Balance”) presents Steinbrueck’s world view -- his
sometimes scathing, always thoughtful analysis of everything
from the dire state of the Social Democratic Party to the
undervalued yuan; from undercapitalized German banks to shoddy
personnel choices in the European Union.  North Germans aren’t known for over-enthusiasm and
optimism. Steinbrueck, a tall, bespectacled and balding chess
player from Hamburg, is no exception.  “The bad days of the last few years could in the long term
come to be viewed as the good old days,” he cheerily observes.  There’s plenty to be bleak about. Europe faces a wall of
debt looming “like the north face of the Eiger,” Steinbrueck
says. If euro countries fail to apply their deficit rules,
“Greece was just a chilled palate-teaser, a foretaste of what
could happen to the euro,” he writes.  ‘Birth Deformities’  A breakup of the European currency zone isn’t unthinkable,
though it would be a catastrophe, he says. The  Greek crisis 
exposed what he describes as “the birth deformities of European
currency union” -- the absence of common economic policies. The
idea of creating them now is an “illusion,” he writes.  Steinbrueck, who has relinquished all his political duties
apart from a seat in parliament, is careful to neither praise
nor attack Merkel, who belongs to the rival Christian Democratic
Union, the bigger partner in the coalition in which he served.
He does, however, chide her government for not responding more
rapidly and graciously to the Greek debt crisis.  In a rare political-insider cameo, Steinbrueck recalls
meeting  George Papandreou  in January 2009 in Berlin, when the
current prime minister of Greece was still in opposition. After
soliciting deficit-reduction advice, Papandreou remarked,
tellingly, that “he was no longer sure he really wanted to win
the election.”  Slow Recovery  Germany’s current economic recovery is a temporary
phenomenon prompted by  low interest rates  and government
stimulus, Steinbrueck says. Underlying growth won’t recover for
four to five years, he gloomily predicts.  Steinbrueck describes Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2008, the day
after Lehman filed for bankruptcy protection, as “one of the
most dramatic days of my political life.” After speaking in
parliament with “the world teetering on the edge of an abyss,”
he met a former U.S. treasury secretary for a long-arranged
appointment.  “Even  Robert Rubin  couldn’t explain the Lehman case to
me,” Steinbrueck writes.  Next at his door were European Central Bank council members
 Axel Weber  and  Mario Draghi , urging him to lobby U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Hank Paulson  to keep insurer  American International
Group Inc.  afloat.  “They painted in the darkest colors the uncontrollable
chain reaction that would follow,” Steinbrueck said. Paulson,
whom he reached that afternoon, said he couldn’t immediately
promise a rescue.  Steinbrueck’s AIG  Steinbrueck’s own AIG-style calamity was  Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG , which was later rescued in Germany’s biggest bailout
since World War II. He doesn’t mince words, especially when
discussing the Hypo’s chief executive at the time,  Georg Funke .
Days after saying the bank needed 35 billion euros ($48 billion)
to avert disaster, Funke increased the amount to 50 billion.  Not one to suffer fools gladly, Steinbrueck says he felt
“betrayed” by this “scene from a madhouse.” He voices
disgust at Funke’s “mixture of denial, self-importance and
cluelessness.”  On the flip side, when Steinbrueck praises, we know he
means it. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  was “an island in
the storm.” Chinese central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
“always impressed me.”  Hero Schmidt  Steinbrueck, whose political hero is former Social
Democratic Chancellor  Helmut Schmidt , has been mooted as a
possible candidate for Germany’s top political job himself.
Though he may well be his party’s choice in the next election,
he says he often feels alienated by the SPD because it’s doing
too little to attract “the most productive core of society.”  The book doesn’t discuss his ambitions. It does suggest
that Steinbrueck is better at identifying risk than opportunity.
He would hardly make for a chancellor with vision. It’s easier
to imagine him heading the International Monetary Fund.  “Unterm Strich” is published in Germany by  Hoffmann und
Campe  (480 pages, 23 euros).  ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  