-- Gilead, Hallmark, Chippendales: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-04T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/gilead-boy-scouts-hallmark-chippendales-sony-intellectual-property.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. , the world’s
biggest maker of AIDS drugs, sued SigmaPharm Laboratories LLC to
prevent sales of a generic version of hepatitis-B drug Hepsera
in the U.S. until 2018.  SigmaPharm , based in Bensalem, Pennsylvania, is seeking
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval to sell a copy of the
medicine. In a complaint filed Sept. 29 in federal court in
Philadelphia, Gilead claims the copy would infringe it’s patent
5,663,159, which expires in 2014, and patent 6,451,340, which
runs until 2018. Gilead wants a court order to block approval
until both patent terms end.  The patents cover adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient
in Hepsera, according to the complaint. The drug, used to treat
chronic hepatitis, generated $271.6 million in 2009 sales, or
4 percent of the Foster City, California-based company’s product
revenue, Gilead said in its annual report.  As part of its FDA filing, SigmaPharm claimed the patent
expiring in 2014 is invalid and that its copy wouldn’t infringe
either patent, Gilead said in the complaint. Such a lawsuit is
typical under federal drug law to clarify patent rights during
the period that generic-drug makers seek regulatory approval.  Officials with SigmaPharm didn’t immediately return a phone
message seeking comment.  Gilead is represented by  Alexander Kerr  of  McCarter &
English LLP  of Newark, New Jersey.  The case is Gilead Sciences Inc. v. SigmaPharm Laboratories
LLC, 10-cv-05108, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Microsoft Sues Motorola Over Android-Based Smartphones  Microsoft Corp.  said it filed patent-infringement claims
against  Motorola Inc.  over smartphones that run on Google Inc.’s
Android operating system.  Microsoft said it filed a complaint Oct. 1 with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington, which could result
in a ban of U.S. imports of Motorola phones. A companion lawsuit
was filed the same day in federal court in Seattle.  Microsoft, which makes the Windows Mobile operating system
for phones, signed a licensing agreement in April with HTC Corp.
and said that it was demanding royalties from other makers of
phones that run on the Android system.  The nine patents in the complaints relate to “a range of
functionality embodied in Motorola’s Android smartphone devices
that are essential to the smartphone user experience,” Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft said in a statement. They include
synchronizing e-mail, calendars and contacts, scheduling
meetings, and notifying applications of changes in signal
strength and battery power.  In the federal court complaint, Microsoft asked for money
damages “in no event less than a reasonable royalty” and asked
that damages be tripled on the grounds that the infringement was
“willful and deliberate.”  Microsoft is represented in the federal court case by in-
house counsel T. Andrew Culbert and David E. Killough; and  David
T. Pritikin ,  Richard A. Cederoth ,  Douglas I. Lewis ,  John W.
McBride ,  Brian R. Nester  and  Kevin C. Wheeler  of Chicago’s
 Sidley Austin LLP .  The case is Microsoft Corp., v. Motorola Inc.,
2:10-cv-01577, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  BSA Cautions Scoutmasters on Playing Even Legally Burned CDs  The Boy Scouts of America organization has become a strict
constructionist with respect to copyright enforcement.  In the most recent issue of “Scouting,” a magazine for
Boy Scout leaders,  an unsigned editorial  suggests that
scoutmasters not play CD’s they have burned in the presence of
their scouts, even if the music has been downloaded legally.  The reason, the editorial suggests, is that “your Scouts
may not recognize the difference between those and the pirated
CDs friends have given them.”  The editorial also suggests that Scoutmasters seek guidance
in developing scouts’ awareness of copyright issues from such
organizations as the  Copyright Alliance , a trade group of
content owners including the Motion Picture Alliance of America,
Time Warner Inc. and Viacom Inc., and  MusicUnited.Org , a
coalition of music-industry content owners.  In 2006, the 100-year-old scouting organization developed a
 “Respect Copyright” activity patch  scouts may earn.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Paris Hilton, Hallmark Cards Settle Trademark Infringement Suit  Paris Hilton, the hotel heiress who has been characterized
as “famous for being famous,” settled her trademark-
infringement dispute with Hallmark Cards Inc., according to a
court filing.  She sued Hallmark in federal court in Los Angeles in
September 2007, accusing the Kansas City, Missouri-based
greeting card company of misusing her likeness and name on a
birthday card. She accused the company of willful, malicious and
oppressive actions toward her and sought $100,000 in damages.  The birthday card to which she objected has a caption
reading “Paris’s First Day as a Waitress,” with a photo of
Hilton’s head superimposed on a cartoon waitress’s body. It also
included the phrase “that’s hot,” with which she had been
frequently identified.  Hilton had previously starred on the “The Simple Life”
reality television show, and worked as a waitress in one
episode.  In October 2007, a federal appeals court refused to throw
out the suit.  “Hallmark cannot employ the ‘public interest’ defense
because its birthday card does not publish or report
information,” Judge  Diarmuid O’Scannlain  wrote on behalf of a
three-member appellate panel.  According to a Sept. 16 court filing, the parties reached
an accord and were to place the settlement on the court record
at a future date. The filing revealed no details of the
settlement.  The settlement followed two the denial of two requests --
one in July 2010 and a second in August 2010 -- from Hilton’s
lawyers to postpone the trial date to 2011.  Hilton was represented by Cindy W. Chan and Brent H.
Blakely of the Blakely Law Group of Los Angeles.  Hallmark’s lawyers were Bethany M. Shelton, Douglas Wayne
Robinson, and John F. Murphy of Kansas City, Missouri’s Shook
Hardy & Bacon LLP.  The case is Paris Hilton V. Hallmark Cards, 2:07-cv-05818-
PA-AJW, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  Chippendales Cuffs Not Distinctive from Playboy’s, Court Rules  Chippendales USA Inc. , which operates clubs where male
exotic dancers perform for women, lost its battle with U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to have its dancers’ collars-and-
cuffs costume declared an inherently distinctive trademark.  An appeals court in Washington ruled Oct. 1 that the
costume isn’t “unique or unusual in the particular field of
use” because of the existence of  Playboy Enterprises Inc. ’s
Playmate bunny costumes. The bunny outfits, albeit with the
addition of a corset and bunny ears and tail, have been used by
Playboy since the 1960s and registered as a U.S. trademark in
2007.  Chippendales argued that the Playboy mark was relevant only
in the market for male adult entertainment, and that the
Chippendales collars-and-cuffs mark was inherently distinctive
because its use was limited to exotic male dancing for women.  The court wasn’t persuaded, saying that the relevant market
was for adult entertainment, “not adult entertainment
specifically for women.”  Chippendales, based in Plainview, New York, was represented
by Stephen W. Feingold of Atlanta’s Kilpatrick Stockton LLP. The
government’s argument was presented by Assistant Solicitor
Christina J. Hieber of the Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office.  The case is In re Chippendales USA Inc., 2009-1370, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  Sony, Getty Images Sued over Use of Astronaut Image on Album  Sony Corp.’s Sony Music Entertainment, Hellman & Friedman’s
Getty Images Inc., and the pop singer  Dido  were sued by a U.S.
astronaut for unauthorized use of his image on an album cover.  Bruce McCandless II , the retired Navy captain who as an
astronaut in 1984 made the first untethered flight on a Space
Shuttle mission, claims that a photo of the historic flight was
used on Dido’s “ Safe Trip Home ” album without permission or
compensation.  This photo , featured on the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s website as one of the “Great Images in NASA,”
shows McCandless flying free in his pressure suit with the
blackness of space behind him and the cloud-covered blue of
earth beneath.  McCandless, now a resident of Conifer, Colorado, objected
to the use of this photo on the album as an unfair and
unauthorized exploitation of his image, name, likeness and
identity.  He said in the complaint filed Sept. 30 in federal court in
Los Angeles that because of his “special background, experience
and skills,” his name and identity have become valuable, and he
has endorsed some commercial products over the years.  He’s protected and enforced his rights by “opposing
commercial use of his persona without his consent and by
requiring offending parties to compensate him for such
unauthorized use,” according to court papers.  The suit does not allege copyright infringement, only
infringement of his persona.  He claims the defendants have used his persona and likeness
on the album cover to their commercial advantage, and asked the
court to bar further unauthorized use of his persona, and for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. He
requested extra damages to punish the defendants for their
actions.  McCandless is represented by Brook B. Bond of Zarian
Midgley & Johnson PLLC of Boise, Idaho.  The case is Bruce McCandless II v. Sony Music
Entertainment, 2:10-cv-07323, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here  IP Moves  Manatt Expands Washington IP Practice With 3 from Connolly Bove  Manatt Phelps & Phillips LLP  hired three IP specialists for
its Washington IP group, the Los Angeles-based firm said in a
 statement .  Stephen L. Sulzer, Stanley B. Green and Todd P. Taylor all
joined the Manatt firm from Wilmington, Delaware-based  Connolly
Bove Lodge & Hutz LLP . All three are litigators.  Sulzer  has represented patent clients in federal court and
before the U.S. International Trade Commission.  He has handled matters involving automotive components,
medical devices, computer network security systems, e-commerce
and data encryption, pharmaceuticals, packaging for
pharmaceutical and food products, robotics, machine tools,
wireless computer gaming devices, Internet convergence
technology, optical disc technology, color electronic prepress
computer and imaging equipment, industrial laser control
systems, security system control software, satellite technology,
power generation equipment and paper products.  Sulzer has an undergraduate degree from Northwestern
University and a law degree from Emory University.  In addition to litigation,  Green  has done patent
counseling, licensing and opinion work.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from City University of New York and a law degree from George
Washington University.  Taylor  has represented clients in trade-secrets dispute in
addition to patent matters. Among the technologies involved in
his cases are light-emitting diodes, Internet browsers, digital
rights management, medical devices and financial products.  He has an undergraduate degree from the University of Notre
Dame and a law degree from American University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 