-- Steel Demand to Slow on China, World Association Says
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-10-04T06:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/global-steel-demand-to-slow-on-china-world-association-says.html
Global steel demand growth will
decelerate next year as China’s real estate market weakens and
consumption in Japan falls, the  World Steel Association  said.  Consumption growth will slow to 5.3 percent in 2011, from
a forecast 13.1 percent gain this year, the association said
today in a  statement  released in Tokyo. China and Japan are the
world’s biggest and second-largest steel producing nations.  Slowing demand in China, where the government has
introduced measures to dampen property speculation, led 40
percent of Chinese mills to idle plants or put them on
maintenance, the China Iron & Steel Association said in August.
Consumption in India, Central and South America will drive
global growth, the association, whose members produce around 85
percent of the world’s steel, said today.  “The emerging economies such as India and Brazil will
likely lead gains in demand while there are uncertainties over
the outlook of Chinese demand,”  Yoku Ihara , an adviser at
Retela Crea Securities Co. in Tokyo, said before the demand
outlook was released.  Consumption may reach a record 1.34 billion metric tons in
2011, said the association, which is holding its annual meeting
in Tokyo this week.  Weaker Demand  “China’s apparent steel use growth will slow considerably
in the remaining part of this year due to the Chinese
government’s effort to cool the real estate sector and ongoing
steel production control,” the association said.  Chinese demand is likely to increase 3.5 percent next year,
down from a projected 6.7 percent this year, the group said.
China curbed electricity supplies to steelmakers last month to
reach energy efficiency targets and has also ordered companies
to shut obsolete mills.  Steel demand in Japan will probably fall 1.4 percent next
year after a recovery of 19.1 percent this year because of a
tighter fiscal policy and a stronger yen, the association said.  “Construction activity in Japan is still in a prolonged
slump, the cost of raw materials is climbing and the Japanese
currency, the yen, continues to strengthen,”  Eiji Hayashida ,
chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation, said today
at the meeting. “These and other challenges make the
outlook uncertain for the operating environment surrounding the
Japanese steel industry.” Hayashida is also the president of
Tokyo-based  JFE Holdings Inc. ’s steel unit  The yen touched 82.88 on Sept. 15, the highest since May
1995, prompting policy makers to intervene. Government data last
month showed  exports  grew at the slowest pace this year in
August, suggesting the yen’s strength may be hurting earnings at
companies such as  Nissan Motor Inc.  and Canon Inc.  Emerging Markets  India will become the largest steel consumer after China
and the U.S. next year, with growth of 8.2 percent and 13.6
percent expected in 2010 and 2011, respectively, the association
said. Steel demand in Brazil is forecast to rebound 34.6 percent
this year and consumption in the Central and South American
regions will likely gain 9.1 percent to a record 47.6 million
tons next year, it said.  Steel demand in India is forecast to grow 10 percent in the
year ending March 31, helped by demand for automobiles and
spending on roads and ports,  G.K. Basak , executive secretary of
steel ministry’s joint plant committee, said on Sept. 6.  Global Recovery  Global steel consumption this year is rising faster than
the association’s April 2009 estimate of 8.4 percent growth on a
stronger-than-expected recovery in developed nations after the
global financial crisis. Still, steel demand next year in the
U.S., Europe and Japan is likely to be more than 20 percent
lower than 2007 levels, according to the association.  “Economies in developed countries have yet to recover to
the pre-Lehman shock levels, while demand in China, India and
other emerging economies have exceeded 2007 levels,”  Hajime Bada , who was named to become chairman of the association, said
today in Tokyo.  Apparent steel use in the U.S. will likely advance 32.9
percent this year and increase 9.4 percent next year, the group
said. Steel use in the European Union will rise 18.9 percent
this year and will gain 5.7 percent next year, it also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  