-- GM to Shut Belgium Factory After Investor Search Fails
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-10-04T14:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/gm-to-shut-opel-factory-in-belgium-by-year-end-after-investor-search-fails.html
General Motors Co .’s money-losing
Opel division will shut its factory in Antwerp, Belgium, by the
end of this year after failing to find a buyer.  “None of the potential investors was able to come forward
with a sustainable business concept for the plant,”
Russelsheim, Germany-based Opel said in an e-mailed statement
today. “The process to search for an industrial investor
interested in continuing operations has come to an end.”  The closure of the 43-year-old  plant  marks the first
shutdown of a European auto factory since 2006. While 18
assembly factories have been shuttered in the U.S. since 2008,
European governments have prevented the region’s biggest
automakers from firing workers and used subsidies to prop up
sales.  “The market is really depressed right now, and until it’s
back on its feet again I don’t see how Opel would be able to
make a successful sale,”  Francisco Carvalho , an analyst at IHS
Automotive, said by phone from Paris. “For Opel it will be good
to trim this excess capacity because it helps them make
production in Europe more profitable.”  Out of Work  About 1,300 people still work at the Antwerp plant, which
makes the Opel Astra model, after half the workforce was
eliminated earlier this year. Opel said as recently as last
month that the factory would close at the end of the year unless
an investor made an acceptable bid by Sept. 30.  Opel lost additional market share in Germany last month.
The brand’s new registrations fell 19 percent, compared with an
18 percent drop overall, according to figures released today by
the country’s Federal Motor Vehicle Office. Opel’s share in its
home market through the first nine months of the year slipped
1.2 percentage points to 7.8 percent. Sales tumbled 37 percent,
more than the market’s 28 percent decline.  “This is the final death blow for the workers of Opel
Antwerp and its suppliers,” the ACV-CSC Metea  union  said in a
statement. “That shows in which scandalous manner GM has fooled
the employees in Antwerp.”  Luc van Grinsven , the ACV union’s representative at the
factory, said earlier today that a Chinese automaker and an
American investor had expressed interest in buying the plant.  The last European plants to close were in 2006, when
Detroit-based GM shut its site in Azambuja, Portugal, and PSA
Peugeot Citroen folded its Ryton facility in Coventry, England.  Reasonable Proposals  “During this wind-down period, while the active search of
an investor for continuing activities has ended, we will remain
open to discuss any reasonable proposals that might be presented
to us,” Opel said today.  With GM and Chrysler Group LLC leading the U.S. plant
closures as part of their bankruptcy reorganizations last year,
improved usage is helping them post profits or pare losses. GM,
the biggest U.S. carmaker, earned $2.4 billion in the first
half. Chrysler, run by Fiat SpA, reduced its loss to $369
million.  Even as it’s closing the Antwerp plant, GM has promised to
invest 11 billion euros ($15 billion) in its Opel and Vauxhall
divisions to improve the model line-up and win back customers.
Opel said last month it will build a new small car at the German
plant in Eisenach from 2013.  The carmaker is also ramping up component and engine
production at the Kaiserslautern factory and said it will invest
500 million euros into making engines at its site in Hungary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  