-- Goldman Sachs Sued Over German Bank's $37 Million Loss on CDO
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/goldman-sachs-tcw-sued-by-landesbank-over-37-million-in-losses-from-cdo.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which
served as the placement agent for a collateralized debt
obligation named Davis Square Funding VI, was sued by Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg over its $37 million loss on the investment.  The CDO held 95 percent residential mortgage-backed
securities, of which 33 percent were subprime and 46 percent
were “midprime,” the German bank said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. TCW Group Inc., the
investment adviser on the CDO, was also sued by the bank.  When Goldman sold the investments to a Luxembourg affiliate
of LBBW in March 2006, they were represented as “safe, secure,
and nearly risk free,” according to the complaint. At the same
time, Goldman senior executives privately observed that “it was
game over” for subprime lenders and were reducing their
exposure to the mortgages, LBBW said.  “Goldman knew at the highest levels of its organization
that its representations to LBBW Luxemburg that the notes
merited triple-A ratings and were high grade were blatantly
false,” the Stuttgart-based bank said. “Goldman committed
fraud and, or, was negligent in marketing and selling the notes
to LBBW Luxemburg.”  Moreover, Goldman was buying credit default swaps in case
Davis Square VI and similar CDOs would fail and was also using
TCW Group’s parent company,  Societe Generale SA , to purchase
insurance specifically against Davis Square’s failure, the bank
said.  “TCW has acted appropriately in managing Davis Square VI
and any allegation to the contrary is without merit,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said yesterday that the company had no immediate comment.  The case is Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg v. Goldman Sachs,
10-7549, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 