-- Graeme McDowell Ends U.S. Surge at Ryder Cup to Win Back Trophy
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/graeme-mcdowell-s-best-putt-sparks-europe-s-ryder-cup-victory-over-u-s-.html
U.S. Open golf champion  Graeme McDowell  was the player to end America’s Ryder Cup dreams.  McDowell’s victory in the final singles match yesterday
ensured that Europe would hold on to win 14½ to 13½ and reclaim
the trophy. The U.S. needed 14 points to retain the cup that it
won two years ago at Valhalla Golf Club in Louisville, Kentucky.  With the host team needing to win the final match at Celtic
Manor in Newport, Wales, and the U.S. team surging, McDowell
sank a 20-foot putt on the 16th hole to put the pressure back on
 Hunter Mahan . The Northern Irishman later said he felt “so
nervous he could barely hold the club,” according to teammate
 Lee Westwood .  McDowell started to realize his match would matter as the
scoreboard began showing improving American performance. Europe
started the day with a three-point lead, and just after lunch
was winning seven of the 12 singles matches. McDowell realized
on the 10th green that things were turning around.  Zach Johnson ’s victory tied the event at 13½-13½.  “I’ve never felt that nervous on a golf course in my
life,” McDowell said. “Obviously, I hoped I wasn’t going to be
needed. At that point, I got extremely nervous and coming down
the stretch there, I’ve never felt nerves like it.”  With McDowell’s putt giving him a two-hole lead with two
holes remaining, Mahan was forced to take chances to try to keep
the trophy in American hands. The resident of Colleyville,
Texas, fluffed a shot on the next hole, conceding the match to
McDowell and setting off celebrations in the middle of the 17th
green. The native of Portrush, Northern Ireland, won 3 and 1, or
by three holes with one to play.  Nerve-Wracking  McDowell said the Ryder Cup is far more nerve-wracking than
the U.S. Open, which he won at Pebble Beach in June.  “The U.S. Open felt like the back nine with my dad at
Portrush,” he said. “I was really nervous, wow. It’s a
different feeling, it’s just so much pressure.”  McDowell’s self-belief was the reason he anchored the
European team today, according to captain  Colin Montgomerie .  “Graeme McDowell was put there for a good reason, he’s
full of confidence and it showed,”  Montgomerie said. “That
birdie on 16 was quite unbelievable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 