-- Greenspan Would Spot These Interest-Rate Bubbles: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/greenspan-would-spot-these-interest-rate-bubbles-matthew-lynn.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  once said there wasn’t much that central bankers could
do about asset-price bubbles because it’s too hard to spot them
until after they have burst.  Near-zero interest rates are driving investors to search
for meaningful returns on their money by piling their cash into
higher-risk investments. Sales of everything from corporate
bonds to structured products that use derivatives to boost
returns are soaring. Commodities, mergers and acquisitions,
government bonds -- all are attracting inflows of cheap money.  Central banks in Europe and the U.S. were right to lower
borrowing costs in response to the credit crunch two years ago.
But these levels are now seen as normal. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke , Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  should
recognize that markets are going haywire and that they could
easily deflate these bubbles before it is too late.  Global interest rates are at record lows. In the U.K., the
benchmark is  0.5 percent , the lowest since the Bank of England
was founded in 1694. In the  euro area , the main refinancing rate
is 1 percent, the lowest in the ECB’s short history. In the
U.S., the Fed slashed rates to a record 0.25 percent.  Not only are rates almost nothing, they have stayed that
way for a long time. The ECB and the Bank of England have kept
the same rate since the first half of last year; the Fed hasn’t
changed its benchmark since December 2008.  Extraordinary Crisis  Initially, low rates were seen as an emergency measure: a
temporary cut to deal with an extraordinary crisis. But 18
months isn’t temporary. Zero rates have become the new normal.
There is more chance of finding little green men on Mars than
there is of a major central bank boosting borrowing costs in the
coming year. Another six months or so, and most of us will
probably have forgotten that money we kept in the bank ever
earned any interest.  And yet if economics has one simple lesson, it is that if
you change the price of something, you change behavior as well.
Sure enough, interest rates close to zero are changing the way
people use their money -- and not necessarily for the better.  There isn’t much point in keeping money in cash when it
doesn’t earn anything. Instead, people are looking for anything
that delivers some kind of yield.  Soaring Prices  Sales of junk bonds are soaring -- and so are the prices.
Companies have issued a record number of noninvestment-grade
bonds in 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Such debt issuance
in the U.S. has jumped to $200 billion this year compared with
$106.1 billion in the same period of 2009. If your credit rating
isn’t that great, there has never been an easier time to raise
money on the bond market.  Likewise, sales of bonds known as structured notes, which
use derivatives to increase the yield for investors, were up 58
percent in the year through August, according to Bloomberg data,
even though they often aren’t suitable for private investors.  Those are just two ways the market is being distorted.
It is happening in other places as well.  There is plenty of life in the mergers-and-acquisitions
market. And why not? If executives can borrow money for next to
nothing, and sell all the junk bonds without a serious credit
rating, why not go out and buy a competitor? It’s easier than
building market share with better products and cheaper prices.  Low Repayments Forever  In countries such as the U.K., the property market remains
suspiciously resilient. Again, why shouldn’t it? Initially,
record-low rates were a windfall for home owners: Monthly
mortgage payments plummeted. Now many people own properties on
the assumption they will be paying about 3 percent a year in
interest on their mortgage -- forever.  All these markets have gone bonkers. Among savers, low
rates are creating demand for assets that don’t really belong in
the portfolios of most ordinary investors, and are bound to
collapse in price once money becomes more expensive again. Among
property buyers, and in the corporate M&A market, they are
lulling buyers into a false sense of security.  Slashing interest rates near zero made sense two years ago
when the global financial system seemed on the verge of
implosion. But the emergency has mostly passed. They are now
more of a problem than a solution.  Central bankers may believe they are propping up demand.
Maybe they are, to some extent. But they also need to recognize
that they are distorting the market and creating new bubbles.  Even Greenspan would agree we have seen enough of those.  ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Lynn  in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  