-- Iberdrola, Enel May Dodge Cuts as Spain Plans Sale
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-10-05T11:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/iberdrola-enel-may-dodge-downgrades-as-spain-plans-bond-sale-euro-credit.html
The Spanish government’s plan to sell
about 14 billion euros ($19 billion) of bonds to pay debt owed
to the country’s biggest power companies may help  Iberdrola SA 
and  Enel SpA  avoid credit-rating downgrades.  The bonds, whose proceeds will be used to pay back
utilities for subsidizing power rates, are being marketed this
week to investors by bankers at Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and four other firms. The sale comes after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered the country’s credit rating to Aa1
from Aaa on Sept. 30 and said the outlook is “stable.”  “This will be a watershed,” said  Raimundo Fernandez- Cuesta , a utilities analyst at Nomura International Plc in
Madrid. “It will put to bed fears” of potential downgrades for
 Iberdrola  and  Enel , he said.  The government hasn’t sold bonds to reimburse utilities
since before New York-based investment bank Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008. Spain, like the rest
of the so-called euro peripherals, is under pressure to reduce
its budget deficit without strangling the economy. Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  forecasts the economy will grow 1.3
percent next year, more than twice the 0.6 percent estimated by
the International Monetary Fund.  Iberdrola  and Enel’s Endesa unit, Spain’s biggest power
producers, are owed 3.7 billion euros and 7.7 billion euros,
respectively, after using their cash and debt to cover the gap
between revenue they receive from customers and what has been
promised by the government. About 3 billion euros is owed to
other Spanish utilities, including the local units of E. ON AG 
and EDP-Energias de  Portugal SA .  Moody’s Review  A successful sale by the government “will take off a lot
of the pressure” for Iberdrola and Enel, said  Neil Beddall , a
credit analyst at Barclays Capital in London. Moody’s has
Bilbao, Spain-based Iberdrola’s A3 rating, the seventh-highest
investment grade, and Enel’s A2 grade under review for possible
cuts. Iberdrola was placed on negative watch July 5 after the
government postponed an increase in power prices.  Iberdrola bondholders currently demand an interest rate for
five-year debt that’s more like a lower-rated company.
Iberdrola’s 7.5 percent bonds due November 2015 currently trade
at 158 basis points more than government debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s 52 basis points more than the average
yield premium for five-year debt of similarly rated European
industrial companies, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  The Spanish utility’s five-year notes trade 17 basis points
less than the spread investors demand for BBB rated 2015 notes,
Merrill Lynch indexes show. The 5.25 percent notes of Italy’s
Enel due in January 2015 currently trade 6 basis points wider
than Iberdrola’s, according to Bloomberg data.  Electricity Debt  The debt of all Spanish utilities from delayed electricity
payments, including the local units of E.ON and EDP-Energias de
Portugal, was 14.6 billion euros at the end of 2009, government
reports show.  Spanish utilities got into this position after the
government, led by Socialist  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , refused to set power prices high enough to cover
costs, including renewable-energy subsidies.  The money raised in bond sales will repay power companies
that were forced to keep down rates -- also known as tariffs --
for most of the past decade. The government relied on utility
subsidies to bolster the economy. From 2002 to 2006, Spain
accounted for half of the new jobs created in the euro region.  Negative Watch  Endesa will use the revenue from any bond sale to reduce
its debt and decide whether to pay down short-term or long-term
loans depending on the market when the cash is received,
according to a spokesman who asked not to be named in line with
company policy.  Endesa’s owner Enel  has been on negative watch at Moody’s
since April 2009 after the company bought an additional 25
percent of Madrid-based Endesa from Acciona SA.  Iberdrola officials referred to statements from July by
Chief Executive Officer  Jose Ignacio Sanchez Galan  when he said
the company may have sell assets to shore up its balance sheet.  The debt sale “has to be done and it has to be done
quickly,” Galan said on a July 21 conference call with
analysts. “We’re doing as much as we possibly can to speed
things up at all levels.”  Standard & Poor’s A- credit ratings for Iberdrola and Enel
assume both will strengthen their balance sheets over the next
year by generating cash through a securitization of tariff-
deficit debt or by selling assets. Should they fail to make
sufficient progress, S&P may review the rating, analyst  Leigh Bailey  said in a Sept. 21 telephone interview.  Reducing Debt  Under the government’s plan, power companies will sell
their entitlements from the tariff deficit to a fund managed by
Titulizacion de Activos SGFT SA. TDA will then sell bonds backed
by those assets and guaranteed by the Spanish treasury. Interest
and principal payments on the bond will be covered by revenue
from a surcharge on future Spanish power bills.  “It’s a direct reduction of debt” for the utilities, said
Beddall of Barclays. “It demonstrates that the Spanish
government is far more likely to securitize the whole amount.”  Bonds of European power companies rallied in the six months
since the European Union announced its 750 billion-euro bailout
package for the euro region, easing investor concern about
possible defaults in countries such as Greece.  The extra yield investors demand for holding 10-year
 Spanish bonds  rather than German bunds fell 0.5 of a basis point
yesterday to 180.1 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.
The gap was as wide as 221 basis points on June 16. The yield
premium for 10-year Greek bonds was 786 basis points more than
Germany, the most of any euro nation.  Under Spanish law, the government sets power prices for
most consumers based on the expected wholesale cost of
electricity, plus the subsidies allocated for renewable energy
sources such as wind and solar power. The government has set
prices below the overall cost of producing power each year since
2005 to win support from electricity users, according to a
report by Madrid-based Intermoney Energia SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  