-- IBM Starts Web Game to Boost `Smarter Planet' Sales
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-04T20:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/ibm-starts-online-video-game-to-boost-smarter-planet-sales.html
International Business Machines Corp. 
is starting an online video game that simulates business and
city problems and provides different technologies to solve them,
aiming to boost sales of services and software.  Users choose from four sectors -- banking, retail, water or
energy -- and solve related problems, such as monitoring a
city’s water quality or power supply. Users can download the
game, called CityOne, for free starting today, Nancy Pearson, a
vice president in IBM’s software business, said in a phone
interview.  The game, which lets users pick different technology
options and compare results, may increase awareness and sales of
new services at IBM, Pearson said. IBM has been investing in
technology for its Smarter Planet program, the idea that
anything from buildings to utility grids can be digitally
measured to be more efficient. Such technology will generate
about $10 billion in  sales  by 2015, Armonk, New York-based IBM
said in May.  “This is a way to engage people who may not have thought
of IBM before in this way,” Pearson said.  More than 7,000 people have signed up to download the game,
including members of universities, governments and businesses,
she said. Users will be able to chat via the Internet with IBM
representatives if they have questions.  The banking and retail paths of the game will present more
business-related problems, such as boosting risk management,
Pearson said. The company plans to add more sectors and
scenarios to the game, Pearson said.  IBM  fell  39 cents to $135.25 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have  climbed  3.3 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 