-- Icelanders Hurl Eggs at Parliament in Mass Protests
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-10-05T16:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/icelanders-hurl-eggs-red-paint-at-parliament-walls-as-thousands-protest.html
Iceland’s police sealed off the
country’s parliament with a five-foot steel fence to protect
lawmakers as protestors gathered in their thousands, beating
makeshift drums and hurling red paint at the legislature.  As many as 8,000 people protested outside the Reykjavik-
based Althingi last night, according to a police estimate, as
Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  presented her key policy
objectives to lawmakers. Protestors lit a bonfire and threw
firecrackers at police while others threw eggs, tomatoes and
paint at the parliament as they tried to break through the steel
fence protecting the building.  Sigurdardottir, who convened a Cabinet meeting today to
address the protests, is working on measures to help households
restructure debt, she told reporters today. Finance Minister
 Steingrimur J. Sigfusson  said banks need to do more to
restructure homeowners’ debt burdens, at the same press
conference.  The protests were designed to disrupt the Prime Minister’s
first speech to lawmakers since parliament convened for the
autumn session this month. Her government, in office since
January 2009, is still struggling to resurrect the economy after
its banking meltdown a year earlier plunged the island into a
crisis that sent the krona down as much as 80 percent against
the euro offshore. The island has since relied on a $4.6 billion
International Monetary Fund-led loan to stay afloat.  Feed Families  “The government has failed the average person in
Iceland,” said Baldur Jonsson, a protestor who said the crisis
cost him his job. “It protects the interests of financial
institutions while it couldn’t care less about normal people who
have no job, no income and have lost the ability to feed their
family.”  The $13 billion economy contracted an annual 8.4 percent in
the second quarter, after shrinking 6.8 percent in 2009. The
average Icelander experienced a 20.3 percent decline in his real,
disposable income last year, while unemployment stood at 7.3
percent in August. Real house prices in the capital Reykjavik
have slumped 34 percent since an October 2007 peak, the central
bank said in August. The krona has been protected by capital
controls since the end of 2008 to halt a selloff.  Of the 102,100 households in Iceland, the central bank
estimated in April that 14 percent can’t meet their mortgage
payments. Of single-parent households, which account for about
7,900 of homes, 20 percent can’t make ends meet. A total of 39
percent of homeowners are technically insolvent, according to
the bank.  New Democracy  “Tonight will mark the beginning of a new democracy in
Iceland in which people who have lost everything will claim
what’s rightfully theirs,” Jonsson said. Protestors dispersed
shortly after midnight local time while organizers had called
on people to regroup at 2 p.m. in the Icelandic capital today.  Sigurdardottir’s Social Democrat, Left Green coalition took
over from the administration of former Prime Minister  Geir H. Haarde  after it was ousted at the beginning of last year
following mass public protests. Haarde was indicted by
parliament on Sept. 28, becoming the first political leader
since the global financial crisis started to face criminal
proceedings because of alleged economic mismanagement.  Guard Dogs of Power  Some opposition lawmakers last night said the government
hasn’t done enough to improve the plight of the average
Icelander. “The guard dogs of power” are getting “fatter at
the cost of the general public and at the cost of families that
have lost everything,” said Baldvin Jonsson, a member of
parliament for the smallest member of the opposition bloc, the
Movement Party. “At the same time, the friends of those in
power and the owners of capital are given write-offs amounting
to thousands of millions.”  Sigurdardottir said she won’t be seeking a national unity
government, at a press conference today, though her government
will seek “greater cooperation” with parties outside her
coalition, she said.  Sigurdardottir in prepared remarks told lawmakers the IMF’s
third review of Iceland’s economic program, completed last week,
will help lower credit default swap rates on the island’s debt
and help ease access to international markets. That review
unlocked a $167.5 million disbursement, which Iceland will use
to bolster foreign reserves.  “With these good results we are laying the foundation for
the removal of the capital controls and increased foreign
investment in this country,” she told parliament.  The cost of insuring against a default on Iceland’s five-
year debt has eased since the failure of the banks. The
contracts have declined from a peak of 1,473 basis points in
October 2008, after Kaupthing Bank hf, Glitnir Bank hf and
Landsbanki Islands hf collapsed weeks of each other, to 308
basis points yesterday, according to data available on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  