-- Michael Vick-McNabb Showdown Offers Reminder: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-04T04:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/michael-vick-mcnabb-showdown-offers-a-reminder-scott-soshnick-commentary.html
The ballyhooed matchup of  Michael Vick  versus  Donovan McNabb , which is how yesterday’s
Philadelphia Eagles-Washington Redskins game was billed, didn’t
last very long.  Vick, as he’s apt to do, saw an opening and took off down
field late in the first quarter, got sandwiched, got hurt and
didn’t return to the field. Oh those aching ribs. More on that
later.  But let’s not lament what football fans didn’t get. This
game, and all the hype associated with McNabb’s return to
Philadelphia, where he did everything except win the Super Bowl,
should be remembered for what fans of all sports did get: a
much-needed reminder that no one person, not even the
quarterback, can win by himself.  The Redskins won the game, 17-12.  “We won,” McNabb, prodded all week to reduce the game to
one-on-one, him versus Vick, told his teammates in the locker
room when it was over. “This defines team.”  Amen to that. Win together, lose together.  Undoubtedly disappointed Eagles fans, the folks who once
booed Santa Claus, headed to the parking lots believing in the
notion that surely their team would’ve won had Vick played all
four quarters.  Not so fast.  Replacing Kolb  Vick was replaced by  Kevin Kolb , who began the season as
the starter. Kolb got hurt and was replaced by Vick, a former
Pro Bowl player who seized the opportunity, impressed the coach,
won over the fans and, ultimately, won the starting job.  For two weeks now we’ve heard how this Vick is better than
the old Vick, the guy who as a member of the Falcons dazzled
with his feet. The new-and-improved Vick, National Football
League analysts said, had learned to be patient in the pocket,
enabling him to pick apart defenses with his left arm.  Fans always remember the final score. Too often, however,
they forget the details of how it happened, the little things,
which are really big things. Oh, you can bet the fans of
Philadelphia will remember that Kolb entered the game and
dropped a shotgun snap from his center.  They’ll remember the final drive, when the Eagles still had
a chance. They’ll remember four consecutive incomplete passes
and, ultimately, a shot at the end zone that didn’t answer
prayers.  If only Vick didn’t get hurt, they’ll lament all day on
sports radio.  Eagles’ Mistakes  Fans tend to forget that Kolb had the Eagles, down 17-3,
inches from the goal line when his coach called timeout. Only
something went haywire on the sideline, resulting in a five yard
delay-of-game penalty. Instead of one last shot at the end zone,
which would’ve cut the deficit to seven points, the Eagles had
to settle for a field goal.  Big difference between 17-10 and 17-6. Huge.  Yes, Kolb is the quarterback and is responsible for getting
the play off on time. Presuming, of course, the coaching staff
gives him the play with enough time to execute the plan. They
didn’t.  Fans tend to forget when an Eagles linebacker, on third
down, gets flagged for roughing the quarterback. Instead of
getting the ball, the Eagles gave McNabb another set of downs.
Things like that lose football games.  Then there was the illegal contact penalty on third down,
giving McNabb yet another automatic first down. And don’t blame
Kolb for LeSean McCoy’s fumble.  Self Preservation  This isn’t a knock on Vick, who has played awfully well in
his brief stint as starter. But a running quarterback needs to
understand the art of self preservation. Slide. Get out of
bounds. Duck. Whatever. Just don’t take on behemoths hell-bent
on pleasing their coaches by knocking the opposing team’s most
dangerous player senseless.  Vick got hurt on a 23-yard run to the Washington 1-yard
line. He saw the end zone, put his head down and then, crunch.
Making matters worse, the play wouldn’t even have counted as
Eagles lineman  Max Jean-Gilles  was flagged for holding. Double
ouch.  Vick, who didn’t speak with the media after the game, will
have an MRI today.  Unfortunately, we’ll never know what would’ve happened had
Vick not gotten hurt. We can only speculate. One man can only do
so much. His presence wouldn’t have changed the stupid penalties
and one running back’s butterfingers.  Pick a quarterback, any quarterback. Vick. Kolb. Heck, even
Montana, Marino or Elway. It’s one guy and football is a team
game.  Football fans didn’t get McNabb versus Vick, no. But the
reminder ain’t bad.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  