-- Microsoft Cut From Goldman Buy List on Mobile Weakness
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-04T13:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/microsoft-removed-from-goldman-sachs-buy-list-on-weakness-in-mobile-market.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  analysts cut
 Microsoft Corp.  shares to “neutral,” citing the world’s
largest software company’s struggles to gain market share in
mobile devices.  Microsoft was removed from the bank’s Americas Buy List,
with a price target of $28 rather than $32, Goldman Sachs
analysts including  Sarah Friar  wrote in a note to clients. The
company needs to win “a firmer foothold in the growing
migration to mobile devices” in order to improve investor
sentiment, they wrote.  Microsoft has struggled to match mobile offerings from
rivals including  Apple Inc.  and  Google Inc. , whose Android
software powers high-end phones and tablet computers. Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft has yet to release a tablet computer
to compete with Apple’s iPad, 3 million of which were sold in
the first 80 days of its release.  A rebound by Microsoft is unlikely this year since
“Apple’s iPad and iPhone plus Google’s Android operating system
are well established,” the Goldman analysts wrote.  The company may also be held back by corporate clients
replacing computers more slowly because of budget pressures, and
“cannibalization” of laptop computer sales in favor of
tablets, they said.  Microsoft  fell 48 cents, or 2 percent, to $23.90 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 9:35 a.m. New York time. The stock had
lost 20 percent this year before today.  New Products  Microsoft is promising a suite of new products aimed at
gaining ground in the mobile market. Smartphones running the
company’s revamped Windows Phone 7 operating system will go on
sale later this year, and Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer 
has also promised tablet computers.  In June Microsoft scrapped its Kin smartphone after less
than two months on the market.  Windows Phone 7 will initially run on devices from
manufacturers including  HTC Corp. , the company has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  