-- Tiger Woods Resort Developer Loses Lead Role in Oman Project
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-10-04T09:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tiger-woods-resort-developer-loses-lead-role-in-managing-project-in-oman.html
Oman’s government has stepped in to
revive a stalled housing project partly owned by the developer
of a  Tiger Woods -branded golf resort in Dubai.  Work on the  Salam Yiti  development close to Muscat, the
Omani capital, will resume in the first quarter of 2011 after
Sama Dubai LLC agreed to let Oman take a larger management role,
said Wael Lawati, chief executive officer of Omran, the
investment arm of the country’s tourism ministry.  “In the past, Sama Dubai was the development manager and
Omran was just an equity partner,” Lawati said in an interview.
“Now that relationship is changing so that Omran can take more
of a lead in terms of developing the project.”  Sama Dubai, which merged with Dubai Properties Group and
Tatweer in August 2009, was beset by defaults after the
emirate’s real-estate market crashed in the wake of the global
credit crisis. Plans to build a golf course and villa project in
Dubai in partnership with  Tiger Woods Design  are being reviewed
“in line with market dynamics and demand,” a Dubai Properties
spokesman said by e-mail last week. In February, it said the
resort would be completed as planned.  In Oman, the government is making changes to the Salam Yiti
project, originally designed to include about 5,720 homes, four
hotels and a golf course. The number of homes probably will be
reduced to about 2,000, while the golf course and hotels will go
ahead as planned, Lawati said.  The agreement to revive  Salam Yiti , which stalled for more
than two years, could result in a reduction of Sama Dubai’s
stake in the project, according to Lawati. Currently the
developer owns 70 percent of the project and Oman holds the
rest.  ‘Cash Call’  “There will be a cash call, and if partners can’t put up
their share, one will dilute the other,” Lawati said. “Whoever
puts up the money gets the bigger share.”  Sama Dubai’s $3 billion Amwaj development in Morocco is
also on hold, Moroccan Tourism Minister Yassir Zenagui said in
May. Prior to the merger, Sama Dubai was the international
property unit of Dubai Holding LLC, owned by Dubai’s ruler
 Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid  Al Maktoum.  “We are working closely with our partners in Oman to
determine the way forward in the current market environment,”
Dubai Properties said in last week’s email.  Construction on Salam Yiti should take about five years,
Lawati said. The first phase of the development was originally
scheduled for completion in mid-2010.  “In the past, we were looking at extreme luxury,” Lawati
said. “That market has shrunk tremendously since the crisis.
Now we will be looking at housing that is still in the upper
middle-income range.”  Plans for the 55 million-square-foot (5.1 million-square-
meter) Tiger Woods Dubai resort include 287 luxury villas and
mansions, a boutique hotel and a clubhouse. The project was
formed as a joint venture between Tatweer and Tiger Woods
Design, the athlete’s golf course design company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 