-- Illinois Financial Situation `Continues to Deteriorate,' Comptroller Says
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/illinois-financial-situation-continues-to-deteriorate-comptroller-says.html
Illinois ’s deteriorating financial
condition threatens to swallow up more than half its general-
fund budget in the next fiscal year, Comptroller  Dan Hynes  said.  The financial picture drawn by Hynes in a report yesterday
projects a fiscal 2012 deficit of $15 billion or more, while
this year’s budget calls for $26 billion in spending. The
state’s financial condition “continues to deteriorate,” Hynes
said, citing a 36 percent surge in fiscal 2010 bills to be paid
from current-year revenue.  The amount of unpaid obligations for the current year may
balloon to $8 billion by June 30, when fiscal 2011 ends, Hynes
said. That figure may increase if the state doesn’t make $3.7
billion in pension payments due this year, he said. The deficit
and late payments of current debts may create “chaotic fiscal
conditions as the situation snowballs,” he said.  “The ability of the state to maintain any reasonable level
of education and social-service funding -- and just as
importantly, to pay for those services on a timely basis -- will
be severely jeopardized,” Hynes said.  State revenue was little changed in the three months
through September, rising $3 million to $6.45 billion compared
with fiscal 2010’s first quarter, as the “sluggish”  economy 
acted as a drag on tax receipts, Hynes said. In a previous
report, he said the state’s fiscal position was the worst ever
on June 30. Since then, the general fund’s negative balance
deepened to $4.93 billion on Sept. 30 from $4.7 billion.  Payment Commitment  Governor  Pat Quinn  “is committed to paying all” bills
from 2010, which ended in June, by the end of this year, said
 Kelly Kraft , a spokeswoman. Quinn, a Democrat, is working to
reduce the deficit and will need the help of the Legislature,
she said.  Payments to vendors who do business with the state will
continue to be delayed, beyond “the historic levels seen
recently,” and may not be made until December, according to
Hynes’s report. The state has unpaid bills dating back to March.  “This will lead to more providers facing financial
hardship and further threaten both the level and quality of
services provided to Illinois citizens,” Hynes said.  The state earlier was forecast to face a deficit of $13
billion when the governor presents his fiscal 2012 budget in
January.  Last month, Moody’s Investors Service changed the outlook
on the state’s credit rating to negative from stable, which may
indicate a cut will be made in grades affecting $25 billion of
A1 rated general-obligation bonds. Moody’s cited the state’s
failure to take steps to correct a “structural budget
imbalance” and pension finances.  Illinois’s general-fund deficit almost tripled in a year to
$7.7 billion for fiscal 2009, Moody’s said Sept. 23. The rating
company cut the state’s credit grade to A1 on June 4. Lower
ratings can increase the cost of borrowing as investors demand
higher returns to compensate for increased risk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 