-- Indian Farmers Fight Billionaire Mittal, Posco for Water Rights
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-04T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/indian-farmers-fight-billionaire-mittal-posco-for-water-rights.html
ArcelorMittal  and Posco are leading
$80 billion in planned spending in India that would vault the
country ahead of Japan as the second-biggest steelmaker.
Standing in the way are farmers and their water supply.  The farmers refuse to move from irrigated land in three
states that hold more than half of India’s reserves of iron
ore, a key material to make steel. That’s stymied Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s ambitions to more than triple
India’s steel capacity to 232 million metric tons.  “We’re not going to allow the government to take the
land and water and give them to  Posco ,” said Prasanth
Paikare, a spokesman for opposition group Posco Prathirodh
Sangram Samiti that says it represents 25,000 farmers. “The
government has promised us land at a new location but there
is no good land available in the state now and there won’t be
enough water for agriculture,” he said in Bhubaneswar, the
capital of Orissa state.  The farmers’ concern about water for crops has delayed
plans by ArcelorMittal,  Posco  and at least five rivals to
benefit from a steel market that has expanded more than 55
percent since 2005 as Indian imports of the metal tripled in
the same period. Posco’s proposal to build a $12 billion
steel plant in Orissa has stalled for five years as the South
Korean company failed to persuade farmers to move.  “Repeated delays have left investors concerned about
whether Posco can make it,” said  Im Jeong Jae , who helps
manage $26.3 billion of assets, including shares of the
world’s third-biggest steelmaker, at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co. “India is very important because it has
the best growth potential after China for steel demand and
Posco can also source iron ore and raw materials there.”  Lagging Behind  The latest hurdle is an environment ministry report due
this month on the impact of the Posco project. Chief Executive
Officer  Chung Joon Yang  has since announced investment plans in
Indonesia and Vietnam, as it  lagged behind  Chinese steelmaker
Baosteel Group Corp.  The 160 million tons of steel capacity planned in India
would consume 640 billion gallons of water a year, based on
average consumption of U.S. steel mills in a U.S. Department
of Energy  paper . That’s enough to provide enough water for
drinking and cooking for 133 million people in India for a
year, according to figures from the government.  That level of water consumption would yield 1 million
tons of rice a year, which at today’s price of $299 a ton
would fetch 0.3 percent of the value of the steel produced
and be enough to feed 9 million people in India for a year,
based on the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
consumption estimates.  Land and Water  “Posco wants our land, it wants our water,” said Makar
Kandi, 75, who sustains a family of eight from a one-acre
plot on which he grows betel leaves in Orissa’s Dhinkia
village. “Agriculture is our only means. We’ll have no
livelihood.”  India increased annual steel output by 34 million tons
since 2005, compared with 219 million tons by China, the
biggest-producing nation.  A ton of  hot-rolled coil , a benchmark steel product,
sells for about $685, compared with $299 a ton for a common
variety of rice in India.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, faces
delays for a $10 billion mill in Orissa and in Jharkhand state.
Projects by Tata Steel Ltd., India’s biggest maker of the metal,
are faring no better in the two states and in Chhattisgarh.  Iron Ore Attraction  According to an agreement with Jharkhand, Luxembourg-
based ArcelorMittal would have access to 20 million tons of iron
ore annually for 30 years. That’s enough to raise its self-
sufficiency in the raw material by 33 percent. Iron ore prices
have gained in two out of three quarters this year.  “Securing iron ore assets has become very important for
the steel companies as prices both in the contractual as well as
spot markets have been very volatile,”  Elora Sahoo , an analyst
at Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd., said in Mumbai. “Having their own iron
ore assets will help companies hedge against market price
movements and control the cost of production.”  ArcelorMittal is now seeking to secure land at a new
location in Jharkhand, said spokeswoman Mandakini Sud. There
has been “good” progress in convincing locals, mostly
people engaged in non-agricultural activities, to give up
land, she said.  “With over 60 percent of India’s population dependent
on the monsoons for livelihood, there’s population
concentration and serious competition in areas with water,”
 Rahul Jain , an analyst at RBS Equities India Ltd. said in
Mumbai.  Less Rainfall  What’s making the case worse for Posco is the declining
rainfall in the Jagatsinghpur district where it’s planning
its mill. Rain during the June-September monsoon period, needed
for agriculture, has fallen 26 percent from 2007 to 2009,
according to data from the country’s weather department.  That forced farmers to compete with manufacturers
including  Vedanta Resources Plc  and  Hindalco Industries Ltd. 
for water from the Mahanadi river. Posco plans to secure
water through pipes from the Jobra dam on the river.  “Opposition to the project is unfounded,” Posco India
Ltd. General Manager Simanta Mohanty said. “We will not use
local water. There’s enough water available from Jobra.”  The steelmakers in June begun exploring sites in the
southern state of Karnataka, which has the country’s second-
biggest iron ore deposit. The catch? Lack of water.  “The state has decided to acquire dry and barren land,
which gives little or no returns to the farmers,” said V.P.
Baligar, industry secretary of Karnataka state. “On such
land, water is an issue and we are trying to address it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  