-- India's Monthly Services Index, Weekly Food Price Inflation: Week Ahead
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-04T03:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/india-s-monthly-services-index-weekly-food-price-inflation-week-ahead.html
India’s services industry may have
expanded while food inflation probably slowed, data scheduled to
be released this week will show.  The HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics monthly
purchasing managers’ index is due at 10:30 a.m. local time on
Oct. 5. The gauge slipped to 59.3 from 61.7 in July, a Sept. 3
report showed. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  An index measuring  wholesale prices  of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetable compiled by the
commerce ministry is scheduled to be released at midday on Oct.
7 in New Delhi.  The Commonwealth Games, featuring 8,000 athletes and
officials from Britain’s former colonies and dependencies,
started yesterday with Prince Charles and India’s President
Pratibha Patil declaring the 12-day event open during a three-
hour ceremony in New Delhi. India is using the games to project
an image of a rising economic power.  India’s benchmark stock index completed its fifth weekly
gain, the longest stretch in five months as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. raised the nation’s economic growth estimate, citing the
benefits of a better-than-forecast monsoon.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
climbed 2 percent last week. The gauge is at its highest level
since its January 2008 peak.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. , the biggest aluminum producer,
and Tata Steel Ltd., the largest producer of the alloy, were the
biggest gainers on the Sensex.  Rupee, Bonds  The rupee surged the most since May to a five-month high
after the central bank data showed capital inflows more than
offset a record current-account deficit in the first quarter of
this fiscal year.  The currency completed the biggest weekly gain since
January on Oct. 1 after the nation’s capital account showed a
surplus of $17.5 billion in the three months through June,
compared with a shortfall of $13.7 billion in the current
account, the Reserve Bank of India said Sept. 30. Foreigners
added a net $19.3 billion to holdings of local stocks this year,
according to data released Sept. 30 by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India.  The Indian currency climbed 1 percent to 44.48 per dollar
on Oct. 1, extending the weekly advance to 1.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose as high as
44.465 earlier that day, the strongest level since April 30.  India’s 10-year  bonds  dropped for the first time in nine
days on Oct. 1 on speculation the lowest yield in six weeks was
deterring investors from buying the securities.  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 rose six
basis points to 7.91 percent that day, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The price fell 0.39, or 39 paise per 100
rupee face amount to 99.29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 