-- Iraq Lifts Oil Reserves Estimate to 143 Billion Barrels, Overtakes Iran
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-10-04T14:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/iraq-lifts-oil-reserves-estimate-overtakes-iran-update1-.html
Iraq raised its estimate of national
crude oil reserves to 143.1 billion barrels, Oil Minister
 Hussain Al-Shahristani  said today, overtaking Iran as home to
the world’s fourth-largest petroleum deposits.  The 24 percent increase in estimated reserves lifts Iraq
past neighboring Iran, which has 137.6 billion barrels, while
leaving it behind Saudi Arabia, Canada and Venezuela. Iraq last
estimated its oil reserves at 115 billion barrels, in 2001.  “This is great news for the Iraqi people, and we will
relay it to the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting countries ,”
Shahristani said at a news conference at the oil ministry in
Baghdad. “The new figure for the reserves is not final. Iraq
will carry out studies and reveal new numbers every year. We
expect more increases.”  Iraq’s oil reserves previously ranked fifth in size,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy, which
compiles official government figures. Canada’s reserves include
vast deposits of oil sands, while Venezuela raised its estimates
by around 70 percent in 2008, according to BP.  The revised Iraqi estimate does not include oil in the
country’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region, as Kurdish authorities
did not provide the ministry with details about reserves they
control, Shahristani said.  ‘Potential of Iraq’  The government may hope to use the augmented reserves
figure “to show the potential of Iraq” to foreign investors,
said Ahmed Jiyad, an Iraq specialist at the Centre for Global
Energy Studies, a London-based consulting firm. It may also want
to use the higher estimate to strengthen Iraq’s case for a large
production quota within OPEC, he said in a telephone interview
from Norway.  Iraq, a founding member of OPEC, does not currently have a
quota for crude production. Falah al-Amri, the head of the
country’s State Oil Marketing Company, suggested that future
quota calculations might have been a factor in the revision.  “The new figure will help advance Iraq’s position within
OPEC,” al-Amri told reporters in Baghdad.  Iraq depends on oil for the bulk of the foreign currency
earnings it needs to rebuild the economy. The country currently
produces about 2.4 million barrels of crude a day, according to
Bloomberg estimates. The government wants to more than double
output and hopes to pump 12 million barrels a day within as
little as six years.  Upgrading Facilities  To achieve this goal, the country will need to boost
production at oil fields and upgrade installations that have
suffered from decades of conflict, sanctions and a lack of
investment.  Rumaila and other fields in southern Iraq contain 71
percent of Iraq’s revised reserves, or an estimated 125.5
billion barrels, according to the oil ministry. Northern fields
including those near the city of Kirkuk hold 20 percent of the
nation’s crude, while central Iraq accounts for the remaining 9
percent.  Seven so-called “super-giant” fields contain 73 percent of
Iraq’s total reserves, according to the ministry.  To raise output, the government awarded a dozen service
contracts last year to international oil companies including
Exxon Mobil Corp. and  OAO Lukoil . The two licensing rounds were
the first held since the U.S-led invasion that toppled the
regime of  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  Estimate ‘Not Random’  The new reserves estimate was “not random,” Shahristani
said. “It came from in-depth studies by the ministry of oil and
the international companies with which we have signed contracts
in the first and second rounds.” He noted that officials paid
particular attention to updating estimates for the West Qurna 1,
West Qurna 2 and Al-Zubair fields, where Exxon Mobil, Lukoil and
 Eni SpA  hold respective contracts.  The amount of oil contained in the 66 fields discovered so
far in Iraq totals 505.4 billion barrels, but only 143.1 billion
barrels of these reserves can be extracted, Shahristani said.  In a further step to develop Iraq’s energy resources, the
government plans on Oct. 20 to hold its first auction of
contracts to develop natural gas. Italy’s Eni and  Mitsubishi
Corp.  of Japan are among 13 companies registered to bid to
develop the Akkas, Mansouriya and Siba gas fields, Abdul Hadi
al-Hassani, vice chairman of the oil and gas committee of the
country’s parliament, said on Sept. 27.  The government aims also to modernize and enlarge export
and storage facilities for crude. Officials want to build two
offshore pipelines to increase export capacity in southern Iraq
and plan new pipelines to link oil fields in the south with
others in the north, said  Thamir Ghadhban , chairman of the prime
minister’s advisory committee, speaking at a conference in
Istanbul on Sept. 27.  Iraq and Turkey agreed last month to a 15-year extension of
their arrangement to export Iraqi crude by pipeline through the
Turkish terminal of Ceyhan on the Mediterranean Sea.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at
   nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maher
Chmaytelli at   mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  