-- Irish Housing Market Has Yet to Trough as Prices Extend Drop, Report Says
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-10-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/irish-house-prices-fall-market-not-yet-at-bottom-report-says.html
Ireland’s housing-market slump has
yet to trough in the wake of the recession, property website
operator  MyHome  said, after two reports showed price declines
continued in the third quarter.  Home values dropped 3.9 percent in the three months through
September from the second quarter, when they fell 3.4 percent,
the Dublin-based company said in a statement late yesterday. A
separate report from property company  Daft.ie  today showed
prices declined 3.7 percent in the same period.  House prices, which quadrupled in the decade through 2007,
have plunged since then as the economy shrank,  unemployment 
soared to a 16-year high and banks restricted lending. The lack
of demand for property has curbed construction, which will
continue to act as a drag on economic growth this year,
Ireland’s central bank said yesterday.  “It is clear that we have not yet reached the bottom,”
said Jean Goggin, author of the Myhome report and an economic
consultant with DKM Economic Consultants in Dublin. “We will
have to see an improvement in the labor market and the general
economy before the property market picks up.”  Daft said the average cost of a home in Ireland has fallen
37 percent from its peak to an average 195,000 euros ($266,994).
It also said that the total housing stock on the market remains
at around 60,000.  “Reflecting the overhang of unsold stock and the weakness
of demand conditions generally, commercial construction is
likely to decline significantly this year,” the central bank
said in its quarterly bulletin, when it cut its growth forecasts
for this year and next. It also said further property-price
declines are “in prospect.”  ‘Mismatch’  MyHome said year-to-date prices are down 13 percent from a
year earlier, compared with a 14 percent drop in 2009,
indicating signs of stabilization. Daft said average selling
times have shortened to 8.4 months from 9.1 months at the start
of the year. Nevertheless, there is a “mismatch” between
supply and demand that may keep prices in check, it said.  “Many would-be first-time buyers still lack either the
confidence or the finance to enter the sales market,” said
Ronan Lyons, an economist at Daft. “As a result, the total
supply on the market still remains very high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  