-- Irish Central Bank Seeks Bigger Budget Cuts as it Lowers Growth Forecast
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-04T10:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/irish-central-bank-says-deficit-a-priority-as-it-cuts-growth-forecasts.html
Ireland’s  central bank  lowered its
forecast for economic growth this year and said the government
must make greater cuts than previously planned to reduce its
record budget deficit.  The economy, as measured by gross domestic product, will
expand 0.2 percent this year instead of 0.8 percent forecast in
July, the Dublin-based central bank said today. It lowered its
growth forecast for next year to 2.4 percent from 2.8 percent.  The government last week unveiled measures to inject extra
cash into  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  and other lenders, raising the
cost of the its banking bailout to as much as 50 billion euros
($68 billion) and pushing the budget deficit to 32 percent of
GDP this year. Concern that Ireland won’t be able to deal with
the mounting fiscal burden without external aid pushed its
borrowing costs to a  record  last month.  “Against the background of sharply increased concerns
about fiscal sustainability, the main priority” is that the
2011 budget “credibly demonstrates the first step of a
reprogrammed tighter fiscal plan,” the central bank said. This
means a “larger adjustment” than the 3 billion euros in
savings the government had previously planned.  ‘Strike a Balance’  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  plans to publish a four-year
plan next month to reassure investors that Ireland has a
“credible” plan to cut its deficit to below the European Union
limit of 3 percent of GDP in 2014. The Sunday Tribune newspaper
reported yesterday that the 2011 budget could aim for savings of
as much as 4.5 billion euros.  The government’s plan “seeks to strike a balance between
the need to bring the public finances onto a sustainable footing
and limiting the risk that a very rapid adjustment would affect
the economy’s prospects for recovery,” the central bank said.  The  yield spread  between Irish 10-year debt and that of
Germany, Europe’s benchmark, was at 406 basis points today after
widening to a record 454 basis points on Sept. 29.  Irish GDP fell 1.2 percent in the second quarter as
consumers cut spending and import growth outweighed an increase
in exports. The economy has continued to show signs of weakness,
with construction remaining in a recession in August and
manufacturing contracting in September.  “The continuing weakness of investment remains a
considerable drag on growth,” the central bank said. “The
risks to this outlook are tilted to the downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  