-- MISC Heavy Engineering Unit Said to Seek $647 Million in IPO Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-04T10:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/misc-unit-said-to-target-647-million-in-malaysian-initial-public-offering.html
Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering
Holdings Bhd. aims to raise as much as 2 billion ringgit ($647
million) in the Southeast Asian country’s biggest initial share
offer so far this year, said two people familiar with the matter.  Its prospectus will be unveiled on Oct. 6, according to an
e-mailed invitation today from its parent,  MISC Bhd. , the
world’s biggest owner-operator of liquefied natural gas tankers.
 Malaysia Marine  will start taking orders from investors the same
day, said the two people, declining to be identified as the
information isn’t public.  The IPO may surpass Sunway Real Estate Investment Trust’s
1.5 billion offering, Malaysia’s biggest share sale so far this
year, and underscores rising investor appetite for equities in
Malaysia amid an economic rebound from last year’s recession.  Malaysia Marine plans to use some proceeds from the share
sale to help upgrade its Pasir Gudang engineering shipyard in
the country’s southern Johor state, according to an earlier
draft prospectus. It also intends to invest in the Kiyanly yard
in Turkmenistan which it manages for Petronas Carigali Sdn., it
said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. and
Credit Suisse Group AG are managing the share sale. MISC set an
indicative initial offer price of 3.80 ringgit per share for the
listing of Malaysia Marine, according to a circular approved by
shareholders on Sept. 22. MISC declined to comment on sale size,
the company said by e-mail today.  MISC  is controlled by state oil and gas company,  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. , which said on April 8 it also list its
petrochemicals business this year, following the prime
minister’s call for government-linked companies to sell assets
and attract foreign investors.  MISC said on July 23 it intends to sell a 25.5 percent
stake in Malaysia Marine. The unit posted net income of 279
million ringgit in the year ended March 31, compared with 278
million ringgit a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Chan Tien Hin  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 