-- Mizuho, Japan Banks Face Stricter Capital Requirements, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2010-10-04T09:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mizuho-japan-banks-face-stricter-capital-requirements-credit-suisse-says.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  and
Japan’s top banks face the risk of stricter capital requirements
than rules proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision last month, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “The possibility of global imposition of a minimum capital
surcharge of around 2 percent cannot be ruled out,”  Shinichi Ina , a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a report
today. “Such a scenario would increase the risk of  dividend 
cuts or additional capital raisings by Japanese banks.”  Mizuho led a decline in Japanese banks’  shares  today after
a Swiss panel recommended UBS AG and Credit Suisse hold almost
double the capital required under Basel III rules, the first
capital surcharge proposed for too-big-to-fail lenders. The
panel’s findings sparked speculation that similar proposals may
compel Japan’s three biggest banks to raise capital or cut
dividend payments.  Mizuho, Japan’s third-largest bank, tumbled 5.9 percent on 
the Tokyo Stock Exchange today, the steepest decline this year.
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , the country’s biggest
lender, slid 2.6 percent, and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc., the second-biggest, dropped 2.9 percent.  “The recent sizable selloff in major bank stocks implies
that the market is starting to discount the risk of dividend
cuts and further capital increase in response to regulatory
tightening,” Ina wrote in the report.  ‘Biggest Unresolved Issue’  The Swiss panel made its  proposal  after global banking
regulators meeting in Basel last month stopped short of imposing
extra capital requirements on so-called systemically important
financial institutions, or SIFIs.  Switzerland’s biggest banks should hold capital equal to at
least 19 percent of their assets, weighted according to risk,
compared with the 10.5 percent level the Committee announced
last month, the Swiss panel said today. By 2019, the lenders
need to hold at least 10 percent of capital in common equity,
compared with 7 percent required under Basel III, and the rest
in contingent capital.  “Additional capital requirements for SIFIs could be the
biggest unresolved issue in the current round of global
financial regulatory tightening,” Ina wrote.  A proposal regarding supplemental regulation of
strategically important banks will be submitted at November’s
Group of 20 summit in Seoul by the Financial Stability Board.
The panel was established by G-20 leaders to coordinate national
regulators and international standard setting agencies.  “News flow related to the content of the FSB’s proposal
will likely be a major driver of the bank stocks over the near
term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Russell Ward  in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  