-- Japan Wages Stagnated in August, Failing to Rise First Time Since February
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-04T04:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/japan-wages-stagnated-in-august-failing-to-rise-first-time-since-february.html
Japan’s wages unexpectedly stagnated
in August, failing to rise for the first time in six months,
adding to concern the country’s consumers won’t be able to drive
growth in place of slowing demand abroad.  Monthly wages  including overtime and bonuses were unchanged
from a year earlier at 274,232 yen ($3,288), the Labor Ministry
said today in Tokyo. Barclays Capital had projected a 0.6
percent annual advance in pay, while Bank of America Merrill
Lynch had forecast a 1 percent gain.  Today’s report adds to risks for an economic recovery
already burdened by the effect of an appreciating yen on the
nation’s exports, which grew the least this year in August.
Deteriorating growth prospects mean the Bank of Japan, which
begins a two-day meeting today, will probably add monetary
stimulus this month, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists say.  “The rebound in wages after the steep drop in 2009 has
been extremely slow,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at
Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “We’re seeing more
and more economic reasons for the Bank of Japan to ease
policy.”  Overtime pay rose 10.8 percent from a year earlier, the
eighth straight increase, as employers had staff work more hours
to keep up with demand. Special pay, a category that includes
bonuses, dropped 10.7 percent, according to today’s report.  Yen Trading  The government intervened in the foreign-exchange market
for the first time since 2004 on Sept. 15 to protect the export-
driven recovery, and the yen weakened to as low as 85.93 against
the dollar on Sep. 17. The yen has advanced since then, trading
at 83.55 at 12:58 p.m. in Tokyo today.  Amid signs of a faltering recovery, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  unveiled a 915 billion yen ($11 billion) stimulus on Sept.
10 that government estimates say will create or sustain 200,000
jobs, and has instructed ministers to compile another support
package to keep the recovery going. National Strategy Minister
 Koichiro Gemba  said today that total will be about 4.8 trillion
yen.  The central bank will probably tomorrow increase its 30-
trillion yen credit program for lenders to encourage bank
lending and reduce demand for yen, 14 of 17 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News said.  More Easing  “We would not rule out more extensive easing” than the
expansion of the credit facility,  Chiwoong Lee , an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a report. “We are seeing the
start of deterioration in the real economy.”  The BOJ will in the coming months increase its annual
planned purchases of government bonds to at least 35 trillion
yen from 21.6 trillion currently, boosting buying of five- and
10-year bonds to cut corporate borrowing costs, said  Hideo Shimomura , chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co.  The  unemployment rate  fell to 5.1 percent in August from
5.2 percent in July even as the number of those with work
dropped, reflecting an increase in people leaving the workforce,
data showed last week.  Murata Manufacturing Co.  is among companies cutting staff
to protect profits from the yen that’s strengthened more than 10
percent against the dollar this year. The electronics components
maker will eliminate 3,000 temporary positions, President  Tsuneo Murata  said last week.  Growth in paychecks is unlikely to pick up because of
deflation and a weakening recovery in factory output, Dai-Ichi’s
Shinke said. Industrial production fell for a third month in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  