-- Japanese Stock Futures Fall on U.S. Earnings, Factory Orders; BHP Declines
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2010-10-04T23:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/japanese-stock-futures-fall-on-u-s-earnings-factory-orders-bhp-declines.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and Australian
shares fell after U.S. investment-rating cuts and factory data
triggered caution as earnings season approaches.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc., a Japanese
camera maker that gets about 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
dropped 0.8 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those
of Honda Motor Co., which derives almost 85 percent of its sales
abroad, declined 0.7 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
biggest mining company, sank 1.4 percent in Sydney as oil and
copper prices decreased.  “There’ll be concerns about earnings at U.S. companies,
which start to report later this week,” said  Toshiyuki Kanayama ,
a market analyst at Tokyo-based Monex Inc. “That will raise
concern about earnings at companies” in other regions, he said.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
December closed at 9,325 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,355 in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,330 in
Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index  dropped 1.3 percent today, and New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index 
decreased 0.4 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index lost 0.8 percent in New York yesterday after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its ratings on  Microsoft  Corp., J.C.
Penney Co. and Macy’s Inc. Deutsche Bank AG put  Alcoa Inc.  on
its short-term “sell” list before the largest U.S. aluminum
company starts the third-quarter earnings season on Oct. 7.  U.S. Capital Goods  Manufacturing orders in the U.S. declined 0.5 percent in
August, following a revised 0.5 percent increase a month earlier,
the Commerce Department said yesterday in Washington. That
exceeded the median estimate of a 0.4 percent drop from 64
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Bookings for non-military
capital goods excluding planes increased 5.1 percent, the
biggest gain since March.  In Asia, the Bank of Japan is scheduled to announce its
latest policies today following a two-day meeting. The week of
Oct. 24 is the peak for the region’s financial results, with
more than a third of the 933 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index scheduled to report that week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen 5.3 percent this year
on speculation growth in profits will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and
concern about the pace of the U.S. economic rebound. Stocks in
the gauge trade at 14.1 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 11.8 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Copper futures for December delivery slid 0.7 percent in
New York yesterday, the biggest loss for a most-active contract
since Sept. 10. Oil for November delivery declined 0.1 percent
to settle at $81.47 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Satoshi Kawano  in Tokyo 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 