-- Japan to Send Study Group to Mongolia to Explore for Rare-Earth Deposits
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-10-04T04:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/japan-to-send-study-group-to-mongolia-to-explore-for-rare-earth-deposits.html
Japan, the world’s biggest  importer 
of rare earths, plans to send a study group to Mongolia this
month as the nation tries to diversify its supply sources.  The  Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry  will send a
group in mid-October to study rare-earth deposits with the
nation’s government, Hiromitsu Sugawara, deputy director at the
ministry’s Northeast Asia division, said today. The two
countries have also agreed to expedite talks for an Economic
Partnership Agreement and to develop coal and uranium projects.  China, which controls more than 95 percent of the global
supply of the minerals, imposed a de facto ban on exports to
Japan last month, Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said on
Sept. 28, as ties between the two nations soured over the
detention of a Chinese boat captain whose ship collided with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters.  Chen Rongkai , a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce,
said on Sept. 28 that the nation hadn’t imposed a ban. The Asahi
newspaper  reported  a day later, citing unidentified Japanese
companies, that the ban was lifted when the Chinese government
began accepting customs applications.  Japan depends on China for 90 percent of its rare-earth
supply, according to data from the trade ministry. The minerals
are used in radar, high-powered magnets, laptop computer hard
drives, auto catalytic converters, electric-car batteries and
wind turbines.  The trade ministry will form a delegation from Japan Oil,
Gas & Metals National Corp., which manages and explores Japan’s
strategic resources, and the  National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science & Technology , Sugawara said by phone.  Japan’s Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  met Mongolian Prime
Minister  Sukhbaatar Batbold  in Tokyo yesterday, a day after
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Batbold agreed to begin an
effort to locate rare-earth mines, Sugawara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  