-- Japan 10-Year Yields Fall, Match 7-Year Low, on BOJ Rates, Asset Purchases
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-05T06:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/japan-bonds-may-gain-on-boj-purchase-bets-pimco-says-growth-difficult-.html
Japan’s 10-year  bonds  rose, with
yields matching a seven-year low, after the Bank of Japan
pledged to expand its balance sheet and lowered interest rates.  Ten-year futures climbed to the most since 2003 after the
central bank said it may purchase government debt, exchange-
traded funds and real-estate investment trusts. Demand for bonds
also increased after Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said it will be
“difficult” for Japan’s economy to grow.  “There will be nothing left but a stone for the BOJ to
buy,” said  Akio Yoshino , who helps oversee the equivalent of
$35 billion as chief economist at Amundi Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“The bond market is reacting favorably to the BOJ’s bold step
into unconventional measures.”  The  yield  on the 1 percent security due September 2020 fell
2.5 basis points to 0.91 percent as of 3:11 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The price rose 0.23 yen to 100.821 yen. The yield
dropped to as low as 0.895 percent, matching a level reached on
Aug. 25 that was the lowest in seven years.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery added 0.22 to
143.67 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the highest close since June
2003. Three-month euroyen futures for June delivery advanced as
much as 0.02 to 99.750 at the Tokyo Financial Exchange.  The Bank of Japan lowered its benchmark interest rate to a
range of zero percent to 0.1 percent from the previous 0.1
percent target, it said in a  statement  today after its two-day
policy meeting. The BOJ will create a 5 trillion-yen ($60
billion) fund to buy assets including government bonds, it said.  ‘Extremely Severe’  “I’m surprised by a broad range of assets the central bank
considers buying,” said Amundi’s Yoshino.  The BOJ’s plan comes as Federal Reserve policy makers
debate whether to implement a second round of so-called
quantitative easing based on Treasury purchases, a policy that’s
been called QE II.  “Financial markets are happy with the introduction of
these aggressive policies, but at the same time they are
skeptical about the effect," Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, said
of the BOJ’s action. "We may expect further easing ahead,
especially if the Fed goes into QE II.”  Japanese Economy Minister Banri Kaieda said yesterday that
the country’s outlook is “extremely severe” in part because of
the yen’s appreciation. A stronger yen reduces the value of
overseas sales at Japanese companies when repatriated.  The yen traded at 83.79 per dollar today. Its rally to a
15-year high of 82.88 on Sept. 15 spurred Japan to unilaterally
intervene to weaken the currency for the first time since 2004.  “It is difficult to generate growth given Japan’s
deflationary and demographic realities,”  Paul McCulley , a
managing director at California-based Pimco, said on the
company’s  website . “Japan has limited political willingness to
boldly pursue reflationary policies, and they have major doubts
as to the effectiveness of such measures, even if tried.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 