-- Ozawa Faces Indictment a Month After Losing Japan Leadership Challenge
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2010-10-04T10:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/judicial-panel-says-ozawa-must-be-indicted-by-japan-prosecutors-nhk-says.html
Ichiro Ozawa , the Japanese ruling
party politician who last month lost a bid to become prime
minister, faces indictment for violating campaign-finance laws
after a judicial panel ruled he “must be charged.”  The decision confirms an April recommendation by the
civilian panel, Japan’s equivalent of a grand jury, and compels
prosecutors to charge Ozawa. The case has led to the indictments
of three former aides.  “I apologize, from the bottom of my heart, for causing
troubles with regard to my political funding group,” Ozawa said
in a statement. “I am certain that my innocence will become
clear in the trial.”  Ozawa, 68, leads the ruling  Democratic Party of Japan ’s
largest faction, and challenged Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  in last
month’s party leadership election. A former DPJ head and the
architect of a landslide August 2009 election victory, Ozawa has
repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. Prosecutors decided in
February not to pursue charges against him.  Kan criticized Ozawa during the leadership contest, saying
he hadn’t sufficiently explained his involvement in the scandal.
Polls taken at the time showed voters preferring Kan by a margin
of more than 3 to 1 in the race, which was decided by party
members. After his victory, Kan appointed only one key Ozawa
supporter to his reshuffled Cabinet.  Rating Decline  Kan’s popularity, which jumped after his victory, fell this
month over his handling of a territorial dispute with China,
polls today showed.  His approval rating fell 15 percentage points to 49 percent
from last month, a Mainichi newspaper poll published today
 showed . A  survey  by the Yomiuri newspaper put his support at 53
percent, down from 66 percent last month.  Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said at a press
conference that he “has no idea” what impact the Ozawa ruling
would have on Kan’s administration. He declined to comment on
whether the party would ask Ozawa to step down, as did  Katsuya Okada , the DPJ’s No. 2 official  The news is “surprising and very regrettable,” Okada told
reporters in Tokyo.  Tokyo prosecutors in February indicted DPJ lawmaker
 Tomohiro Ishikawa , Ozawa aide  Takanori Okubo , and former
assistant Mitsutomo Ikeda for under-reporting 545 million yen
($6.5 million) in income for 2004, part of which was used to buy
land in Tokyo for Ozawa’s fund-raising group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Mukai  in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 