-- Paris Judge Says Kerviel's `Breach of Trust' is Established
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-05T08:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/kerviel-court-to-rule-in-4-9-billion-euro-societe-generale-loss.html
A judge has begun reading the verdict
on whether  Jerome Kerviel  was responsible for a 4.9 billion-euro
($6.5 billion) trading loss at  Societe Generale SA  in 2008 in a
Paris court.  Kerviel was charged with breach of trust, computer hacking
and forgery after he amassed 50 billion euros in unauthorized
bets on futures, using faked hedges to make it appear the risk
was minimized. Prosecutors are seeking a guilty verdict and a
sentence of four years in prison. The bank has asked its former
trader, who was in the courtroom today, to repay the loss.  “It is the biggest French bank fraud case to date or even
ever,” said  Arnaud de la Cotardiere , the Paris-based head of
commercial practice for Linklaters LLP. “There is nothing
similar.”  The trading loss, announced Jan. 24, 2008, was the biggest
ever and prompted then-chief executive officer  Daniel Bouton  to
describe Kerviel as a “terrorist.” During a three-week trial
in June, which garnered the most foreign-media coverage of any
French trial in at least a decade, Kerviel said his superiors
knew what he was doing, while admitting to lying to colleagues
and exceeding trading limits.  After joining Societe Generale in 2000, Kerviel, 33, rose
to trader status in 2005. He worked on the Delta One trading
desk, where, according to the bank, his job was to arbitrage
small price differences between contracts, not take bets on
market directions. Societe Generale said a routine check exposed
one of these bets on Jan. 18, 2008. That set in motion a three-
day sell-off of his stakes as  markets fell world-wide .  La Sante Prison  Kerviel, who was held in provisional detention at Paris’s
La Sante prison for five weeks in 2008, admitted throughout the
investigation and trial he had hidden his bets. Kerviel conceded
to Judge Dominique Pauthe at trial that accumulating positions
worth 50 billion euros was “probably not” in his mandate. He
told police he wouldn’t be a scapegoat for the “blind eye” the
bank turned on his activities.  Prosecutors argued Kerviel was driven to boost his bonus,
while Kerviel said his sole motivation was to make money for the
Paris-based bank, France’s  second largest . He has never been
accused of taking money for himself.  The two goals are linked, said  Robert Falkner , a litigator
with Reed Smith in London.  “It is the raison d’être for a trader to make money for
the bank and for himself through the bonuses, which depend on
the profits,” Falkner said.  “It is the nature of the job to have limits,” he said.
The only reason to exceed them is “to increase profits both for
the bank and for themselves in bonuses. Those two things go hand
in hand.”  ‘Serious Shortcomings’  At trial, Kerviel said taking unauthorized positions and
covering them up was a common practice by Societe Generale
traders. That assertion was contradicted by almost all the
witnesses who testified.  France’s Banking Commission fined Societe Generale 4
million euros in 2008 for “serious shortcomings” in its risk
controls after a review of the trading loss. A report
commissioned by the bank’s board faulted its internal monitors
as well, saying in May 2008 that Kerviel’s supervisors failed to
“react in an appropriate manner to several alert signals” and
missed at least 1,071 bogus trades.  Bouton ceded the chief executive post to his deputy,
 Frederic Oudea , in May 2008. Bouton testified on the final day
of witnesses in June, saying Kerviel was “a catastrophe” who
“created a fraudulent enterprise inside the bank.”  Olivier Metzner , Kerviel’s lawyer, declined to comment
ahead of the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 