-- `Hobbit' Filming in New Zealand Threatened by Actors' Spat With Producers
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-10-04T00:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/key-offers-to-help-resolve-hobbit-dispute-to-keep-movie-in-new-zealand.html
New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key 
may help resolve a stand-off between actors unions and the
producers of “The Hobbit” to avoid filming being moved
overseas.  “I would be greatly concerned if The Hobbit movies weren’t
made in New Zealand,” Key told Television New Zealand’s
 Breakfast  program today. “We are happy to play a facilitation
role between the two parties if we need to.”  New Zealand Actors’ Equity , backed by Australia-based
 Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance , have recommended people
delay accepting work on the film until producers offer union
contracts. As many as six countries, including Australia,
Scotland, Ireland and Canada are negotiating to win the right to
film “The Hobbit,” the Dominion Post newspaper  reported  today,
citing the film’s co-producer  Philippa Boyens .  New Zealand’s film industry boomed after director  Peter Jackson  made the Lord of the Rings trilogy, and was worth NZ$2.8
billion ($2.1 billion) in 2009, according to a  Statistics New
Zealand  report. Key is concerned that losing the two-part
prequel to the Rings could spook other producers considering New
Zealand as a location.  “This is a NZ$3 billion industry,” said Key. “It employs
a lot of people. It’s great for New Zealand. If you can’t make
The Hobbit here, frankly, what movies are you going to make
here.”  Council of Trade Unions President  Helen Kelly  met with
Jackson, who is executive producer of “The Hobbit,” late last
week and is “hopeful that a meaningful dialogue” can be
established between all parties, the council  said  on its Web
site.  The Rings trilogy based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s fantasy epic
generated $2.9 billion in worldwide box-office receipts and
another $3 billion from DVDs, merchandise and other sources.  Hiring film crew and equipment added about NZ$350 million
to the economy in a three-year period to March 2002, according
to a report by the  New Zealand Institute of Economic Research .  Production of “The Hobbit” has suffered a number of
delays including the withdrawal of director  Guillermo del Toro 
in May, and a fire at Wellington’s Portsmouth Miniatures Studio,
where parts of the film were to be shot.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Johnson at   ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  