-- Korean Won Rises for Sixth Day After Foreign Reserves Climb to a Record
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-04T00:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/korean-won-rises-for-sixth-day-after-foreign-reserves-climb-to-a-record.html
South Korea’s won rose for a sixth
day, its longest winning streak in eight weeks, after the
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves rose to a record.  The currency climbed to a four-month high after a central
bank report showed the  reserves  increased $4.4 billion to $289.8
billion last month. The holdings can cover three months of
imports or settle short-term debts and so are sufficient to cope
with any crisis, the finance ministry said today in a report,
adding that it is prepared to intervene in the currency market
to combat volatility.  “Increasing foreign-exchange reserves means there are more
dollars coming into the country,” said  Yun Se Min , a Seoul-
based currency trader at Busan Bank. “That means more dollars
are being exchanged for won, which is a factor that strengthens
the local currency.”  The won climbed 0.5 percent to 1,124.35 per dollar in Seoul
as of 9:26 a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier touched 1,123.05, the strongest level since May 5, and
is Asia’s best performer of the last three months with a 9.3
percent advance.  “When necessary, we will try to keep the currency from
moving sharply due to herd behavior,” the finance ministry
report said. South Korea is vulnerable to a surge in capital
flows as it’s a small, open economy, Vice Finance Minister Yim
Jong Yong said on June 9, noting that $65 billion was removed
from the country in the four to five months after the September
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The  Kospi  stock index rose to a two-year high as overseas
investors  bought  more Korean shares than they sold for a 14th
trading day. They pumped $3.8 billion into the local market in
September, taking net purchases for the year to $10.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 