-- Naiade Resorts to Sell Bonds, Stock; Appoints New CEO
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2010-10-04T12:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/naiade-of-mauritius-to-raise-50-million-in-bond-stock-sale-appoints-ceo.html
Naiade Resorts Ltd. , a Mauritian
hotel operator whose loss widened in the second quarter,
increased the amount it plans to raise in a share sale, named a
new chief executive officer and will also issue convertible
bonds in a  revised plan  to reduce its debt.  The company, which in March announced a plan that mainly
involved the sale of 450 million rupees ($15 million) of shares,
will now issue 500 million rupees each of stock and convertible
bonds, it said in a statement published on the website of the
Port Louis-based  Stock Exchange of Mauritius  today. White Sands
Resort & Spa Pvt Ltd., a hotel in the Maldives in which Naiade
holds 40 percent, will reorganize its capital and issue $13
million of shares. Naiade named Paul Jones, the former leader of
Sun Resorts Ltd., as CEO starting Oct. 1. The post is new.  The company’s board wants to raise 1.5 billion rupees
through the sales and revised the restructuring plan because of
the “slow recovering in the source markets where the group
operates, the unfavorable rupee-euro exchange rate and the
general sentiment that the global economic crisis may last
longer than expected,” it said in the statement.  The company is also considering selling and then leasing
its properties in Reunion, raising a further 500 million rupees,
Chairman  Arnaud Lagesse  said in an interview today.  Loss, Currency  The funds “will be used to recapitalize the holding
company for our hotel in the Maldives, reduce long-term debt and
give some breathing space to the company’s accounts,” he said.  Naiade’s loss for the second quarter through June widened
as bookings were canceled because of a volcanic ash cloud that
curbed air travel and as the Indian Ocean island nation’s
currency strengthened versus the euro and pound, it said earlier
today.  The company reported a loss of 209 million rupees compared
with 150.8 million rupees a year earlier. Revenue declined 2.8
percent to 511.3 million rupees.  “Market conditions remain very difficult although there
are signs of recovery with bookings in hand for the coming
months higher than last year,” the company said in the
statement. “Room rates are still under pressure, with
promotional offers flooding the market. The appreciation of the
rupee against the euro and pound continues to have a significant
impact on the top line.”  Share, Bond Issue  The eruption of an Icelandic volcano in April grounded
flights from many European countries for six days, and the euro
weakened more than 10 percent versus the dollar in the three
months through June, ending the period at $1.2257. Two-thirds of
visitors to the Indian Ocean island nation are from Europe,
figures from the statistics office show. The rupee strengthened
10 percent versus the euro and 3.5 percent to the pound in the
first half of this year.  Naiade will issue 0.3 share at 18 rupees each for every one
held, and will provide 1.8 convertible bonds for every share in
the rights offer. Each debt security will have a value of 10
rupee and pay interest of 9 percent a year.  Naiade shares  surged the most since Sept. 28, rising 3.9
percent to 27 rupees y the 1:30 p.m. close in Port Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kamlesh Bhuckory  in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  