-- Nampak Gains After Starting Talks Affecting Shares
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-04T16:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nampak-s-shares-gain-most-in-two-months-after-starting-unspecified-talks.html
Nampak Ltd. , a South African
packaging maker, rose after saying it has started talks that may
affect the value of its stock if successfully completed.  The  stock  gained as much as 49 cents, or 2.6 percent, to
19.21 rand, its highest intraday level since Aug. 3. It closed
0.2 percent higher at 18.75 rand by 5 p.m. in Johannesburg,
giving it a market value of 12.4 billion rand ($1.8 billion).  Nampak has “good exposure to potential African growth,”
according to  Wayne McCurrie , who helps manage more than $17
billion at RMB Asset Management in Johannesburg. “Nampak’s had
a terrible time” over the last few years, he said.  Mergers and acquisitions are increasing in South Africa,
with Africa’s largest economy expected to expand 3.2 percent
this year, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Companies including  Bidvest Group Ltd.  and  Northam Platinum Ltd. 
are among at least 10 South African companies that could be
acquisition targets for foreign bidders in the wake of $15
billion worth of deals announced since July by  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. ,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.   Bidvest, which has not indicated that it’s in talks,
dropped a plan to raise its stake in Nampak in 2008 after the
packaging company slashed full-year earnings forecasts.  Nampak, which has forecast a return to operating profit
growth this year, has had five executives quit since 2009 and
“underperformed” over the past decade, Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Marshall  said in the company’s 2009  annual report . Former
South African central bank Governor  Tito Mboweni  was named
chairman in February this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  