-- National Bonds Sees 30% Growth as Women, Immigrants Save: Islamic Finance
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-05T12:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/national-bonds-sees-30-growth-as-women-immigrants-save-islamic-finance.html
National Bonds Corp. sees asset
growth of as much as 30 percent in the next two years as the
Dubai government-controlled Islamic fund manager targets women
and immigrants, typically ignored by banks.  The Shariah-compliant company, with about 5 billion dirhams
($1.4 billion) under management, plans to introduce savings
plans for the country’s female population and retirement funds
for the United Arab Emirates’ foreign workers, Chief Executive
Officer Mohammed Qasim Al Ali said in an interview.  “There is a big vacuum when it comes to saving in the
U.A.E.,” Al Ali said in an interview in Dubai Sept. 28. “We’re
brainstorming with our Shariah board to launch new funds to
target different segments of the society that have been ignored
by commercial banks.”  The financial industry is underdeveloped in most Islamic
nations, in part because a segment of the population shuns
banking for religious reasons, limiting project financing and
stunting business growth, according to the International
Monetary Fund. Shariah-based saving funds may increase financing
for companies after banks, hurt by a property-led slump,
squeezed lending in the region.  National Bonds invests in Islamic money markets, sukuks,
income generating real estate and in U.A.E.-based private equity
companies and stocks, according to its website. The investments
differ from a non-Islamic savings program in that they’re not
guaranteed and represent a pool of funds received from
bondholders who get their share of profit. Islam forbids paying
fixed returns on investments.  Market Share  Grabbing market share from banks that don’t comply with
Muslim banking rules may be a challenge for National Bonds,
which paid a 3.54 percent  return  last year.  “Some banks in the U.A.E. are offering about 4 percent
return per annum on deposits which are guaranteed by the central
bank,”  Ahmed Talhaoui , the head of portfolio management in Abu
Dhabi at Royal Capital PJSC, which is 44 percent owned by United
Gulf Bank, an investment bank in Bahrain, said in an interview
yesterday. “In order to be attractive for investors, other
saving options must offer more than that.”  Debt of Gulf Cooperation Council borrowers has returned
12.5 percent this year, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC
US Dollar Sukuk Index. Debt in developing markets gained 14
percent in the period, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows.  Slowing Growth  Demand for savings plans is increasing in the Persian Gulf
country, the second-largest Arab economy, after economic growth
slowed to 1.3 percent last year from 7.4 percent in 2008.
Twenty-six percent of the nation’s population saves regularly
compared with 45 percent in the U.K., according to a survey
conducted by  YouGov Siraj , the local subsidiary of London-based
 YouGov Plc , published last month.  Women in the U.A.E. finance one-third of the transactions
in the financial and banking sector, according to  the website  of
the country’s embassy in Washington D.C. They control about 20
percent, or 250 billion dirhams, worth of household wealth,  Knut Storholm , partner and managing director at Boston Consulting
Group Inc, was cited as saying in March on the  website  of U.A.E.
Interact, a government-linked information portal.  Increasing wealth of the world’s 1.6 billion Muslims,
spurred by crude-oil income in the Persian Gulf and Asian
economic growth, is also increasing demand for Islamic financial
services. Malaysia has a Shariah-law compliant alternative for
every conventional product available because of its early start,
CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd.’s Badlisyah  Abdul Ghani  said in June.  Varied Products  A majority of the U.A.E.’s Asian and Western workers prefer
their home countries for depositing savings, according to the
 YouGov Siraj  survey. Remittances from the Gulf country amounted
to $10 billion in 2008, according to an IMF estimate in
February, with 70 percent going to India and Pakistan.
Immigrants account for more than 80 percent of the U.A.E. 8.2
million inhabitants.  “The root cause is that we don’t have an infrastructure
like Malaysia where they nurture and introduce a high-caliber of
Shariah saving products,” Al Ali said. “What we need is
different value prepositions for different segments of the
society.”  The difference in yield between the Dubai Department of
Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk maturing November 2014 and
Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 shrank 48
basis points since June 30 to 367, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate has narrowed 88 basis points
to 355 since the end of June, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index  shows.  Credit Growth Slows  National Bonds, which is 50 percent owned by the emirate of
Dubai, is exploring investments opportunities in the industrial
and energy sectors after the Dubai property slump pushed prices
down more than 50 percent since 2008.  Credit growth in the U.A.E. has slowed to 1.6 percent this
year through August from 30 percent annually from 2005 to 2008
as the global credit crunch hurt economic growth, hit loan
demand and eroded bank profit. Borrowing costs in the U.A.E.
have risen 22 percent since January as banks struggled to
attract deposits.  Sales of sukuk have fallen 16 percent to $11.8 billion this
year compared with the same period in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year.  “There is a need for liquidity in the sukuk market,” Al
Ali said. “Currently, we’re buying into existing sukuk because
they’re trading at a discount. All Dubai sukuk are doing so well
in terms of returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  