-- Netanyahu Says Israel Held `Sensitive' Contacts With U.S. to Rescue Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-04T12:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/netanyahu-says-israel-held-sensitive-contacts-with-u-s-to-rescue-talks.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told his Cabinet that he is trying to keep Middle East
peace negotiations from falling apart over Palestinian demands
that he freeze construction again at West Bank settlements.  “We are engaged in sensitive diplomatic contacts with the
Americans in order to find a solution that would permit a
continuation of the talks,” Netanyahu said today, according to
a transcript e-mailed by his office in Jerusalem.  Netanyahu spoke after U.S. Middle East envoy  George Mitchell  returned to Washington to discuss the results of his
shuttle diplomacy during the past week with the Israeli leader
and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas .  Netanyahu imposed a partial moratorium on building homes in
settlements for 10 months that expired Sept. 26. The Palestine
Liberation Organization’s Executive Committee advised Abbas Oct.
1 to stop negotiations with Israel unless it halts settlement
construction again.  Abbas said he will make a final decision on whether to
continue the talks with Israel on Oct. 8 after conferring with
leaders of the Arab League at a meeting in Libya.  Mitchell said in Cairo yesterday that he will be talking to
both sides this week, as well as to other Middle East and
European leaders “in an effort to establish the conditions
under which they can continue direct negotiations.” The U.S.
envoy also met with leaders of Egypt, Jordan and Qatar during
his trip.  Cabinet Opposition  Even if he agrees to renew the moratorium, Netanyahu may
not be able to win approval from his Cabinet, in which half the
members oppose a further halt to settlement construction,
according to the Yediot Aharonot newspaper.  Fifteen of the 30 Cabinet ministers told the newspaper they
would vote against freezing construction again, while eight
support the action and seven are undecided, Yediot said.  Among the opponents is Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman ,
who displayed his differences with Netanyahu in a Sept. 28
speech to the United Nations General Assembly, saying it would
take “a few decades” to establish the trust needed for a peace
agreement with the Palestinians. The prime minister said he
hopes to reach a framework peace agreement within a year.  Netanyahu cautioned Cabinet members to temper their remarks
about the negotiations and allow him to handle the process.  “I propose that everyone be patient, act responsibly,
calmly and -- above all -- quietly,” Netanyahu said.  Building Resumes  Israeli building crews began work last week at settlements
including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa and Adam, according to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which represents
more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  The United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Calev Ben-David  in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net 
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 