-- New Jersey Democrats Approve Transportation Bond After Christie Work Halt
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-04T22:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/new-jersey-democrats-weigh-transportation-bond-amid-christie-roadwork-halt.html
New Jersey  Democrats allowed a $1.4
billion transportation bond issue to proceed after their delay
in approving the deal led Governor  Chris Christie  to halt road
and transit construction across the most densely populated U.S.
state.  The suspension, which the administration estimated idled
about 2,000 workers for one day, was lifted immediately,
according to  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie.  “Things will be back to normal tomorrow,” Drewniak said
today after the Legislature’s  Joint Budget Oversight Committee 
approved the bond issue. The panel, which had to approve the
refinancing portion of the transaction, voted 4-1, with one
abstention. With today’s approval, the sale is scheduled for
Oct. 13 and 14, said William Quinn, a state Treasury Department
spokesman.  Christie, 48, a Republican who took office in January, on
Oct. 1 ordered the suspension of all state-funded
transportation-construction projects, effective today. He blamed
the failure of the Democratic-led Legislature to act on a bond
sale for the  Transportation Trust Fund  that was originally
scheduled for last month. The committee scheduled an emergency
meeting for today in response to the work stoppage.  ‘Deeper Hole’  Democratic Senator  Paul Sarlo , co-chair of the joint
oversight committee, abstained from today’s vote. Assemblyman
 Lou Greenwald , the other co-chair, voted against the plan. Two
Democrats joined the committee’s two Republicans in supporting
the measure, allowing the borrowing to proceed.  “We have just dug ourselves a deeper hole,” Greenwald, a
Camden County Democrat, said before casting his vote. “We have
exhausted every dollar in the Transportation Trust Fund.”  Sarlo had said he would withhold consideration of the
borrowing until Christie presents a long-term plan for
replenishing the Transportation Trust Fund, which is due to run
out of money for new projects next year.  “I voted to support this plan with the understanding that
the administration will move forward expeditiously and work
collaboratively with the Legislature and others to devise a real
plan for the state’s transportation future,” Assemblywoman
 Nellie Pou , a Passaic County Democrat who voted for the measure,
said in a statement.  Passage of the bond measure followed a two-hour hearing
during which Transportation Commissioner  James Simpson  and State
Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  told lawmakers the fund may
run out of money for new projects by March, three months sooner
than projected earlier.  Fund Tapped  “The fund itself is functionally in deficit,” Sidamon-
Eristoff said.  The roadwork fund will have no money for new projects as
payments on more than $12 billion in debt consume the $895
million paid into it annually, Trust Fund projections show.
Eristoff said the borrowing approved today is the last the fund
can support, and will keep highway and transit projects funded
through February or March.  Christie had said he planned to release a plan for
replenishing the fund this month. Simpson told lawmakers today
that he couldn’t promise when a proposed solution would be
delivered to lawmakers.  “Hopefully before the end of the year,” he said.  Paying it Back  The proposed bond sale calls for refinancing about $483
million in debt, giving the state more borrowing capacity. The
state also plans to issue $990 million in taxable Build America
Bonds to repay the general fund advance and continue paying for
continuing construction, according to Sidamon-Eristoff and bond
documents.  The state general fund has advanced the Trust Fund $383
million to cover operating expenses, Sidamon-Eristoff said. The
fund has $50 million on hand, which is needed for salaries and
debt service payments, Simpson told the committee. He said the
fund spends $125 million a month to support work in progress.  “The Trust Fund is broke,” Simpson said. “The bottom
line is you can’t pay the bills when you don’t have money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 