-- New York Pensions Set Return Expectations Too High, Mayor Bloomberg Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-04T20:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/new-york-city-pension-funds-set-return-expectations-too-high-mayor-says.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said
city pension funds have set unrealistically high assumed rates
of return on investments, at 8 percent, which may require
spending more than has been budgeted for retirement benefits.  “It’s much too high an assumption for us, I think it
should be lowered,” Bloomberg said today at a news briefing,
referring to the city’s five pensions holding almost $104
billion. “That’s going to require the city to put in more
money. It’s very difficult to see where we could get the money
to do that.”  The city, which must balance its budget or face a state
takeover of operations, has to close a $3.3 billion  budget  gap
projected for fiscal year 2012, which starts July 1. The deficit
is forecast to grow to $4.8 billion in 2014, while officials
expect pension costs to increase to $8 billion that year from
$7.6 billion now. Last month, the state pension fund cut assumed
returns to 7.5 percent from 8 percent.  The real problem, the mayor said, is the pension system
itself, which provides defined benefits that can’t be reduced
under guarantees the Legislature has placed in the state
constitution. While it permits new, less-expensive benefit tiers
for future employees, savings wouldn’t be realized for 10 or 15
years, Bloomberg said.  “We’ve been trying to get the governor and the Legislature
to vote a fifth tier,” Bloomberg said. “They won’t do it
unless the unions ask them to.”  “The taxpayers don’t want to pay for it and the economies
of the world don’t really support those kinds of plans
anymore,” the mayor said.  Change Needed  Without a change, Bloomberg said, the municipal workforce
will shrink, because the city won’t be able to afford a payroll
of the current size and cover retirement benefits at the same
level as today. The city employed 302,436 in May, according to
 Marc Lavorgna , a spokesman for Bloomberg.  “We’re going to try to farm things out to the private
sector more because the municipal workers just cost too much,”
the mayor said. “The bottom line is, you can see in this
country, the public is frustrated, they don’t want to spend any
more money.”  The issue presents “a challenge facing pension funds all
across the country,” said  Eric Eve , first deputy to city
Comptroller  John Liu , who acts as steward of the pension funds.
The problem is “something we anticipate discussing with the
five funds this fall,” Eve said by e-mail.  State Lowers Rate  The state’s $124.8 billion pension fund, the nation’s
third-largest, reduced the assumed rate of return on its
investments as it recovers from market losses, Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli  said. DiNapoli, the sole trustee of the plan,
said state and local government employers’ payments to the fund
will increase to about 16.3 percent of payroll in February 2012,
from 11.9 percent due in February 2011. The pension covers 1
million current and retired government workers.  New York City’s pension funds provide retirement benefits
for police, firefighters, school employees and civil-service
workers and had more than $103.8 billion in assets under
management as of March 31. On Sept. 28, its largest plan, the
 New York City Employees’ Retirement System,  which covers more
than 180,000 active and about 130,000 retired workers, reported
a 14 percent return in fiscal year 2010, which ended June 30.  “Some years you make money, some years you don’t,”
Bloomberg said today. “It’s overstating it a little bit to say
the only one who’s done that well is  Bernie Madoff , but 8
percent for a long period of time is not something that very
many pension funds have ever achieved.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 