-- New Zealand Signals Second-Half Economic Growth May Be Less Than Forecast
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-04T03:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/new-zealand-growth-outlook-for-second-half-is-uncertain-treasury-says.html
New Zealand’s  economic growth  may be
weaker than expected in the second half of 2010 because of the
Canterbury earthquake and a slowing global recovery, according
to a Treasury Department report.  “It is uncertain whether growth in the second half will be
stronger that the average quarterly growth of 0.7 percent
incorporated in the budget,” the Wellington-based department
said in the report posted today on its  website . The report is an
analysis of recent statistics and doesn’t include new forecasts.  Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  last month lowered his
growth forecasts and kept the official cash rate unchanged after
two successive increases. Gross domestic product increased 0.2
percent in the second quarter, less than a quarter of the pace
Bollard expected.  New Zealand’s increasing trading links with Australia and
Asia will offset an expected slowing in growth in the U.S. and
Europe, the Treasury said. Demand for milk powder, butter and
other exports helped buoy the terms of trade, it said.  Commodity prices  rose for the first time in four months in
September, led by wool, dairy products, hides and fish,
according to an index calculated by ANZ National Bank Ltd.  The index rose 2.9 percent and is at its highest since May,
the Wellington-based bank said in a report today. After
adjusting for gains in the New Zealand dollar, prices gained 1.2
percent from August.  Sales, Profits  Companies reported that the recovery in sales and profits
hadn’t been as strong as expected, the Treasury said, citing
meetings with  companies  and business organizations during
September. Business investment has largely stalled and most
firms had been unable to push through price increases, it said.  Recovery from the magnitude 7 earthquake that destroyed
buildings and shut businesses in the South Island province on
Sept. 4 may be more drawn out than expected, Treasury said.  Retailers reported they didn’t benefit from consumer
purchases in the lead up to the Oct. 1 increase in sales tax,
the Treasury said.  Spending in September was 3.6 percent higher from the year
earlier month, Paymark, a company that processes about 75
percent of debit and credit card transactions, said in a
statement today. That total included a slight increase in sales
on Sept. 30, it said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  