-- Nigerian Stocks Measure Rises Most Since March on Value Bets, Rencap Says
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-10-04T14:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nigerian-stocks-measure-rises-most-since-march-on-value-bets-rencap-says.html
Nigeria’s stock index  surged the most
since March, with demand for shares rising on speculation the
stocks may rise further as a state-owned company that will buy
bad debts from the nation’s lenders will soon start operations.  The 213-member  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index 
gained 3 percent to 23,747.81 by the 1 p.m. close in Lagos, data
from the exchange’s website show. That’s the biggest advance
since March 23, according to Bloomberg data.  “There were more bids than offers and there’s no reason
why Nigerian banks should be selling at current prices,”
Akinbamidele Akintola, a Lagos-based analyst with Renaissance
Capital, said by phone today.  Nigeria’s stocks measure has increased 14 percent this
year, outperforming an 11 percent increase in the  MSCI Frontier
Markets Index . It’s still 64 percent off a record reached in
March 2008. Banks comprise 42 percent of the West African
nation’s index.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  sent names of the nominees to
serve as directors of the Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or
Amcon, established to buy toxic debts of about $10 billion from
Nigeria’s commercial lenders, to parliament for approval, Lagos-
based ThisDay reported Sept. 29.  The central bank fired the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 banks last year and spent 620 billion
naira ($4.1 billion) to recapitalize the lenders following a
debt crisis caused by loans to stock speculators.  Nigerian Breweries Plc , the country’s biggest company by
market value, rose to the highest in more than six years, adding
the maximum daily limit of 5 percent to 78.3 naira.  Zenith Bank Plc , Nigeria’s biggest lender, surged 4.9
percent to 12.96 naira, the highest close since Aug. 24.  First
Bank of Nigeria Plc , the second-largest, rallied the most since
April, rising 5 percent to 11.55 naira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos via Accra at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 