-- Nigeria Says Arrests Nine Suspects Linked to Independence Day Car Bombings
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-04T13:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nigeria-says-arrests-nine-suspects-linked-to-independence-day-car-bombings.html
Nigerian authorities arrested nine
people suspected of being linked to two car bombings last week
in which at least 12 people died, a security official said.  All of those detained “have direct links with  Henry Okah ,
the incident and some unscrupulous prominent elements in the
society,” Marilyn Ogar, spokeswoman for the State Security
Service, told reporters in Abuja, the capital, today.  Okah, a leader of the Movement for the Emancipation of the
Niger Delta rebel group that claimed responsibility for the
blasts in Abuja was today charged with two counts of terrorism
by a South African court. He was arrested on Oct. 2 in
Johannesburg, where he currently lives.  Okah denies he committed any “unlawful acts in South Africa
or outside the country,” his lawyer, Piet du Plessis, said
yesterday. The names of the other suspects and sponsors of the
attack won’t be released because investigations are continuing,
Ogar said.  Nigeria is Africa’s largest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports. Its low-sulfur sweet crude
is favored by many U.S. refiners.  MEND wants states in Nigeria’s oil-rich Niger River delta
region to keep all revenue earned from crude sales and pay only
taxes to the federal government. The government in Abuja
currently takes 87 percent of the revenue and producing states
receive 13 percent.  Oil Production  Attacks by MEND and other armed groups cut more than 28
percent of the country’s oil output between 2006 and 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. While the attacks decreased after
thousands of fighters accepted a government amnesty last year,
MEND refused to disarm, saying its demands were not met.  Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said his government
will crack down on those responsible for the explosions, which
he blamed on “a small terrorist group that resides outside” the
country and their domestic sponsors.  Okah was arrested in  Angola  in 2007 and later deported to
Nigeria where he faced treason charges. He was freed under a
government amnesty last year. Wearing a short-sleeved yellow
shirt in court today, Okah smiled and winked at the gallery as
he returned to the cells.  Okah’s charge sheet says he “unlawfully and intentionally
caused to be delivered, placed, discharged, and/or detonated an
explosive device at  Abuja, Nigeria , with the purpose of causing
death or serious bodily injury.”  South African State Prosecutor Shaun Abrahams didn’t object
to a request by defense attorney Rudi Krause to postpone a bail
hearing until Oct. 14. Magistrate Hein Louw will tomorrow rule
on the postponement after deciding whether to grant Okah the
right to remain in a high-risk prison facility in Johannesburg.  The defense argues he would be under threat in a regular
prison. Okah’s defense will also file an application to
challenge Okah’s arrest as being “unlawful,” Krause said,
without giving reasons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg on 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 