-- Nigel de Jong Dropped From Dutch Soccer Team After Tackle on Ben Arfa
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-04T12:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nigel-de-jong-dropped-from-dutch-soccer-team-after-tackle-on-ben-arfa.html
Netherlands midfielder  Nigel de Jong 
was dropped from the national soccer squad after the Manchester
City player’s tackle broke the leg of Newcastle forward  Hatem Ben Arfa  yesterday.  Holland manager  Bert van Marwijk  left De Jong, 25, out of
two qualifiers for the 2012 European Championship, against
Moldova on Oct. 8 and Sweden on Oct. 12, the Dutch soccer
association KNVB said in a  statement  on its website today.  “Ben Arfa left the pitch heavily injured after a tackle by
De Jong,” the KNVB said. “ Van Marwijk  had on previous
occasions spoken with De Jong about his play.”  Van Marwijk, who guided Holland to the World Cup final in
July, told the team he “saw no other possibility” but to
remove De Jong from the squad. “I will talk to Nigel again very
soon. But right now, I’d like us and the players to focus
entirely on these two important qualification matches,” he said
on the website.  The Holland manager had described De Jong’s tackle against
Ben Arfa as “wild and unnecessary,” Dutch newspaper Algemeen
Dagblad said earlier today.  “I don’t think he does it on purpose, but he is going in
way too hard,” Van Marwijk told the paper. “That is a shame,
because he doesn’t need to do that at all. The funny thing is
that the referee didn’t even give him a yellow card.”  Ben Arfa was carried off five minutes into yesterday’s game
in Manchester, which City went on to win 2-1 to go second in the
Premier League. He was found to have sustained a broken tibia
and fibula in his left leg.  World Cup Final  Spain claimed its first world title with a 1-0 win over the
Netherlands in a final where 14 yellow cards were brandished by
English referee  Howard Webb . Nine cautions went to the Dutch,
including two for  John Heitinga  who was sent off as a result,
and the team came under fire in the media amid accusations of
rough play.  Video replays showed De Jong kicking Xabi Alonso’s chest
midway through the first half, an offense that might have
prompted a straight red card. He received a caution.  “The final was not exactly what I expected in terms of
fair play,”  Sepp Blatter , head of soccer’s governing body, told
reporters in Johannesburg the day after the final.  Former Ajax player De Jong joined Manchester City from
Hamburg in January last year in a 17 million-pound ($26.9
million) deal.  His acquisition was part of a spending spree that has seen
 Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan spend more than 350 million
pounds on players since buying the club in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  