-- Nigerian Naira to Strengthen to 150 Per Dollar, Standard Bank's Gadio Says
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-04T15:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nigerian-naira-to-strengthen-to-150-per-dollar-standard-bank-s-gadio-says.html
Nigeria’s naira is poised to
strengthen almost 3 percent in “coming weeks” as the central
bank acts to keep the currency near its preferred level of 150
per dollar, according to  Standard Bank Group Ltd.   The currency of Africa’s most-populous nation gained 0.2
percent to 154.27 per dollar as of 2:05 p.m. in Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital. Policy makers aim to keep the naira exchange
rate at “around 150” per dollar and avoid fluctuations of more
than 3 percent, central bank Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said in
October last year.  The regulator “continues to see dollar-naira stability as
its monetary policy anchor and sees 150 as an appropriate
central point of its allowed trading range,”  Samir Gadio , a
London-based emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank,
Africa’s biggest lender, said in a research note today. “As
such, we expect to see dollar-naira trade back to the Central
Bank of Nigeria preferred range more tightly around the 150
level.”  Nigeria’s currency weakened almost 2 percent last month as
the central bank limited sales of dollars to commercial banks to
preserve its foreign-currency reserves. The West African
nation’s  reserves  slumped to $35.2 billion on Sept. 28, compared
with $58.3 billion in March 2008.  Confidence  “The lack of reserve accumulation reflects a lack of naira
confidence,” said Gadio. The decline in the naira is “mostly
of speculative nature rather than structural.”  The bank  sold  the highest amount of dollars to lenders in
at least a year at an auction last week, following an increase
in demand. Nigeria sold $650 million of foreign currency at the
Sept. 27 session of its twice-weekly auction, the highest since
at least Sept. 9, 2009.  That was less than the $741 million lenders demanded on
behalf of their customers and was the seventh consecutive
session the central bank failed to meet demand for foreign
currency. Still, foreign reserves are sufficient to cover about
12 months of Nigeria’s imports, Gadio wrote in today’s note.  “Reserves have declined but still remain robust,” Gadio
wrote.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and relies on
crude exports for about 95 percent of its foreign currency
earnings, the source of funding for the central bank dollar
auctions. Oil prices that reached $81.87 a barrel today are
above the $60 figure used by Nigeria’s government when setting
its budget this year, according to Standard Bank.  Oil, Surplus  That’s likely to enable the country to post a surplus on
its current account, a measure of goods and services trade, of
about 12.6 percent of gross domestic product this year, the
lender estimates.  Nigeria’s central bank unexpectedly raised the benchmark
interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 6.25 percent
on Sept. 21 to curb a pickup in inflation. Price growth
accelerated to an annual 13.7 percent in August from 13 percent
the month before, the statistics office said on Sept. 17.  “By raising real interest rates the CBN is sending a
signal to the market that it is keen on preserving a tight band
around the dollar-naira 150 level,” Gadio wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  