-- No Shariah Rules for Breaking Deals Gets Regulator Review: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-04T08:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/no-shariah-rules-for-breaking-deals-gets-regulator-review-islamic-finance.html
The leading global Islamic Finance
accounting regulator is introducing conditions for contracts
that comply with religious laws, seeking to standardize an
industry with $1 trillion in assets under management.  The Bahrain-based  Accounting & Auditing Organization for
Islamic Financial Institutions  will for the first time provide a
“Shariah-compliant way” for parties to enter and exit
contracts, Mohamad Nedal Alchaar, secretary-general of the
agency, in Manama, said in a phone interview Sept. 30. The rules
will be enforced by December after approval by the advisory
board, he said.  “The impact of these standards would be that you will be
completely protected from a Shariah perspective,” Alchaar said.
“The guidelines spell out the rights and duties of both parties
to the contract.”  While civil law already offers legal cover in disputes,
counterparties want protection based on Shariah principles,
according to Dawood Islamic Bank Ltd. in Karachi, Pakistan.
Establishing a global standard would bolster confidence for
sukuk investors, said  Madzlan Mohamad Hussain , a partner at Zaid
Ibrahim & Co., Malaysia’s biggest law firm.  “The biggest challenge for Islamic finance transactions is
documentation,” Madzlan said in an interview from Kuala Lumpur
Oct. 1. “People are quite wary about what types of risks are
involved.”  U.K. Ruling  Investment Dar Co., the Kuwait-based owner of half of
luxury carmaker Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd., had an appeal thrown
out of a U.K. court this year in a case where the company argued
that financing from a bank breached Islam’s ban on interest
payments. Malaysia, the world’s largest market for sukuk, wants
to become an alternative location to the U.K. for resolving
Islamic finance disputes, according to a statement from the
nation’s central bank Aug. 30.  Sales of sukuk, which pay returns from assets to conform
with Shariah law’s ban on interest, have fallen 17 percent to
$11.6 billion this year compared with the same period in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2
billion last year.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 4.9 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index , extending respective rallies of 0.8 percent
and 5.1 percent in the second and first quarters. Debt in
developing markets gained 8.2 percent in the period, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate has narrowed 85 basis points
to 358 since the end of June, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index  showed.  Islamic Assets  The difference in yield between the Dubai Department of
Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk maturing November 2014 and
Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 shrank 47
basis points since June 30 to 368, Bloomberg data show.  The  Islamic Financial Services  Board, a Kuala Lumpur-based
standards body, and the Islamic Development Bank, forecast in
April the industry’s assets will reach $1.6 trillion by 2012.
Sukuk issuers from the Persian Gulf and Asia plan to sell $6.9
billion of the debt in the fourth quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The accounting body, known as AAOIFI, has 200 members
worldwide and sets standards that are used in Bahrain, the Dubai
International Financial Centre, Jordan, Lebanon, Qatar, Sudan
and Syria, according to its website.  Standards ‘Enforceability’  Bahrain is part of the GCC, or Gulf Cooperation Council,
which also includes Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.  “AAOIFI is not a binding institution in all GCC
jurisdictions that makes the enforceability of those standards
an issue,” Yavar Moini, senior adviser of global capital
markets at Morgan Stanley, said in an interview in Dubai
yesterday. “AAOIFI has to embark on a greater consultation
process with the industry players. I would be in favor of a
standardization process which has regulatory support from all
jurisdictions.”  The global outlines need to be general enough to suit
different jurisdictions and the real test will come in the
courts, said Madzlan from Zaid Ibrahim.  ‘Cover to Contracts’  There are already ways to get out of a contract legally,
according to  Pervez Said , chief executive officer of  Dawood
Islamic Bank , which is 35 percent owned by Bahrain’s Unicorn
Investment Bank BSC.  “This is to give Islamic cover to contracts, which are now
being managed under conventional laws,” he said in an Oct. 1
interview. “The only difference is that they want to charge a
breach of contract or penalize the defaulting party under
Islamic law.”  AAOIFI has also proposed rules for religious scholars who
vet the products, while specialists in Malaysia are preparing
the first global certification for qualified advisers.  “We are improving and widening the scope of Shariah-
compliant issues,” Alchaar said in last week’s interview. “Our
experience, when it comes to Shariah rules, is that all Islamic
institutions without any exception do use our standards in their
transactions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 