-- Nomura Rates China Property `Cautious' Amid Possible Tightening Measures
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-04T01:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nomura-rates-china-property-cautious-amid-possible-tightening-measures.html
China’s property stocks  were rated
“cautious” in new coverage at Nomura Holdings Inc., which said
there’s an increased risk of the government issuing new
tightening measures.  The introduction of property tax in the “overheated”
cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Hangzhou as well as
the “full” enforcement of the land appreciation tax will
likely be among policies used to curb speculation, Alvin Wong
and  Sunny Tam  wrote in a report today. Average residential
prices may fall 5 percent to 10 percent by the end of next year,
according to the brokerage.  Property  prices  in 70 major cities across China increased
9.3 percent in August, slowing from a 10.3 percent gain in July,
according to the statistics bureau. The value of sales still
rose about 15 percent from July amid higher volumes, defying a
crackdown on the nation’s real estate market earlier this year.  “Affordability is starting to get stretched in some
overheated cities, while public housing supply does not seem
sufficient to create a meaningful impact on overall housing
supply,” the analysts wrote. “With this we believe there is
higher risk of further tightening measures to clamp down on
overheated markets.”  The 18 stocks on the MSCI China Real Estate Index have
dropped an average 12 percent this year, compared with a 1.8
percent gain in the broader  MSCI China Index . The government
last week added to curbs by tightening down-payment rules for
first homes, suspending third-home loans and pledging to quicken
a trial of a property tax.  ‘Inevitable’ Tax  Given the lack of “strong evidence” of a price correction
and continued signs of “speculative activities,” a property
tax will be “inevitable,” the analysts said. The government
may impose a tax rate of around 0.8 percent a year on the
property’s historical value, with Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen,
Hangzhou and Chongqing likely to be the first cities to undergo
a trial, according to the report.  Investors should therefore favor developers that are less
exposed to these “overheated” cities, according to Nomura. The
brokerage was ranked first in China research by Institutional
Investor magazine’s inaugural All-China Research Team ranking.  The analysts initiated China  Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd. , Agile Property Holdings Ltd., KWG Property Holding Ltd.,
Poly (Hong Kong) Investments Ltd. and  Shimao Property Holdings
Ltd.  with “buy” recommendations and rated Country Garden
Holdings Co. and Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd. “neutral” in
new coverage.  China Resources Land Ltd.  and Guangzhou R&F Properties Co.
were also rated new “reduce” at the brokerage, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  