-- Nomura-Backed Developer Nitesh to Spend $675 Million on Homes in India
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-10-04T08:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nomura-backed-nitesh-estates-to-spend-675-million-in-three-years-on-homes.html
Indian developer  Nitesh Estates Ltd .,
backed by Nomura Holdings Inc., plans to spend 30 billion rupees
($675 million) in the next three years to build homes as the
South Asian nation’s economy expands and salaries rise.  Nitesh Estates will build the homes in the cities of
Bangalore, Chennai, Goa and Kochi costing 3 million rupees to
6 million rupees, Managing Director  Nitesh Shetty  said in an
interview. “Sales have been robust in the first six months of
the current fiscal year,” he said.  India, the fastest-growing major economy in Asia after
China, is forecast to expand 8.5 percent in the year ending
March 31. Salaries in India may grow an average 10.6 percent in
2010, the fastest pace in the Asia-Pacific, according to
Lincolnshire, Illinois-based human resources adviser Hewitt
Associates Inc.  Nitesh Estates, which builds homes, hotels, office and
retail space, plans to construct 18 million square feet in the
next two to three years, said Shetty. The developments include a
shopping mall in downtown Bangalore and a 281-room hotel in the
city for  Marriott International Inc.’s  Ritz-Carlton chain, he
said.  “Next year we will focus on building more shopping
malls,” Shetty said. “Going forward retail will also be
important.”  Residential projects account for 85 percent of the
company’s revenue at present, he said.  Nitesh Estates raised 4.05 billion rupees ($90 million)
from the sale of 75 million shares in May. The developer used
the funds complete projects and to repay debt, which is
currently at 150 million rupees, Shetty said.  Nomura India Mother Fund owns 8.9 percent of Nitesh Estates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  