-- U.S. Nuclear Plant Worker Screening Needs Improvement, Audit Recommends
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-10-04T15:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/nuclear-plant-employee-screening-needs-improvement-after-arrest-nrc-says.html
The U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission  should improve employee-screening procedures at 
nuclear power plants after a man arrested as a suspected 
terrorist was found to have worked at six such facilities
over a six-year period, NRC Inspector General  Hubert Bell  said.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said the
arrest of Sharif Mobley in Yemen last March for suspected ties
to al-Qaeda raised concern that terrorists could infiltrate
nuclear plants. Mobley worked as a general laborer between 2002
and 2008 at plants in and around New Jersey. Schumer requested a
federal review of security procedures in March and released
results of the audit today.  “The Mobley arrest showed that we had to devise and
implement a much tougher security system to protect our nuclear
plants from infiltration,” Schumer said in a statement.  The audit recommends improving “employee training for
detecting and reporting behaviors associated with terrorist
intent,” Bell wrote Schumer on Sept. 30.  It also recommends the NRC have access to a database of
nuclear plant personnel and check workers against terrorist
watch lists on a regular basis, according to Bell’s letter,
which Schumer also released. Schumer said the report also calls
on the NRC to consider requiring workers to disclose their
travel abroad.  The NRC is required to act on most of the audit’s
recommendations within 30 days, according to Schumer’s office.
Schumer called the recommendations concrete and “actionable.”  While the NRC maintains a “very robust” security program,
Holly Harrington, a commission spokeswoman, said federal
regulators were already “working on issues that needed
enhancing” prior to the completion of the audit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 