-- Obama Talk on Education Veers Into Tax Cut Debate
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-10-04T22:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/obama-challenged-by-advisers-feldstein-donaldson-to-retain-bush-tax-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  was challenged
on tax policy by two members of his outside economic advisory
board who urged him to extend all the Bush-era tax cuts, at
least for two more years.  The meeting of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory
Board today was supposed to focus on the role of education in
promoting economic growth and veered into the tax debate when
 Martin Feldstein , a Harvard University professor who was chief
economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan , told Obama that
extending the tax cuts for two years would stimulate demand and
boost the recovery.  “We’ve been expanding at a slower and slower pace, quarter
after quarter; this doesn’t seem to me a time when you want to
pull back demand by letting tax rates jump,” Feldstein told
Obama. Extending the current income tax rate would “help to
keep demand alive when the economy is weak,” Feldstein said.  The tax debate is being played out before the midterm
congressional elections, with Republican leaders calling for all
the tax cuts to be extended. Obama argues that the U.S. can’t
afford losing $700 billion in revenue by keeping the lower rates
for the wealthiest taxpayers. All the rates, passed under the
Bush administration, are set to expire at the end of the year
unless action is taken to extend them.  ‘Uncertainty’ and Demand  William Donaldson , who was chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission under President  George W. Bush , told Obama
today that “uncertainty is depressing aggregate demand” and a
statement from the administration that no one’s income taxes
will rise would alleviate it.  Donaldson said extending the rates temporarily would quell
criticism from the business community that companies don’t know
what to expect.  “What I would I suggest to you is that your
administration, and particularly you, set forward with a
statement that you’re not going to this time increase taxes for
anybody and relieve that uncertainty,” Donaldson told the
president. “That isn’t to say that you’re not going to do
something about taxes but you’re going to delay that” until
after the economy improves, he suggested.  Obama rejected the advice, saying he’s been “unequivocal”
about retaining tax cuts for most Americans while letting rates
rise for individuals making more than $200,000 and married
couples with incomes above $250,000.  Flat-Screen TVs  “I don’t know of any economist, including I think Martin,
who would argue that we are more likely to get a bump in
aggregate demand from $700 billion of borrowed money going to
people like those of us around this table who I suspect if we
want a flat screen TV can afford one right now and are going out
and buying one,” he said.  The president said spending the $700 billion revenue from
letting the tax cuts expire for the wealthiest Americans would
help boost aggregate demand most efficiently.  If the tax cuts are extended for upper-income Americans it
would be permanent because of the political climate, Obama said.
“You do that now you’re going to do it forever,” he said.
Obama said he wonders whether Feldstein would make the same
argument if he knew “that if you extended all the tax cuts for
two years that you couldn’t hold the floodgates back.”  Feldstein told Obama that tax cuts for the top earners
“risks sucking a lot of demand out of the economy.”  Generating Demand  Laura D’Andrea Tyson , economic adviser in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, defended Obama and his policies. In
conversations with corporate executives about ways to aid the
recovery, “this tax issue doesn’t come up,” she said.  “The money can be used in a more demand-generating way,”
Tyson said. “The size of the problem is very large,” she said,
referring to the deficit.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , head of the
advisory board, said the debate illustrates that “the chairman
of this committee faces an unruly membership.”  At the end of the meeting, Obama said the meeting was “a
fun conversation” that “went a little off-script.”  Afterward, the president told a small group of reporters
that it was a “robust discussion.”  When asked whether he was surprised that the discussion
turned to income taxes he said, “sometimes everybody feels like
they’ve got to follow up on the two minutes they’ve been
allocated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  