-- Obama Recruits Gap, McDonald’s for Skills Training
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-04T17:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/obama-recruits-gap-mcdonald-s-for-new-college-skills-training-initiative.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
announce an initiative today that links companies including
 McDonald’s Corp . and  United Technologies Corp . with community
colleges for programs aimed at boosting the job skills of
American workers.  Gap Inc .,  Pacific Gas & Electric , and  Accenture Plc  also
are among the first firms enrolling in the partnership, called
“Skills for America’s Future,” which grew out of
recommendations of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory
Board headed by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  “Education is the economic defense budget for the 21st
century” because “it’s the only way that we’re going to be
able to be competitive with India, China and other countries,”
 Dan Pfeiffer , White House communications director, said in a
conference call with reporters yesterday to preview Obama’s
meeting with the board today.  At recent events tied to the campaign for November’s
congressional elections, Obama repeatedly has highlighted
education as a crucial component of U.S. economic growth and as
an area where there are policy differences between Democrats and
Republicans.  The president has accused Republicans of planning to cut
education funding in their election-year pledge to trim $100
billion from the $477 billion that lawmakers set for
discretionary spending next year. Obama has requested $73.4
billion for the Department of Education next year, including a
32 percent increase in grants to help low-income students pay
for college.  ‘Fundamental Difference’  “The issue of education and reforming education so we can
be more competitive over the long term is a fundamental
difference between President Obama, the Democrats and the
Republicans,” Pfeiffer said.  The announcement of the partnership will be formally made
at this afternoon’s meeting of the advisory panel at the White
House. Members of that board include  Jeffrey Immelt , chief
executive of General Electric Co.  Robert Wolf , head of UBS AG’s
Americas unit,  Jim Owens , chairman of Caterpillar Inc., and
 Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO labor union federation,
according to the White House.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , Commerce Secretary
 Gary Locke , Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  and  Austan Goolsbee ,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, also
are scheduled to attend.  Partnerships  The goal of the program is to create at least one
partnership between industry and community colleges in each
state. Obama’s has said he wants to increase the number of
community college degrees and certificates by 5 million in the
next decade.  Glenn Murphy , chairman and chief executive officer of Gap,
operator of more than 3,000 clothing stores that include the Old
Navy and Banana Republic chains, said in a statement today the
fashion retailer will start a pilot program in seven cities,
designed to offer community college students job- and career-
building skills to help take advantage of potential job
opportunities.  “Our in-house training materials will be made available to
all community college students and applicable to many
industries,” Murphy said in a statement. He said Gap plans to
hire as many as 1,200 students from community colleges in 2011,
about 5 percent of its annual hiring. Murphy is scheduled to
join Obama at the advisory board meeting today.  Seven Markets  The seven markets are in Las Vegas, Denver, Houston,
Atlanta, Detroit, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. The effort
includes in-store job training, interview and leadership
training and scholarships. The program may be expanded to other
markets and units of the company such as Old Navy, Banana
Republic and Gap Outlet factory stores, Murphy’s statement said.  PG&E Corp., California’s largest utility, would expand its
job-training program in such areas as clean-technology vehicles
and energy efficiency over the next three years and offer
faculty ‘train-the-trainer’ programs, the White House said.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, will
expand its literacy program for managers and make its “virtual
classroom” model available to community colleges.  Apprenticeships  United Technologies, maker of Pratt & Whitney jet engines
and Otis elevators, will offer apprenticeship programs in
advanced manufacturing, and Accenture, the world’s second-
largest technology-consulting firm, will help teach students
professional skills needed for a first job.  The administration has set aside more than $2 billion in
competitive grants to community colleges over the next four
years to augment skills-training.  Tomorrow the administration is convening a White House
Summit on Community Colleges, hosted by  Jill Biden , wife of Vice
President  Joe Biden  and a teacher at a community college.  That event will focus on the role of community colleges in
teaching students the skills needed to enter the workforce.
Attending will be industry leaders, community college
representatives, organized labor and workforce training experts,
according to the White House.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  