-- Obama Advisers Ignored Afghan Corruption Before Surge: Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/obama-advisers-had-heads-in-the-clouds-ignored-afghan-thievery-review.html
Late last year President Barack Obama
announced his plan to send an additional 30,000 American troops
to fight in Afghanistan. In “ Obama’s Wars ” (I don’t know why
the second word is plural),  Bob Woodward  shows how he and his
advisers arrived at that decision.  It was a very rational process -- which may be what makes
the book so depressing. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  put
it plainly when she said, “We need some realism.” For all the
realism those hardworking officials summoned up, they might as
well have been sitting around and planning for the Rapture.  The main conflict was over the military’s request for
40,000 additional troops. Clinton and Secretary of Defense
 Robert Gates  endorsed that figure. The skeptics included Vice
President  Joseph Biden  and  Karl Eikenberry , the U.S. ambassador
to Afghanistan.  The problem, as Eikenberry phrased it (though the hawks
didn’t disagree), was that the mission “cannot be won solely by
military means.” Overwhelming the Taliban was essential, but it
wasn’t enough. An exit strategy depended on fixing the despised,
dysfunctional Afghan government.  But unless Woodward is leaving out big chunks of the
discussion, the group never batted around ways of addressing the
runaway corruption of President  Hamid Karzai ’s regime. The
thievery was so intractable that Obama’s powerhouse planners
seem to have tacitly -- perhaps unconsciously -- decided to
ignore it and focus on an area where they could exercise some
control: troop levels.  Criminal Syndicate  But as Biden demanded, “If the government’s a criminal
syndicate a year from now, how will troops make a difference?”  Clinton’s answer -- which was also the position of General
 David Petraeus , the head of U.S. Central Command before he
replaced General  Stanley McChrystal  as commander of U.S. forces
in Afghanistan -- doesn’t ring with assurance: “The only way to
get governance changes is to add troops, but there’s still no
guarantee that it will work.”  Karzai was handled with a delicacy bordering on lunacy.
“We’re not leaving Afghanistan prematurely,” Gates is reported
to have assured him. “In fact, we’re not ever leaving at all.”
But  Woodward  makes clear Obama’s commitment to a drawdown of
American forces beginning in July 2011.  Bush v. Obama  Anybody who has read the author’s chronicles of the  George W. Bush  administration will be struck by the change of
atmosphere Obama brought. Open debate was not a hallmark of
Bush’s rule, under which Secretary of Defense  Donald Rumsfeld 
“systematically emasculated” the Joint Chiefs of Staff and
publicly chewed out anyone who disagreed with him.  But “vigorous debate” was exactly what Obama solicited --
he “wanted every argument on every side to be poked hard.”
This open exchange of ideas was what former Vice President Dick
Cheney famously called “dithering.”  The process was designed to bring differences of opinion
into the open so they could be argued to a resolution. In that
context, the sharp disagreements that reporters have savored
like M&Ms in the wake of the book’s publication don’t seem all
that newsy.  Woodward’s delineation of Obama’s decision-making process
make “Obama’s Wars” more interesting -- and competent -- than
his books on the Bush years. It’s less purple, and probably for
a good reason: The buttoned-down Obama and his team didn’t drive
Woodward to the ecstasies of histrionic prose that he couldn’t
resist for the operatic villains of the Bush administration.  “Obama’s Wars” is published by  Simon & Schuster  (441
pages, $30). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 