-- MobiTV Enters Living Room After Decade Providing Mobile Video
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mobitv-enters-living-room-after-decade-providing-mobile-video.html
If you’ve watched the World Cup or
NFL games on your mobile phone, you probably used  MobiTV Inc. ’s
services without knowing it. Now the company is working to bring
its technology into your home.  MobiTV’s new service, slated to be introduced at this
week’s CTIA wireless-industry conference in San Francisco, will
let a football fan watch a game on a smartphone, pause it and
then resume viewing from the big screen at home.  The idea is to deliver the same television service to TV
sets, mobile devices, home computers and even the office --
something that Intel Corp.,  Cisco Systems Inc.  and  Google Inc. 
also have talked about. MobiTV is betting that its experience in
bringing live programming to AT&T Inc., Verizon Wireless and
Sprint Nextel Corp. customers gives it an advantage over larger
competitors that have yet to crack the mobile-TV market.  “We solved the hardest part first,” said  Charlie Nooney ,
MobiTV’s chief executive officer, who joined the closely held
company three years ago after a career in media and TV. “The
most complex piece is the mobile device.”  Founded in 1999, MobiTV has raised more than $100 million
in venture capital. The Emeryville, California-based company has
developed software that delivers sports, TV shows and news to
more than 350 different kinds of devices. With that business,
MobiTV is approaching $100 million in annual revenue, according
to a person familiar with the matter. Nooney, 55, declined to
comment on the company’s sales.  Live Events  Unlike much of the video on mobile phones, MobiTV’s
programming can be delivered as it happens. In a single week in
September, the company showed more than 59 live sporting events,
ranging from the National Football League to Nascar racing,
accounting for 170 hours of total programming. The company also
showed all of the World Cup games this year.  The service is available to users of  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone,
offered exclusively by AT&T in the U.S., for $10 a month. MobiTV
also powers similarly priced TV offerings for Sprint and Verizon
Wireless customers.  For the past three years, MobiTV has been in “stealth
mode” working on its project for TV everywhere, said  Chief
Technology Officer  Kay Johansson. The company has focused on
building a system that can track what subscribers are watching
and allow them to record, pause and move video to any screen
they want. That entails keeping customer account information in
a central place, so service providers can make sure programs are
only provided to those who have paid.  Technology Giants  Silicon Valley’s largest companies are chasing the same
market.  Google , the world’s biggest search engine, has developed
an operating system for computers, phones and tablets and plans
to launch an Internet TV service this year. Intel,  Sony Corp. 
and Logitech International SA are part of the project. Google,
which already has the biggest share of online advertising, wants
a slice of the $175 billion TV-ad market.  TV anywhere isn’t a new concept -- it just hasn’t succeeded
before, said Ben Bajarin, an analyst at  Creative Strategies
Inc. , a technology consulting firm in Campbell, California.  “It has been tried before a number of times, but now we
have a growing installed base of very powerful mobile devices,”
Bajarin said. “And we’ve got the network infrastructure to
deliver it.”  The number of U.S. smartphone owners rose 11 percent to
53.4 million in the quarter ended in July, according to  ComScore
Inc.  in Reston, Virginia.  Cisco Project  As early as 2006,  Cisco  talked about spending $4 billion on
 research and development  to combine video, voice, data and
mobile services on the Web. Intel has discussed the need to
create chips that power mobile video, though its products have
yet to show up in wireless devices.  MobiTV, which gets most of its revenue from carriers such
as Verizon, plans to bring its service to personal computers,
set-top boxes and televisions. It’s providing the technology,
with the goal of getting service providers -- including phone,
cable and Internet companies -- to adopt it.  To date, demand for live programming on multiple devices
has yet to materialize, said  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. Consumers are more
interested in being able to move their own content, such as
pictures, music and personal videos, from device to device.  Live TV “still seems to have a low profile in the rank of
consumers’ must-haves,” Milanesi said.  MobiTV’s Johansson, 40, says that’s only because no company
has successfully brought the technology to market.  “Now is when the real race starts,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  