-- Hochtief Workers Protest at Headquarters as Board Meets to Discuss ACS Bid
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-10-04T09:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/hochtief-workers-protest-at-headquarters-as-board-meets-to-discuss-acs-bid.html
Hundreds of  Hochtief  AG workers
staged a rally at the German builder’s headquarters in Essen to
protest against a takeover bid by Spain’s largest construction
company as the supervisory board met to discuss strategy.  Employees  carried banners denouncing Actividades de
Construccion & Servicios SA and its intention to buy Hochtief.
The Madrid-based builder already owns almost 30 percent of
 Hochtief , and has said in filings that it wants to boost the
holding to just above 50 percent over time.  The Hochtief board has set up a panel excluding the two
representatives from  ACS , Angel Garcia Altozano and Marcelino
Fernandez Verdes, as it considers a response to the bid. The
Spanish company, reiterating that it doesn’t seek a domination
agreement outlining its power over policy, said in a statement
that its members won’t take part in today’s board meeting.  “We will fight for the company’s interest,” Hochtief
Chief Executive Officer Herbert Luetkestratkoetter told
reporters during a break, adding that he takes the concerns
expressed by the workers “very seriously.”  Hochtief  fell  as much as 1.2 percent to 63.29 euros and was
down 1 percent as of 11:54 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.  The German company has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG to advise on the
takeover bid.  Works Council’s Moves  The works council at  Hochtief  plans to hand over a protest
letter to Spain’s ambassador in Berlin and will meet with German
government officials to discuss possible defenses against the
bid, Siegfried Mueller, head of the council, said in an
interview. Labor leaders are protesting the bid out of a concern
that job cuts are possible and that the company may be broken
up, he said.  “Our chances are bad but we have decided to fight,”
Mueller said.  Klaus Wiesehuegel, head of Germany’s IG Bau building
workers union and a member of Hochtief’s supervisory  board , said
rejecting the bid may be “difficult” unless BaFin, Germany’s
financial markets regulator, opposes the transaction.  ACS is  offering  eight of its own shares for five Hochtief
shares, in a proposal that values Hochtief stock only slightly
above the minimum price set by German market rules for a full
takeover bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Essen via 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  