-- Hochtief Supervisory Board Rejects Bid by ACS, Expresses Confidence in CEO
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-10-04T16:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/hochtief-supervisory-board-rejects-bid-by-acs-expresses-confidence-in-ceo.html
Hochtief  AG’s supervisory board
rejected a takeover bid from Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA, supporting management’s opposition to the offer.  The board shares top Hochtief managers’ assessment of the
offer by ACS, Spain’s largest construction company, and
“expressed confidence” in Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Luetkestratkoetter , the Essen, Germany-based company said today
in a statement.  ACS, which owns almost 30 percent of its rival, is  offering 
eight of its own shares for five Hochtief shares in a proposal
that values Hochtief stock only slightly above the minimum set
by German market rules for a full takeover bid.  “We will fight for the company’s interests,”
Luetkestratkoetter told reporters during a break in a meeting of
the supervisory board, adding that he takes the concerns
expressed by the company’s workers “very seriously.”  About 500 employees held a rally at Hochtief’s headquarters
as the board met. Workers carried banners denouncing ACS, which
has said in filings that it wants to boost the stake in Hochtief
to just above 50 percent over time.  ‘Model of Cooperation’  ACS said in a statement that it’s seeking “a model of
cooperation that will be beneficial for both companies.” The
Spanish company also said its two members on the Hochtief board
wouldn’t take part in today’s meeting “to avoid conflicts of
interest.”  Hochtief  fell  33 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 63.72 euros at
the close of trading at 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. Madrid-based ACS
fell 35 cents, or 1 percent, to 36.11 euros.  The German company has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG to advise on the
takeover bid.  Hochtief ’s works council plans to deliver a protest letter
to Spain’s ambassador in Berlin and will meet with German
government officials to discuss possible defenses against the
bid, Siegfried Mueller, head of the council, said in an
interview. Labor leaders are protesting the bid because of
concerns that job cuts are possible and that the company may be
broken up, he said.  “Our chances are poor but we’ve decided to fight,”
Mueller said.  ‘Reasonable, Fair’ Treatment  Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen is prepared to meet
with the company’s workers though she hasn’t received a request
yet, Jens Flossdorf, a ministry spokesman, said by phone.  Hochtief has been in touch with Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
office to inform the Chancellery about the bid and the Economy
Ministry expects “reasonable and fair” treatment in Hochtief’s
efforts to thwart a takeover,  Tobias Pohl , a spokesman for the
ministry, told reporters in Berlin today.  Klaus Wiesehuegel , head of Germany’s IG Bau building
workers union and a member of Hochtief’s  board , said rejecting
the bid may be “difficult” unless BaFin, Germany’s financial
markets regulator, opposes the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Essen via 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  