-- Oil Producers Delay Phase-Out of North Sea Platforms on Price
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-10-04T13:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/oil-producers-delay-phase-out-of-north-sea-platforms-on-price.html
U.K. offshore producers are delaying
plans to decommission oil platforms and pipelines in the North
Sea because of high oil prices, according to  Accenture Plc , the
world’s second-largest technology-consulting firm.  Operators will need to invest about $3 billion in
decommissioning through 2015, with a further $5 billion required
by 2020, said Johan Nell, a London-based oil and gas researcher
at Accenture. The process won’t really get going until after
2020 when more than $20 billion will be needed.  “There is a renewed focus of the operators that they
extract as much value as possible from the current assets,”
Nell said today in an interview.  BP Plc, Europe’s second-biggest producer, is among drillers
that have invested in enhanced oil recovery technologies,
extending the lifespan of fields and linking pipelines to
smaller projects that were previously uneconomical. Crude prices
more than tripled in the last decade, increasing the attraction
of the U.K. continental shelf, which holds an estimated 24
billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to industry group
 Oil & Gas UK .  BP, Total SA and Premier Oil Plc have been given permission
to decommission  offshore facilities  by the U.K.’s  Department of
Energy and Climate Change . So far this year, approval for two
such projects has been granted.  “We have seen the timing of decommissioning delayed across
the North Sea over the past few years,”  Michael Alsford  and
 Alastair Syme , London-based analysts at Nomura International
Plc, wrote in a Sept. 24 report. “Further collaboration between
the oil and gas industry and the U.K. government could also help
delay” the phasing out of fields, he said.  Investment Capacity  U.K. authorities, producers and contractors need to start
preparing for decommissioning projects by investing in capacity,
Nell said.  “The projected workload is expected to exceed the
capacities of the existing heavy lift vessel fleet and onshore
deconstruction facilities,” Deloitte LLP and  Douglas Westwood
Ltd.  said in a report today. They estimate that the U.K. will
need more than $30 billion in the next 30 years to decommission
more than 260 platforms and related equipment.  The U.K. will need to spend as much as 30 billion pounds
($47.5 billion) on decommissioning through 2040, according to
 Decom North Sea  estimates. Costs have risen because of inflation
within the services industry as well as a lack of capacity.  “There is a lot of cost uncertainty, which is probably
inflating the estimates,” Nell said. “The market to supply
skill and contractors to the decommissioning environment is
still relatively small.”  Accenture trails  International Business Machines Corp.  in
technology consulting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  