-- Oil Is Little Changed as Equities Decline, Orders for Capital Goods Gain
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-04T20:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/oil-is-little-changed-as-equities-decline-orders-for-capital-goods-gain.html
Crude oil was little changed in New
York after reaching an eight-week high as equities slipped and
orders for U.S. capital goods increased.  Oil retreated as stocks declined for the third time in four
days and the dollar advanced against the euro. Prices climbed as
much as 1 percent earlier when the Commerce Department reported
that orders for non-military capital goods excluding planes
increased 5.1 percent, the biggest gain since March.  “It’s hard to justify a further move higher with stocks
down and the dollar stronger,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’ll
see if we can consolidate here and keep an eye on this week’s
economic reports.”  Crude oil for November delivery declined 11 cents to settle
at $81.47 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures
touched $82.38, the highest level since Aug. 6.  Brent crude for November settlement slipped 47 cents, or
0.6 percent, to end the session at $83.28 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.8 percent to
1,137.03 at 4:18 p.m. in New York, and the Dow Jones Industrial
Average declined 0.7 percent to 10,751.27.  The dollar strengthened from a six-month low against the
euro as concern that Europe’s major banks are undercapitalized
made the region’s assets less attractive. The 16-nation euro
slipped 0.8 percent to $1.3684, after rising to $1.3807, the
highest level since March 17.  The increase in capital goods orders excluding defense and
aircraft exceeded the 4.1 percent gain the Commerce Department
estimated in last month’s durable goods report.  Pending Home Sales  The National Association of Realtors’ index of pending
sales of existing homes climbed more than forecast in August.
Signed contracts increased 4.3 percent after a 4.5 percent
increase in July, indicating housing demand is stabilizing after
reaching record lows.  “The fact it stayed above $81 was pretty positive,” said
 Fred Rigolini , vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in New
York and a trader at the New York Mercantile Exchange. “We’re
riding a little on the stats from last week, especially China.”  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at a faster
pace in September behind increases in construction and consumer
spending. A purchasing managers’ index released today by the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing rose to 61.7 from
60.1 in August. The data follow a jump to a four-month high for
the manufacturing PMI announced on Oct. 1, underscoring
sustained momentum in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Temporary Factors  “We’re waiting for the other shoe to drop after breaching
$80,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC
in Houston. “The economy and demand remain our long-term
concerns. There are a number of temporary factors we’re looking
at as well, such as the strike in France that’s backed up
tankers, and the close of the Houston Ship Channel.”  A strike at France’s biggest oil port entered its eighth
day, delaying ships and potentially bolstering crude-oil
transportation costs in the Mediterranean Sea. The action at
Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil terminals will go on until
tomorrow at least, Inchcape Shipping Services said. Fourteen
crude tankers and 24 oil-products carriers are waiting outside
the port, according to the shipping agent’s website.  The Houston Ship Channel will remain closed to most vessels
until late tomorrow because of damage to an electrical tower.
Tankers use the channel that connects the Gulf of Mexico to the
Port of Houston to deliver crude oil to refineries in the
Houston-Texas City-Baytown area.  Idled Vessels  Eleven of 12 inbound tankers are heading for refineries
served by the Houston port and ship channel, Coast Guard Chief
Petty Officer Levi Campbell said in a telephone interview. There
are seven tankers waiting to leave the port, he said.  Money managers including hedge funds and other speculators
increased their  net-long positions  in New York crude futures by
10 percent, to 116,906 contracts in the seven days ended Sept.
28, according to data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 673,283
contracts as of 3:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 810,203
contracts on Oct. 1, 23 percent above the average of the past
three months and the highest level in more than two weeks. Open
interest was 1.37 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 