-- Oil Falls From Two-Month High as Equities Drop, Dollar Gains
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-10-05T03:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/oil-trades-near-eight-week-high-after-u-s-stocks-fall-goods-orders-gain.html
Oil fell from near a two-month high
in New York after equities slipped and as the dollar rose
against the euro for a second day.  Futures retreated yesterday after U.S. stock markets
declined for the third time in four days and the dollar gained,
as investors sought more stable assets instead of commodities.
An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show crude
supplies rose last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Global markets all played to the same tune last night,
increased risk aversion,”  David Taylor , a market analyst at CMC
Markets Ltd. in Sydney, said in an e-mailed note. “Money flowed
into the U.S. dollar and treasuries and away from just about
everything else.”  The November contract fell as much as 32 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $81.15 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $81.29 at 11:44 a.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday it lost 11 cents to $81.47. Oil closed
at $81.58 on Oct. 1, the highest level since Aug. 5. Prices are
up 2.4 percent this year.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.8 percent
yesterday and the Dow Jones Industrial Average shed 0.7 percent.
Asian equity markets fell for the first time in three days with
the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index slumping 0.4 percent o 126.66 as of
12 p.m. Tokyo time.  Crude rose earlier yesterday after the U.S. Commerce
Department reported that orders for non-military capital goods
excluding planes climbed 5.1 percent.  The dollar strengthened from a six-month low against the
euro as concern that Europe’s major banks are undercapitalized
made the region’s assets less attractive. The greenback traded
at $1.3647, up 0.3 percent, after rising 0.8 percent yesterday.  Brent Drops  Brent crude for November settlement fell as much as 35
cents, or 0.4 percent, to $82.93 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday it slipped 47 cents, or
0.6 percent, to end the session at $83.28.  U.S. oil stockpiles probably gained 1 million barrels from
357.9 million last week, according to the median of 11 analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report. It would put
inventories at their highest level since Sept. 3.  Refineries  probably operated  at 85.35 percent of capacity,
down 0.45 percentage point from the previous week, according to
the Bloomberg survey. That would be the lowest level since April.
Rates dropped 2 percentage points in the week ended Sept. 24.  Gasoline stockpiles probably fell 250,000 barrels from
222.6 million, the survey shows.  Houston Ship Channel  The Houston Ship Channel will remain closed to most vessels
until at least late today, because of repairs to a damaged tower
that supports power cables running over the shipping lane, the
U.S. Coast Guard said yesterday.  Tankers waiting to offload crude at the plants will have
priority entry to the channel once traffic resumes, said Marcus
Woodring, the local U.S. Coast Guard sector commander.  Valero Energy Corp.’s Houston refinery, Royal Dutch Shell
Plc’s Deer Park plant, Pasadena Refining Systems Inc.’s refinery
and Lyondell Industries NV’s 302,000-barrel-a-day plant are
potentially affected by the delay, said Coast Guard Lieutenant
Robert Cole. Eight tankers are waiting to use the channel and
seven are heading out of the port.  Shell said it will need two crude shipments and Valero said
one shipment is needed by Oct. 6, according to Woodring. The
shipping route to Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Baytown, Texas, plant is
clear,  Neely Nelson , a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  