-- London Underground Resumes Normal Service After Strike
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-10-05T13:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/london-underground-expects-to-resume-normal-service-after-24-hour-strike.html
A full, normal service resumed on
 London Underground  this morning following a 24-hour walkout by
workers that ended yesterday.  “All services are running normally apart from the Bakerloo
line where there was a problem with over-running engineering
works,”  Transport for London  spokesman  Allan Ramsay  said in a
telephone interview today. The delays on the Bakerloo line are
unrelated to yesterday’s strike, he said. All lines were running
a good service except the District Line, which has severe
delays, according to the TfL  website  as of 2:37 p.m.  The travel plans of 3.5 million users of the subway system,
or the Tube, were disrupted yesterday by the action over safety
and staffing levels that began at 6:29 p.m. on Oct. 3. The
industrial action was the second of four scheduled by the  Rail,
Maritime and Transport Union  and  Transport Salaried Staffs’
Association  in protest against 800 planned job cuts.  It was the fifth time strikers have shut down the Tube since
2002. Negotiations between London Underground and the unions to
resolve the dispute broke down on Sept. 22. Further walkouts are
planned for Nov. 2 and Nov. 28.  A separate dispute involving almost 200 Alstom-Metro
maintenance staff was suspended after the workers received a
“significantly improved offer” on pay and conditions, the RMT
said in a statement on its website today. The union recommends
the offer and will now consult with members.  Separately,  Ian Brown , managing director of London Rail, is
retiring, TfL said in an e-mailed statement. He will leave his
current position next month and assume an advisory role on
London Rail and Crossrail until he departs at the end of March,
TfL said. Mike Brown will become London Rail’s managing
director.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  