-- Cheung Kong, Sun Hung Kai Sell HK$11 Billion Worth of New Hong Kong Homes
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-10-04T03:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/hong-kong-developers-sell-1-4-billion-of-homes-over-national-day-weekend.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  and
 Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong’s two largest developers,
sold more than HK$11 billion ($1.42 billion) worth of new
properties over the National Day holiday weekend.  Sun Hung Kai, the world’s biggest developer by market value,
sold 132 houses at its  Valais project  in the Sheung Shui
district over the three-day holiday, generating revenue of close
to HK$4 billion, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
Cheung Kong, controlled by billionaire Li Ka-shing, sold all
1,143 apartments at  Oceanaire  in the Ma On Shan district, four
days after the project was launched, for more than HK$7.6
billion, sales director Francis Wong told reporters at a
briefing yesterday.  The Hong Kong government has since October last year
announced a series of measures to rein in home prices that have
 surged  46 percent since the beginning of 2009 on the back of
record low mortgage rates and an influx of mainland Chinese
buyers. Oceanaire is the biggest new project by unit number put
up for sale by Hong Kong developers this year, according to
Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  “The sales were driven by pent-up demand and the
developer’s conservative pricing strategy,” said  Wong Leung- sing , a research director at Centaline, Hong Kong’s biggest
privately held real estate agent, about Oceanaire. “It doesn’t
mean the market is getting hot again. The government has made it
clear it’s ready to launch more new measures to curb prices
again and buyers are aware of that.”  The average HK$6,200 per square foot set by Cheung Kong for
the project is very close to prices of similar developments in
the area, Wong said.  Developers  normally set prices of new
projects at least 20 percent above market prices “when they’re
bullish about the market,” he said.  Mainland Buyers  Hong Kong’s government on Aug. 13 raised down-payment
ratios and said it will make more land available for developers
amid concerns housing is becoming unaffordable. Financial
Secretary John Tsang said last month the government is closely
monitoring the market and may announce more measures if prices
keep going up.  About 30 percent of the buyers at the Valais project,
located about a three-minute drive from the Huanggang border
checkpoint, are from mainland China, Sun Hung Kai said in
yesterday’s statement. Sizes of most units range from about
1,800 square feet to 2,200 square feet, according to its  website.   “It’s an entirely different market from your regular
projects in the city and they are quite immune from government
policies,” said Centaline’s Wong. “It’s luxury and it’s close
to the border. There’ll always be ample buyers for these kinds
of projects as long as mainland Chinese keep coming to Hong
Kong.”  Hong Kong defines luxury homes as units with an area of
more than 1,000 square feet and valued at more than HK$10
million.  Sun Hung Kai last week bought a site in the Fan Ling
district near the Valais for a more than estimated HK$459
million in a government auction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  