-- Hong Kong Exchanges Hires Chinese Regulator Yang as China Development Head
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-10-04T10:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/hong-kong-exchanges-hires-chinese-regulator-yang-as-china-development-head.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. 
hired  Yang Qiumei  from China’s securities regulator to head
mainland China development at the operator of Asia’s third-
biggest stock market.  Yang has been appointed head of the market development
division’s mainland development department, as well as deputy
head of market development, Hong Kong Exchanges said in a
 statement  today. Her responsibilities will include advising the
bourse on China-related issues, and overseeing its Beijing
representative office,  Lorraine Chan , a spokeswoman for Hong
Kong Exchanges, said in a phone interview today.  Yang was previously deputy director-general of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission’s department of investment-fund
supervision, today’s statement said. In that capacity, Yang was
in charge of supervising fund management companies and issues
related to the country’s qualified foreign institutional
investors, or QFII, and qualified domestic institutional
investors, or QDII, programs, the statement said.  “This makes sense because China has relaxed both the QFII
and QDII requirements, indicating further opening of its capital
markets,”  Gavin Parry , Hong Kong-based managing director of
Parry International Trading Ltd., said. “Yang brings intimate
knowledge that should give the bourse a leg up against other
exchanges.”  Her hiring comes as Hong Kong Exchanges takes steps to
benefit from the gradual liberalization of China’s financial
markets.  Charles Li , the bourse’s chief executive officer, has
proposed changing Hong Kong’s trading hours to be more in line
with exchanges in mainland China and plans to introduce
investment products denominated in China’s yuan.  Yang will join Hong Kong Exchanges on Oct. 18, and will
report to Romnesh Lamba, the bourse’s head of market development,
today’s statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 