-- Hong Kong's Retail Sales Increase for 12th Straight Month, to $3.4 Billion
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-04T08:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/hong-kong-s-retail-sales-increase-for-12th-straight-month-to-3-4-billion.html
Hong Kong’s retail sales grew for a
12th straight month in August, helping spur economic growth.  Sales  increased 16.9 percent to HK$26.5 billion ($3.4
billion) after gaining a revised 19.2 percent in July, the
government said on its website today. That was more than the
16.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of ten
economists.  Consumer demand is finding support from the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, which has held its benchmark interest rate
at a record-low 0.5 percent since December 2008. Falling
unemployment and record tourist inflows have also boosted sales.  “The easy money conditions look set to feed Hong Kong’s
domestic demand engine for a while longer,”  Donna Kwok , an
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong, said before the
report. The influx of visitors and improved labor market
“helped to sustain the feel-good factor that’s circulating
through shops in the city,” she said.  Visitor arrivals surged an annualized 22 percent in August
to a record 3.46 million, with more than two-third of them
coming from mainland China, according to Hong Kong Tourism
Board. Hong Kong’s  unemployment rate  fell to a 20-month low of
4.2 percent in the three months through August, according to
government data.  Hong Kong’s monetary policy decisions track those of the
U.S. Federal Reserve because the city’s currency is pegged to
the dollar.  Luk Fook Holdings (International) Ltd., a jewelry retailer,
recorded a 30 percent increase in same-store sales in Hong Kong
and Macau between April and August from a year earlier,  Paul Law , the financial controller at the company, said in a phone
interview today.  By  volume , retail sales gained 14.7 percent in August from
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  