-- Morgans Extends Loans Due on Hudson New York Hotel, Mondrian Los Angeles
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-10-04T20:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/morgans-extends-loans-due-on-hudson-new-york-hotel-los-angeles-mondrian.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co . won
extensions for loans backed by its Hudson New York hotel in
Manhattan and the Mondrian Los Angeles after paying down a
portion of the money owed on the two properties.  The debts now will expire in October 2011, the New York-
based hotelier said. Morgans paid down $16 million of the Hudson
loan and $17 million of the Mondrian debt, bringing the
outstanding amount on the Hudson’s first mortgage to $201.2
million and the Mondrian’s remaining debt to $103.5 million.  Both properties are luxury hotels developed by  Ian Schrager . Bookings have started to rise at luxury chains, hurt
more than their cheaper competitors by the U.S. recession. Hotel
occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 65 percent
this year through August from 61 percent a year earlier,  Smith
Travel Research Inc.  said. Luxury hotels had the biggest gain,
with occupancies rising to 67 percent from 62 percent.  Morgans exchanged interest rates tied to the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, for a fixed 5 percent rate
four years ago, when rates were higher, Chief Financial Officer
 Richard Szymanski  said in a telephone interview. The loans
expired in July. Morgans now pays Libor plus 1.03 percent on the
Hudson loan and Libor plus 1.64 percent on the Mondrian loan.
The Libor for  three-month loans  was 0.291 percent today.  “We got very attractive financing, which is giving us
breathing room,” President  Marc Gordon  said in a telephone
interview. “This is a culmination of a series of transactions,
the result of which is that none of our debt is an issue at this
time. Income in our top markets has been up.”  Rising Rates  Mid-week rates for a standard room start at $349 at the
Hudson and $345 at the Mondrian for the week of Oct. 18,
according to the hotels’ websites. That’s up from $229 in May at
the New York hotel and $295 at the West Hollywood, California,
property.  The loans on the Hudson and Mondrian had been sent to a
special servicer in May because of imminent default, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The special servicer on both
loans was CWCapital Asset Management LLC.  Rooms at the Hudson boast wood-paneled walls and floors
imported from Africa. Hudson Hall, the hotel’s renovated
restaurant, is reminiscent of an Ivy League mess hall with long,
wooden communal tables. In the lobby, designed by  Philippe Starck , ivy climbs along the 40-foot ceilings. At the Mondrian,
on Sunset Boulevard, the lobby features a swing.  Schrager, the hotels’ developer, created the Studio 54 and
Palladium nightclubs together with his late business partner,
Steve Rubell. Schrager helped revive the concept of the boutique
hotel in 1984 with the opening of the Morgans Hotel in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  