-- Mosaic First-Quarter Profit Trails Analyst Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-04T22:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/mosaic-first-quarter-profit-trails-analyst-estimates-update2-.html
Mosaic Co. , North America’s second-
largest fertilizer producer, reported first-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates after long-term phosphate supply
contracts didn’t fully capitalize on price gains.  Earnings per share in the three months through August were
67 cents, trailing the 71-cent  average estimate  of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income rose to $297.7 million from
$100.6 million, or 23 cents a share, a year earlier, Plymouth,
Minnesota-based Mosaic said today in a statement. Sales
increased 50 percent to $2.19 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  James Prokopanko  said earnings
missed estimates because long-term supply contracts for
phosphate fertilizer limited the company’s ability to fully
capture rising prices during the quarter.  “We’ve had very strong demand,” Prokopanko said in a
telephone interview. “From the end of June, dealers who had low
inventories saw grain prices suddenly rise and they began to
aggressively lay in product.”  Mosaic, 64 percent owned by closely held Cargill Inc., fell
$1.01, or 1.7 percent, to $57.78 at 6:04 p.m. after the close of
regular New York Stock Exchange trading.  The shares  declined 1.6
percent this year through today’s close.  Takeover Bid  Investor interest in fertilizer producers has increased
following BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile takeover bid
for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer.  Diammonium phosphate  sold for $431 on average in the
quarter, 55 percent more than a year earlier, Mosaic said. Sales
of phosphates rose 6.9 percent to 3.1 million tons because of
strong demand in North America and Brazil.  Mosaic sold potash for an average price of $331 a metric
ton in the quarter, 6.5 percent less than a year earlier, Mosaic
said. The company sold 1.7 million tons of potash, compared with
about 800,000 tons a year earlier.  Potash for immediate delivery in Iowa, the top U.S. corn-
growing state, has fallen 9.5 percent this year as fertilizer
makers cut prices to spur sales. Farmers deferred purchases of
the crop nutrient in 2008 and 2009 in response to record high
prices and the global economic slowdown.  Shutdown Possibility  Phosphate fertilizer prices have climbed on increased
demand from farmers and concern that Mosaic may close its mine
at South Fort Meade, Florida, because of a lawsuit by
environmental groups.  Mosaic informed workers earlier this year that the facility
may be shut indefinitely if the company can’t retain federal
government approval to mine new reserves of phosphate rock.  The Sierra Club and other groups are contesting a federal
license that would allow the expansion. Without those approvals,
the mine won’t be economically viable, the company said in July.  “We are optimistic that we can maintain our full fiscal
year of production using rock inventories, finished-product
inventories and phosphate rock from third-party providers,”
Prokopanko said.  Potash, a potassium-rich form of salt, is mined and mixed
with other crop nutrients to help reduce crop stress and ward
off disease. Diammonium phosphate, derived from phosphate rock,
helps plants establish healthy root systems.  (Mosaic scheduled a conference call for tomorrow at 10 a.m.
New York time at +1-888-680-0893. The passcode is 18586123.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 