-- Osborne Says Top Taxpayers to Lose U.K. Child Benefit
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-04T22:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/osborne-says-top-taxpayers-to-lose-u-k-s-child-benefit-welfare-payments.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he’d cut welfare checks for more than 1 million
families as he steps up spending reductions to help narrow
Britain’s record  budget deficit .  The wealthiest families will be deprived of a universal
benefit for children, while households where no one works will
have payments curtailed so they receive no more income than the
average working family. The plans may save as much as 2 billion
pounds ($3.2 billion) by 2013.  “No more open-ended checkbook,” Osborne told supporters
at the  Conservative Party ’s annual conference today in
Birmingham, central England. “These days we’ve really got to
focus the resources where they are most needed. We’ve got to be
tough but fair.”  Under the banner of “Together in the National Interest,”
the conference is designed to galvanize support for an austerity
plan that aims to deliver the biggest squeeze on government
spending since World War II. Osborne has two weeks to complete
plans showing how ministers will eradicate most of the 156
billion-pound deficit by 2015.  The cutback in child benefit will hit 1.2 million families
with at least one parent earning more than about 44,000 pounds
from 2013. Child benefit is worth 1,055 pounds a year for the
first child and 696 pounds a year for each subsequent child. It
costs 12 billion pounds a year and is paid to 7.8 million
families, according to Treasury figures.  Policy Shift  The decision is a shift for Osborne, who, when delivering
his emergency budget in June, defended keeping child benefit as
a universal payment without a means tests. It also risks
angering wealthier voters as the opposition Labour Party moves
ahead in some polls.  The savings from trimming benefits to workless families
will be “hundreds of millions” of pounds, according to a
briefing document released by the Conservative Party. Tens of
thousands of families will have welfare capped at 500 pounds a
week, though the disabled will be excluded.  The money saved will be used to help fund a simplification
of Britain’s benefits system that the government says will yield
savings in the future. Ministers intend to replace the current
system of welfare and tax credits, in which people on low
incomes or without jobs can claim different benefits to cover
specific needs, with a single-payment program.  Worse Off  Osborne said today’s announcement on child benefit will
mean families with a single high earner may be worse off than
one with two earners below the 44,000-pound threshold at which
people start paying the higher 40 percent rate of income tax.  Someone with two children earning just over the threshold
would need to increase his or her income by around 3,000 pounds
before he or she made up for the loss of his or her child
benefit, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “This reform seriously distorts incentives for some
families with children,” the London-based  Institute for Fiscal
Studies  said in a statement that confirmed that estimate. “In
particular, adults with children whose income places them below
the higher-rate income tax threshold might find themselves
considerably worse off from a small rise in income.”  Children’s Minister  Tim Loughton  told Channel 4 News
tonight: “If there are ways we can look at compensating
measures for those genuinely in need, that will be looked at in
future budgets. If the thresholds need to be adjusted there’s
plenty of time to look at that.”  ‘Unfair Attack’  Yvette Cooper , opposition spokeswoman on Work and Pensions,
said the government’s “unfair attack on child benefit is now
unraveling.”  “The chancellor only announced means testing this morning,
and already the children’s minister has admitted that the
thresholds need to be looked at again,” she said in a
statement.  “They have clearly been taken aback by the reaction of
parents across the country. George Osborne and  David Cameron 
obviously don’t understand what it means for families on middle
incomes to lose thousands of pounds a year.”  The median earnings level for a household losing the
benefit is 75,000 pounds, according to the Conservatives.  Osborne said in his speech that the U.K. risks the
downgrading of its top-notch credit rating, market turmoil and
rising interest rates if it delays cuts to public spending.  Anything other than quick action to tackle the deficit
would lead to “economic instability,” Osborne said, attacking
the newly elected leader of the opposition Labour Party,  Ed Miliband , for arguing that expenditure cuts should be slower
than those the government has proposed.  ‘Tough Decisions’  “Imagine if I were to stand up in the House of Commons in
two weeks time and say: ‘I’m canceling the deficit plan, I agree
with Ed Miliband, let’s delay the tough decisions, let’s borrow
more, let’s go on adding to our debt,” Osborne said. “Now
imagine what would follow; the market turmoil, the flight of
investors, the dismay of business, the loss of confidence, the
credit downgrade.”  Before May’s election, Labour promised to cut the budget
deficit in half, from 11 percent of gross domestic product in
the fiscal year ended March to 5.2 percent by April 2014. The
coalition government aims to cut the shortfall by two thirds
over the same four-year period to 3.5 percent and reduce it to
1.1 percent by April 2016.  An ICM poll for  the Guardian newspaper  carried out Sept.
28-29 found support for Labour at 37 percent, two points ahead
of the Tories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England or
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gonzalo Vina  in Birmingham, England, at
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 