-- Houston Ship Channel Traffic Disrupted Until Tomorrow
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-10-04T18:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/houston-ship-channel-traffic-disrupted-until-tomorrow-evening.html
The Houston Ship Channel will remain
closed to most vessels until at least late tomorrow, limiting
crude oil shipments to four refineries, because of repairs to a
damaged tower that supports power cables running over the
shipping lane, the U.S. Coast Guard said today.  “Everybody is OK right now, they do need some ships on
Wednesday, and we will prioritize that traffic as soon as the
channel reopens to get some crude oil to the refineries that
need it,” Marcus Woodring, U.S. Coast Guard Houston and
Galveston sector commander, said at a press conference in
Houston. The closure costs the port about $322 million a day in
lost revenue, Woodring said.  Eight of 24 inbound tankers are heading for refineries
served by the Houston port and ship channel, Coast Guard
Lieutenant Robert Cole said today in a telephone interview.
There are seven tankers waiting to leave the port, he said.  Valero Energy Corp. ’s Houston refinery,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc’s  Deer Park plant, Pasadena Refining Systems Inc.’s refinery
and  Lyondell Industries NV’s  302,000-barrel-a-day plant are
potentially affected by the delay, he said.  Shell said it will need two crude shipments and Valero said
one shipment is needed by Oct. 6, according to Woodring.  Bill Day , a spokesman for Valero, which operates a 145,000-
barrel-a-day Houston refinery receives crude ships from barges
using the ship channel, said “it would have to be a lengthy
outage to affect crude supplies at the refinery.”  Shell, Motiva Unaffected  Shell and Motiva downstream operations, including the Deer
Park and Port Arthur refineries, haven’t been affected,  Ted Rolfvondenbaumen,  a Shell spokesman, said earlier today in an e-
mail. “We continue to monitor the situation,” he said.  “We do not anticipate any adverse impact to our refining
operations from this event,” said  David Harpole , a spokesman
for Lyondell.  The shipping route to Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Baytown, Texas,
plant is clear,  Neely Nelson , a company spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview. A crude tanker bound for the refinery
yesterday was allowed to pass because it was heading to the
boundary of the closed zone, Coast Guard Petty Officer Richard
Brahm said.  Barge Strikes Tower  The Coast Guard was notified at about 6 a.m. local time
yesterday that a barge had struck the tower, Woodring said. A
safety zone was set up from light marker 105 to light marker
124, and the power to the line, owned by  CenterPoint Energy
Inc. , was shut off and isn’t a public danger, according to
Woodring.  “The situation is a little bit unstable out there right
now,” Woodring said. “The lines are sagging and we cannot
allow any vessels to pass.”  Ship traffic below the point of closure is still moving,
according to Woodring, including the Barbours Cut and Bayport
terminals.  Tankers use the channel, which connects the Gulf of Mexico
to the Port of Houston, to deliver crude oil to refineries in
the Houston-Texas City-Baytown area that make up about 13
percent of U.S. refining capacity, said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  “The impact is significantly less than what we experience
during the winter months, when fog can impact shipping for
between three and five days,” Lipow said. There are ample
inventories of gasoline and distillates to provide a supply
cushion, he said.  Prices Little Changed  Petroleum products prices were little changed. The discount
for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the Gulf Coast held
steady at 1.3 cents a gallon versus futures traded on the New
York Mercantile Exchange at 2:01 p.m. in New York, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Ultra-low-sulfur diesel at the hub
strengthened 0.25 cent to a premium of 0.5 cent a gallon over
Nymex heating oil futures.  One of three power lines feeding the Exxon plant was downed
in the incident, Robert Gordon, a CenterPoint spokesman, said at
the Houston briefing. Nelson, the Exxon spokeswoman, said the
plant’s operations haven’t been affected.  The towing vessel Safety Quest, owned by  American Electric
Power Company Inc. , was pushing three barges carrying scrap
metal when it hit the highline electrical tower in the Baytown
area, the  Coast Guard  said. The tower was leaning and being
supported by one of the barges.  The Coast Guard said the Safety Quest’s crew was evacuated
to another vessel. The cause of the accident is under
investigation, the Coast Guard said, and drug and alcohol tests
were to be given.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net  