-- Toyota Sued by Allstate in Acceleration-Caused Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-04T23:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/toyota-sued-by-allstate-for-acceleration-caused-claims-update1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  was sued by
Allstate Corp. and affiliates of the insurer saying they have
paid $3 million for accidents caused by sudden acceleration.  Toyota “had full knowledge of the numerous complaints
regarding its vehicles, that such vehicles were susceptible of
sudden unintended acceleration, and thus that such vehicles
posed a significant risk of property damage, as well as physical
injury to vehicle occupants and other motorists,” Allstate said
Oct. 1 in a complaint in California state court.  Sudden acceleration has accounted for at least 725
accidents with 304 injuries and 18 fatalities, Allstate said,
citing Safety Research and Strategies Inc. Undisclosed flaws in
the electronic throttle have been linked to sudden acceleration,
it said.  It accused Toyota of negligence, product liability, breach
of implied warranty and fraud.  “While Toyota has not seen the complaint, based on
reports, we believe the unfounded allegations in this suit have
no basis,”  Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor
Sales USA Inc. in Torrance, California, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Toyota said today that it hasn’t found evidence its
electronic throttle control caused unintended acceleration after
engineers and technicians investigated more than 4,000 U.S.
vehicles whose drivers made such complaints.  The world’s largest automaker, based on Toyota City, Japan,
is working to improve its brand image and quality after global
recalls of more than 8 million vehicles for defects linked to
unintended acceleration.  About 5 million recall-related repairs to fix sticky gas
pedals and replace floor mats at risk of jamming the accelerator
have been completed so far, Toyota said today.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Toyota Motor North
America Inc., BC446704, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 