-- Toyota Finds No Electronic-Throttle Acceleration Flaw
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-05T00:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/toyota-says-electronic-throttle-not-linked-to-acceleration-flaw.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  said it hasn’t
found evidence electronic throttle controls triggered unintended
acceleration after its engineers and technicians studied more
than 4,000 U.S. vehicles whose drivers made such complaints.  “Toyota has not found a single case in which electronics
would lead to sudden unintended acceleration,”  Steve St. Angelo ,
the company’s North American chief quality officer, said in a
conference call yesterday. Toyota has investigated 4,200
individual acceleration-related complaints so far, he said.  The world’s  largest automaker  is working to improve its
quality and brand image after global recalls of more than 8
million vehicles for defects linked to unintended acceleration.
 Safety Research & Strategies Inc. , an independent safety
advocate that works with plaintiff attorneys, and reports by
media including the Los Angeles Times have suggested Toyota’s
electronic throttle-control system plays a role in sudden
acceleration, an assertion the carmaker denies.  U.S. customer complaints of sudden acceleration have
dropped 80 percent since April, Toyota said in a statement.  Toyota fell 0.2 percent to 2,957 yen as of 9:05 a.m. on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have declined 24 percent this
year.  The Toyota City, Japan-based company said it has added so-
called brake-override control to 84 percent of Toyota, Lexus and
Scion vehicles on sale in the U.S. and will be the first
carmaker to offer the safety technology across its lineup. The
software is designed to disengage a jammed accelerator when the
brake pedal is pressed.  ‘Can’t Intervene’  The system “can’t intervene if a driver incorrectly steps
on the gas pedal alone when he meant to go for the brake,” said
 Dan Edmunds , head of vehicle testing for industry data website
Edmunds.com in Santa Monica, California. “This happens quite
often, and that’s why we don’t expect so-called unintended
acceleration complaints to fully disappear anytime soon.”  About 5 million recall-related repairs to fix sticky gas
pedals and replace floor mats at risk of jamming the accelerator
have been completed so far, Toyota said.  Toyota is being sued by  Allstate Corp.  and affiliates of
the insurer, which say they have paid $3 million for accidents
caused by sudden acceleration.  Toyota “had full knowledge of the numerous complaints
regarding its vehicles, that such vehicles were susceptible of
sudden unintended acceleration, and thus that such vehicles
posed a significant risk of property damage, as well as physical
injury to vehicle occupants and other motorists,” Allstate said
Oct. 1 in a complaint in California state court.  U.S. Government Scrutiny  Sudden acceleration has accounted for at least 725
accidents with 304 injuries and 18 fatalities, Allstate said,
citing Safety Research & Strategies.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Toyota Motor North
America Inc., BC446704, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  Toyota teams sent to meet with customers who complained
about acceleration found cases of recall fixes that hadn’t been
made to vehicles or in which stacked or incompatible floor mats
were still being used,  Bob Waltz , U.S. vice president for
product quality and service, said on the conference call.  In other cases, reviews of data recorders on some vehicles
revealed that the accelerator rather than the brake pedal had
been depressed by mistake, Waltz said.  The company is working more closely with suppliers in North
America to review parts designs and manufacturing processes and
to test components more thoroughly, St. Angelo said.  Toyota is cooperating with federal probes that continue to
look into potential electronics flaws and how the company
handled past recalls, and doesn’t know when they’ll conclude, St.
Angelo said.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  