-- Palestinian Oktoberfest Offers West Bank Hip-Hop, Microbrews
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/palestinian-oktoberfest-offers-hip-hop-microbrews-amid-shaky-peace-talks.html
Forget Bratwurst and the brassy
oompah sounds of Bavaria.  Instead, beer aficionados, at least those at the two-day
Oktoberfest in the West Bank town of  Taybeh,  indulged in pita
with Labaneh cheese, the aroma of lamb skewers on the grill,
Palestinian hip-hop, and most importantly,  microbrewed beer .  Taybeh, a Christian enclave in the predominantly Muslim
West Bank, held the festivities last weekend in what Mayor David
Khoury billed as Palestinians’ way of seeking normality under
the abnormal conditions of a nation without a state.  While the window of opportunity for statehood ebbs as talks
between Palestian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  verge on collapse, that didn’t
stop thousands of visitors from flooding this biblical town
perched on a hill where Jesus is said to have strode.  “This is about doing something for our motherland,
creating a sense of normality for Palestinians despite the fact
that our freedom is curtailed by the lack of peace,” Khoury,
his dark suit drenched in the sweat of a sweltering Middle East
day, says in an interview. “While we are being encircled by
settlements, this is about promoting our town of Taybeh as a
flame of peace and non-violent resistance.”  Bossa Nova  Taybeh, delicious in Arabic, is home to the only
Palestinian microbrewery, and this year held its sixth annual
 Oktoberfest . Acts as diverse as a Brazilian Bossa Nova band and
Sri Lankan traditional dancers came to the town, a vestige of a
once flourishing Christian community in the West Bank that has
been dissipated because of Palestinian infighting and the
hardships imposed by Israeli security measures.  A chance to sell honey, olive oil and beer is a welcome way
to fight unemployment of about 50 percent in a town of some
1,700 where work opportunities beyond farming, teaching and
store-keeping are limited, Khoury says.  “This is an opportunity for awareness of our products to
be raised and for our culture to be represented,” says Jeries
Zahran, 20, a resident of Taybeh who studies management at
 Bethlehem University .  David Khoury, the mayor, and his brother Nadim returned to
the West Bank village of Taybeh from Boston in 1995 to start a
brewery during the heady days of the Oslo peace talks. The
brothers and their father sold part of a liquor-store business
in the U.S., stock holdings and a house to raise about $1.2
million to start Taybeh Brewing Co. They weren’t deterred when
five bloody years of fighting known as the intifada unraveled
starting in 2000, shrinking the factory’s capacity down to about
10 percent.  ‘Bold Initiatives’  “We have to build the state of Palestine, to create the
job opportunities that will only come with bold initiatives,”
says Nadim Khoury, who heads the brewery. “We can’t sit around
and wait for European and U.S. aid.”  The company, which has grown to 15 workers from three
workers, withstood 10 years without turning a profit because of
the family’s resilient ideology and because they never took out
any loans, David Khoury says. Now the company sells more than
$1.5 million worth of beer annually, though Khoury says profit
margins are “very low.”  The company is expanding by buying more tankage and both
brothers say they hope to establish a fully automated brewing
facility over the next 10 years to increase profits and lure
their children, now students in U.S. universities such as
Harvard, back home.  Princess Therese  Oktoberfest celebrations, held from Ireland to Australia,
are modeled after the 16- to 18-day festival in Munich, first
celebrated in  1810 , to honor Bavarian Crown Prince Ludwig’s
marriage to Princess Therese von Sachsen-Hildburghausen. Taybeh
Brewing makes beer in accordance with the German purity law.
Nadim, who has a diploma in brewing from the University of
California’s Davis campus, imports malt from Belgium, hops from
Bavaria, yeast from Britain and uses natural spring water from
local springs.  While U.S. President Barack Obama’s attempts to bring peace
to the region are stalling as Abbas threatens to walk away from
direct talks after Netanyahu allowed a 10-month partial
moratorium on construction in the West Bank to expire on Sept.
26, that hasn’t stopped the Khourys from delivering the beer to
a steady market in Israel. About 30 percent of the beer, which
has a kosher seal, is sold to Israelis while 60 percent is sold
in the Palestinian territories and 10 percent is exported.  Palestinian Muslims in the West Bank generally frown upon
alcohol consumption, and Hamas officials, who control the Gaza
Strip, have tried to bring Palestinian society into line with
Islamic law. Nadim Khoury, though, says that there’s no friction
with neighbors.  “The amount of alcohol we sell in the Palestinian
territories cannot be drunk by the Christian population only,”
he says.  -- With assistance from  Simon Clark  in London. Editors:  Jim Ruane ,  James Pressley .  To contact the reporter on the story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 