-- Palm Oil Drops Most Since January as Weather Aids U.S. Soybean Harvesting
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-04T04:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/palm-oil-drops-most-since-january-as-weather-aids-u-s-soybean-harvesting.html
Palm oil fell the most in more than
eight months, tracking losses in soybean oil, which plunged as
dry weather allowed farmers in the U.S. to speed up harvests of
the oilseed and rains helped crops in Brazil and Argentina.  December-delivery futures lost as much as 2.9 percent to
2,653 ($860) ringgit a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange, the most since Jan. 13, and ended the morning session
at 2,665 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur.  “Palm oil is moving in line with soybeans and its oil in
Chicago,” Veeresh Hiremath, associate chief analyst at Karvy
Comtrade Ltd., said in a phone interview from Hyderabad, India.
The price may have further to decline as “the weather concerns,
which drove prices higher, are over.”  Soybeans in Chicago fell the most in more than 14 months on
Oct. 1 as dry weather allowed U.S. farmers to hasten the pace of
the harvest, while rainfall in Brazil and Argentina aided crops.
The oilseed for November delivery, which lost 4.5 percent on Oct.
1, declined as much as 1.4 percent to $10.42 a bushel.  December-delivery soybean oil, which shed 2.8 percent on
Oct. 1, dropped as much as 0.9 percent to 43.43 cents a pound.
The vegetable oil’s premium over palm oil narrowed to $78.8 a
ton on Oct. 1, the lowest in more than a week.  Palm oil climbed 15 percent in the quarter ended September
as adverse weather disrupted harvests in Indonesia and Malaysia,
the largest producers, and damaged oilseed crops from Russia to
Canada. Still, Malaysian  inventories  advanced 23 percent to 1.72
million tons in August from July, ending seven months of decline,
according to the country’s palm oil board.  Malaysia’s palm oil shipments rose 30 percent in September
from a month earlier to 1.5 million tons, cargo surveyor Societe
Generale de Surveillance said last week.  “There are no positives to support palm oil at the moment
and the market has factored in the good export performance last
month,” Karvy’s Hiremath said. The tropical commodity may trade
between 2,635 ringgit and 2,700 ringgit today, he said.  CME Group Inc.’s December palm oil contract, which is pegged
to the Malaysian benchmark price, climbed as much as 1.5 percent
to $868.50 a ton. The Dalian Commodity Exchange is closed to
mark China’s National Day celebrations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 