-- Pending U.S. Sales of Existing Homes Increased 4.3% in August
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-04T14:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/pending-u-s-sales-of-existing-homes-increased-4-3-in-august.html
The number of  contracts  to purchase
previously owned homes in the U.S. increased for a second month,
a sign the housing market is beginning to stabilize.  The National Association of Realtors’  index  of pending home
resales rose 4.3 percent in August, more than forecast, after a
revised 4.5 percent gain the prior month that was less than
initially estimated. Compared with the same month a year ago,
pending sales were down 18.4 percent.  Home sales have steadied after plunging in the months
following the expiration of a housing tax credit.  Unemployment 
projected to stay above 9 percent through 2011 may depress
demand in coming months even as record-low mortgage rates and
lower prices make homes more affordable.  Housing is “bouncing along the bottom, unable to gain any
traction, but with little reason to believe it’s going to go any
lower,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD
Securities Inc. in New York. “All of the froth has been
eliminated from the bubble and all we need now is for confidence
to turn higher and job growth to accelerate.”  Economists forecast pending home sales would increase 2.5
percent, according to the median of 39 projections in a
Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 2 percent
to an increase of 5.6 percent.  Separate figures from the Commerce Department showed
 factory orders  declined 0.5 percent in August because of a
decrease in bookings for aircraft. Orders for business equipment
increased, indicating companies are investing.  Stocks Fall  Stocks fluctuated after the reports. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declined less than 0.1 percent to 1,146.09 at 10:25
a.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped
to 2.49 percent from 2.51 percent on Oct. 1.  Contract signings rose in three of four regions in August,
led by a 6.7 percent increase in the South, today’s report
showed. Pending sales were up 6.4 percent in the West and 2.1
percent in the Midwest. They dropped 2.9 percent in the
Northeast.  Financing costs are getting cheaper for homebuyers. The
average rate on a 30-year  fixed mortgage  matched a record low
4.32 percent in the week ended Sept. 30, according to Freddie
Mac. At the same time, the market is being restrained by a lack
of employment opportunities.  “Attractive affordability conditions from very low
mortgage interest rates appear to be bringing buyers back to the
market,”  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief economist, said in a
statement. “However, the pace of a home sales recovery still
depends more on job creation and an accompanying rise in
consumer confidence.”  Unemployment Rate  After averaging 9.3 percent in 2009, the unemployment rate
will average 9.6 percent this year and 9.2 percent in 2011,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg last month. The last time unemployment exceeded 9
percent for three consecutive years was 1939 to 1941.  Higher rates of joblessness limit home sales and increases
the likelihood  foreclosures  will keep rising. Home seizures
reached a record in August for the third time in five months,
RealtyTrac Inc. said Sept. 16.  The labor market is also a reason why Federal Reserve
policy makers may respond with more stimulus. The outlook for
job growth and inflation is “unacceptable” and more monetary
easing is probably needed to spur growth and avert deflation,
Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said in a speech
Oct. 1.  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too longer,” Dudley said to a Society of
American Business Editors and Writers conference.  Federal Reserve  Lowering long-term interest rates by restarting purchases
of Treasuries or mortgage debt would have a “significant”
effect on the economy by supporting the value of homes and
stocks, making housing and refinancing mortgages more affordable
and reducing the cost of capital for businesses, he said.  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections, and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of President Barack Obama’s performance.  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Existing home sales are
tabulated when a contract is closed, which typically occurs a
month or two later.  Home Sales  Sales of  previously owned homes , which account for about 90
percent of the housing market, rose to a 4.13 million rate in
August, the Realtors’ group said Sept. 23. The pace of sales was
the second-lowest in at least a decade of record-keeping.  The government’s homebuyer tax credit of up to $8,000
required contracts be signed on April 30 and closed by Sept. 30.
Many of the closings occurred in May and June because the
original incentive called for closings to occur by June 30.  Orders at  KB Home , a California builder focused on first-
time buyers, fell 39 percent after the deadline for signing a
contract to qualify for the federal tax credit expired.
Unemployment and foreclosures make it difficult to forecast
future sales, Jeffrey Mezger, the company’s chief executive
officer, said Sept. 24.  “The housing market continues to face significant
headwinds from high unemployment and foreclosures, which are
impeding a broader recovery, and recent net order trends in the
homebuilding industry have injected additional caution into our
near-term outlook,” Mezger said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  