-- Pending U.S. Home Sales Probably Increased in August
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/pending-u-s-home-sales-probably-increased-in-sign-housing-is-stabilizing.html
The number of contracts to purchase
previously owned homes in the U.S. probably increased in August
for a second month, a sign the housing market is stabilizing.  The National Association of Realtors’ index of  pending  home
resales rose 2.8 percent in August after a 5.2 percent gain the
prior month, according to the median forecast of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A separate report may show a
transportation equipment-led decline in factory orders.  Home sales have steadied after plunging in the months
following the expiration of a housing tax credit.  Unemployment 
projected to stay above 9 percent through 2011 may depress
demand in coming months even as record-low mortgage rates and
lower prices make homes more affordable.  “We’re going to see the housing market continue to
languish over the next several months and bounce along this
bottom,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in New York. “There will be a stagnant
environment until the economy recovers and people’s credit
profiles” and the labor market improve, he said.  The National Association of Realtors is scheduled to
release its report at 10 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 2 percent to an increase
of 5.6 percent.  Factory Orders  A report from the Commerce Department at 10 a.m. is
projected to show  factory orders  fell 0.4 percent in August,
following a 0.1 percent increase a month earlier. Commerce
Department figures on Sept. 24 showed bookings for durable goods
other than transportation increased, including a pickup in
orders for business equipment.  The data may signal that manufacturing, which led the U.S.
out of the worst recession since the 1930s, is holding up as
companies replace outdated machines. Consumer spending is
lagging behind as the jobless rate stays close to 10 percent.  After averaging 9.3 percent in 2009, the unemployment rate
will average 9.6 percent this year and 9.2 percent in 2011,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg last month. The last time unemployment exceeded 9
percent for three consecutive years was 1939 to 1941.  Joblessness limits home sales and increases the likelihood
 foreclosures  will keep rising. Home seizures reached a record in
August for the third time in five months, RealtyTrac Inc. said
Sept. 16.  Federal Reserve  The labor market is also a reason why Federal Reserve
policy makers may respond with more stimulus. The outlook for
job growth and inflation is “unacceptable” and more monetary
easing is probably needed to spur growth and avert deflation,
Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said in a speech
Oct. 1.  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too longer,” Dudley said to a Society of
American Business Editors and Writers conference.  Lowering long-term interest rates by restarting purchases
of Treasuries or mortgage debt would have a “significant”
effect on the economy by supporting the value of homes and
stocks, making housing and refinancing mortgages more affordable
and reducing the cost of capital for businesses, he said.  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections, and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of President  Barack Obama ’s performance.  Home Sales  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Existing home sales are
tabulated when a contract closes, which typically occurs a month
or two later.  Sales of  previously owned homes , which account for about 90
percent of the housing market, rose to a 4.13 million rate in
August, the Realtors’ group said Sept. 23. The pace of sales was
the second-lowest in a decade of record-keeping.  Demand will probably be “soft” again in September and
October, NAR’s chief economist  Lawrence Yun  told reporters at a
press conference Sept. 23.  The government’s homebuyer tax credit of up to $8,000
required contracts be signed on April 30 and closed by Sept. 30.
Many of the closings occurred in May and June because the
original incentive called for closings to occur by June 30.  The weakness in housing helps explain why builder shares
have declined this year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
 Homebuilding index  has dropped 25 percent since reaching a 19-
month high May 3.  KB Home  Orders at  KB Home , a California builder focused on first-
time buyers, fell 39 percent after the deadline for signing a
contract to qualify for the federal tax credit expired.
Unemployment and foreclosures make it difficult to forecast
future sales,  Jeffrey Mezger , the company’s chief executive
officer, said Sept. 24.  “The housing market continues to face significant
headwinds from high unemployment and foreclosures, which are
impeding a broader recovery, and recent net order trends in the
homebuilding industry have injected additional caution into our
near-term outlook,” Mezger said in a statement.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  