-- Petronas Reports 60% Increase in Annual Profit on Higher Oil, Gas Prices
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2010-10-04T08:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/petronas-reports-60-increase-in-annual-profit-on-higher-oil-gas-prices.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , Malaysia’s
state oil company, said fiscal first-quarter profit jumped 60
percent after crude oil and natural gas prices increased.  Net income in the three months ended June 30 climbed to
12.3 billion ringgit ($4 billion) from 7.7 billion ringgit a
year earlier, Petronas, as the company is known, said in a
statement in Kuala Lumpur today. Sales rose 26 percent to 58.6
billion ringgit.  Exxon Mobil Corp. , the largest U.S. oil company, and rivals
including Royal Dutch Shell Plc reported increases in profits as
they capitalized on higher energy prices amid production gains.
Crude in New York averaged $78.05 a barrel in the three months
through June 30, up from $59.79 a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The first six months was quite good but it may move
downwards in the second half,” said Chief Executive Officer
 Shamsul Azhar Abbas , who took over the position from Hassan
Merican in February. “The world economy is still very fragile,
we are not sure if it will come to a double-dip.”  Petronas’s group oil and gas production fell 0.5 percent to
the equivalent of 1.08 million barrels a day of crude in the 
quarter from a year earlier.  The company may sell some international assets while
investing more at home, Shamsul said. The group will also seek
more domestic fuel sources which may prove most costly than
earlier finds, he said.  “We will continue as a global player but with a greater
emphasis on domestic deepwater and unconventional plays to
arrest domestic production declines,” Shamsul said.  It may decide next year whether to list more units,
according to Shamsul. Petronas already plans to sell shares in
its petrochemicals business and the heavy engineering arm of its
MISC Bhd. unit this year.  To contact the reporters of this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  