-- Petrobras May Need to Issue $60 Billion in Debt
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-10-04T18:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/petrobras-may-need-to-raise-additional-60-billion-in-debt-nomura-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the Brazilian
oil company that sold shares last month in the world’s largest
offering, may need to raise an additional $60 billion to fund
its investment plans, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  Petrobras, as the company based in Rio de Janeiro is known,
may issue $15 billion a year in  debt  between 2011 and 2014 to
pay for oil and natural-gas projects, Nomura analysts led by
 Scott Darling  said today in a note to clients.  “While we believe Petrobras is unlikely to raise further
equity in the medium term, we expect the company to continue to
tap debt markets,” the analysts said.  Petrobras raised about $70 billion in a share sale last
month to help fund its $224 billion, five-year investment plan,
the global oil industry’s largest. The company aims to double
production to 5.38 million barrels a day by 2020 by tapping
deepwater fields in the pre-salt region, including the Tupi
find, the Americas’ biggest discovery in three decades.  Brazil’s largest company may need to expand its five-year
plan to include the development of an additional 5 billion
barrels of oil in fields such as Franco, Nomura said in the
report. A $15 billion dollar debt issuance per year during the
period will allow Petrobras “to fund its business and keep
within” its forecasted range for leverage of 25 percent to 35
percent, Darling said.  ‘Immature’ Industry  Brazil’s offshore industry is still “relatively immature”
compared with developed oil regions, which will allow Petrobras
to sustain profitability “over a longer period,” he said.  “We would expect later pre-salt developments to provide
higher returns than those starting up in coming years,” Darling
said.  Nomura reinstated its  coverage of Petobras  with a “buy”
recommendation and a price target of 38 reais in the report.  Petrobras gained 3 centavos, or 0.1 percent, to 27.47 reais
at 3:30 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading. The stock has dropped 25
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  