-- Pfizer Unit Hid Prempro’s Health Risks, Lawyer Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S o n n y   R h o d e s
-- 2010-10-05T00:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/pfizer-s-wyeth-unit-hid-prempro-s-breast-cancer-risks-lawyer-tells-jurors.html
A  Pfizer Inc.  unit failed to properly
warn doctors and consumers that its Prempro menopause drug could
cause breast cancer, a lawyer for an Arkansas woman who
developed the disease told jurors.  Officials of Pfizer’s  Wyeth subsidiary  knew women like
Margaret Wilson were at risk for the disease by taking the
hormone-replacement drug and kept quiet to pump up sales, Chris
Kirchmer, a lawyer for Wilson, told a federal court jury in
Little Rock, Arkansas.  After studies showed the risks of Prempro, “they never
once changed their warnings,” Kirchmer said today in opening
statements in the trial of Wilson’s  lawsuit  over the drug. “The
evidence will show you that they did not act responsibly.”  More than 6 million women took the menopause drugs to treat
symptoms such as hot flashes and mood swings before a 2002 study
highlighted their links to cancer. Wyeth’s sales of the
medicines, which are still on the market, topped $2 billion
before the  Women’s Health Initiative , a National Institutes of
Health-sponsored study, concluded they posed an increased risk
of cancer.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with Upjohn’s progestin-laden
 Provera , to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth later combined the two
hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Safety Label  Wyeth officials contend they provided adequate warnings
about Prempro’s cancer risks on the drug’s safety label.
Wilson’s lawyers won’t be able to show the pills caused her
cancer, said  Lyn Pruitt , a lawyer for the company, in her
opening statement.  “Mrs. Wilson would have gotten breast cancer whether she
took Prempro or not,” said Pruitt of Mitchell Williams Selig
Gates & Woodyard in Little Rock. “Prempro didn’t cause it and
nobody knows what caused it.”  Pruitt said Wilson had other possible risk factors for
cancer. They included her age, weight and menopause as well as
having a daughter who died of breast cancer, Pruitt said.  Wyeth has lost seven of the 12 Prempro cases decided by
juries since trials began in 2006. The drugmaker got some of
those verdicts thrown out after trial or had the awards reduced.  Pfizer also has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases
before trial, according to court filings. Pfizer, the world’s
 largest drugmaker , completed its $68 billion  purchase  of Wyeth
last year.  Wilson, a 68-year-old bank teller from Trumann, Arkansas,
took the drug for six years before being diagnosed with breast
cancer in 2002, according to court filings.  ‘Corporate Responsibility’  “It is a case about the breast cancer that they caused,”
Kirchmer said. “It is a case about corporate responsibility.”  The first witness, Donald Austin, an epidemiologist from
the University of Oregon, testified that Prempro causes breast
cancer. He said that after the release of the Women’s Health
Initiative study, use of Prempro dropped “precipitously”
because of concerns over breast cancer.  Wyeth attorney David Dukes asked Austin whether the “vast
majority” of women taking hormone replacement therapy drugs
don’t get breast cancer. Austin replied that they didn’t.  Austin also acknowledged there are other risk factors for
breast cancer, including age, obesity, breast density and having
a “first-degree relative,” such as a daughter, who had breast
cancer.  8,000 Cases  U.S. District Judge  William Wilson , who is presiding over
the case, is overseeing more than 8,000 cases over the drugs
that have been consolidated in his court for pre-trial
information exchanges and some early trials. The plaintiff in
the current trial isn’t related to the judge.  Wyeth officials have faced repeated criticism over the
marketing of their menopause drugs, including allegations that
the company paid for ghostwritten articles in medical journals
that overstated the effectiveness of the medicines.  The case is Wilson v. Wyeth, MDL 03-cv-1507-WRW, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonny Rhodes  in Little Rock, Arkansas, at
 sonnyrhodes@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 