-- Picasso Sale Depends on Appraiser Seeing No Lactating Raspberry
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2010-10-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/picasso-sale-depends-on-appraiser-seeing-no-lactating-raspberry.html
As the fine art  market  rebounds from
a two-year slump, investors should consider what happened when
two established appraisers were called upon to place a value on
Hole and Vessel II, an abstract sculpture by  Anish Kapoor .  The artwork, made of polystyrene, cement and earth and
standing about 3 feet tall (0.95 meter), resembled a giant red
pine cone -- or a sea anemone -- with a hole at one end. After
the sculpture was accidentally discarded by a warehouse employee
in London and presumably destroyed, the two appraisers provided
a judge with wildly different valuations in 2007, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its November issue.  Ben Brown, a London gallery owner who had sold some of
Kapoor’s pieces, rhapsodized over the sculpture’s elegance and
curves, what he called its sensuous suggestion of a female body.
He pegged its value at 580,000 pounds ($904,000).  Michael Thomson-Glover , co-owner of appraisal firm
Stancliffe & Glover Ltd. in London, found the bumpy sculpture to
be clumsy and somewhat absurd. “I said it looked like a
lactating raspberry,” Thomson-Glover says. He put its worth at
only 250,000 pounds.  High Court Justice  Nigel Teare ’s verdict: You’re both
wrong. He called into question the appraisers’ expertise and
objectivity.  “I have had the benefit (and enjoyment) of expert
evidence,” he wrote in his 2007 ruling. “Mr. Brown’s views were
colored by his personal likes and dislikes. Mr. Thomson-Glover,
on the other hand, had no knowledge of the market for Kapoor’s
works.”  Record Prices  The justice set the value at 371,250 pounds, based on the
price of another Kapoor, Mother as a Ship, that sold in 2004.  Despite such judgments, art buyers the world over find
themselves beholden to the opinions of a small coterie of
appraisers. Their valuations are helping to drive the market as
it rises, with  Pablo Picasso ’s Nude, Green Leaves and Bust -- a
curvy-lined painting of his mistress Marie-Therese Walter --
selling for a record $106.5 million in May.  Working at large banks, auction houses and small firms,
appraisers exert influence in every corner of art finance. In a
secretive market where accurate information is scarce, these
experts guide high-end collectors in setting sale prices, making
tax deductions, buying insurance and establishing collateral for
loans.  While the appraisers’ reach is broad, their valuations are
influenced by everything from their personal tastes to the
desire to make higher commissions, says  Philip Hoffman , chief
executive officer of the $100 million Fine Art Fund Group Ltd.
in London.  Fudged Valuations  “Appraisers give a lot of meaningless valuations,” says
Hoffman, who relies on the ones he trusts to value his funds’
holdings. “Their work can be based on fashion and
connoisseurship. The art world is complicated, and valuation is
a part of that.”  Appraisers who negotiate the sale of artwork sometimes jack
up valuations to boost their commissions, says Lewis Baer, owner
of decorative-arts gallery Newel LLC in New York. Auction house
experts play a different pricing game, regularly giving low-ball
values in catalogs with the hope of creating bidding wars.  Adding to the variation in pricing, appraisers fudge
valuations submitted to the  U.S. Internal Revenue Service  so
clients pay less tax on inherited art and get bigger deductions
on donated works. The IRS says that from 2006 through 2008, a
majority of audited estate and gift tax appraisals understated
the worth of the art by an average of 44 percent.  Knowing Motives  Thomson-Glover, who worked for 27 years selling and valuing
art at  Sotheby’s  in England and Italy, says appraisers have
leeway in setting prices higher or lower without violating laws
or professional ethics.  “When there’s a range of values, it’s perfectly reasonable
to be conservative,” Thomson-Glover says. “We do a valuation for
tax purposes, which is as low as the market will allow. Then, if
we’re trying to sell it, we want to achieve a maximum value
because we’re working on a percentage.”  Art buyers should know the motives of appraisers to avoid
getting played, says  Howard Rachofsky , a former partner at hedge
fund Regal Asset Management. A major Dallas-based collector,
Rachofsky, 66, owns about 600  post-World War II  works by artists
such as American painter and photographer  Richard Prince  and
Italian Alighiero Boetti, maker of embroidered maps of the
world. Rachofsky exhibits them in a house that architect  Richard Meier  designed with towering windows to illuminate the
collection.  Ethics Code  When buying art, Rachofsky hires his own appraisers and
pays them a set fee to provide a reality check on valuations
from dealers, which can be as much as 30 percent higher.  “Dealers, if they have an artist they want to promote, they
will give valuations that are higher than they should be,” he
says. “That’s when you want to get an independent appraiser to
say: ‘The dealer is telling me this. Where’s the market?’”  While artists are hitting records this year, such as the
29.7 million pounds for J.M.W. Turner’s Modern Rome -- Campo
Vaccino, the market hasn’t regained all the ground lost since
the global credit crackup. Prices for the most expensive
artworks gained 17 percent from January through July, yet are
still a third lower than their October 2008 peak, according to
an  index  by London-based Art Market Research.  Almost anybody can be an art appraiser. They operate
without any government licensing and only some of them receive
certification from professional organizations such as the New
York-based Appraisers Association of America. The trade group’s
more than 700 members had to take appraisal courses and pass
written exams to join. Members are bound by a code of ethics
that bars them from having any financial interest in an artwork
they appraise.  Sotheby’s Institute  Many such as Thomson-Glover, 62, learned the trade mostly
on the job. He got a degree in philosophy from the University of
Cambridge in 1970 and then took a yearlong course in appraising
and selling art at Sotheby’s in London. Two decades later,
Sotheby’s Institute of Art in London began granting master’s
degrees in art business, including courses in appraising, in
conjunction with the U.K.’s University of Manchester.  The auctioneer hired Thomson-Glover in 1972, where he
cataloged European and Asian ceramics. Transferring to Florence,
he honed his eye for valuing everything from Renaissance
paintings to antique furniture. A member of the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors, which includes art
appraisers, Thomson-Glover co-founded his own firm in 2000.  Appraisals don’t come cheap. Thomson-Glover charges a flat
fee of 100 pounds an hour for appraisals and bills as much as
20,000 pounds for a single job. When he’s handling the sale of
the work, he also gets a commission of as much as 10 percent.  Sculpture in Garbage  With the Kapoor sculpture, Thomson-Glover faced the
challenge of valuing a work that no longer existed. In 2004,
Swiss collector Ofir Scheps bought Hole and Vessel II as a gift
for his wife, paying $35,000 in a private transaction. Before
taking delivery of it, Scheps had it stored in a crate at a
warehouse in London. The 440-pound (200-kilogram) crate
containing the sculpture was mistakenly put in the trash during
a renovation, spurring Scheps to sue the company.  The appraisers, as is often the case, had only sketchy
pricing information to use. Both Thomson-Glover and Brown
disregarded the $35,000 that Scheps had paid as grossly below
market value. That left them to compare Hole and Vessel II with
other sculptures by London-based Kapoor, 56, a native of India
and a prolific artist.  Valuing ‘Voids’  His stainless-steel Cloud Gate, a 33-foot-high work that
resembles a shiny blob of mercury, is the showpiece of Chicago’s
Millennium Park. He plans to create a sculpture for the 2012
Olympics in London that will be taller than the Statue of
Liberty.  The appraisers honed in on two Kapoor pieces as the most
comparable to Hole and Vessel II, partly because they sold at
auction in 2004 -- the same year the sculpture was discarded.
One, Mother as a Ship, which looks like a blue canoe, sold for
$321,600. The other, Untitled 1984, which appears to be a red,
wall-mounted daisy, went for $142,400. To determine whether Hole
and Vessel II was worth more or less than the two other
sculptures, the appraisers resorted to their own aesthetic
judgments.  The assessments, it turned out, partly hinged on their
opinions of the so-called voids, or the concave holes in
Kapoor’s work. While the circular opening in Hole and Vessel II
is about 1 foot in diameter, similar to the hole in the middle
of the daisy in Untitled 1984, the void in Mother as a Ship
spans the 7-foot length of the boatlike work. After looking at
photos of these sculptures, Thomson-Glover surmised that Hole
and Vessel II had a lower value, much like Untitled 1984, due
partly to their similar voids.  ‘Sensuous’ Sculpture  Brown disagreed. He said the void in Hole and Vessel II,
which he said could be compared to a vagina, helped make the
sculpture more sexy than Untitled 1984.  “Isn’t that slightly sensuous?” Brown says. “That means I
think the market will go for it.”  He concluded that the cone-shaped sculpture was worth as
much as three times the flowerlike work.  It’s unfortunate when appraisers have to estimate  market
values  of pieces based on aesthetics, such as the sexiness of
their voids, rather than on prices of very similar work, says
 Todd Levin , director of Levin Art Group in New York.  “You’re reduced to a discussion of only connoisseurship,
which sadly does not always reflect the price of an artwork,” he
says. “A valuation can come from anybody, and that’s why it’s
like the Wild West.”  Ultraviolet Light  Some appraisers also peddle the art they value, and profit
from higher sale prices.  Viola Raikhel-Bolot , co-founder of art
advisory firm 1858 Ltd. in London, appraises for a flat fee and
charges an additional 10 percent of the price if she handles the
sale.  One deal began last year when Raikhel-Bolot went to a
warehouse outside London to appraise paintings owned by a
wealthy client and help determine which ones to sell. She stood
by as a man in white cotton gloves pulled a 130-year-old oil
painting of a harem scene from a wooden box inside a packing
crate.  The appraiser examined the work by  Italian  Orientalist
painter Fabio Fabbi with ultraviolet light to help confirm its
age and condition. After also reviewing the sale history, she
realized her client, whom she declined to name, had drastically
overpaid when giving a gallery about 100,000 pounds for the art
a decade earlier.  Private Viewing  “A record for a similar painting when he bought this wasn’t
anywhere near this,” says Raikhel-Bolot, 32, who received a
bachelor’s degree in business and art history from California
State University, Northridge.  To help her client recoup his loss, Raikhel-Bolot tapped
her network of dealers and collectors for a fix on recent
private sales of similar works. She also got an auction house to
do its own assessment. She set her valuation at about 100,000
pounds, on the high end of the auctioneer’s estimate.  “We operate in the interests of our clients within a fair
and realistic market price,” she says. “If not, the person on
the other side of the sale is going to say, ‘Is she nuts?’”  Early this year, Raikhel-Bolot met with a Middle Eastern
collector of Orientalist art for a private viewing of the
painting at his hotel in London’s Mayfair district. She showed
him her written appraisal. Then, to boost the price even more
for her client, Raikhel-Bolot told the buyer that the valuation
was conservative.  “We said we thought it was slightly higher,” she says. He
agreed to pay 115,000 pounds. “This really worked for my client,
selling above the high estimate,” Raikhel-Bolot says.  ‘Marketing Tool’  At auction houses, specialists use the opposite sales
tactic. They set low price estimates for art prior to auctions
to lure more bidders, says  Paul Provost , 45, who runs Christie’s
International’s trust, estates and appraisal department in New
York. Provost, who received a doctorate in art history from
Princeton University in New Jersey, has spent most of his 15
years at Christie’s corralling art for consignment and putting
together sales.  “An auction estimate is really a marketing tool; it’s not a
formal valuation you would use for financial planning,” says
Provost, whose auction house earns a sales commission of as much
as 25 percent.  That marketing strategy helped produce the two biggest
auction sales of this year. In February, Sotheby’s specialists
estimated Walking Man I, a life-size bronze artwork in the shape
of a stick figure by Swiss sculptor  Alberto Giacometti , would go
for 12 million pounds to 18 million pounds.  Bidding War  Hong Kong-based real-estate developer Joseph Lau joined a
bidding frenzy with at least five other collectors. Eight
minutes into the February sale in London, billionaire collector
 Lily Safra  surprised many in the audience with the size of her
winning 65 million pound bid made over the phone, according to
dealers with knowledge of the sale. That price was four times
the auction house’s estimate.  Three months later, a Picasso topped the Giacometti.
Christie’s told prospective buyers that it estimated that
Picasso’s Nude, Green Leaves and Bust would sell for $70 million
to $90 million.  In the auction, eight bidders battled almost nine minutes
for the lavender-hued painting. Some wielded numbered paddles in
the auction room at Rockefeller Center in New York, and others
bid anonymously through Christie’s employees at a phone bank
along the wall where the Picasso hung.  Citigroup’s System  “With our estimate, we had some people playing at $60
million, because they thought they could buy it there,” Provost
says. “If we had put an estimate of $100 million to $150
million, we may have had a hard time selling it.”  An unidentified buyer took the painting for $106.5 million.  Citigroup Inc.  appraisers say they have a secret weapon
that produces more accurate market valuations for clients.
Suzanne Gyorgy, director of art advisory and finance at
Citigroup’s private banking unit, and her staff in New York
collect pricing information from private offerings and sales
around the world.  The spreadsheets of data, available only to Citigroup art
advisory employees, include the geographic locations of sales as
well as lists of buyers who are interested in particular
artists. Using the spreadsheets, appraisers target countries
where a work from a client’s collection might fetch the highest
price. For instance, certain contemporary artists have been
commanding  higher prices  in Asia and the Middle East than in the
U.S. this year.  Cracking Down  Gyorgy, 55, received a degree in fine art from Brooklyn’s
Pratt Institute and worked in museums and galleries in New York
and New Jersey before joining Citigroup in 1999. Her Manhattan
office walls are covered with signed prints by German artist  Max Ernst  and other pieces from the bank’s collection.  “The advantage we have comes from knowing the supply and
demand,” says Gyorgy, whose bank makes an undisclosed commission
on her clients’ deals. “You have to talk to a lot of people.”  The U.S. government has begun to crack down on appraisers
who play too loose with the numbers. Three times a year, the IRS
uses a panel of appraisers from galleries and museums to review
art valuations worth hundreds of millions of dollars that
taxpayers submit with their returns. In 2006, the panel found
that 78 percent of valuations submitted by collectors for work
they had given to charity overvalued the donated works.  That year, Congress stiffened penalties for appraisers who
produce bogus valuations for the IRS. New federal rules,
expected by 2011, say taxpayers who submit valuations after
donating art must use an appraiser who is certified by a trade
group or has college-level training.  Second Opinion  The restrictions don’t cover valuations for estate taxes or
buying and selling art, leaving room for shenanigans to thrive,
Newel’s Baer says. As appraisers massage the numbers, investors
would do well to follow Rachofsky’s advice and get a second
opinion before buying or selling a work. However, in the newly
frenetic global market, judging the value of an appraisal -- and
the person who made it -- may be as hard as divining the worth
of the art itself.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Vernon Silver  in Rome at
   vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  