-- Potash `Oligopoly' to Strengthen on Mergers as BHP Eyes Entry
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-05T14:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/potash-oligopoly-to-strengthen-on-mergers-as-bhp-eyes-entry.html
The world’s eight largest potash
miners, whose market control already exceeds that of oil cartel
OPEC, are poised to tighten their grip on prices of the crop
fertilizer as proposed mergers consolidate sales channels.  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile bid for Canada’s
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. would bring the Australian
miner into the fold of the world’s largest potash marketing
agent, Canpotex. In Russia, takeovers under negotiation would
raise the pricing power of the second-biggest trading group,
Belarusian Potash Co., said  Fertecon Ltd. , a U.K.-based industry
consultant and price monitor.  “It’s a classic oligopoly,” said Fertecon director  Barrie Bain . The “likely” merger of Russia’s two largest potash
producers,  OAO Silvinit  and  OAO Uralkali , will only boost the
concentration of the market, he said. Billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov , who with partners controls both companies, is seeking
to combine them and sell their output via one Belarusian trader.  With the global population adding 75 million people a year,
food demand is set to put further strain on crops, increasing
the need for fertilizer. Consolidation among producers of
potash, a form of potassium used to boost yields by helping
plants withstand dry soil, has caused concern in countries such
as India, the biggest importer last year, that prices will rise.  Food Prices  “India has limited land to support a large population and
any attempt to monopolize and increase fertilizer prices would
impact its use and affect productivity,” said  U.S. Awasthi ,
managing director of the  Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative ,
or IFFCO, which buys from Potash Corp. among others. “Food
prices will go up.”  A fivefold surge in potash prices over 2007-2008 led to at
least eight class-action claims in the U.S. over alleged
collusion, a charge the producers denied. Potash was among the
last commodities to plunge in the global recession as suppliers
cut output to prop up prices. Potash Corp. used a third of its
capacity last year, while none of its seven largest rivals used
more than 80 percent, Fertecon and Potash Corp. data show.  A successful acquisition of Potash Corp. by BHP would cut
revenue to Canada’s Saskatchewan province by C$2 billion ($1.95
billion), the Conference Board of Canada said in a report
commissioned by the provincial government. The board is an
independent organization that researches economic and public
policy issues. Potash said today the losses may be understated
as they assume BHP wouldn’t mine potash at full output.  Coordinate Output  Fewer sales channels would boost the ability of the top
eight -- Potash Corp.,  Mosaic Co. , Belaruskali,  Israel Chemicals
Ltd. , Silvinit, Uralkali, K+S AG of Germany and Agrium Inc. --
to coordinate output and buoy prices, which sank as low
as $350 a metric ton in China this year from a record of about
$1,000 for spot deliveries in 2008.  That control “targets the essential price recovery,” said
 Marina Alexeenkova , an analyst at Renaissance Capital in Moscow.
“This is a positive time for mergers and acquisitions in the
industry.”  Silvinit rose 1.3 percent to 20,066 rubles and Uralkali was
up 0.1 percent as Moscow’s benchmark Micex index declined 0.3
percent at 5:49 p.m. local time. K+S gained 0.5 percent in
Frankfurt trading and Israel Chemicals advanced 1.8 percent in
Tel Aviv.  Global Trade  Canpotex  handles exports for Potash Corp., Agrium and
Mosaic, accounting for as much as 40 percent of global trade.
Belarusian Potash, marketer for Uralkali and state-run
Belaruskali, controls about 30 percent, which would rise to more
than 44 percent if Uralkali merges with Silvinit.  A Russian tie-up would leave buyers with four main trading
agents, allowing Belarusian Potash alone to manage a greater
portion of sales than the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, which controls 41 percent of global oil output. While
OPEC’s 12 members hold 70 percent of proven crude reserves,
Canada, Russia and Belarus have 80 percent of the world’s
potash.  BHP, already developing Canada’s Jansen potash project,
said in August it prefers to run its mines at full capacity and
would seek to sell its potash independently of Canpotex should
its bid for Potash Corp. succeed. The province of Saskatchewan
has since put pressure on the company to remain committed to
Canpotex on concern its exit would reduce the region’s revenue.  “Although potash producers do negotiate their selling
prices with their customers, they have considerable bargaining
power given the limited number of players,” the Conference
Board of Canada said in its report released yesterday.  Lip Service  BHP may be paying lip service to antitrust regulators by
suggesting a departure from Canpotex, said HSBC Holdings Plc
analyst  Andrew Keen . BHP has itself been known to put curbs on
output, including coking coal and manganese last year, he said.  If BHP really did depart from Canpotex and run potash mines
at full capacity, investor interest in the industry would
plunge, said  Xavier Majic , a senior analyst at Passport
Management LLC in San Francisco. “You’d sell all your other
potash” stock, he said.  Potash and oil aren’t the only concentrated markets.  Coca-
Cola Co.  controlled 47 percent of the world’s soda market while
PepsiCo Inc. had 21 percent in 2007, according to Euromonitor
International.  Gillette Co. , a unit of Procter & Gamble Co., has
a 72 percent market share in razors.  ‘Semi-Cartel’  “Gillette’s monopoly does irritate me, but I can always
grow a beard,” said  Eric Kraus , head of strategy at Otkritie
Financial Co. in Moscow. “It’s a little bit more difficult to
go without food. The semi-cartel in potash may look very
threatening in the event of renewed pressure on grain supply.”  The worst drought in half a century in Russia, the world’s
third-largest grower in 2009, cut the last harvest and prompted
the country to ban grain exports, pushing wheat futures to a 23-
month high on Aug. 6.  The buyers’ biggest bargaining chip is the size of their
market, IFFCO’s Awasthi said. India, which imports all the 5.6
million tons of potash it needs every year, will resist any
price moves above the current $380 a ton, he said.  While Indian companies don’t have the cash to trump BHP’s
bid for Potash Corp., Awasthi said, the world’s biggest potash-
buying nations are taking steps to weaken the influence of the
largest producers.  Brazil has mandated Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA  to start
developing its own potash deposits, and the company said in
August it would invest $12 billion by 2014 to become the world’s
No. 2 in potash and phosphate.  Potash Fields  State-controlled companies in China, the biggest consumer
of rice and wheat, have bought undeveloped potash fields in
Canada and notified Belarus of an interest in buying a stake in
Belaruskali, a producer that also attracted interest from India.  China’s Sinochem Group has emerged as the likeliest bidder
to rival BHP’s offer for Potash Corp., according to three people
familiar with the matter. The East Asian nation, the largest
potash importer in 2008, needs more productive farmland to
supply food for 22 percent of the world’s population using less
than 10 percent of the globe’s arable land.  “The risk of sovereigns getting involved and building big
mines is real,” Majic of Passport Management said. “There are
assets out there that if you put enough money in, they are big
enough to disrupt this industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 