-- Pricewaterhouse, Ernst & Young Probed by U.K. Over Lehman, JPMorgan Work
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-04T17:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/pwc-ernst-young-probed-by-u-k-over-lehman-jpmorgan-work.html
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ernst
& Young LLP are under investigation by Britain’s accounting
regulator over their reports on customers’ compliance with U.K.
rules to protect client money.  The probes are focused on PwC’s work for  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. ’s London unit and Ernst & Young’s reports for  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s U.K.-based European unit, the  Financial
Reporting Council  said  in statements  on its website today.  The reports in question covered Lehman’s and JPMorgan’s
observance of the  Financial Services Authority ’s client-asset
rules, known as CASS, which are intended to segregate customer
assets from those of the company to protect them during
liquidation.  The probe is “part of an industry wide consultation,”
Ernst & Young spokeswoman Sarah Jurado said in a statement. “We
will cooperate fully with the investigation.” PwC spokesman
Brian Bannister said in a statement his firm is also fully
cooperating with regulator.  The FSA in June fined JPMorgan’s London unit a record
33.3 million pounds ($52.8 million) for not properly separating
client money from the firm’s accounts. Lehman’s bankruptcy,
which roiled financial markets worldwide in 2008, resulted in
more than $1 trillion in claims and efforts by regulators
worldwide to unravel how money moved through its global units.  The FRC today said the probes will cover Ernst & Young’s
Lehman reports for the year ended Nov. 30, 2007, and PwC’s
JPMorgan reports from 2001 to 2008. Independent tribunals will
hold hearings on the separate investigations, it said.  Keeping Money Separate  In the JPMorgan case, an average of $8.6 billion wasn’t
properly segregated by JPMorgan Securities Ltd. in an error that
went undetected for seven years, the FSA said at the time. As
much as $23 billion of client money held by the bank’s futures
and options business wasn’t put in separate overnight customer
accounts between 2002 and 2009, the watchdog said.  The Ernst & Young probe is separate from the FRC
investigation announced in June that covers the firm’s auditing
of Lehman transactions known as Repo 105s. Those deals helped
New York-based Lehman downplay its leverage in late 2007 and
2008, according to a 2,200-page report. The report filed in
March by bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas  said Ernst & Young
could be accused of “professional malpractice” for its role.  Lehman filed the  biggest bankruptcy  in U.S. history in
September 2008 after mounting losses on mortgage-backed
securities spooked investors and creditors. The Wall Street
investment bank’s failure helped trigger a freeze of global
credit markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 