-- Qatar Companies Sell Debt for Expansion as Borrowing Costs Fall
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-04T20:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/qatar-s-companies-sell-debt-for-expansion-after-cost-of-borrowing-declines.html
Qatari companies are taking advantage
of declining borrowing costs as the Persian Gulf country with
stakes in J Sainsbury Plc. and  Volkswagen AG  seeks to raise
funds for expansion.  Qatar Telecom QSC  hired banks last week to set up meetings
with investors after the Chief Executive Officer  Nasser Marafih 
said in May it may buy stakes in foreign operators.  Qatar
Islamic Bank SAQ  Sept. 30 raised $750 million from the sale of
five-year Islamic bonds after receiving orders for $6 billion.
Demand was higher than for Dubai’s sovereign issue. Qatar
Aviation Lease Co. asked lenders to halve the interest margin on
a $650 million loan, a person familiar with the transaction said
Sept. 23.  “The main driver really is the fact that the interest rate
cycles are low,” said  Kapil Chadda , Dubai-based managing
director of financial institutions at HSBC Holdings Plc. “These
guys are poised for continued growth, although it may be muted
at this time. They feel it’s a good time to go to the market.”  Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural
gas, cut the interest on overnight deposits on Aug. 11, its
first reduction in two years. The  International Monetary Fund 
expects the Gulf state to post economic growth this year of 19
percent, making it the fastest-growing economy in the world.  Companies in the region are returning to the bond market
after Dubai’s government raised $1.25 billion in a two-part bond
sale. The emirate received orders of about $5 billion after
roiling global markets last year as it sought to delay payment
on $24.9 billion of debt and last month.  Local Debt Market  Bond sales in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council
states have dropped 20 percent to $18.5 billion this year from
$23.2 billion in the year-earlier period.  “Capital raising across the region has been anemic year to
date so there is considerable pent up demand,”  Akber Khan , a
director at Al Rayan Investment in Doha, wrote in an e-mail.
“Now that investor sentiment toward the region has improved and
investors remain starved for yields, regional fixed-income paper
is increasingly attractive. So rising demand is being met with
supply.”  The yield on Qatar’s five-year note due January 2015
dropped 68 basis points last quarter to 2.62 percent, according
to Bloomberg prices. The extra yield investors demand from
emerging market debt over U.S. treasuries narrowed 60 basis
points in the period to 277, according to  JPMorgan EMBI Plus
EMBI + Sovereign Spread .  Dubai Debt  Dubai’s government, which doesn’t have a credit rating and
had outstanding debt of 105.47 billion dirhams ($29 billion) at
the end of July, paid 6.7 percent on its five-year $500 million
note and 7.75 percent on its $750 million 10-year bond. Qatar
Islamic’s bond sold last week was priced to yield at 237.5 basis
points above similar maturity midswap.  Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, the Qatar Investment
Authority, bought Harrods Ltd. department store this year and a
stake in Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. The fund may invest $30
billion in 2010, Prime Minister  Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim  Bin Jaber
Al Thani said in March.  The country has the third-highest investment grade at
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service with an AA and
an Aa2 rating respectively.  Qatar’s government supported lenders last year after the
worldwide financial crises cut property prices and caused stock
markets to fall. The country purchased real-estate and equity
portfolios of banks and took stakes of as much as 10 percent in
some local lenders.  Stocks Gain  The  QE Index  of Qatar’s 20 leading companies has gained 11
percent this year after a 1.1 percent increase in 2009. The  MSCI
World Index  has advanced 1 percent and Dubai’s benchmark index
has lost 6.5 percent this year. Qatari companies posted average
profit growth of 16 percent in the second quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qatar’s overnight deposit rate was lowered by 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 1.5 percent. The U.S.
Federal Reserve said Sept. 21 it expects interest rates to stay
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  United Development Co. , builder of a $14 billion real-
estate project off the Qatari coast, plans to sell about $400
million of convertible bonds to fund entities including a
facilities management unit, it said in August. Doha Bank QSC
said in July it plans to sell bonds this year.  “The adage that a lot of bankers use is borrow money when
you don’t need it,” said HSBC’s Chadda. “That’s the best time
to borrow.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 