-- QEII to Set Sail With Fed’s Dual Mandate at Helm: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-10-04T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/qeii-to-set-sail-with-fed-s-dual-mandate-at-helm-caroline-baum.html
When central bankers start protesting
that inflation is too low, you can be pretty sure they’re
gearing up to do something about it.  That was the take-away from the Federal Reserve’s post-
meeting statement last month. The invocation of its dual mandate
convinced folks another round of quantitative easing was a done
deal.  “Measures of underlying inflation are currently at levels
somewhat below those the committee judges most consistent, over
the longer run, with its mandate to promote maximum employment
and price stability,” the Fed said in its Sept. 21  statement .  Translation: It’s not that we want to blow up our $2.3
trillion  balance sheet  any further. We are compelled to by law;
specifically, by the  1977 amendment  to the Federal Reserve Act.  Prices, at least prices as measured by the consumer price
index, are relatively stable. The CPI and the core index, which
excludes food and energy, rose 1.1 percent and 0.9 percent,
respectively, in the year through August. The six-month
annualized increases are 0.5 percent and 1 percent.  That may look stable to you and me, but it’s below what the
Fed claims is “consistent with stable prices,” which is
another way of saying “too low for our comfort level.”  Employment is hardly maximum. The monthly increase in
private payrolls has averaged 95,000 in the first eight months
of the year, not nearly enough to put a dent in the  unemployment
rate , which is stable -- at an uncomfortably high level of 9.6
percent.  Positive Reinforcement  Economists listened to Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  invoke the
dual mandate at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in August; they read Jon
Hilsenrath’s recent pieces in the Wall Street Journal; and they
digested the Sept. 21 statement before predicting that QEII
would set sail after the Fed’s Nov. 2-3 meeting, which happens
to conclude one day after the midterm election.  Friday, New York Fed President  Bill Dudley  reinforced that
expectation, saying the onus was on the economic data to prevent
the central bank from moving ahead with its bond purchases.  While stocks and bonds have been savoring the benefits of
QEII, the message from currency and commodity markets is
altogether different. The  dollar  has been sinking while gold
sets new highs almost daily. Commodities overall have embarked
on a bull run, just as in late 1993, when a jobless recovery
finally kicked into gear.  If deflation -- that is, persistent, 1930’s like deflation;
not a CPI decline of 1 percent -- were a threat, you would think
folks would want to hold the currency, which buys more when
prices fall.  Mixed Signals  Instead, the currency market is forewarning of too many
dollars in circulation.  Financial stocks have lagged the broader market as well, a
combination of regulatory uncertainty, low trading volume and
most recently, a flatter yield curve as prospects for Fed bond-
buying have increased. (Traditionally banks’ motto has been
borrow short, lend long.)  Something keeps gnawing at me. Fed policy makers, looking
at coincident economic indicators released with a lag, are
afraid the U.S. could succumb to a bout of  Japanese-style
deflation : slight but persistent declines in prices.  Investors in stocks and bonds are happy to go along, having
been trained not to fight the Fed.  Currency markets, that global casino where money never
sleeps, are conveying a different message: that the dollar isn’t
worth holding (except to buy U.S. Treasuries) because it will
lose its value in the future.  Whom to trust?  Contrarian Indicator  Call me a contrarian, but I keep wondering if the Fed’s
embarkation on  QEII  won’t somehow mark the beginning of
something better for the U.S. economy. Not because of it but
coincident to it. And based on the Fed’s long history of being
late to the party.  Bank credit  rose in July and August after 16 consecutive
monthly declines. M2, the Fed’s broad monetary aggregate, is
growing modestly (at least it’s not contracting). A Republican
takeover of the U.S. House of Representatives could assuage the
business community. And an economy’s natural tendency is to
grow, even in the face of hurdles.  I can also point to signs that the economy faces more of
the same. The growth rate and breadth of the Index of Leading
Economic Indicators has slowed. The growth rate in  new orders  as
measured by the monthly Institute for Supply Management survey
has decelerated over the last four months while the  inventory
index  reached a 26-year high in September, not a great
combination. Republicans may find themselves facing the same
fiscal problems and beholden to different special interests.  The U.S. faces huge, long-term structural problems. The
government has made promises to retirees it can’t keep short of
imposing confiscatory levels of taxation. Our politicians in
Washington fiddle while Rome burns. Persistent long-term
unemployment is sapping the nation’s spirit.  It’s too depressing to contemplate. Even if the Fed embarks
on QEII next month, it won’t be smooth sailing for the ship of
state.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  