-- Trades Dumped on Exchanges Blamed for Intensifying May 6 Crash
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-04T06:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/trades-dumped-on-exchanges-blamed-for-broadening-may-6-crash-report-says.html
Brokerages overwhelmed by plunging
prices on May 6 were forced to send sell orders from individuals
to public exchanges instead of processing them internally,
causing at least 50 percent of the canceled trades that day,
according to U.S. regulators.  “Internalizers instead routed orders to the exchanges,
putting further pressure on the liquidity that remained in those
venues,” the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission said in a report released Oct. 1 that
detailed the causes of the rout. They did this because of
selling pressure from retail customers, an unwillingness to
trade and questions about the accuracy of market data given the
speed of the decline, the document added.  More than 20,000 trades representing 5.5 million shares
were executed at prices 60 percent or more away from levels from
before the crash, the SEC and CFTC said. Of the broken
transactions, one brokerage and a single market maker accounted
for about half of the executions, they added. The firms weren’t
identified.  The 104-page report on the crash that briefly erased $862
billion from U.S. shares in less than 20 minutes before they
recovered most of their losses explains for the first time the
degree of involvement by brokers called internalizers. They
usually trade in their own accounts against orders from so-
called discount brokerages.  ‘Pretty Aberrant’  “Internalizers pulling back their services and dumping
orders on exchanges changes the mix of flow exchanges receive,”
said  Jamie Selway , a managing director at Investment Technology
Group Inc. in  New York . “When exchanges get orders that are
less precisely priced than what they’re used to getting, the
results can be pretty aberrant.”  Five months after the plunge spurred calls in Congress for
an overhaul of U.S. equities trading, the Oct. 1 report stopped
short of giving fresh prescriptions for how to prevent another
crash from happening. Instead, regulators honed their original
findings to focus on how a single trade in the futures market
created panic that bled into stocks, overwhelming human beings
and computers alike before order was restored minutes later.  The crash prompted exchanges to implement circuit breakers
that pause trading in more than 1,300 securities during periods
of volatility. Uniform policies for canceling trades and
eliminating stub quotes, or bids and offers at prices far away
from the stock’s last sale, have also been proposed or adopted.  Declines in index futures convinced traders a “cataclysmic
event” was pushing down equities on May 6, leading them to
abandon the market and triggering the biggest crash in a quarter
century, U.S. federal regulators said last week in their second
report on the retreat.  E-Mini Futures  One trader’s routine attempt to hedge losses by selling
75,000 of  CME Group Inc .’s E-mini futures contracts on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index -- valued at about $4.1 billion --
helped set off a chain of events that sent the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  down as much as 998.50 points, according to
the SEC and CFTC. The measure then rebounded to end the day down
347.80 points, or 3.2 percent.  The computer program the firm picked to execute the order
gave no regard to prices or the speed that it was trading, the
report says. Two people with knowledge of regulators’ findings
identified the firm as Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., an  Overland Park , Kansas-based mutual-fund company with about $68
billion in assets.  ‘Absorbed Easily’  “We believe we were one of 250 firms engaging in E-mini
trading during the period of the market selloff,” Waddell &
Reed said in a statement in May. “We believe that trades of the
size we initiated normally are absorbed easily in the market.”  Roger Hoadley, a spokesman for the company, said last week
that the statement was “still accurate and relevant.”  Losses in the E-mini futures seeped into equities as
arbitragers bought the contracts while selling S&P 500 stocks
and an exchange-traded fund linked to the measure known as the
SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, the report says.  The SEC and CFTC said market makers and high-frequency
trading firms that facilitate the majority of U.S. stock trades,
concerned the price data they were receiving was wrong or
incomplete, curtailed their bidding on equities. On the public
markets where internalizers sent orders, placeholder bids known
as stub quotes were triggered, causing executions at
“unrealistically low bids” such as 1 cent, the report says.  Retail Customers  The SEC said in a January study that almost all market
orders from eight brokers with “significant retail customer
accounts” are sent to wholesalers who guarantee executions for
at least the national best bid or offer available on public
venues. Orders that an over-the-counter market maker, or so-
called internalizing broker, chooses not to trade with may be
sent to exchanges.  Firms trading against the orders from individual investors
usually pay discount brokers a fee, which the SEC said is
typically less than a tenth of a cent per share.  The report also cleared up questions about why more than 70
percent of transactions at less than 5 cents were marked as
short sales, or bets that shares will fall. Those orders were
marked this way because they were sent by an over-the-counter
market maker even though the customer may have owned the shares,
the report said.  Almost 90 percent of the broken trades on May 6 also had
price limits on them, countering speculation that market orders
had produced the bulk of executions against stub quotes. The
report said internalizing brokers often automatically convert
market orders into buy and sell requests with limit prices
intended to execute at the NBBO, or national best bid or offer.  Stub Quotes  The report also highlighted trading practices that led to
executions against stub quotes. Some brokers told regulators
they routed buy and sell requests to exchanges even when they
knew they’d execute against stub quotes because they’re obliged
to fill customer market orders at the best price. Others did so
to avoid orders piling up in their systems, expecting the trades
to eventually be canceled.  “Wholesalers could be forgiven in a data-driven world for
doing what they did,” Selway said. They guarantee executions at
the best prices, and if that is of “questionable quality,”
they can route orders to exchanges, where the NBBO is created,
he said. While these firms aren’t allowed to delay the execution
of the orders, the securities industry could “work toward a
standard a discount broker can use to let customers know their
orders may not get executed with the usual amount of dispatch
when there are unusual conditions,” Selway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 