-- Dreyfus, Traders Secure Permits to Export Cotton as India Resumes Bookings
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-04T12:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/traders-seek-permit-to-export-1-43-million-bales-of-cotton-from-india.html
Louis Dreyfus, the largest cotton
trader, was among 10 companies that won permits to export 1.75
million bales from India after the second-biggest grower resumed
booking cargoes ending a six-month hiatus.  Licenses for 169,282 bales of 170 kilograms (375 pounds)
each have been issued and 3.75 million bales are still available
for shipment, the textiles ministry  said.  The government has
capped exports at 5.5 million bales in the year started Oct. 1.  Cotton futures reached a 15-year high last week as textile
mills sought to rebuild inventories and supplies were disrupted
by unusual weather. Pakistan’s crop was damaged by floods, while
harvests were delayed by excess rainfall in China and India, the
largest growers.  “There are certain concerns about crop damage because of
excess rainfall” in India,  Veeresh Hiremath , associate chief
analyst at Karvy Comtrade Ltd., said in a phone interview from
Hyderabad. “That may prompt the government to review the
quantity sooner than later.”  India halted exports in April to cool domestic prices and
bolster supplies, and then introduced a licensing system for
shipments a month later. Mills can begin shipments from Nov. 1
after securing permits from the textiles ministry, Rita Menon,
secretary in the textiles ministry, said last week.  Louis Dreyfus Commodities India Pvt., Gill & Co. and
Jaydeep Cotton Fibres Pvt. were among traders that were issued
permits. The government rejected 11 applications for 58,823
bales, the ministry data show.  China Holidays  Cotton for December delivery fell as much as 0.8 percent to
97.23 cents a pound in after-hours trading on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York today. Prices on Oct. 1 slumped the most in a year
on speculation that demand will ease while financial markets are
closed in China to mark National Day celebrations.  Output in India may be “slightly” higher than the 34.45
million bales,  Dhiren Sheth , president of the Cotton Association
of India, said in an interview Sept. 29. India’s Cotton Advisory
Board has forecast production at 32.55 million bales.  “Arrivals have started in small lots and it’s too early to
estimate damages because of excess rains,” D.K. Nair, secretary
general of the Confederation of Indian Textiles Industry, said
from New Delhi. “I expect some damage, but nothing major.”  Cotton prices in India reached a record last week after an
extended rainy season delayed harvesting. The monsoon was the
best in three years and withdrew from most parts of the nation
about a month later than usual, according to the weather office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 