-- Rajaratnam Asks Court to Find U.S. Wiretaps Illegal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-04T22:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/rajaratnam-seeks-to-prove-u-s-insider-trading-wiretaps-illegal.html
Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam  is seeking to show that U.S. agents illegally
wiretapped his communications and that the recordings can’t be
used in his criminal insider-trading trial.  At a hearing that began today in federal court in
Manhattan, lawyers for Rajaratnam questioned witnesses, trying
to convince U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  that the
government misled a different judge into authorizing the
wiretaps in March 2008. As a result, the wiretaps, the
centerpiece of the biggest insider-trading prosecution in
history, must be thrown out, they said.  U.S. investigators hid from  Gerard Lynch , the federal judge
who issued the wiretap warrant, the fact that the Securities and
Exchange Commission had already assembled the elements of “a
classic insider-trading case” against Rajaratnam and others
without needing wiretaps,  John Dowd , a lawyer for Rajaratnam,
argued.  “They gamed the system,” Dowd said.  Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of using tips from company
executives, hedge-fund employees and others in a multimillion-
dollar insider-trading scheme. He’s the central figure in an
investigation in which 21 were charged. Rajaratnam, who denies
wrongdoing, faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  U.S. law requires investigators to include in a wiretap
application “a full and complete statement as to whether or not
other investigative procedures have been tried and failed or why
they reasonably appear to be unlikely to succeed if tried or to
be too dangerous,” Holwell said in August.  2,400 Conversations  Prosecutors said the government secretly recorded about
2,400 conversations between Rajaratnam and more than 130
friends, business associates and alleged accomplices. The
evidence against him will include testimony from some of the
people caught on the wiretaps, the government said. The U.S.
said it’s the first insider-trading prosecution to use wiretap
evidence.  “The SEC’s investigation was far from successful in
achieving the goals of the criminal investigation,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Jonathan Streeter  told the judge today.  Rajaratnam took the stand to tell Holwell he’s waiving any
possible conflict of interest created by his attorney’s calling
as a witness a lawyer who now works for a client of Dowd’s firm.  Witnesses  Lawyers for Rajaratnam called two witnesses today in an
effort to show the scope of the SEC investigation that was kept
out of the warrant application. Lindi Beaudreault, a former
outside attorney for Galleon, testified about the firm’s efforts
to respond to SEC queries by turning over e-mail and permitting
the SEC to interview Rajaratnam and other Galleon employees.  Andrew Michaelson, an SEC enforcement lawyer detailed by
that agency to work with the team prosecuting the criminal case
against Rajaratnam, testified about the extent of cooperation
between prosecutors and the commission.  Dowd said he expects to call two more witnesses, including
Special Agent B.J. Kang of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
who submitted the affidavit supporting the government’s wiretap
application.  The hearing is set to continue tomorrow. Holwell hasn’t
said when he’ll rule.  Rajaratnam, in court papers, argued that the SEC
investigation turned up evidence including 4 million documents.
Prosecutors said they aided the SEC investigation by giving the
agency draft complaints and other information. The wiretaps were
necessary to gather evidence against Rajaratnam and to provide
information about alleged co-conspirators and the size of the
scheme, they said in a letter to the judge.  Appeals Court  Last week, a federal appeals court blocked a demand by the
SEC for access to the wiretaps from Rajaratnam for use in its
related civil suit.  The appeals court said U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff , who
is presiding over the SEC suit, abused his discretion in
ordering Rajaratnam and his co-defendant in the criminal case,
 Danielle Chiesi , to turn over the wiretaps before Holwell had a
chance to rule on their legality.  Rajaratnam and Chiesi, 44, were charged in October 2009 in
a scheme that reaped $52 million in illegal profits, according
to the SEC.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 