-- Rand Weakens Most in Three Months on Speculation Currency is `Overbought'
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-04T15:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/rand-weakens-most-in-five-days-to-dollar-charts-show-currency-overbought.html
The rand weakened the most in three
months versus the dollar as technical analysis used by traders
signaled the currency was overbought following its 35 percent
surge against the dollar since the start of last year.  The rand depreciated much as 1.5 percent to 7.0318 per
dollar, the steepest intraday slide since July 1, and traded at
7.0240 by 5:06 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of
6.9309. Against the euro, the rand lost 0.6 percent to 9.6125.  The currency’s 14-day relative strength index breached 70
earlier today, a technical level used by traders to determine
whether a currency is overbought versus the dollar. The rand has
surged for six straight weeks, the longest streak of weekly
advances since September 2009.  “The rand is overbought at these levels on a technical
basis,” said  Jim Bryson , head of foreign-exchange trading at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg.  The rand has rallied to second-best performing emerging-
market currency after Brazil’s real since the start of 2009 as
near-zero interest rates in developed nations encouraged
investors to borrow cheaply and invest in higher-yielding
markets. Attracted by South Africa’s 6 percent  central bank
rate , net foreign inflows into the country’s stock and bond
markets have reached 91.4 billion rand ($13.1 billion) this
year, according to the  JSE Ltd. , the company that runs the
country’s exchanges.  ‘Fundamentally Overbought’  An additional $8 billion of foreign investment could flow
into South Africa from foreign direct investment into the
country, Rand Merchant Bank said in an Oct. 1 research note. The
deals include HSBC Holdings Plc’s proposed buyout of  Nedbank
Group Ltd. , Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.’s purchase of
Dimension Data Plc and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s offer for Massmart
Holdings Ltd.  The rand’s surge show the currency is “fundamentally
overbought,” Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s largest lender, said in
a client note issued Oct. 1.  “There’s a bit of a correction happening after quite a
good run in the rand -- there’s definitely a bit of profit
taking happening,” said  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital in London. “People can’t afford to be
greedy anymore.”  Government bonds fell for a fifth day, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 losing 48 cents to
124.68 rand, the steepest drop since Sept. 30. The yield on the
bond increased 10 basis points to 7.44 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  