-- Treasuries Advance Amid Factory-Order Decline, Outlook for Fed Purchases
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-04T21:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/treasury-notes-increase-amid-factory-order-decline-outlook-for-fed-action.html
Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
yields to a record low, as government data showing U.S. factory
orders declined more than forecast fueled speculation the
Federal Reserve will increase asset purchases.  Three-year note yields reached the lowest level since 1962
before an employment report on Oct. 8 that’s forecast to show no
change in overall payrolls last month. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s first round of large-scale
asset purchases improved the economy and that further buying is
likely to help more.  “The Fed will go through with some type of quantitative
easing,” said  James Combias , New York-based head of Treasury
trading at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., one of 18 primary
dealers that trade Treasuries with the central bank. “A lot of
it is priced into the market, so if things don’t pan out that
way, the market may be a bit vulnerable. If the employment
number is stronger than anticipated, it could knock the market
back.”  The  two-year yield  fell to a record 0.3987 percent before
trading at 0.4066 percent, according to Bloomberg generic data.
The  three-year  yield touched 0.5892 percent.  Ten-year note yields fell 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.48 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent security
due in August 2020 rose 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount,
to 101 9/32. The yield on the 30-year bond fell less than 1
basis point to 3.71 percent.  Stocks fell, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index dropping
as much as 1.3 percent before ending the day down 0.8 percent.  ‘Ease Financial Conditions’  “I do think that the additional purchases -- although we
don’t have precise numbers for how big the effects are -- I do
think they have the ability to ease financial conditions,”
Bernanke said today in Providence, Rhode Island at a forum with
college students. He said the first wave that ended in March was
effective.  Speculation the Fed will purchase additional Treasuries as
a way to pump money into the economy, known as quantitative
easing, has been rising since Bernanke said Aug. 10 it would
reinvest proceeds from maturing mortgage holdings into
government debt.  “Consensus is emerging that the next round of QE in the
U.S. could have an implicit cap on long-term Treasury yields,”
strategists at primary dealer Deutsche Bank AG including  Dominic Konstam  and  Mustafa Chowdhury  wrote in a note to clients Oct. 1.
“We don’t think shock-and-awe is likely, but more of a buy-as-
you-go strategy.”  Earlier Buying  The central bank completed a program to buy $1.25 trillion
of agency mortgage-backed securities and about $175 billion of
agency debt in March. The Fed was the biggest buyer of
Treasuries when it purchased $300 billion of U.S. debt in 2009.  Brian Sack , the Fed Bank of New York’s markets group chief,
said further expansion of the central bank’s balance sheet would
help stimulate a “tepid” recovery.  “The expansion of the securities portfolio to date has
helped to foster more accommodative financial conditions, and
further expansion would likely provide additional
accommodation,” Sack said in the text of remarks today to a CFA
Institute conference in Newport Beach, California.  The Labor Department will likely say on Oct. 8 the
unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6
percent in August, while overall nonfarm hiring stagnated,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Factory Orders  Orders  placed with U.S. factories fell 0.5 percent in
August, a report from the Commerce Department showed today,
compared with a forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.4
percent decline.  Pending home sales  increased in August by 4.3 percent, a
report today from the National Association of Realtors showed.
Compared with the same month a year ago, they fell 18.4 percent.  The Fed is scheduled to buy Treasuries due from September
2016 to August 2020 tomorrow as part of its plan to reinvest
proceeds of maturing mortgage holdings. It will purchase debt
due from March 2013 to August 2014 on Oct. 6, according to its
 website .  Yields indicate inflation expectations have risen over the
past month. The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, widened to 1.81 percentage
points from 1.67 on Sept. 3. The figure is still less than the
five-year average of 2.10 percentage points.  Decoupling Bet  Wall Street economists are reviving a bet that the global
economy will withstand the U.S. slowdown.  Just three years since America began dragging the world
into its deepest recession in seven decades, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Research are forecasting that this time
will be different. Goldman Sachs predicts worldwide growth will
slow 0.2 percentage point to 4.6 percent in 2011, even as
expansion in the U.S. falls to 1.8 percent from 2.6 percent.  Underpinning their analysis is the view that international
reliance on U.S. trade has diminished and is too small to spread
the lingering effects of America’s housing bust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  