-- Treasuries Rise Before Report That May Show Factory Orders Slid
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-04T07:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/treasuries-rise-before-report-that-may-show-factory-orders-fell-in-august.html
Treasury two-year yields reached a
record low before a government report that economists said will
show orders to U.S. factories fell, adding to speculation the
Federal Reserve will increase asset purchases.  Ten-year notes rose on speculation manufacturing, which led
the U.S. out of its worst recession since the 1930s last year,
is slowing. The Federal Reserve is scheduled to buy Treasuries
tomorrow and the next day as part of its plan to keep borrowing
costs low, as policy members debate whether to increase their
bond buying, a plan known as quantitative easing.  “These QE expectations are making it very difficult to
sell Treasuries with much conviction,” said  Peter Chatwell , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank. “That’s what’s keeping prices elevated.”  The two-year yield fell to a record 0.3987 percent,
according to Bloomberg generic data. Ten-year yields declined
three basis points to 2.48 percent as of 8:18 a.m. in London,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent security
due in August 2020 gained 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount,
to 101 9/32.  Orders placed with U.S. factories declined 0.4 percent in
August, the third loss in four months, according to the median
estimate of economists ahead of today’s Commerce Department
data. An industry report last week showed manufacturing expanded
in September at the slowest pace since November.  Separate figures today will show  pending home sales  rose in
August, the Bloomberg surveys show.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is scheduled to buy Treasuries due from September
2016 to August 2020 tomorrow. It plans to purchase securities
maturing from March 2013 to August 2014 on Oct. 6, according to
its  website .  Speculation the central bank will decide to purchase
additional bonds as a way to pump money into the economy has
been rising since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and policy makers
said Aug. 10 they would reinvest proceeds from maturing mortgage
holdings into government debt.  Since then, reports have shown the economic recovery may be
faltering. The Labor Department will likely say on Oct. 8 that
the unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6
percent in August, according to the Bloomberg surveys.  Japan’s five-year  yields  sank to 0.24 percent, the least
since June 2003, on speculation the Bank of Japan will also take
steps to keep borrowing costs low at a two-day meeting that ends
tomorrow.  Asian Stocks  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.3 percent,
after gaining by as much as 0.9 percent earlier today.  A growing number of U.S. government securities dealers,
strategists and economists say additional bond purchases may
have the unintended consequences of pushing rates higher.  Yields on 10-year  Treasury notes,  a benchmark for
everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds, rose last
month for the first time since March even as the Fed hinted that
it may conduct more quantitative easing to bolster the economy.  Inflation Bonds  Based on what happened when the Fed began purchasing $1.725
trillion of government debt and mortgage securities in 2009,
lower yields are not a foregone conclusion. Treasuries lost 3.72
percent last year as a drop in bond prices drove the yield on
the 10-year note to 3.84 percent from 2.22 percent.  “Quantitative easing is priced into the picture,” said
 Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in
Oaks, Pennsylvania. “When the market does turn, as we’ve seen
in the past, it will turn sharply and very swiftly.”  Yields indicate inflation expectations have risen over the
past month.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 1.83 percentage points from 1.67
on Sept. 3. The figure is still less than the five-year average
of 2.10 percentage point.  “I’m bullish on Treasuries, corporate bonds and emerging-
market government bonds,” said  Zeal Yin , who invests in dollar-
denominated debt in Taipei at Shin Kong Life Insurance Co.,
Taiwan’s second-largest life insurer with the equivalent of
$47.6 billion in assets. “The economic data is very weak. They
will do more quantitative easing.”  Shin Kong’s Yin is among those predicting lower borrowing
costs. Additional quantitative easing would send 10-year yields
down by half a percentage point, he said.  QE Effects  So-called QE would probably push 10-year yields down 20
basis points to 30 basis points, Tom Lam, the Singapore-based
chief economist at OSK-DMG, said in a report today. The company
is a joint venture between Malaysian securities firm OSK
Holdings Bhd. and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG.  Investors in a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a unit of
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, became less bearish on
the outlook for Treasuries through the end of June.  Ried’s sentiment index rose to 43 for the seven days ended
Oct. 1 from 42 in the week before. A figure less than 50
indicates that investors expect prices to fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 