-- Regulator's Plan Would Have Blocked Half of All U.K. Home Loans, CML Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-10-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/regulator-s-plan-would-have-blocked-half-of-all-u-k-home-loans-cml-says.html
U.K. banks would have rejected 3.8
million home-loan applications in the past five years had the
Financial Services Authority’s plans to tighten lending been in
force, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said.  About 51 percent of customers applying for mortgages from
2005 to 2009 would have failed the FSA’s tests on whether they
could afford the loans, the lobby group said in a statement
today. The figures contradict the FSA’s own study, which found
17 percent of borrowers would have been rejected, the CML said.  Britain’s financial watchdog published a report in July
proposing stricter tests for borrowers to ensure they have
sufficient money to repay the loans if  interest rates  rise and
 house prices  decline. The regulator’s plans would restrict
interest-only mortgages and ban self-certification mortgages,
according to lenders.  “The current proposals sacrifice far too many borrowers,”
the London-based CML said in the statement. “Our concern is to
make sure that the rules which are finally implemented are clear
in their intended impact, practical in their implementation, and
fair in their overall effect.”  The Building Societies Association, which represents the
U.K.’s 49 customer-owned lenders, said last week the FSA’s
proposals risk pushing up borrowing costs and limiting choice
for consumers.  “Our proposals are designed to address the major failures
that have occurred in the mortgage market,” the FSA said in a
statement. “For now, borrowers are also benefiting from
historically low interest rates and house price inflation, which
cannot go on forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  