-- Reliance Industries Said to Plan 10-, 30-Year Bonds
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-04T02:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/reliance-industries-said-to-plan-10-30-year-bonds-in-dollars.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
biggest company by market value, plans to sell 10- and 30-year
bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the note sale,
which will follow meetings with bond investors from Oct. 6, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private. Reliance Holding USA Inc. will sell the notes and
Reliance Industries will guarantee them, said the person.  The energy explorer, owned by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ,
plans to raise at least $1 billion from the sale and may use the
money for acquisitions, a person familiar with the matter said
last week. Ambani, ranked by Forbes India as the nation’s
richest person with $27 billion of wealth, told shareholders in
June that Reliance is planning “mega” investments in power
generation as well as expansion in telecommunications.  The company, which owns the world’s largest refinery, has
spent $3.4 billion since April buying U.S. shale-gas assets, and
may invest in a Chesapeake Energy Corp. asset, people familiar
with the matter said last month.  A $1 billion bond sale would be Mumbai-based Reliance’s
first benchmark-sized offering in the U.S. currency, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It raised $162 million in 2007
from 6.24 percent notes due in 2017, the data show. Benchmark
typically means at least $500 million.  Calls to  Manoj Warrier , a Mumbai-based spokesman for
Reliance, were not answered today outside of office hours.  The company and its units have the equivalent of $1.4
billion of bonds and loans due by the end of 2012, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service is expected to rank the bonds at
Baa2, its second-lowest investment-grade rating, and Standard &
Poor’s will grade the debt an equivalent BBB, the person said.  Reliance plans to meet bond investors in Singapore on Oct.
6, in Hong Kong on Oct. 7, in London on Oct. 8 and in the U.S.
from Oct. 12 to Oct. 14, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  