-- Reliance Plans $1 Billion Bonds Amid Demand Surge: India Credit
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-05T07:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/reliance-plans-record-1-billion-bonds-amid-surge-in-demand-india-credit.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , seeking to
tap foreign demand for assets from Asia’s second-fastest-growing
economy, plans to raise at least $1 billion in the biggest
dollar-denominated bond sale by a non-bank India company.  The offering by Mumbai-based Reliance, India’s largest
company by market value, would boost the country’s international
bond sales this year to $5.5 billion, the most since $9.2
billion was raised in the similar period of 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Foreign investors more than doubled
their holdings of Indian government and company debt this year
to $17.3 billion as of Sept. 30, Securities & Exchange Board of
India  data  show.  Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani’s  energy company will sell 10-and
30-year bonds to refinance acquisitions and fund investments in
a record year for foreign takeovers by Indian companies, Moody’s
Investors Service and Bloomberg data show.  Yields  on five-year
Indian corporate bonds have fallen 50 basis points to within 75
basis points of government debt after averaging 171 basis points,
or 1.71 percentage points, in 2009.  Reliance is “one of the blue chips of India,” said  Jack Deino , who oversees about $1.6 billion of emerging-market debt
at Invesco Inc. in New York and who’s considering buying the new
bonds. “There would be a scarcity value to it. Anytime you’ve
had any company that’s not a bank it’s been massively
oversubscribed,” he said in an Oct. 1 interview.  Growth Outlook  India’s economy, which expanded by an average 8.5 percent
in the last five years, will grow 9.4 percent this year and 8.4
percent in 2011, International Monetary Fund forecasts show.
That compares with growth of more than 10 percent for China.  Indian Oil Corp., the country’s largest state-controlled
refiner, raised $500 million from 4.75 percent bonds in January
in the country’s last benchmark-size sale by a non-financial
company. The notes yielded 3.012 percent and their spread over
Treasuries narrowed to 202 basis points from 282 basis points on
May 25, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-largest lender by market
value, plans to sell as much as $1 billion of bonds this month,
two people familiar with the matter said today, asking not to be
identified because details are private. The notes will have
maturities of between five and 10 years and proceeds will help
expand lending, one of the people said.  India is alone among its so-called BRIC peers of Brazil,
Russia and China in having no sovereign dollar bonds to act as a
benchmark. Reliance’s notes will be a guide for other borrowers
seeking long-term funding, said  Brayan Lai , a credit analyst at
Credit Agricole CIB.  Rupee Gains  Reliance “will undoubtedly help other companies with this
deal,” Lai said in a phone interview from Hong Kong yesterday.
“Unlike bank bonds corporate notes are not very liquid, so this
new pricing will create a usable yield curve.”  India’s rupee fell from a five-month high. The currency was
at 44.725 rupees after reaching 44.235 rupees yesterday. The
Indian currency has gained 4.4 percent in the past month, the
best performance among the 10 most-traded Asian currencies.  Bonds issued by India’s government were little changed with
the yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 at 7.94 percent
as of 12:26 p.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system.  India’s 10-year yield is the highest among major economies
except Brazil, where similar-maturity notes pay 11.93 percent.
Comparable securities offer 7.7 percent in Russia and 3.3
percent in China and 2.44 percent in the U.S., Bloomberg data
show.  Refinancing Debt  Reliance plans to sell its bonds with help from Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said  Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for the
company in Mumbai yesterday. Warrier declined to confirm the
size of the offering.  The company will seek to raise at least $1 billion after
talks with investors starting Oct. 6, according to two people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. Reliance Holdings USA’s senior
unsecured bonds will be used to refinance $765 million of loans
for shale-gas ventures and for “further business investments
that may be pursued,” Moody’s said in a statement.  Moody’s rated the proposed debt Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade.  Ambani, ranked by  Forbes  India as the nation’s richest
person with a net worth of $27 billion, told shareholders in
June that Reliance is planning “mega” investments in power
generation as well as expansion in telecommunications.  Credit Protection  Indian companies have announced $39.3 billion in overseas
mergers and acquisition deals since Jan. 1, the busiest year for
cross-border takeovers, according to Bloomberg data. Bharti
Airtel Ltd.’s $10.7 billion purchase of the African assets of
Zain, Kuwait’s second-largest phone operator, tops the ranking.  The cost of protecting Reliance’s dollar debt from default
for five years rose 3.6 basis points yesterday in New York to
169.3 basis points, according to data provider CMA in New York.
The contracts reached a two-month low of 165.7 on Oct. 1. The
current prices compares with 184.4 for contracts linked to
state-controlled Bank of India.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  Shale Assets  “Investors are more concerned about the return of their
principal rather than the return on their principal,” said
 Vikas Pershad , chief executive officer at Veda Investments LLC
in Chicago, who said he may buy the new bonds. “Given the
strength of Reliance’s balance sheet, the probability that an
investor’s capital is safe in these capital raisings is high.”  Reliance has spent $3.4 billion since April buying U.S.
shale-gas assets including acreage held by  Atlas Energy Inc. ,
 Pioneer Natural Resources Co.  and Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. In his
June speech to shareholders Ambani said Reliance plans to build
a “significant position” in shale gas and to pursue
“inorganic growth opportunities,” adding the company could
double its enterprise value to $160 billion within a decade.  “What you’re seeing in India, more than China, Brazil and
Russia, is a large selection of companies with healthy balance
sheets providing safety of principal,” Pershad said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Coupled with the outlook for the Indian
economy, I think this augurs well for companies trying to raise
capital abroad. I expect the trend both of capital raisings and
acquisitions to continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  