-- Republican Senate Hopeful Paul Backs Social Security Eligibility Changes
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/republican-senate-hopeful-paul-backs-social-security-eligibility-changes.html
Kentucky Republican  Rand Paul  said
eligibility changes are needed for Social Security, including
possibly raising the age for receiving benefits, as he debated
his Democratic opponent for a U.S. Senate seat.  “You’re going to have to have eligibility changes for the
younger people,” Paul said yesterday during the debate on  “Fox
News Sunday”  when asked if increasing the retirement age for
Social Security was one way to reduce the  budget deficit . He
said he wouldn’t back making that change for Americans already
participating in the program.  Paul, 47, and Democrat  Jack Conway , 41, are competing to
replace retiring Republican Senator  Jim Bunning , 78, in the Nov.
2 election. Their debate highlighted the different campaign
themes being stressed by many Republican and Democratic
candidates on this year’s ballot, with Paul framing the election
as a referendum on President  Barack Obama ’s policies and Conway
focusing on state issues.  “Do you support the president’s agenda or do you not
support it?” Paul said when asked to describe the choice for
voters. “I think his agenda’s wrong for America.”  Conway, Kentucky’s attorney general, offered himself as
someone who has “stood up for the people” of his state. “I’m
not saying Dr. Paul is crazy, I think some of his ideas are out
of the mainstream and they’re out of touch with the values of
normal Kentuckians.”  Discussing his own positions, Conway said, “I’m certainly
not going to be to the left of Barack Obama.”  Paul Leading  Polls  have shown Paul leading the race. An ophthalmologist
who hasn’t held public office, he is the son of Representative
 Ron Paul , a Texas Republican who sought the party’s presidential
nomination in 2008 and long has advocated abolishing the Federal
Reserve Board.  “It should be close,”  Jennifer Duffy , a Senate campaign
analyst for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, said of the
Kentucky race. “Conway’s making some headway. I just feel like
Conway has finally hit his pace in the past few weeks.”  Rand Paul won his Republican primary race in May against a
competitor backed by Kentucky’s Republican establishment,
including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell . Paul said
yesterday that, should he win in November, he would support
retaining McConnell as the Senate Republican leader.  Paul benefitted in the primary from help provided by Tea
Party activists. In addition to Paul’s win, Tea Party-backed
Senate candidates have toppled contenders backed by many
Republican officials in Nevada, Delaware, Alaska, Utah and
Colorado.  Shrinking Government  The Tea Party is intent on shrinking the federal
government, lowering taxes and rolling back the health-care law
pushed by Obama and passed earlier this year by the Democratic-
controlled Congress. Those topics have been central to this
year’s campaign, in which polls show Democrats in a struggle to
retain their control of the Senate and the House of
Representatives.  “It’s not a revenue problem, it’s a spending problem,”
Paul said in yesterday’s debate as he emphasized his commitment
to reducing the budget deficit, projected to reach $1.34
trillion this year.  “Republicans have failed us on the debt, and so have the
Democrats,” he said. He also said that as a lawmaker, he would
introduce a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced
federal budget.  He endorsed changes in eligibility requirements for Social
Security, as well as for the Medicare program, when pressed for
specifics on trimming federal spending.  ‘Different Rules’  “I think all younger people, if they’re honest and will
admit to it and have an adult discussion and not demagogue the
issue, will admit that younger people will have to have
different rules” for receiving benefits through those programs,
he said.  The current age for qualifying for full Social Security
benefits is now 67 for those born in 1960 or later, according to
the  Social Security Administration . Americans who are at least
62 years old are eligible to receive partial benefits.  According to Bloomberg data published Sept. 9, Social
Security paid $57.4 billion in retirement, survivors’ and
disability benefits in August, providing an average payment of
$1,072 to 53.6 million beneficiaries.  Conway said that, if elected, the first bill he would
introduce would allow for the bulk purchase of prescription
drugs under Medicare. He has said the legislation would save the
government about $200 billion in 10 years.  Cap and Trade  Conway also responded to attacks from Paul, who said the
Democratic nominee has supported cap-and-trade legislation in
which companies would buy and sell the right to pollute. “I’m
against cap and trade,” Conway said. “I’ve been consistent in
my position saying I’m going to stand up for Kentucky coal.”  In some of this year’s races, candidates have been haggling
over extending income-tax cuts enacted under former President
 George W. Bush  that are set to expire Dec. 31.  Obama and most Democrats favor extending the cuts for
individuals earning up to $200,000 a year and couples earning up
to $250,000, while allowing reductions for higher-income
Americans to lapse. They say the U.S. can’t afford tax cuts for
top earners amid record budget deficits.  Republicans and some Democrats want to extend the tax cuts
for all income levels, arguing that letting taxes rise for the
top earners would hurt job creation as the U.S economy seeks to
rebound from the worst recession since the Great Depression.  ‘Extend Them’  “It’s no time to be raising taxes,” Conway said
yesterday. He said he was among the Democrats who supported the
Bush tax cuts when they were passed. “And I think now we just
ought to extend them.”  Republicans need a net gain of 10 seats to win a Senate
majority and 39 seats to take control of the House.  Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican who heads the
party’s Senate campaign committee, said yesterday on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program that “this is going to be a wave
election and it’s going to be a referendum on the on the
unpopular policies coming out of Washington.”  He said the result will be a “tsunami” for Republicans.
“I don’t know how high or how wide that tsunami will be, but it
will be sizable,” he said.  Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont independent who caucuses
with the Democrats, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program
that Republicans are obstructionists intent on preventing
economic gains. “They do not want America to succeed,” Sanders
said yesterday. “Gaining power is their major initiative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  