-- Tribune Judge Sets Oct. 15 Deadline for Competing Bankruptcy Exit Plans
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-04T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tribune-judge-sets-oct-15-deadline-for-competing-bankruptcy-exit-plans.html
Tribune Co. ’s creditors have until
Oct. 15 to file alternative proposals for dividing up the
ownership of the newspaper and television company so it can pay
creditors and exit bankruptcy, a judge said today.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge  Kevin J. Carey  set a deadline
for various groups of warring creditors to file competing
reorganization plans. Tribune and more than a dozen lawyers and
financial advisers will meet today with a Delaware bankruptcy
judge who is leading court-sponsored mediation efforts.  “We’d like to see some kind of a deal break out rather
than a dozen plans get filed,” said Thomas Lauria, who
represents junior lenders owed $1.6 billion.  Tribune has joined two of its largest senior creditors in
support a plan to divide the ownership of the company among the
lenders who helped finance the publisher’s 2007, $8 billion
leveraged buyout. Lower ranking creditors want to sue those
lenders, claiming that the buyout was a fraudulent transfer that
benefited only the banks and Tribune’s shareholders.  Fighting among Tribune creditors, who are owed more than
$12 billion, intensified after July 27 when a bankruptcy
examiner,  Kenneth N. Klee , released a report that bolstered the
position of lower-ranking creditors. Those creditors, including
the noteholders owed $1.2 billion, said JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
the other buyout lenders should lose their position among the
first to be repaid because of the 2007 transaction.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
the  buyout , lead by real estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 