-- Robert Edwards, U.K.'s Test-Tube Baby Pioneer, Wins Nobel Medicine Prize
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-10-04T16:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/robert-edwards-u-k-s-test-tube-baby-pioneer-wins-nobel-medicine-prize.html
A British physiologist and pioneer in
reproductive medicine,  Robert G. Edwards , won the  Nobel Prize in
Medicine  for developing in-vitro fertilization.  The former University of Cambridge professor, 85, will get
the  10 million-kronor  ($1.5 million) prize, the  Nobel Assembly 
said today in Stockholm. His research partner,  Patrick Steptoe ,
died in 1988.  Edwards and Steptoe, working in the face of opposition from
church and government, created a procedure that led to the birth
of the  first test tube baby , Louise Brown, in 1978. Since then
more than 4 million IVF babies have been born worldwide, and a
multibillion-dollar market for infertility treatments has
arisen.  Brown’s birth “was a paradigm shift and showed for the
first time that it was possible to treat infertility,” Christer
Hoog, a professor in molecular cell biology at Sweden’s
Karolinska Institute, said at the Nobel news conference. “That
single event is the most important part of Edwards’s
achievement.”  As a young researcher, Edwards began work on mice
reproduction. He studied fertilized eggs collected from female
mice, which tend to ovulate at night, according to the citation
when he won the  Albert Lasker award  for clinical medical
research in 2001. After three years of midnight visits to the
lab, he found a way to coax the animals to ovulate during
daytime. He also developed a way to prod dormant eggs to mature
outside the female’s body.  Slices of Ovaries  Edwards began working on humans by persuading gynecologists
to give him slices of human ovaries from women who underwent
surgery. In 1969, he published a paper in which he described
having achieved fertilization outside a woman’s body. He joined
forces with Steptoe, who collected ripened eggs directly from
women’s ovaries.  Edwards worked on fertilizing them in the lab. In 1972,
they started trying to place the eggs in the womb of infertile
women. On July 25, 1978, Brown was born using the procedure
developed by Edwards and Steptoe.  “Ethicists decried us, forecasting abnormal babies,
misleading the infertile and misrepresenting our work,” Edwards
said in an article accompanying his Lasker award acceptance
speech. After Brown’s birth, Edwards said his work was halted
for more than two years because he and Steptoe couldn’t gain
government support.  Mike Macnamee , chief executive of  Bourn Hall , the Cambridge
clinic where Edwards and Steptoe first performed IVF, said
Edwards and Steptoe were “pushing back frontiers.”  Four Million Babies  “The work at Bourn Hall in those heady days was directed
at making the treatment more widely available and the patients
were well aware that they too were making history,” Macnamee,
who joined Edwards’s research team in the early 1980s, said in
an e-mailed statement today. More than 4 million babies have
been born from in-vitro fertilization, he said.  Louise Brown’s parents first approached Edwards and Steptoe
in 1976 about helping them conceive because Lesley Brown had no
fallopian tubes. “Me and mum are so glad that one of the
pioneers of IVF has been given the recognition he deserves,”
Louise Brown said in an e-mailed statement today.  Edwards, who was born in Leeds, served in the British army
in Jordan, Egypt and Iraq before earning an undergraduate degree
in zoology and agriculture from the University of Bangor, Wales.
He did postgraduate work at the  University of Edinburgh’s 
Institute of Animal Genetics. He met his wife, Ruth Fowler, as
they worked together as doctoral students in Edinburgh. The
couple has five daughters and 11 grandchildren.  ‘Delighted’  “Unfortunately Professor Edwards isn’t in good health
right now, so I spoke to his wife,” said Goeran Hansson, a
professor in experimental cardiovascular research at Karolinska
and secretary of the Nobel Committee for Medicine. “She was
delighted and she was sure he would also be delighted.”  Demand for fertility treatments is booming. A 2009 report
by Marketdata Enterprises Inc. estimated that in the U.S., $4
billion is spent annually on fertility services and the number
of IVF procedures has almost tripled to 142,000 since 1999. The
global market for fertility drugs is more than $1 billion, the
research firm found. Infertility affects more than 10 percent of
all couples worldwide, the Nobel Assembly said.  Fertility Treatment  In IVF, eggs are removed from a woman’s ovaries after
treatment with fertility drugs to stimulate the development of
follicles in the ovaries. They are fertilized outside the body -
- in vitro comes from Latin for “within the glass” -- before
being transferred into the patient’s uterus.  Merck KGaA ’s Serono
unit pioneered fertility drugs in the 1960s with hormones
extracted from the urine of postmenopausal nuns.  “In the days before IVF, the techniques we had were
exceptionally limited,” said Alan Penzias, a reproductive
endocrinologist at Boston IVF and member of the board of the
 American Fertility Association . “Those individuals were
completely and hopelessly infertile.”  The major complication of IVF is the risk of multiple
births, which can occur when several embryos are transferred
into the womb. Leftover embryos that didn’t get implanted can be
discarded, or donated to help other couples conceive or for use
in embryonic stem cell research.  Edwards had discussed the theoretical applications of IVF
technology from the beginning, and was one of the first to speak
of the potential for embryonic stem cells, which can grow into
any kind of tissue, said Basil Tarlatzis, a professor at the
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in Greece.  ‘He Was Dreaming’  “We were always joking with him that he was dreaming, but
he had the knowledge to understand this was a viable option,”
Tarlatzis said.  The  average cost  of an IVF cycle using fresh embryos, and
not including medications, is $8,158 in the U.S., according to
Resolve, the National Infertility Association, based in McLean
Virginia.  “The more I look back, the more I see how ahead of his
time he was,” Martin Johnson, a professor of reproductive
sciences at Cambridge and a former Edwards doctoral student,
said in a telephone interview. “At the time, infertility was
not seen as a problem and he was flying the flag for it.”  Last year’s Nobel prize in medicine went to  Elizabeth Blackburn , a professor at the University of California in San
Francisco,  Carol Greider  from Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine in Baltimore and  Jack Szostak  of Harvard Medical School
in Boston, for research on cell division.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marthe Fourcade  in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net 
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  