-- Troika, Da Vinci Back EBRD's Bid for Stake in Russia's RTS Stock Exchange
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-04T13:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/troika-da-vinci-back-ebrd-s-bid-for-stake-in-russia-s-rts-stock-exchange.html
Two shareholders representing 12.5
percent of the RTS stock exchange are backing a bid by the
 European Bank of Reconstruction and Development  to take a stake
in Moscow’s oldest bourse.  “I see positives if it becomes a shareholder and negatives
if it’s not allowed to do so,” said  Jacques Der Megreditchian ,
deputy chief executive of Troika Dialog, which holds a 10
percent stake in the RTS. Megreditchian is also chairman of the
RTS board.  The EBRD aims to buy 10 percent of the RTS for $75 million
from Moscow-based investment bank KIT Finance, spokesman  Richard Wallace  said Oct. 1. The Federal Financial Markets Service and
the FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, wrote to
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  requesting legislation that would
oblige foreign companies to seek approval for stakes above 5
percent in key financial assets, Vedomosti reported Sept. 30,
citing a copy of the letter.  Evgeny Fetisov , a managing director at Da Vinci Capital,
which has a 2.5 percent stake in the bourse, said the EBRD’s bid
is a “positive move” and a step toward President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s goal of turning Moscow into an international
financial center.  The government doesn’t care whether the buyer is Russian or
foreign as long as the issue is resolved “on a competitive
basis,” Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said in an interview
with state channel Rossiya 24 shown today. A spokeswoman for the
Federal Financial Markets Service declined to comment when
contacted Oct. 1. The Federal Security Service did not return
calls.  -- With assistance by Jason Webb in London. Editors:  Alex Nicholson ,  John Kohut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net 
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  