-- Rousseff to Face Serra in Brazilian Runoff Vote With No Majority
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o ,   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-04T15:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/rousseff-to-face-serra-in-brazil-runoff-vote-after-failing-to-get-majority.html
Dilma Rousseff  finished first in
Brazil’s presidential election yesterday and will face her main
rival,  Jose Serra , in a  runoff  later this month after failing to
capture a majority of votes.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s handpicked successor
won 46.9 percent, while former Sao Paulo Governor Serra had 32.6
percent with more than 99 percent of the ballots counted. Green
Party candidate  Marina Silva , who came in third with 19.3
percent, didn’t declare her support for either of her rivals in
the Oct. 31 second round.  Brazilian dollar bonds gained for an eighth straight month
in September while local  stocks  and the currency rallied on
expectations Lula’s successor will preserve policies that are
fueling the fastest economic expansion in two decades. A
prolonged presidential race will allow Rousseff and Serra to
detail their proposals, said  Will Landers , who oversees $8
billion in Latin American stocks at BlackRock Inc.  “Both candidates are committed to giving continuity to the
current economic program,” Landers said in an e-mail. “If
speeches in the next month start to deviate from that, then we
could see volatility.”  An  Ibope  poll of a hypothetical runoff taken before
yesterday’s vote showed Rousseff with 51 percent and Serra at 37
percent. The poll of 3,010 people taken Oct. 1-2 had a  margin
of error of 2 percentage points.  Two-Year High  The real, which reached a two-year high on Oct. 1,
strengthened today as the runoff boosted speculation the
government may postpone measures to curb the currency’s gain.
The real advanced 0.2 percent to 1.6860 per dollar at 10:43 a.m.
New York time. The  Bovespa  stock index gained for a fifth day,
advancing 0.2 percent to 70,392.59.  “I will face the second round with a lot of drive and
energy,” Rousseff, 62, told reporters in Brasilia. “I will
have the opportunity to provide more details about my proposals
to eradicate extreme poverty and ensure the country’s
development with fast levels of growth.”  A corruption scandal involving members of the governing
Workers’ Party cut into Rousseff’s lead as voters defected to
Marina Silva and Serra. Serra said his record in public service
is “clean” and, if elected, he would strengthen Brazil’s
institutions against corruption.  ‘Psychological Victory’  “It’s a psychological victory for Serra,” said Marcelo
Neri, a development economist at the Getulio Vargas Foundation
business school in Rio de Janeiro. “But it’s going to be very
difficult for him. The economic trends are highly favorable to
Dilma.”  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who was Lula’s former
Cabinet chief, has pledged continuity with her mentor’s policies
that almost doubled the pace of economic growth and helped lift
21 million out of poverty since 2003. After nearly eight years
in office, Lula enjoys a record popularity rating of 85 percent,
according to Ibope.  Rousseff’s support in polls declined after media
revelations of alleged influence peddling by family members of
Erenice Guerra, her successor in Lula’s Cabinet. Guerra resigned
her post to defend herself against the accusations, which she
denies, that her sons helped negotiate contracts for companies
doing business with the government.  “The risk of an upset has increased significantly,” Bank
of America said in a report today. “Markets have been pricing
extremely low political noise ahead and will likely have to
adjust.”  Government Spending  Serra, 68, lost to Lula in 2002. A critic of government
spending growing at twice the pace of economic growth, Serra
surprised supporters in his Social Democracy Party during the
campaign by vowing to raise the  minimum wage  17 percent to 600
reais ($355) and boosting pensions by 10 percent next year.  The former governor also criticized policy makers for
taking too long to cut interest rates amid the global credit
crunch in 2008 and said that if elected he won’t treat the
central bank like the Vatican.  To surmount Rousseff’s lead, Serra needs to capture the
bulk of Marina Silva’s support, said  Christopher Garman ,
director for Latin America at political risk consultancy Eurasia
Group in Washington D.C.  “He probably needs to go on the attack more,” Garman said
in a telephone interview. “It’s a risky strategy, but unless he
can deconstruct Dilma’s image, it’s going to be very hard for
him to turn the tables.”  Growth Outlook  Latin America’s biggest economy will grow 7.3 percent this
year, the most in more than two decades, according to central
bank estimates. That would mean that under Lula’s watch, Brazil
expanded an average 4 percent between 2003 and 2010, up from 2.3
percent in the previous eight-year period under President
 Fernando Henrique Cardoso .  In a meeting with investors in New York in May, Rousseff
said Brazil could “gradually reduce” its  inflation  target of
4.5 percent by 2014. In August she said the recovery of the
world economy wouldn’t allow such a reduction. She has also
vowed to cut  tax  rates and increase the number of taxpayers.  Rousseff needs to boost Brazil’s investment rate and curb
 public spending  growth, said two former central bank presidents,
 Gustavo Franco  and  Arminio Fraga . Those moves would allow the
central bank to halve real interest rates from about 6 percent,
the highest among the Group of 20 richest nations, Fraga said.  Congress Majority  Rousseff’s party and its coalition partners strengthened
their representation in the Senate to at least 57 of 81 seats,
up from 42 currently. Rousseff’s coalition captured nine of 27
state governor races, and leading in six other races that are
either too close to call or heading into a second round.  In the lower house, for which final results were not yet
available, Rousseff’s allies could increase their majority to
366 of 512 seats, from 297 today, according to the Inter-Union
Parliamentary Advisory Department, a Brasilia-based policy group
that tracks legislative races.  “If this was a soccer match I would say Dilma won 2-to-0
in the first half,”  Andre Cesar , founder of Brasilia-based
political analysis firm CAC Consultoria, said in an interview.
“But her opponent has breath to play the second half.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  