-- Russia Inflation Accelerates in September on Food
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-04T14:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/russian-inflation-rate-accelerates-to-7-in-september-on-rising-food-costs.html
Russia’s annual  inflation  accelerated
for a second straight month after the country’s worst drought in
at least half a century hobbled agricultural output.  Prices rose 7 percent from a year earlier, compared with
6.1 percent in August, the Federal Statistics Service said today
in an e-mailed statement. Consumer prices  advanced  0.8 percent
from the previous month, after rising 0.6 percent in July. Both
figures matched the median estimates in a Bloomberg survey of 15
economists.  “Inflationary pressures intensified in September,” driven
by food and metals costs, HSBC Holdings Plc said Oct. 1, citing
data compiled by Markit Economics. “Manufacturing growth
moderates, while price growth accelerates,” raising the
question of whether Russia is heading for “stagflation,” the
bank said in a statement.  Russia faces an “acute” grain shortage after record heat
triggered crop losses, even with a government-imposed ban on
grain exports, according to the Moscow-based researcher SovEcon.
Rising food prices may push the inflation rate to 8 percent by
year-end, central bank chief  Sergey Ignatiev  said Sept. 24.  The central bank left its main interest rates unchanged on
Sept. 28, saying “inflationary risks, shaped by monetary
conditions, are at an acceptable level.”  Bank Rossii will continue monitoring “inflationary
processes,” the central bank said in a statement. “Signs of
unstable  economic growth  remain.”  Non-Food Prices  Russia’s  manufacturing  expansion slowed in September to the
weakest pace since March as international demand fell and new
export business declined, according to HSBC’s Purchasing
Managers’ Index.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflation, jumped a
monthly 3.3 percent in August, according to the statistics
office.  Food prices rose an annual 8.7 percent in September,
including a 31 percent jump in cereals and legumes, the Federal
Statistics Office said today. Non-food prices rose 4.4 percent.  “Stable inflation outside the food sector will allow Bank
Rossii to delay the monetary policy tightening cycle,”  Maxim Oreshkin , chief strategist for Russia and the Commonwealth of
Independent States at Credit Agricole SA, said in an e-mailed
note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  