-- Russian Regions May Default as Federal Government Cuts Support, S&P Warns
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-10-04T15:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/russian-regions-may-default-as-federal-government-cuts-support-s-p-warns.html
Russian regional governments may
default on their debt obligations in the next two years as
federal authorities scale back emergency aid provided during the
crisis, according to Standard & Poor’s.  Low-interest federal loans granted to finance regional
deficits will be reduced by 20 percent next year after a 15
percent cut in 2010, S&P analysts led by  Karen Vartapetov  in
Moscow said in a report today. Budget loans increased “several-
fold” in 2009 and accounted for almost one-third of total
regional borrowing that year, S&P estimates.  Russia’s federal government, which expects to run a fiscal
shortfall of 5.3 percent of gross domestic product this year,
targets balancing its budget by 2015, based on a projected
average oil price of $70 a barrel, according to Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin . The world’s biggest energy supplier posted a
deficit of 5.9 percent of GDP last year, its first shortfall
since 1999.  As long as federal support for local governments isn’t
institutionalized and “federal budget constraints increase, the
federal government can be more selective in providing budget
loans and grants, thereby allowing subnational defaults for
political or any other reasons,” S&P said.  Overall federal support to Russia’s regions dropped about
25 percent in 2010 from last year, S&P said. Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  on Aug. 20 said regional and municipal
governments wasted 415 billion rubles ($13.6 billion) last year
on “empty spending.”  “Given the reduced resources available to the Russian
federal government and its modest ability or desire to implement
prompt default-preventative measures,” bond defaults and
“negative developments” for regional governments are
“possible” in the next two years, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 