-- Russian-Belarusian Relations `Won't Be the Same' After Lukashenko Comments
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-10-04T13:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/russian-belarusian-relations-won-t-be-the-same-after-lukashenko-comments.html
Russia’s ties with neighbor Belarus
“won’t be the same” after recent comments by Belarusian leader
 Alexander Lukashenko , Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
spokeswoman said.  “Relations with the Belarusian leadership have clearly hit
a dead-end recently,”  Natalya Timakova  told reporters in the
Russian Black Sea resort of Gelendzhik today. Her comments came
in response to a question about Medvedev’s  blog  devoted to
Russia’s relationship with Belarus.  Medvedev yesterday decried Lukashenko’s recent “anti-
Russian rhetoric,” as well as “accusations and invective,”
which “go beyond not just the rules of diplomacy but also of
basic human decency.” Lukashenko has built his campaign for re-
election in Belarus’s Dec. 19 presidential contest on promoting
the image of Russia as an “external enemy,” Medvedev said.  In an Oct. 1  briefing , Lukashenko condemned the “flow of
unscrupulous lies, disinformation and utter nonsense” about
Belarus in Russian media, which he implied was ordered by
Russia’s leadership to stoke tensions between the two former
Soviet republics.  “I’m amazed at the position of your leadership,”
Lukashenko told about 100 regional Russian journalists. “Maybe
there’s a lot they don’t know. Or they’re not terribly
interested.” The current state of Russia-Belarus relations
“leaves much to be desired, to put it mildly,” he said.  Medvedev shot back in his blog that Lukashenko should
“take care of his internal problems” rather than criticizing
Russia’s leaders. The Russian president voiced assurance that
relations between the two countries would survive, and that
“this senseless tension will certainly come to an end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Gelendzhik at  ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  