-- S&P Sees Low Chance of Portugal Debt Default Even as Economy Struggles
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-04T17:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/s-p-sees-low-chance-of-portugal-debt-default-even-as-economy-struggles.html
Portugal is unlikely to default on
its debt even as the economy fails to grow over the next two
years, Standard & Poor’s said.  “The likelihood of default on Portuguese debt remains
extremely low,” S&P analysts led by  Frank Gill  said in a
statement today. “We expect that this government would take
further appropriate fiscal consolidation measures to improve its
balance sheet should it believe such measures necessary.”  The ratings company said the key risk to “stabilizing”
the country’s debt ratio remains the economic outlook. It sees
the economy shrinking 1.8 percent next year and stagnating in
2012 as Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  cuts public-workers wages,
raises some taxes and freezes investment this year.  The budget measures announced by the government last week
represent a “critical step” to reducing debt, S&P said.  The announcement helped lower the yield spread between
Portugal’s 10-year debt and that of Germany, Europe’s benchmark.
The spread was at 383 basis points today, down from a record 441
basis points on Sept. 28.  Socrates leads a minority government and to secure passage
of the budget he’s tried to court support from the opposition
Social Democrats, who have threatened to oppose a budget that
contained new tax increases.  “Our expectation is that despite the opposition’s well-
known aversion to tax hikes, the Socrates minority government’s
budgetary proposals will be included in the 2011 budget, which
we expect to be passed through parliament,” S&P said.  The spending cuts next year will have an impact equivalent
to 2 percent of gross domestic product, while measures on tax
revenue will represent about 1 percent of GDP, according to the
government.  “Net exports will be the only contributor to GDP growth
over the next two years,” S&P said.  Portugal’s budget gap was 9.3 percent of  GDP  in 2009, the
highest in the 16-country euro region after Ireland, Greece and
Spain. The government aims to narrow the  shortfall  to 7.3
percent this year, 4.6 percent next year, and intends to meet
the EU limit of 3 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 