-- Tsang Aims for `Healthy' Hong Kong Housing Market Growth With Land Supply
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-04T18:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tsang-will-boost-land-supply-for-more-healthy-hong-kong-housing-market.html
Hong Kong Financial Secretary John
Tsang said he’s boosting land supply as part of a policy to
reassure people that the housing market can grow in a more
“healthy” way.  “This year alone I have come up two or three times with
different policies, different initiatives, to reassure that we
grow in a stable, healthy manner including increasing the supply
of land,” Tsang said today at an event at the London School of
Economics in London. “I hope that will help the housing market
grow in a more healthy way.”  Risks in Hong Kong’s property market may exceed those in
1997 if falling prices coincide with rising interest rates, Hong
Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive Officer  Norman Chan  said
last month. Mortgage rates there are at about a 20-year low as
the city’s interest rates normally follow those in the U.S.
because the currency is pegged to the dollar.  “We recognize the close-to-zero interest rate and the ample
liquidity of that is affecting people’s desire in terms of
demand for housing in Hong Kong,” Tsang said. “Unfortunately
in the last few years the supply has been low.”  Hong Kong’s  economy  expanded a more-than-estimated 6.5
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, prompting the
government to raise its 2010 growth forecast in August to as
much as 6 percent, from the previous 4 percent to 5 percent.  Tsang said today that the economy is “back on its feet”
and the finance industry is in “resilient” shape.  ‘Robust’ Growth  “We are forecasting robust GDP growth for this year,” he
said. “I would not be surprised if it was above 6 percent.”  Tsang also stressed the role that Hong Kong has to play in
the evolution of the yuan as a globally traded currency.  “Reflecting the emergence of a new global economic order,
economists are discussing not whether but when the mainland
currency, the renminbi, will become an international currency,
and perhaps even in the longer run, a reserve currency,” he
said. “As China’s most important international financial
centre, the internationalization of the renminbi is an area that
will be vitally important to Hong Kong.”  Hong Kong’s renminbi bond market has been “a particularly
dynamic growth area,” Tsang said.  “So far, there have been a total of 16 renminbi bond
issues in Hong Kong,” he said. Most of these “have been well
over-subscribed, indicating strong demand from investors both
locally and overseas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  