-- Sanofi’s Chief Says Genzyme Must Justify Higher Takeover Price
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2010-10-04T20:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/sanofi-s-chief-says-genzyme-must-justify-higher-takeover-price.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  would raise its
$18.5 billion hostile takeover offer for  Genzyme Corp.  if the
U.S. biotechnology company provided details to justify an
increase, Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said.  His Genzyme counterpart,  Henri Termeer , asked for a higher
bid when the two men met Sept. 20, though he didn’t specify a
price, Viehbacher said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today. The two men haven’t spoken since, Viehbacher said.  “When the person on the other side just says ‘Hey, we just
want more,’ but doesn’t tell you how much more and doesn’t even
tell you how much the company is worth, it’s hard to really have
a meaningful dialogue on that basis,” Viehbacher said today in
an interview from Paris, where Sanofi is based.  Sanofi, France’s largest drugmaker, made its offer hostile
today without increasing an Aug. 29 bid that Genzyme spurned as
too low after refusing to negotiate. Genzyme, the world’s
largest maker of drugs for rare genetic disorders, would sell at
a “fair value” above $69 a share, Termeer said in an Aug. 31
interview. Sanofi’s tender offer expires Dec. 10.  “I’m not going to bid against myself,” Viehbacher said.
“We’ve put a compelling offer on the table. I’m not prepared to
increase the price unless someone really adds something concrete
in terms of information.”  Genzyme urged shareholders to take no action on Sanofi’s
unsolicited offer, in a statement today. Genzyme’s board will
review the proposal with its financial and legal advisers and
make a recommendation within ten business days in a regulatory
filing, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said.  “We’ve got a long way to go,” Viehbacher said. “We’re
going to take this a step at a time. The first step is, let’s
hear from the Genzyme board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  