-- Sanofi Begins $18.5 Billion Hostile Offer for Genzyme
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-10-04T21:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/sanofi-begins-18-5-billion-hostile-takeover-offer-for-genzyme.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  began an $18.5
billion hostile takeover offer for  Genzyme Corp.  after the U.S.
biotechnology company spurned the bid as too low. Genzyme urged
shareholders to take no immediate action.  The tender offer of $69 a share expires at 11:59 p.m. New
York time on Dec. 10, Sanofi, France’s largest drugmaker, said
today. “We believe the offer will be successful,” Chief
Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said during a conference call
with reporters.  Investors who own more than 50 percent of Genzyme indicated
in meetings that they were willing to sell their shares at “a
reasonable price,”  Viehbacher  said at a Sept. 15 conference.
Sanofi has been unwilling to raise the offer for the world’s
largest maker of medicines for rare genetic disorders because of
manufacturing problems at Genzyme’s Allston Landing factory. The
bid doesn’t take into account potential revenue growth once the
production issues are resolved, Genzyme has said.  “They had no choice but putting the offer on the table,”
said  Amit Shabi , co-manager of Bernheim, Dreyfus & Co.’s Diva
Synergy Fund, which owns Genzyme shares, said of Sanofi. “They
had no incentive to bump” up the price. “We think that they
are going to bump at some point, to crack the opposition wall of
shareholders.”  Genzyme rejected the original offer as too low and has
since “blocked at every turn” efforts to negotiate, Paris-
based Sanofi said today in a statement. A meeting between
Viehbacher and Genzyme CEO  Henri Termeer  on Sept. 20 proved
“unproductive,” and the two men haven’t spoken since,
Viehbacher said today.  Direct Approach  “If they can’t get through Genzyme’s management, they’d be
silly not to approach the shareholders directly,”  Phil Nadeau ,
an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York, said in a Sept. 30
interview. Nadeau has an  “outperform”  rating on Genzyme.  Genzyme’s board of directors will review today’s offer with
financial and legal advisers and provide shareholders its formal
position within 10 business days, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based company said in a statement.  While Sanofi is still open to talks with Genzyme,
Viehbacher said on the conference call he sees “no particular
reason to bid more” at this time. Sanofi is a “patient and
disciplined buyer,” he said.  Sanofi would be willing to raise its offer if Genzyme
provided details to justify an increase, Viehbacher said today
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. Sanofi had asked
Genzyme for more information on the anticipated recovery of the
manufacturing and Genzyme was unwilling to answer the request,
he said in a letter to Termeer.  Frustrated Investors  Conversations with Genzyme investors also “revealed that
those shareholders were frustrated with Genzyme’s persistent
refusal to have meaningful discussions regarding Sanofi-Aventis’
proposal,” Sanofi said in a statement today.  Genzyme’s  stock  sank as much as 43 percent from its 2008
high after manufacturing glitches led to product shortages,
leaving the company vulnerable to a takeover. Activist investors
 Carl Icahn  and  Ralph Whitworth  of Relational Investors LLC
gained control of board seats this year at Genzyme.  The deal would be the biggest hostile takeover in the drug
industry since the transaction that created Sanofi-Aventis in
2004, according to Bloomberg data. Sanofi-Synthelabo acquired
Aventis for about $64 billion after raising its bid once.  Acquisition History  Sanofi has announced 35 acquisitions in the past five
years, with an average size of $1.6 billion and an average
premium of 15 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanofi said BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Societe Generale SA agreed to provide loans of $15 billion to
help finance the takeover bid.  Genzyme rose 13 cents to $71.01 at 4:30 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock has closed
above the  value  of Sanofi’s offer every day since the bid was
made public Aug. 29. Sanofi fell 28 cents to 48.01 euros in
Paris trading. The stock has declined 13 percent this year.  Should Sanofi walk away, Genzyme shares probably would fall
to the low- to mid-$50s, Nadeau said.  “I will happily sell at $80, and with regrets at $76,”
Genzyme investor Shabi said today. At $69? “Never.”  Cerezyme -- Genzyme’s best-selling medicine, with $793
million in  sales  last year -- is a mass-produced version of a
human enzyme missing in patients with the inherited illness
Gaucher disease.  Generic Competition  Sanofi is seeking  acquisitions  to replace revenue the
company is losing as some of its biggest-selling products, such
as the blood thinner Plavix and the cancer drug Taxotere, face
competition from generic medicines.  Genzyme’s drugs are less likely to face generic competitors
because they’re made from living cells and are harder to copy
than pills made from chemicals. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration designated the therapies as orphan drugs because
they’re for diseases without other treatment options, giving
them more patent protection.  Termeer said in August that he was open to selling the
biotechnology company at a “fair value,” higher than $69 a
share.  “It could be that he is just being a tough negotiator,”
said Nadeau, the Cowen analyst. “He does have a fiduciary duty
to Genzyme shareholders that they get the best possible price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  