-- Sara Lee Gains on Report Company Rebuffed $12B KKR Bid
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2010-10-04T14:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/sara-lee-gains-on-report-company-rebuffed-12-billion-kkr-bid.html
Sara Lee Corp.  climbed the  most  in
almost two years in U.S. trading after the New York Post said
the maker of Jimmy Dean breakfast foods rejected a $12 billion
unsolicited takeover offer from  KKR & Co.   Sara Lee got the offer about six weeks ago, the  newspaper 
said, citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation.
The company is seeking a permanent successor to Chief Executive
Officer  Brenda Barnes , and also aims to sell its bakery
business, people familiar with the matter said in July.  Completing those moves would allow Sara Lee to split its
U.S. and international businesses and possibly start an auction
to sell itself, the New York Post said. Whoever succeeds Barnes
faces the challenge of reviving sales that have  slumped  for two
straight years.  “The board may get push-back from investors if it in fact
rebuffed a bid,”  John Baumgartner , an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York, said today by telephone. “The board
would need to demonstrate how it is going to create more
value.”  Sara Lee jumped $1.43, or 11 percent, to $14.86 at 9:42
a.m. after reaching $15.15 on the New York Stock Exchange.
That’s the highest since Oct. 17, 2008. The  shares  had gained 10
percent this year before today, compared with a 2.8 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Baumgartner has a 12-month price target of $17 to $19 a
share for Sara Lee, based in Downers Grove, Illinois. Telsey
doesn’t rate the shares of the companies it follows.  Ernesto Duran , a Sara Lee spokesman, said the company won’t
comment “on market speculation and rumors.”  Kristi Huller , a
spokeswoman at New York-based KKR, also declined to comment.  Seeking Successor  Marcel Smits  is serving as interim CEO and  James Crown  has
kept the job of chairman as Sara Lee seeks a successor. Barnes
resigned to focus on her health after taking leave to recover
from a stroke.  Sara Lee gave a 2011 earnings forecast in August that
trailed some analysts’  estimates . The maker of Ball Park hot
dogs is vying with other foodmakers for sales as consumers keep
curbing spending to deal with a slowdown in the economic
recovery.  Barnes has gotten rid of some  divisions  to focus on food
and beverages, agreeing to sell its body-care and air-freshener
divisions this year and seeking the sale of the North American
bakery unit. That business has faced increasing competition from
less expensive store brands and regional bakers such as Flowers
Foods Inc. The operating income dropped by almost two-thirds in
the latest quarter to $8 million.  KKR’s History  KKR, run by billionaires  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts ,
started trading on the New York Stock Exchange in July after
abandoning a 2007 plan to go public amid the global credit
crisis. The firm pushed buyouts into the mainstream with the $30
billion purchase of RJR Nabisco Inc. in 1989 and led the record
buyout of energy producer TXU Corp. for $43.2 billion in 2007.  Private-equity firms take controlling stakes in companies
and use borrowed money to finance most of the acquisition. They
aim to make money for their investors usually by replacing
management, selling off unprofitable assets, extracting
dividends and then cashing out at a higher price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  