-- Sara Lee Is Said to Have Held Failed Buyout Talks With Apollo
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-04T21:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/sara-lee-is-said-to-have-held-failed-buyout-talks-with-apollo-recently.html
Sara Lee Corp.  held takeover talks
with private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC in recent
months that failed to result in a deal, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  Sara Lee  undertook a strategic review in August and chose
not to explore a sale of the company, said another person, who
declined to be identified because the discussions were private.
Apollo’s approach follows interest in Sara Lee from  KKR & Co. 
near the beginning of this year, the people said.  The maker of packaged bread, meat and coffee is instead
focusing on the sale of its fresh bakery business and has
received interest in the unit from other food companies in
first-round bidding, one person said. The business may fetch $1
billion to $1.5 billion, according to the person.  Mike Cummins , a Sara Lee spokesman, declined to comment.
Apollo and KKR also declined to comment.  Sara Lee’s stock rose the  most  in almost two years in New
York Stock Exchange trading today after the New York Post said
Sara Lee rejected a $12 billion unsolicited takeover offer from
KKR. The jump values the Downers Grove, Illinois-based company
at about $9.2 billion.  “The board may get push-back from investors if it in fact
rebuffed a bid,”  John Baumgartner , an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York, said today by telephone. “The board
would need to demonstrate how it is going to create more
value.”  The shares climbed 97 cents to $14.40 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. That was the most since
Nov. 24, 2008. They have gained 18 percent this year, compared
with a 2 percent  increase  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Barnes’s Legacy  Chief Executive Officer  Brenda Barnes  resigned in August to
focus on her health after taking leave to recover from a stroke.
 Marcel Smits  is serving as interim CEO and  James Crown  has kept
the job of chairman as Sara Lee seeks a successor.  Barnes had gotten rid of some  divisions  to focus on food
and beverages, agreeing to sell Sara Lee’s body-care and air-
freshener divisions this year and seeking the sale of the North
American bakery unit. That business has faced increasing
competition from less expensive store brands and regional bakers
such as Flowers Foods Inc. The operating income dropped by
almost two-thirds in the latest quarter to $8 million.  Apollo is a New York-based private-equity firm founded two
decades ago by  Leon Black . The firm’s food-related deals this
year include its April agreement to buy CKE Restaurants Inc.,
which operates the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s fast-food chains.  KKR History  KKR, also in New York, is led by billionaires  Henry Kravis 
and  George Roberts . The firm pushed buyouts into the mainstream
with the $30 billion purchase of RJR Nabisco Inc. in 1989 and
led the record buyout of energy producer TXU Corp. for $43.2
billion in 2007.  Private-equity firms take controlling stakes in companies
and use borrowed money to finance most of the acquisition. They
aim to make money for their investors usually by replacing
management, selling off unprofitable assets, extracting
dividends and then cashing out at a higher price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 