-- BHP's Potash Deal to Have `Few' Negative Effects, Report Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-04T22:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/saskatchewan-govt-releases-report-on-possible-potash-deal.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion
hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  would have
“few” negative effects on the province of Saskatchewan apart
from C$2 billion ($1.95 billion) in lost revenue, a report said.  The province would lose out on C$200 million of tax
receipts annually over 10 years because the deal would enable
BHP to write off costs of its Jansen mine project and help it
minimize corporate tax payments, the Conference Board of Canada
said yesterday in a report posted on a Saskatchewan government
website.  “With the exception of significant government revenue
impacts, we found few negative takeover effects,” the board
said in the report.  Potash Corp.  rose  as much as 1.5 percent in New York
trading after the publication of the report, which will be used
for the province’s submission to a review of BHP’s offer under
the Investment Canada Act. Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash
Corp. rejected BHP’s Aug. 18 bid of $130 a share as too low and
said it was seeking other offers.  “The gist of the report is they’re not opposing the bid,”
 Mark Gulley , an analyst at Soleil Securities in New York, said
in an interview. “It’s not unreasonable to suggest Saskatchewan
could make up the tax shortfall by modifying its rules.”  Potash Corp., the largest producer of its namesake crop
nutrient, and BHP said in separate e-mailed statements that they
will study the Conference Board’s report. The board is an
independent organization that researches economic and public
policy issues.  Canadian Concern  The offer “will bring significant benefits to Saskatchewan
and to Canada,” Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest mining
company, said.  Under the Investment Canada Act, the federal government can
block transactions if it finds they don’t provide a “net
benefit” to the country.  BHP’s bid has reignited concern in Canada over foreign
ownership of some of the country’s largest natural-resource
companies.  In 2006, Switzerland’s  Xstrata Plc  made a successful
hostile bid for nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd. while Brazil’s
Vale SA agreed to acquire Toronto-based miner Inco Ltd. London-
based Rio Tinto Group agreed to buy Canadian aluminum producer
Alcan Inc. in 2007.  “The issue is not that BHP is the devil, but that many
Canadians feel they’re selling their soul,” Connelly said.  Lost Revenue  Government officials in Saskatchewan, including Energy and
Resources Minister Bill Boyd, have said they are concerned an
acquirer may break up fertilizer marketing company Canpotex,
leading to lower prices for potash exports. Canpotex is jointly
owned by Potash Corp., Mosaic Co. and Agrium Inc.  Still, Canpotex’s role as price-setter for potash producers
is “modest,” the Conference Board said.  Canpotex “is arguably becoming increasingly redundant as
the worldwide market moves to fewer and fewer players that all
have an incentive to maximize the return on their assets,” the
board said.  Sinochem Group, China’s largest fertilizer trader, emerged
as the likeliest bidder to rival BHP’s offer for Potash Corp.,
three people familiar with the matter said Sept. 27.  Saskatchewan should be “concerned” about a possible bid
from a state-owned enterprise, or SOE, such as Sinochem,
“especially given that it is a SOE from a major importer
country,” the Conference Board said in its report.  “SOEs such as Sinochem simply do not face the same
commercial constraints as do commercial enterprises,” it said.  Potash Corp. climbed $1.41, or 1 percent, to $144.05 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have risen 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ; 