-- SEC Delays Rules Easing Ouster of Directors Amid Review of Legal Challenge
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-04T21:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/sec-delays-proxy-access-rules-pending-court-review-following-chamber-suit.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission delayed implementation of rules to make it easier for
investors to oust corporate directors, as the agency tries to
quickly resolve a lawsuit aimed at overturning the regulation.  In announcing the decision, the SEC said it would ask the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia for an
“expedited review” of a legal challenge by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the Business Roundtable, according to a legal order
posted on the agency’s website today. The move means rules
allowing shareholders to nominate directors on corporate ballots
won’t take effect Nov. 15 as planned.  “A stay avoids potentially unnecessary costs, regulatory
uncertainty and disruption that could occur” if the rules took
effect during the litigation, the SEC said in the order.
“Because the commission and petitioners will seek expedited
review of petitioners’ challenge, questions about the rules’
validity will be resolved as quickly as possible.”  The Washington-based business groups announced their
lawsuit on Sept. 29, saying labor unions and public pension
funds would use the nominating power to hijack companies and
push political agendas. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has said the
2008 credit crisis, which cost financial firms more than $1.82
trillion, shows shareholder deserve more clout in picking board
members to oversee companies.  Before the SEC approved its rule in August, shareholders
could nominate dissident directors only by mailing a separate
ballot and persuading other investors to vote with them.
Activist investors such as  Carl Icahn  and  Nelson Peltz  have
waged proxy fights to get their candidates elected to boards of
companies they said were underperforming.  3-2 Vote  The SEC, in a 3-2 vote by commissioners, stipulated that
investors or groups of shareholders who own 3 percent of a firm
for three years could put candidates on corporate ballots.  Under the regulation, shareholders would be able to
nominate at least one director and as much as 25 percent of a
board. Investors couldn’t use the rule if their intent is to
oust a majority of board members and take over a company.  The financial-regulation law signed by President  Barack Obama  in July authorized the SEC to provide so-called proxy
access. Lawmakers crafted the measure with the aim of making it
easier for the SEC to withstand a legal challenge.  Procedural Missteps  The chamber and Business Roundtable argued in their lawsuit
that the SEC made procedural missteps in writing its rules, such
as failing to adequately weigh the costs imposed on companies.  The business groups said they planned to ask the appeals
court for a stay if the SEC refused. The court has previously
delayed implementation of SEC rules during legal challenges.  The chamber is the nation’s biggest lobbying group
representing corporations. The Business Roundtable’s members
include chief executive officers of the largest U.S. companies.  “The commission continues to believe that its rules are
lawful and in the best interests of investors,” SEC spokesman
 John Nester  said. “We intend to vigorously defend them in
court.”  The SEC’s decision to delay implementation means the new
rules won’t be in place in February, March and April of 2011,
when most U.S. companies plan to send proxy statements to
investors. The SEC expects the legal challenge will be resolved
by “late spring,” Nester said.  “Most of the annual meetings are held in the spring, so if
the SEC wins in court and the rule is declared valid, we still
won’t likely see it used until 2012,” said  Charles Elson ,
chairman of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance
at the University of Delaware.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  