-- SKS Microfinance Replaces Managing Director Four Years Before Term Expires
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-10-04T13:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/sks-microfinance-terminates-appointment-of-gurumani-as-chief-executive.html
SKS Microfinance Ltd. , an Indian
microfinance lender backed by  George Soros , replaced Chief
Executive Officer  Suresh Gurumani  four years before the end of
his term. The shares plunged 6 percent.  M.R. Rao  will replace Gurumani, the company said in a
statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange. The termination was
“pursuant” to the terms of Gurumani’s appointment letter, it
said. The company has withdrawn “all powers and authorities
granted” to Gurumani, according to the statement. Atul Takle, a
spokesman for SKS, declined further comment.  Gurumani started as the  chief executive officer  on April 1,
2009 for a five year period, according to the company’s initial
share sale document. SKS raised 16.3 billion rupees ($366
million) selling stock in August. SKS’s profit more than tripled
in the three months ended June 30. The shares  plunged  81.5
rupees to 1,279.95 rupees in Mumbai trading today.  “I want to assure and confirm to you as CFO that it’s not
an issue of financial irregularity,” Chief Financial Officer
 Dilli Raj  said on a conference call with analysts today. “As
you can see our numbers are in great shape.”  Gurumani couldn’t be reached when called on his mobile
phone today.  “The company is not about a particular individual,” SKS
founder  Vikram Akula  said on the call today. “The company’s
performance will continue to be strong as it has in the past.”  Akula was appointed executive chairman of SKS today, and
expects to play a “proactive role,” he said. SKS provides
loans from $43 to $260 each for women in a nation where 828
million people live on less than $2 a day.  SKS’s board has not yet decided whether to apply for a
banking license, Akula said today. Allowing non-bank finance
companies like SKS to “mobilize deposits would be a brilliant
way to make funds available to the poor,” he said.  Soros’s Quantum (M) Ltd. hedge fund owns 0.4 percent stake
after the initial public offer, according to the sale document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  