-- Skype Names Cisco's Tony Bates as Chief Executive
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-10-04T18:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/skype-said-to-name-cisco-s-tony-bates-ceo-to-succeed-silverman.html
Skype Technologies SA, the largest
provider of international calling, named  Cisco Systems Inc. 
executive  Tony Bates  chief executive officer as the company
moves to get its services used by more corporations.  Bates, who will start at the end of October, replaces  Josh Silverman , who has run Skype since it was part of  EBay Inc.  At
Cisco, Bates was a senior vice president and the general manager
of the service provider group. He led a team of about 12,500
employees that accounted for more than $20 billion in revenue,
Luxembourg-based Skype said today in a statement.  Bates brings experience dealing with both companies and
consumers. He was a top executive at Cisco and sat on the board
of YouTube, the video site now owned by  Google Inc.  Skype,
already popular with home-computer users, is trying to woo
corporate customers with high-definition videoconferencing, and
is working with manufacturers to preinstall its software on TVs
and mobile phones.  “Mr. Bates is proven with enterprise at Cisco,” said
 Jayanth Angl , senior research analyst at Info-Tech Research
Group in London, Ontario. “Enterprise is a growth opportunity
for Skype. This would benefit those efforts.”  Skype Chief Financial Officer  Adrian Dillon  will serve as
interim CEO until the end of October, the company said.  Skype has replaced six executives in the past year as its
board of directors reorients the company to pursue the next
stage of growth.  Corporate Deals  Last month, Skype reached an agreement with Avaya Inc., the
biggest maker of corporate phone equipment, that will let Avaya
customers route calls through Skype’s services. Skype is also in
talks with Cisco and Shoretel Inc. to sell its software to
businesses, according to a person familiar with the matter.  EBay sold most of its stake in Skype last year for about $2
billion to a group led by private-equity firm Silver Lake. Skype
had $705 million in revenue last year, a 28 percent increase
from 2008.  Bates is the latest in a series of high-profile departures
by Cisco executives in the past few years. In December 2007,
former development chief  Charles Giancarlo  left to join Silver
Lake. At the time, Giancarlo was seen as the likely successor to
Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers .  Less than a year earlier,  Mike Volpi  left as senior vice
president to become CEO of Joost, a provider of Web television
that was started by Skype’s founders. Chambers said last month
he would continue as CEO for another three to five years. In a
 blog  posting, Cisco said Chief Technical Officer  Padmasree Warrior  will take over Bates’s division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  