-- South African Car Sales Growth Slows to 17% After a Strike Disrupts Output
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-04T12:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/south-african-car-sales-growth-slows-to-17-after-a-strike-disrupts-output.html
South African vehicle sales growth
slowed to 17 percent in September after a pay strike disrupted
production, an industry body said.  Growth slowed from an annual 37 percent in August, the
Pretoria-based National Association of Automobile Manufacturers
of South Africa said in an e-mailed statement today.  Sales 
reached 41,875 in September.  Carmakers including  Volkswagen AG  and  General Motors Co. 
shut their plants for eight days in August after workers went on
strike to demand higher pay. Auto-parts workers then went on
strike for almost two weeks last month, disrupting output. South
Africa’s auto industry has the biggest share of the country’s
manufacturing exports.  “There is little doubt that strike action within the motor
industry inhibited sales,” Malcolm Gauld, vice president of
sales and marketing at General Motors’ South African unit, said
in an e-mailed statement. “There remains concern that the
recovery in vehicle sales is still not entrenched.”  The industry’s sales returned to growth in January as the
 economy  emerged from the first recession in 17 years and the
central bank cut its benchmark interest  rate  eight times to 6
percent.  Those cuts, together with “stable new vehicle prices,
further improvement in loan finance approval rates and pent-up
replacement demand should continue to support the new vehicle
sales,” the association said.  Vehicle exports dropped 10 percent to 12,530 in September
from a year ago because of the strike, though manufacturers
should recover those losses in the rest of the year, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  