-- ArcelorMittal S. Africa Investor Opposes Stake Sale
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-10-04T17:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/south-africa-s-pic-won-t-support-arcelormittal-unit-black-empowerment-deal.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. ’s
biggest minority shareholder,  Public Investment Corp. , said it
will oppose the steelmaker’s plan to sell a 9.1 billion-rand
($1.3 billion) stake to a group of black investors that includes
President  Jacob Zuma ’s son.  PIC, the largest pension-fund manager in Africa, has
reservations about the transaction and has decided against
backing the deal, it said today in a statement. Its investment
team “questions the ethics” of such an accord, PIC said.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, a unit of the world’s largest
steelmaker, said on Aug. 10 that it plans to sell 26 percent of
its business to a group of black investors known as the Ayigobi
Consortium, which includes  Duduzane Zuma , son of South Africa’s
president. The so-called empowerment deal comes under laws that
compel companies to sell stakes to black investors to make up
for apartheid, the segregation policy that ended in 1994.  ArcelorMittal South Africa can’t comment on the views of
individual shareholders, a spokesman said today in an e-mailed
response to questions, declining to be identified in line with
company policy. “Suffice to say that a formal proposal has not
been put to shareholders for official consideration,” he said.  Sishen Conflict  PIC won’t support the proposed stake sale until “perceived
irregularities” are resolved, the fund manager said. These
include a disputed mineral right at South Africa’s Sishen iron-
ore deposit, previously held by ArcelorMittal South Africa and
subsequently awarded to Imperial Crown Trading Ltd., part of the
Ayigobi Consortium. Imperial’s biggest shareholder,  Jagdish Parekh , is also in business with Duduzane Zuma.  Imperial won the Sishen license after ArcelorMittal South
Africa missed a renewal deadline. That sparked a battle with
 Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , the mine’s owner, which demanded the
disputed rights for itself. Kumba used the conflict to cancel a
deal with ArcelorMittal South Africa that had given the
steelmaker most of its ore at a discount.  ArcelorMittal South Africa,  9.1 percent -held by PIC, faces
opposition to the Ayigobi accord from other shareholders
including the biggest South Africa-based insurer Sanlam Ltd. and
the  Old Mutual Investment Group of South Africa . Rand Merchant
Bank, a unit of FirstRand Bank Ltd., will also oppose the
planned transaction, Business Day reported on Oct. 1, citing a
person at RMB Asset Management it didn’t identify.  Shares  in ArcelorMittal South Africa gained 64 cents, or
0.8 percent, to 83 rand in Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 