-- Soybean Futures Decline as Weather Aids U.S. Harvesting, Brazil Planting
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-04T21:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/soybean-futures-decline-as-weather-aids-u-s-harvesting-brazil-planting.html
Soybeans fell to a two-week low as
dry weather allows U.S. farmers to accelerate the harvest, while
rain improves crop conditions in Brazil and Argentina.  The U.S. Midwest will be mostly dry for the next 10 days,
keeping the ground firm for the heavy equipment used to collect
crops, Global Weather Monitoring in Mohawk, Michigan, said
today. In South America, rain that fell last week and more
precipitation over the next 10 days will improve soil moisture
for planting, the forecaster said. The U.S. is the biggest
producer and exporter, followed by Brazil and Argentina.  “The weather forecasts are negative for prices,” said
 Chad Henderson , a market analyst for Prime Agricultural
Consultants Inc. in Brookfield, Wisconsin. “We are looking for
a record U.S. soybean harvest” that will boost global
inventories, he said.  Soybean futures for November delivery fell 3 cents, or 0.3
percent, to close at $10.54 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, after earlier touching $10.42, the lowest level
since Sept. 17. The price dropped 6.1 percent last week, the
most in 13 months.  On Sept. 27, the commodity reached an eight-month high of
$11.44 on speculation that rains would damage U.S. crops and dry
weather would delay planting in South America. The oilseed
surged 23 percent in the third quarter.  Soybean-Crop Forecasts  The U.S. soybean crop will reach 3.571 billion bushels,
FCStone Group Inc. said on Oct. 1, up from its September
forecast of 3.39 billion. The U.S. Department of Agriculture
last month predicted 3.483 billion bushels, up from last year’s
record of 3.359 billion. The department will release its third,
survey-based forecast of the harvest on Oct. 8.  Prices also fell as November futures dropped below the 40-
day moving average, increasing speculative-fund liquidation of
wagers that prices would climb, Henderson said.  As of Sept. 28, hedge funds and other large speculators
held a  record bet  on higher soybean prices, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Speculative long
positions outnumbered shorts by 159,794 futures and options on
the CBOT, up 6.6 percent from a week earlier. On June 29, they
were net long 16,649 contracts.  “Speculative buying drove prices too high, and now that
money is exiting,” Henderson said. “We will see more selling
if prices fall below today’s low.”  The U.S. soybean crop was valued at $31.8 billion last
year, second only to corn, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 