-- Spanish Soccer's $800 Million in Unpaid Tax `Contaminates' Public Finances
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-04T22:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/spanish-soccer-s-800-million-in-unpaid-tax-contaminates-public-finances.html
World champion Spain is failing when
it comes to soccer finances.  Less than three months after Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  hosted a reception for the victorious
national team in Madrid, parliament passed a motion on Sept. 21,
by 332 votes to 1, to pressure clubs to pay about $800 million
in back-taxes.  The unpaid taxes are hurting Spain as the country moves to
cut its budget deficit with measures such as freezing pensions
and scrapping subsidies for new mothers. The Socialist
government will follow up with legislation in 2011 that aims to
rein in spending on soccer transfers and salaries that pushed
the combined debt of the top 20 teams to 3.5 billion euros ($4.8
billion) in June 2009, according to Barcelona University
research.  “There’s a dynamic in soccer that’s totally irrational and
it contaminates the public sector,” Francisco Jorquera, the
Galician party’s parliamentary spokesman who presented the
motion, said in an interview. “Many soccer clubs are
technically bankrupt.”  Pressure from fans to win games has pushed clubs into
spending beyond their means on players since the 1990s,
according to Jose Maria Gay, the Barcelona University professor
who oversaw the research.  ‘Crazy’ Spending  Six-time Spanish champion  Valencia  owed 552.9 million euros
as of June 2009 to lenders, rival clubs and tax authorities,
more than six times its annual income, according to its latest
published accounts.  Atletico Madrid  had debt of 511 million
euros, according to Gay’s research. It’s still ready to spend in
the transfer market.  On Aug. 30, Atletico faxed an 11 million-euro bid to
Galatasaray for midfielder Arda Turan, according to a  copy of
the fax  posted on the Turkish team’s website. Galatasaray
rejected the offer.  “It’s crazy but it’s not something supporters worry
about,” said Juan Carlos Prieto, a bus driver who runs an
Atletico fan club in the town of Patones near Madrid. “We only
care if we are winning or not.”  Soccer club directors are the biggest culprits for the
spiraling debts, said  Antonio Martin , director of a sports
management course at the Instituto de Empresa business school in
Madrid. The combined tax debts are more than 10 times as much as
in English soccer.  “Some directors haven’t run soccer clubs with the same
rigor they ran their own businesses,” Martin said.  ‘Politically Costly’  The government has also contributed to soccer’s debt
“bubble” by being too lenient with clubs, allowing them to pay
back-taxes in installments over several years, Jorquera said.
Under a 1990 law, the government is the ultimate regulator of
the national game.  “It’s politically costly to interfere in the world of
soccer,” Jorquera said. “Nobody wants to put a soccer club out
of business.”  In 1995, thousands of people took to the streets when the
government relegated Sevilla and Celta Vigo from the first
division because of financial irregularities, Gay said. The
government later reversed its decision.  The government applies Spanish law, which allows companies
to defer tax payments if they are cash-strapped, a tax agency
spokesman said. The interest rate charged for late payments,
currently 5 percent, has dropped from as much as 11 percent in
1996, according to  government figures .  The spokesman, who declined to be identified in line with
government policy, couldn’t immediately provide data on how many
companies defer payments each year.  Public Wages Cut  Spain has wider concerns than helping soccer. Seeking to
calm investors’ nerves, Zapatero’s government on Sept. 24
announced the most austere budget in at least three decades as
it trims the euro region’s third-largest deficit. In May, the
government froze most pensions, scrapped subsidies for new
mothers and slashed public wages 5 percent.  Spanish workers held the first general strike in eight
years on Sept. 29 to protest the measures, disrupting transport
and television broadcasts.  Amid the “tremendous turmoil” of Spain’s economic woes,
soccer’s tax bill isn’t a big issue, according to Javier Tebas,
a former league vice-president. Tebas is a lawyer for the Real
Mallorca team, which is in administration.  “Many of these tax debts are being paid in installments
and are backed” by bank guarantees, Tebas said in an interview.
Soccer is a “good business” that generates television income
and sponsorships, he added.  Valencia and Atletico Madrid didn’t immediately return e-
mailed questions seeking comment.  Ten in Trouble  According to  webconcursal.com , a Barcelona-based website
that tracks bankruptcy proceedings, 10 of the top 42 clubs
sought creditor protection since 2008. That’s when Spain won its
first European Championship since 1964.  Government officials have “spent too much time praising
Spain for all its sports success and not enough time regulating
the sector properly,” Jorquera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at   aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Elser 
 celser@bloomberg.net  