-- Steinitz Says Opening Wider Rate Gap With U.S. Is `Dangerous' for Israel
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-10-04T22:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/steinitz-says-opening-wider-rate-gap-with-u-s-is-dangerous-for-israel.html
Increasing Israel’s benchmark
interest rate without an equivalent move in the U.S. would hurt
the country’s exports by further strengthening the shekel,
Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  said.  “It will be dangerous for Israel to open a larger gap
between us and the U.S.,” Steinitz, 52, said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “The result
will be that we’ll have to swallow billions of dollars and buy
them in order not to strengthen the shekel.”  The Bank of Israel raised its  benchmark interest rate  on
Sept. 27 to 2 percent, the sixth increase since August 2009 as
the global economy began to recover. The U.S. Federal Reserve
has kept the rate near zero since December 2008.  The Israeli central bank, headed by Governor  Stanley Fischer , is forecasting an increase in the benchmark rate to 2.7
percent in a year. Fischer has been purchasing foreign currency
since March 2008 in an attempt to curb shekel gains and help an
economy that relies on exports for almost half its gross
domestic product. The central bank has more than doubled foreign
currency  reserves  since then to $64.1 billion.  The shekel has strengthened 4.7 percent versus the dollar
to 3.6220 this year, the highest level in almost two years. It
has been the third-best performer among currencies in the
Europe, Middle East and Africa region in 2010.  Supports Fischer’s Policy  “I do support Stanley Fischer’s policy of buying
dollars,” Steinitz said. “He had my approval for it and even,
if necessary, he can buy more.”  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, which Israel joined this year, urged the central
bank in a Jan. 20 report to end the foreign-currency purchases.
Fischer said at the time that the buying would cease when global
markets return to normal and there is no longer a large gap
between interest rates in Israel and abroad.  Steinitz’s comments in the interview yesterday were in
contrast to those of one of his advisers, Avi Simhon, who said
the Bank of Israel’s foreign-currency purchases have reached a
“dead end” and that policy makers should rethink their
strategy.  The purchases are costing the government “billions of
shekels” a year, because the bank is borrowing money to pay for
them at a higher interest rate than it is getting on foreign-
currency deposits, Simhon, head of Steinitz’s economic advisory
board, said in an interview on Army Radio Oct. 3.  “Here I disagree with my adviser,” Steinitz said. “We
didn’t have any other choice.”  Steinitz was a lecturer in philosophy at Haifa University
before he entered the Knesset in 1999 as a member of the Likud
Party. A close ally of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , he was
appointed finance minister at the end of March 2009, when the
government took office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  