-- Attractive Stocks Likely to Be Takeover Targets: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-10-04T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/strong-stocks-likely-to-be-takeover-targets-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
Before I became an investment manager
13 years ago, I spent a decade as a reporter at the Wall Street
Journal. I had a rival at another newspaper who frequently wrote
about takeover rumors.  One day he filed a story saying that Coca-Cola Co. might
buy Wendy’s, the fast-food chain. Coca-Cola responded with a
statement, which I framed and have held onto all these years.
The Atlanta-based soft-drink giant said that its policy was not
to comment on such speculation, and that in this case it wanted
to add that the reporter “does not have a clue.”  People who invest based on unconfirmed reports about
possible mergers or acquisitions often do themselves a
disservice. If even well-connected pundits are often wrong,
imagine how far you can go astray if you act on such gossip,
whether it comes from friends, acquaintances or stockbrokers.  It’s natural to try to pick stocks that will become
takeover bait. If you succeed, it can be very lucrative:
purchases usually occur at a 20 percent to 70 percent premium
over the previous day’s trading price.  And now is a good time to seek out such opportunities. The
third quarter was the busiest for M&A activity in two years.  The best way to play this game is to invest in companies
whose financial characteristics make them attractive to
potential buyers. Frequently these are stocks you would be happy
to own even if no deal were imminent.  Finding Targets  Last week, I ran a screen to identify such situations.  I looked for companies with an enterprise value no more
than six times Ebitda. Enterprise value is the market value of a
company’s stock, plus the total of its debt. It gives an
approximation of what one company must pay to acquire another.  Ebitda is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Some investors consider it a truer representation
of a company’s value than earnings under  generally accepted
accounting principles , or GAAP earnings.  For most purposes, I usually prefer GAAP earnings because I
consider interest, taxes and depreciation real things, not
phantoms. In takeover situations, however,  Ebitda  may be a
better measure.  An acquirer may not care much about those factors because
they may be nullified or changed after the acquisition. For
example, the buyer might pay off the target company’s debt, and
not have to worry about interest charges thereafter.  Key Characteristics  To make sure my potential takeover targets were not too big
or too small for acquirers’ taste, I restricted my search to
U.S. companies with a market value from $500 million to $5
billion.  I also looked for ones that sell for 15 times earnings or
less, have cash or safe short-term investments of at least $50
million, and have debt less than stockholders’ equity.  Those characteristics make a company more attractive to a
potential acquirer -- and they are good things to see even if no
one comes courting. When I ran the screen, 75 companies made the
cut.  Several were for-profit education companies: ITT
Educational Services Inc. of Carmel, Indiana;  Education
Management Corp. , based in Pittsburgh; Career Education Corp. in
Hoffman Estates, Illinois; and Corinthian Colleges Inc. of Santa
Ana, California.  Opportunities Pop Up  Another is  Washington Post Co. , which is known as a media
company yet gets more than half its revenue from its Kaplan
Higher Education unit.  Education stocks have been popping up on value screens for
weeks. They are cheap because the U.S. government may end aid to
schools whose students are too slow repaying federally backed
education loans, or whose students have low job-placement rates.  In response to criticism that they recruit students
indiscriminately, including some who have little chance of
benefiting from their programs, several for-profit schools have
begun no-fee provisional enrollment programs or instituted
special training sessions to enhance the study skills of
entering students.  The biotech firm  Cephalon Inc.  is the largest company on
the list, with a stock-market value of about $5 billion. Based
in Frazer, Pennsylvania, its drugs treat pain, cancer and
central nervous system disorders. The company’s most successful
product is Provigil, a drug that combats narcolepsy.  Attractive Valuations  A few years ago I sold Cephalon shares short, betting on a
decline. At that time the stock was expensive, trading at 20 to
40 times earnings. I was also concerned about off-label use of
 Provigil  by truck drivers and others trying to induce
wakefulness. I’m still concerned that if the U.S. regulators
crack down, Provigil would quickly lose a lot of its sales, but
valuations are now favorable with the stock priced at 11 times
earnings.  Information-technology stocks that look like potential
takeover candidates include  Teradyne Inc. , a North Reading,
Massachusetts-based maker of semiconductor test equipment; Tech
Data Corp., a Clearwater, Florida, distributor of technology
products; and Malvern, Pennsylvania-based  Vishay Intertechnology
Inc. , which makes transistors, capacitors and other electronic
components.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed above, personally or for clients. Four stocks
that I own did make the 75-stock list: Endo Pharmaceuticals
Holdings Inc. of Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania; GT Solar
International Inc. of Merrimack, New Hampshire; Mirant Corp. of
Atlanta; and Rowan Cos. in Houston. Most of these have been
discussed in previous columns.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  