-- Su Casita to Present Debt Restructuring Plan to Creditors After Rating Cut
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-10-04T21:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/su-casita-to-present-debt-restructuring-plan-to-creditors-after-rating-cut.html
Hipotecaria Su Casita SA, the private
issuer of mortgage-backed debt that failed to sell itself to
BBVA Bancomer SA, plans to present a restructuring plan to debt
holders today.  The proposal includes offering short- and long-term debt
holders equity in the company, new debt and cash payments, Su
Casita said today in an e-mailed statement to Mexico’s stock
exchange. Su Casita said Sept. 10 that it was evaluating “other
alternatives” after a deal to sell part of its assets to the
Mexican unit of Banco Bilboa Vizcaya Argentaria SA fell through.  Standard & Poor’s cut Su Casita’s rating four times this
year as the mortgage-loan provider’s delinquency rate rose.
About 16 percent of the company’s customers had loan payments
that were more than 90 days overdue as of July 1, according to
Fitch Ratings. Su Casita has about $1.1 billion of outstanding
debt.  The recession last year led to an increase in unemployment
and a higher delinquency rate at Mexico’s specialized lenders,
known as sofoles, which fund their operations partly through
sales of asset-backed securities.  “The worst has already happened. It’s not comparable to
the subprime crisis in the U.S.,” said  Miguel Angel Aguayo ,
vice president of corporate fixed income research at Ixe Grupo
Financiero SAB. “Many of these loans are directed toward
segments of the market that were very hurt by the international
financial crisis.”  There are 120 billion pesos ($9.53 billion) of outstanding
mortgage-backed debt in Mexico as of Oct. 1, Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit said in a report.  The Finance Ministry’s press office didn’t immediately
return a request for comment on Su Casita’s restructuring. A
spokesman for Madrid-based Caja Madrid, who asked not to be
identified in line with company policy, declined to comment.
Caja Madrid owns about a 40 percent stake in the company.  Mexico lost 181,000 formal jobs in 2009 as the economy
shrank 6.5 percent, the most since 1932.  Delinquency Rate  Former Mexican Deputy Finance Minister  Alejandro Werner 
said in May that the government didn’t plan to rescue sofoles,
which have seen their delinquency rates rise. Rather he urged
lawmakers to pass legislation that would increase regulation.  The delinquency rate for sofoles that report data to
regulators rose to 10.3 percent in June, from 6.2 percent in the
same month last year, according to the National Banking
Commission’s website.  End of the Year  Javier Gavito , chief executive officer of Mexico City-based
Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, the agency in charge of developing
Mexico’s mortgage market, said Sept. 29 that Su Casita might
reach a restructuring deal with creditors by the end of the
year.  Moody’s Investors Service on Sept. 13 downgraded the
mortgage-loan provider’s unsecured debt rating for the second
time this year to Caa2 from B2, and put the lender on review for
a possible further downgrade, saying the company only had enough
funds to cover existing debt through the middle of the first
quarter of next year.  S&P cut Su Casita’s long-term credit rating to CC from CCC
on a global scale and maintained a negative outlook on the
lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 Jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  