-- Sugar Crop in Australia May Drop on Rains, Growers’ Group Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-04T07:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/sugar-crop-in-australia-may-drop-on-heavy-rains-growers-group-predicts.html
Sugar output in  Australia , the
world’s third-largest exporter, may decline by about 4.5 percent
this year because of wetter-than-usual weather, according to the
head of producers’ group  Canegrowers .  Output this harvest may be about 4.2 million metric tons
compared with 4.4 million tons a year earlier, said Steve
Greenwood, chief executive officer of the Brisbane-based group.
Planting of next year’s crop may also be disrupted by the rains,
Greenwood said by phone.  A La Nina event had boosted the odds of Queensland having
an active cyclone season and more rain than normal in most areas,
the Bureau of Meteorology said in a  seasonal outlook  today. The
state, which produces 95 percent of Australia’s sugar, had
record September rainfall, the bureau said last week.  “If we see ongoing rain periods like we have been having,
we are going to see a disruption not only in this year’s harvest
but it will impact on planting for next year too,” Greenwood
said. Some farmers had already replanted after wet weather
washed away new crops, he said.  Raw sugar for March delivery on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York  fell 0.5 percent to 23.36 cents a pound today. The contract
reached a seven-month high of 25.35 cents on Sept. 28 amid
concerns that adverse weather would curb output in  Brazil , the
biggest exporter, and Australia.  The weather outlook in Australia had raised the risk that
some cane would be left in fields, said Greenwood. This year’s
harvesting is about 60 percent completed compared with at least
70 percent normally at this time, he said.  La Nina  The  La Nina  event, which typically brings wet weather to
Australia’s eastern states, was expected to remain a dominating
influence through spring and summer, the Bureau of Meteorology
forecast. Summer in Australia lasts from December to February.  Up to six cyclones may develop in the Coral Sea this season,
compared with an average of four, with “a good chance” that
one may cross the coast before the yearend, Jim Davidson, the
bureau’s regional director for Queensland, said in today’s
statement. Australia’s cyclone season extends from November to
April. The Coral Sea is off the Queensland coast.  La Ninas, associated with cooler-than-average sea-surface
temperatures in the tropical  Pacific Ocean , occur on average
every three to five years and can last nine to 12 months,
according to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  