-- Swiss Re Wins Dismissal of $1.1 Billion Credit Default Swaps Investor Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-04T18:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/swiss-re-wins-dismissal-of-lawsuit-in-u-s-over-credit-default-swaps.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co.  the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer, won dismissal of an investor suit in
which it was accused of failing to disclose risk that led to a
1.2 billion franc ($1.1 billion) derivative loss over credit-
default swaps.  U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  in New York today dismissed
the suit on grounds including a June ruling by the U.S. Supreme
Court that limits the reach of civil claims for acts occurring
outside the country. Koeltl said the plaintiffs also failed to
supply sufficient details of their fraud claims.  Swiss Re “made false and misleading statements about the
company’s financial condition,” the shareholders claimed in the
2008 lawsuit.  “The plaintiffs have failed to allege with particularity
that the defendants made any material misstatements or omissions
with respect to the CDSs it had insured or that the defendants
had any obligation to provide further disclosure with respect to
the CDSs it had issued,” Koeltl said.  The lead plaintiff, Plumbers Union Local No. 12 Pension
Fund, sued on behalf of a proposed class of purchasers of Swiss
Re’s common shares from March 1, 2007, to Nov. 19, 2007.  The complaint described statements that the defendants made
about Swiss Re’s involvement with mortgage-related securities,
with the subprime mortgage market, Swiss Re’s management
practices and the value of its earnings and accounts.  Where Purchase Occurs  Koeltl cited the Supreme Court ruling in Morrison v.
National Australia Bank issued in June that limits the reach of
civil claims for acts occurring outside the U.S. He said that
ruling disagreed with the plaintiffs’ argument “that a purchase
occurs when and where an investor places a buy order.”  “Plaintiffs are asking the court to apply the conduct test
specifically rejected in Morrison,” Koeltl said. “A purchase
order in the United States for a security that is sold on a
foreign exchange is insufficient.”  Neither a lawyer for the plaintiffs nor a spokeswoman for
Swiss Re could immediately be reached for comment.  The case is Plumbers’ Union Local No.12 v. Swiss
Reinsurance Co., 1:08-cv-1958, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The  Supreme Court case  is
Morrison v. National Australia Bank Ltd, 08-1191, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 