-- Synagogue Bomb-Plot Defendants `Ready and Willing' to Attack, Jurors Told
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-10-04T20:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/synagogue-bomb-plot-defendants-ready-and-willing-to-attack-jurors-told.html
Four men accused of planning to bomb
New York synagogues and shoot down military planes were “ready
and willing” to unleash a terrorist attack on the U.S.,
prosecutors told jurors during closing arguments in their trial.  The four men thought they were working with a real
terrorist, even though they were dealing with an undercover
informant posing as a member of the Pakistani terrorist
organization  Jaish-e-Mohammed , who had provided them with bombs
and missiles that had been rendered inert by the FBI, Assistant
U.S. Attorney David Raskin said today.  “Ordinary people wouldn’t have dreamed of doing the things
that these defendants did,” Raskin said. “Unlike ordinary
people, these defendants were ready and willing to respond to
the opportunity.”  The defendants, James Cromitie, 44, David Williams, 29,
Onta Williams, 34, and Laguerre Payen, 29, all of Newburgh, New
York, are accused of planning to bomb a synagogue and a Jewish
community center in the Bronx and fire heat-seeking Stinger
missiles at military planes at Stewart International Airport.  Defense attorneys have argued that the men are victims of
entrapment by a paid government informant who lured them into
the plan with food and rent money and promises of cars, cash
rewards and vacations.  ‘Habitual Liar’  Cromitie’s attorney,  Vincent Briccetti , said the informant,
Shahed Hussain, who began his testimony on Aug. 27 and didn’t
finish until Sept. 29, was a habitual liar who told falsehoods
to his attorneys, Federal Bureau of Investigation agents, judges
and immigration officials.  “Whenever he thinks it’s in his interest to lie, he does
so,” Briccetti told the jury. “He lies compulsively and he
lies pathologically.”  Closing arguments began today in the trial, which started
Aug. 23, before Judge  Colleen McMahon  in federal court in
Manhattan. The jury is scheduled to begin deliberations on
Oct. 6.  The charges against the men include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 