-- Synthes to Pay Fine, Sell Unit to Settle Criminal Case in Three Deaths
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-04T23:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/synthes-to-pay-fine-sell-unit-to-settle-criminal-case-in-three-deaths.html
Synthes Inc. , the maker of devices to
treat spinal injuries, will sell its Norian Corp. unit to settle
criminal allegations Norian illegally tested a bone-mending
cement that caused the deaths of three patients.  The agreement allows Synthes to keep operating in the U.S.
without its products being banned from Medicare reimbursement
programs. Under the terms of the settlement, Norian will plead
guilty to a felony, pay a $23.5 million fine and face exclusion
from Medicare, the government’s health plan for the elderly and
disabled, the company and the Department of Justice said today
in separate statements.  The divestiture is the first time the U.S. has ordered a
medical device maker to sell a subsidiary in a health-fraud
case,  Gregory Demske , assistant inspector general for legal
affairs with the Department of Health and Human Services, said
in a telephone interview.  “We are used to seeing cases that involve monetary
fraud,” Demske said. “The patient harm and the subversion of
the Food and Drug Administration process took this to a
different level from our perspective.”  Synthes , which has its U.S. headquarters in West Chester,
Pennsylvania and trades in Zurich, will plead guilty to one
misdemeanor charge of shipping an adulterated and misbranded
Norian product across state lines. Synthes didn’t admit the
broader allegations about an illegal medical trial made by
federal prosecutors in court documents.  ‘Good Outcome’  “It is a reasonably good outcome,” Synthes spokesman
Gilgian Eisner said in a telephone interview. “It permits us to
focus on the business that we have.”  In court papers, the U.S. Attorney in Philadelphia, Zane
Memeger, accused Norian of conspiring to conduct unauthorized
clinical trials of Norian-brand cements from May 2002 to late
2004. Three patients died from a rapid drop in blood pressure
during surgeries, prosecutors said.  Synthes, separately, will pay $808,000 as part of the
settlement, the company said in a statement. Aside from the
payment, the company doesn’t expect the settlement to have “any
significant financial impact,” Synthes said in its statement.  “In the past, a lot of these cases have been resolved with
a shell subsidiary taking the plea,” Demske said. Excluding the
shell entity from government health contracts “made no
difference” to the company’s business, he said.  In this case, Synthes will be required to divest the Norian
business by May 24, 2011, to a party that can’t be directly or
indirectly owned by Synthes, Demske said. The device maker also
will be required to enter into a five-year corporate integrity
agreement, he said.  In past cases, the government had required companies to
divest an individual hospital or nursing home but has never
required the sale of a full subsidiary, Demske said.  The case is U.S. v. Norian Corp., 09-00403, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  