-- Syrian Arab Airlines to Order Two Russian Planes, Consider Larger Order
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-04T08:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/syrian-arab-airlines-will-initially-order-two-russian-planes-may-buy-more.html
Syria is considering Russian aircraft
to upgrade the fleet of state-run  Syrian Arab Airlines  and will
initially buy two planes before making a final decision about a
larger order.  “We have pre-approval to buy two planes as a trial at the
beginning to see if they meet our needs,” the carrier’s Chief
Executive Officer Ghaida Abdullatif said in a telephone
interview from Damascus today. “We will then decide about
buying more planes.”  Syria turned to Russia after U.S. sanctions stalled
negotiations on the purchase of as many as 50  Airbus SAS 
aircraft,  Abdallah Dardari , deputy prime minister for economic
affairs, said last month. He said his country was looking for
planes with less than 10 percent of U.S. components, leaving
Russia as Syria’s only option. The use of U.S. parts has also
ruled out turning to Brazil’s  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica
SA  and Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. , Dardari said.  The U.S. imposed economic sanctions on Syria in May 2004,
including a ban on transactions by U.S. entities with the
Commercial Bank of Syria, the country’s largest bank, after
then-President  George W. Bush’s  administration accused the
government in Damascus of aiding militants in Iraq and
destabilizing Lebanon. The sanctions have prevented the sale of
 Airbus  planes to Syria because some of the company’s aircraft
parts are U.S.-made.  Airbus suppliers include General Electric Co. and United
Technologies Corp., which make aircraft engines including models
built in partnership with European companies, and Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Goodrich Corp., the world’s biggest
supplier of landing gear.  Fleet Overhaul  Dardari said in 2008 that Syria plans to modernize the
fleet of Syrian Arab Airlines. The carrier had sought to buy
single-aisle Airbus A320s as well as twin-aisle A330, A340 and
A350 models. It planned to lease four planes and then take
delivery of the first 14 airliners from Toulouse, France-based
Airbus from 2010 to 2018 and a further 36 by 2028.  “The general number of aircraft hasn’t been decided yet as
we’re still studying our needs,” Abdullatif said. “We are
studying all the Russian models including  Tupolev .”  The sanctions have scuttled previous efforts to overhaul
Syrian Air’s fleet. The carrier, known as Syrian Air, was set up
in 1946. Its fleet includes A320s and single-aisle Boeing 727s,
according to its website.  Part of Syrian Air’s multibillion-dollar restructuring may
include preparing it for an initial public offering on the
 Damascus Stock Exchange , Dardari said in the 2008 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 