-- Gilts Rally as Equity Market Losses Boost Demand for Relative Safer Assets
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-04T15:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/u-k-gilts-rise-as-equity-market-losses-boost-demand-for-safer-assets.html
U.K. government bonds rose, pushing
the 10-year gilt yield down for the first time in three days, as
concern European nations will struggle to finance their deficits
pushed stocks down and boosted demand for the safest assets.  The gains sent the two-year yield to the lowest in more
than a month. The FTSE 100 Index of stocks lost 0.3 percent and
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined for a sixth consecutive day.
A report tomorrow may show U.K.  services  growth slowed, fueling
speculation that the central bank will consider increasing asset
purchases to boost the economy.  “People are wary of taking on risk” and are turning to
government bonds, said  Andy Chaytor , a rates strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in London. The services data “will be a
key release for the U.K. and we’re seeing some positioning being
put on. It’s an equity weakness story.”  The 10-year yield fell 3 basis points to 2.93 percent as of
4 p.m. in London. The 4.75 percent security maturing March 2020
increased 0.26, or 2.6 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,584) face
amount, to 114.86. The two-year yield fell 2 basis points to
0.63 percent, after dropping to the least since Aug. 31.  Gilts have gained 9.9 percent since the end of 2009,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit. German government bonds earned 9.1 percent, while
U.S. Treasuries returned 8.7 percent, the indexes.  Pound Steady  Government bonds rose and the pound fell this year amid
speculation the Bank of England will keep its benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent and maintain asset purchases
to safeguard the recovery as the government cuts spending.
Sterling lost 4.2 percent in 2009 against its developed-
countries peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  The government will stick to its plan to wipe out most of
the budget deficit to make sure the nation retains credibility
with financial markets, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said.  “We will stick to our plans, deal with the debts and get
the economy moving again,” he told Conservative Party
supporters in Birmingham, England, today.  The pound was little changed at $1.5834 and was 0.9 percent
stronger against the euro at 86.40 pence, after sliding to the
weakest level since May 21.  A gauge of services activity probably dropped to 51 in
September from 51.3 in August, according to the median
prediction of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Bank of
England policy maker  Adam Posen  said last week the central bank
should restart its asset-purchase program to speed up growth.  “Quantitative easing will kick in, that theme will win the
day and that’s one of the reasons to be bearish on the pound,”
said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “Sterling is doing poorly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  