-- U.K. Government to Spend Additional $1.3 Billion on High-Speed Rail Route
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-04T12:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/u-k-government-to-spend-additional-1-3-billion-on-high-speed-rail-route.html
Britain’s coalition government
abandoned proposals for a single  high-speed rail  line from
London to the north of England in favor of a twin-route network
that will cost 800 million pounds ($1.3 billion) more to build.  Under the plan, similar to that proposed by the previous
Labour government in March, the track will run from London to
Birmingham in central England and then split in two to reach
Manchester, Sheffield and Leeds, Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  said today at the Conservative Party conference.  The adoption of the more expensive ‘Y’-shaped route comes
as the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition seeks to slash
Britain’s record 156 billion-pound budget deficit. While the
line will cost 11.2 billion pounds to build, it will deliver 15
billion pounds more in transport benefits and 10 billion pounds
more in revenue than the single ‘S’-shaped link favored by the
Conservatives in opposition, Hammond said in Birmingham.  “This is a slightly humiliating acceptance that the Labour
government had done their homework,” said  Christian Wolmar ,
transport historian and author of ‘Broken Rails,’ an analysis of
the U.K.’s train network. “The ‘S’-shaped route made no sense.
No one would have traveled to Leeds via Manchester.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government had already
dropped plans for the new High Speed 2 line to have its main hub
at London’s Heathrow airport rather than at Euston station in
the city center, as envisioned by Labour minister  Andrew Adonis .  Theresa Villiers , the former Conservative spokeswoman on
transport issues, said when Adonis announced details of his plan
on March 11 that it was “flawed” and “lacked ambition.”  The Conservatives said today that they never committed to a
specific network while in opposition and that a detailed report
from HS2 Ltd. had shown that the Y-shaped route would offer the
greatest benefits.  Under the coalition proposal, the line will have links to
Heathrow and the High Speed 1 line to the Channel Tunnel, taking
the total cost to 33 billion pounds, 3 billion pounds more than
under the Labour blueprint.  The plan will go to public consultation in early 2011,
subject to which detailed engineering proposal will be drawn up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Jasper  in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in Birmingham, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 