-- British Pioneer Wins Nobel for In-Vitro Fertilization
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-10-04T09:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/u-k-s-robert-edwards-reproductive-medicine-pioneer-awarded-nobel-prize.html
A British physiologist and pioneer in
reproductive medicine, Robert G. Edwards, won the  Nobel Prize in
Medicine  for developing in-vitro fertilization.  Edwards, 85, a former professor at the University of
Cambridge in England, will get the  10 million-kronor  ($1.5
million) prize, the Nobel Assembly said today in Stockholm. He
won the  Albert Lasker award  for clinical medical research in
2001. His research partner, Patrick Steptoe, died in 1988.  Edwards, who along with Steptoe created the first test tube
baby in 1978, conducted his reproductive research in the face of
opposition from church and government. He has now left
Cambridge, a spokesman for the university said. His health is
frail and he isn’t available for interviews, said Mike Macnamee,
chief executive of Bourn Hall, the Cambridge clinic where
Edwards and Steptoe first performed IVF. Macnamee, who joined
Edwards’s research team in the early 1980s, said the two
scientists were “pushing back frontiers.”  “The work at Bourn Hall in those heady days was directed
at making the treatment more widely available and the patients
were well aware that they too were making history,” Macnamee
said in an e-mailed statement. “There are now over 4 million
IVF babies worldwide as a result of the techniques developed in
Cambridge.”  Army Service  Edwards, who was born in Leeds, served in the British army
in Jordan, Egypt and Iraq before earning an undergraduate degree
in zoology and agriculture from the University of Bangor, Wales.
He did postgraduate work at the University of Edinburgh’s
Institute of Animal Genetics.  As a young researcher, Edwards began work on mice
reproduction. He studied fertilized eggs collected from female
mice, which tend to ovulate at night, according to the Lasker
citation. After three years of midnight visits to the lab, he
found a way to coax the animals to ovulate during daytime,
according to the citation. He also developed a way to prod
dormant eggs to mature outside the female’s body.  Edwards began working on humans by persuading gynecologists
to give him slices of human ovaries from women who underwent
surgery. In 1969, he published a paper in which he described
having achieved fertilization outside a woman’s body. He joined
forces with Steptoe, who collected ripened eggs directly from
women’s ovaries.  Louise Brown  Edwards worked on fertilizing them in the lab. In 1972,
they started trying to place the eggs in the womb of infertile
women. On July 25, 1978, Louise Brown, the  first test tube baby ,
was born using the procedure developed by Edwards and Steptoe.  Last year’s Nobel prize in medicine went to  Elizabeth Blackburn , a professor at the University of California in San
Francisco,  Carol Greider  from Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine in Baltimore and  Jack Szostak  of Harvard Medical School
in Boston, for research on cell division.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
Alfred Nobel, the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The Nobel Foundation was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year.  An economics prize was created in 1969 in memory of Nobel
by the Swedish central bank. Only the peace prize is awarded
outside Sweden, by the five-member Norwegian Nobel Committee in
Oslo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marthe Fourcade  in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net 
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  