-- U.S. Yields Will `Surge' as Fed Increases Debt Purchases, Diam Forecasts
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-04T04:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/u-s-yields-will-surge-as-fed-increases-debt-purchases-diam-forecasts.html
Treasury  yields will rise should the
Federal Reserve increase its purchases of U.S. government debt,
according to  Takuya Yamamoto , a money manager at Diam Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $114.5 billion.  A growing number of U.S. government securities dealers,
strategists and economists say Fed buying may have the
unintended result of boosting borrowing costs. The central bank
snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries in 2009 under a strategy
known as quantitative easing, or QE. Traders bracing for another
round of buying have dubbed it QEII.  “Once the Fed launches QEII, the Treasury yield will
surge,” said Yamamoto, who is based in Tokyo for Diam, the
asset manager that is part owned by  Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. ,
Japan’s second-biggest life insurer.  Bond purchases by the central bank don’t automatically send
down yields. Benchmark 10-year  rates  climbed to 3.84 percent as
of Dec. 31 from 2.21 percent at the close of 2008 as the Fed
bought. Treasuries handed investors a 3.7 percent loss last year,
the first annual decline since 1999, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 2.41 percentage points at the
end of 2009 from 0.09 percentage point 12 months earlier.  Yields on 10-year  Treasury notes,  a benchmark for
everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds, rose last
month for the first time since March even as the central bank
hinted that it may conduct more quantitative easing to bolster
the economy.  “Quantitative easing is priced into the picture,” said
 Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in
Oaks, Pennsylvania. “When the market does turn, as we’ve seen
in the past, it will turn sharply and very swiftly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 