-- U.S. Capital Goods Orders, Pending Home Sales Increase
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-04T14:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/u-s-capital-goods-orders-climb-more-than-estimated-as-equipment-replaced.html
Orders for U.S. capital goods rose in
August more than previously estimated, a sign companies are
replacing outdated equipment. Total bookings dropped, pulled
lower by weaker demand for aircraft.  Orders for non-military capital goods excluding planes
increased 5.1 percent, the biggest gain since March, the
Commerce Department said today in Washington. Last month’s
durable goods report showed such orders rose 4.1 percent. The
0.5 percent decrease in total  bookings  compared with a 0.4
percent drop projected by the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Manufacturing will remain at the forefront of the recovery
as companies use their large cash reserves to update equipment
and cut costs. Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William Dudley last week said more monetary easing is probably
needed to spur growth and avert deflation.  “The trend in business investment is still quite solid,”
said  James O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Ltd.
in New York. “Business investment is still one of the stronger
parts of the economy. There is certainly no collapse here,
though we are seeing a fading from the contribution from
inventories and certainly the trend in manufacturing output has
slowed.”  The median forecast was based on a survey of 64 economists.
Estimates ranged from a drop of 1 percent to a 0.3 percent
increase.  Pending Sales  A report from the National Association of Realtors showed
pending sales of existing homes climbed more than forecast in
August. Signed contracts increased 4.3 percent after a 4.5
percent increase in July, indicating housing demand is
stabilizing after reaching record lows. The median forecast of
economists surveyed projected a 2.5 percent increase.  Stocks were little changed after the reports. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent to 1,145.57 at
10:33 a.m. in New York. Treasury securities rose, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.49 percent from
2.51 percent late on Oct. 1.  The increase in orders for capital goods excluding aircraft
and military equipment, a measure of future business investment,
followed a 5.3 percent drop in July. The Commerce Department’s
4.1 percent initial estimate was reported in the Sept. 24 report
on durable goods.  Shipments of these goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, rose 1.7 percent.  Smaller Slowdown  The durable-goods report prompted economists at Morgan
Stanley to raise their estimate for third-quarter growth in
business investment in equipment and software to 11.5 percent
from 5 percent and to boost their forecast for economic growth
by a half percentage point. Business spending surged at a 25
percent rate in the second quarter, the biggest gain since 1983.  Demand for durable goods, which make up just over half of
total factory demand, fell 1.5 percent. The government reported
on Sept. 24 that bookings for these items decreased 1.3 percent
in August.  Bookings of non-durable goods, including food, petroleum
and chemicals, increased 0.3 percent, led by a gain in demand
for chemicals and fertilizers.  Manufacturing expanded in September at the slowest pace in
10 months, reflecting declines in orders and production, the
Institute for  Supply Management  reported last week.  Less Restocking  Factory inventories climbed 0.1 percent in August, today’s
report showed after a 0.9 percent increase the prior month. The
figures suggest stockpile rebuilding was less of a boost to
growth last quarter. Manufacturers had enough goods on hand to
last 1.27 months at the current sales pace, the most since
November.  The report may ease concern among Fed policy makers. “The
pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in recent
months,” the  Fed  said Sept. 21 after its latest policy meeting.
“Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though
less rapidly than earlier in the year.”  Not all companies are seeing improvement. Advanced Micro
Devices Inc., the second largest maker of microprocessors, on
September 23 cut its third-quarter sales forecasts, citing
weaker demand for notebook computers in Europe and North
America.  The announcement followed similar forecast reductions by
 Texas Instruments Inc . and  Intel Corp ., citing weaker demand.  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections, and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of President  Barack Obama ’s performance.  Last week, Obama signed legislation that will cut taxes and
provide credit help for small businesses, calling it an
essential step for job growth in a slow economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  