-- U.S. Stocks Retreat on Microsoft, Alcoa Ratings Cuts, Economy
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-10-04T21:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/u-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-aig-at-t-genzyme-schlumberger-slide.html
(Corrects phrasing of quote in 14th paragraph.)  U.S.  stocks  fell, sending the Dow
Jones Industrial Average to its biggest drop in almost a month,
as analyst rating cuts of companies including Microsoft Corp.
and Macy’s Inc. triggered caution before the start of the
earnings season.  Microsoft slumped 1.9 percent after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. removed its “buy” rating on the shares, citing the
company’s struggle to gain market share in mobile devices, while
Macy’s fell 1.7 percent after Goldman lowered the department-
store chain to “ neutral .” Alcoa Inc., the aluminum company
that will unofficially start the earnings season on Oct. 7, lost
2.5 percent as Deutsche Bank AG advised selling the shares.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,137.03 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The Dow declined 78.41
points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,751.27 for its biggest retreat
since Sept. 7.  “There’s some fear the soft patches we hit in the economy
over the summer are going to be reflected in corporate
earnings,” said  Art Hogan , chief market analyst at New York-
based Jefferies Group Inc. “That’s where we’re getting some of
the caution that’s manifested today. We had a great September
and people are nervous we’re coming into an earnings season with
irrational exuberance.”  Analysts are cutting forecasts for S&P 500 earnings for the
first time in more than a year, jeopardizing gains from the
biggest September rally since World War II. Estimates for S&P
500 companies’ combined 2011 profit fell to as low as $95.17 a
share last month from an August high of $96.16 and booked the
first quarterly reduction since the three months ended June
2009, according to forecasts tracked by Bloomberg.  Microsoft, Macy’s  The revision came even as the benchmark gauge for U.S.
equities rose 8.8 percent last month, the largest September
 advance  since 1939, amid speculation the nation will avoid
slipping back into another recession as the Federal Reserve
pledges to safeguard the recovery.  Microsoft lost 1.9 percent to $23.91 as Goldman Sachs cut
the stock to “neutral” from “buy.” The brokerage cited
Microsoft’s failure to win the same market share in mobile
devices that it holds in PCs. Goldman’s analyst  Sarah Friar  in a
report dated yesterday cited concern customers are taking longer
to replace personal computers and competition from tablets
running non-Microsoft software.  Macy’s declined 1.7 percent to $22.76, after falling as
much as 4.9 percent, the  most  intraday since July 16. The
second-largest department store chain in the U.S. was cut to
“neutral” from “buy” at Goldman Sachs.  Alcoa Slips  Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, dropped 2.5
percent to $11.92 after Deutsche Bank added the shares to its
short-term sell list. Raw-material producers had the biggest
decline out of 10 groups in the S&P 500, slipping 1.4 percent.  All 10  industry  groups in the S&P 500 declined today.
Energy companies had the third-biggest drop, as Schlumberger
Ltd. slumped 2 percent to $61.20 and Constellation Energy Group
Inc. declined 3.6 percent to $31.25.  Brian Sack , the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s markets
group chief, said in a text of remarks today that a further
expansion of the central bank’s balance sheet would help
stimulate an economic recovery that is forecast to be
“relatively tepid.” Policy makers are debating how to deploy
stimulus after the Fed’s policy committee said on Sept. 21 that
it’s prepared to take action “if needed” to spur growth and
achieve its mandate of stable prices and full employment.  Economy Watch  Benchmark equity indexes fluctuated in early trading after
reports on home sales and factory orders. The National
Association of Realtors’ index of pending home resales rose 4.3
percent in August, more than forecast. Compared with the same
month a year ago, pending sales were down 18.4 percent.  The U.S. needs to get the housing market working again to
spur economic growth, said  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  “If we do not have the housing market functioning again,
the consumer will continue to be under this gravitational force
of the debt overhang and it’s going to be very difficult to get
high growth generated,” El-Erian said.  Orders for non-military U.S. capital goods excluding planes
increased 5.1 percent, the biggest gain since March and
exceeding the 4.1 percent estimated last month, figures from the
Commerce Department showed. The 0.5 percent decrease in total
bookings compared with a 0.4 percent drop projected by the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Two Steps Back’  “The economic data has been mixed over the last few
months, taking three steps forward, two steps back,” said  David Katz , chief investment officer at Matrix Asset Advisors Inc. in
New York, which manages $1.1 billion. “Investors are looking
ahead and focused on earnings.”  Analysts forecast that earnings grew 23 percent in the
third quarter for S&P 500 companies and will increase another 31
percent in the final three months of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Financial companies are projected to lead
third-quarter growth, with a 45 percent increase in earnings.  American Express Co.  slid 6.5 percent to $39.05, its
biggest plunge since January, as the credit card company vowed
to fight a U.S. Justice Department antitrust lawsuit that Visa
Inc. and MasterCard Inc. settled. The department sued the three
credit-card networks, saying restraints “impose a competitive
straightjacket on merchants, restricting decisions by them to
offer discounts, benefits and choices to customers that many
merchants would otherwise be free to offer.”  Lexmark International Inc.  dropped 3.3 percent to $43.60.
The maker of laser and inkjet printers was downgraded to “equal
weight” from “overweight” at Barclays Capital with a $47
price estimate.  Casino Rally  Casino companies rose after revenue in Macau, the world’s
biggest gambling hub, surged 40 percent in September, meeting
estimates from  Macquarie Group Ltd. Wynn Resorts Ltd.  gained 3.9
percent to $90.51, the third-biggest advance in the S&P 500, and
Las Vegas Sands Corp. climbed 3.6 percent to $36.44.  Sara Lee Corp. rallied 7.2 percent to $14.40 after rising
as much as 13 percent, the most intraday since October 2008. The
maker of Jimmy Dean breakfast foods rejected a $12 billion
leveraged buyout offer by KKR & Co., according to the New York
Post, which cited a person familiar with the situation.  Ford Motor Co. jumped 4.7 percent to $12.84. The automaker
was rated “overweight” in new coverage by Morgan Stanley,
which said the company’s revenue outlook is underestimated and
that it will likely regain an investment-grade debt rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  