-- Rosenberg Says U.S. Economy May Shrink in Fourth Quarter as Autos Subside
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-04T18:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/u-s-economy-may-shrink-in-fourth-quarter-gluskin-sheff-s-rosenberg-says.html
The U.S. economy may fail to grow or
even shrink in the fourth quarter as auto production subsides
following a surge in the previous three months, said  David Rosenberg , chief economist at Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc.  “Almost all the growth we had in the third quarter” was
due to auto production, Rosenberg, a former chief economist for
North America at Merrill Lynch & Co., said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “The
fourth quarter could actually be flat to negative.”  Rosenberg’s forecast is more pessimistic than the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists last month,
which called for a 2.3 percent annual growth rate in the last
three months of the year. The economy expanded at a 1.7 percent
pace in the second quarter, following 3.7 percent in the prior
three months.  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New
York, said he expects growth of “around 3 percent” in the
final three months of 2010. He said part of the slowdown in the
second quarter was caused by “a big surge in imports which is
not going to be repeated,” as companies bought foreign-made
capital goods.  The economy shrank 4.1 percent during the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009, according to revised
government data released July 30. Household spending fell 1.2
percent in 2009.  Both economists agreed that any move by the Federal Reserve
to renew asset purchases would have little effect.  ‘Big Mistake’  It would “be a big mistake,” said Ryding, a former  Fed 
economist. “It wouldn’t do anything for the economy” and would
promote “further increases in inflation expectations.”  “When you come off a post-bubble credit collapse, it takes
years before you make the ultimate transition to the next
sustainable bull market,” said Rosenberg.  Rosenberg said the U.S. “unquestionably” need a massive
federal program to create jobs, similar to efforts launched by
President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  in the 1930s.  Ryding disagreed that the government should directly boost
hiring. Both economists said government tax policy should
provide incentives to hire.  The recovery “is inevitably going to be slow,” said
Ryding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  