-- UBS, Credit Suisse May Need to Boost Capital to 19%
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-10-04T15:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/ubs-credit-suisse-must-boost-capital-to-meet-swiss-regulator-requirements.html
UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG 
need to hold almost double the capital required under Basel III
rules, said a Swiss government-appointed  panel , proposing the
first capital surcharge on too-big-to-fail banks.  Switzerland’s biggest banks should hold total capital equal
to at least 19 percent of their assets, weighted according to
risk, compared with 10.5 percent level the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision announced last month, the Swiss panel said
today. By 2019, the lenders need to have a common equity ratio
of at least 10 percent, compared with 7 percent required under
Basel III rules, and the rest in contingent capital.  Switzerland, which propped up UBS in the credit crisis,
asked the panel of bankers, regulators and other experts to
propose ways of avoiding future bailouts. The two banks’ total
assets of 2.6 trillion Swiss francs ($2.64 trillion) are more
than four times the size of the Swiss economy.  The plan is “a win-win situation for Switzerland,” said
 Harris Dellas , a professor of macroeconomics and monetary policy
at the University of Bern. “If the banks don’t manage to raise
the required extra capital, they will have to shrink without the
government directly forcing them to. If they do, then this means
that the markets have faith in them and they can continue
playing in the big league.”  No Share Sales  The proposals, which have to be endorsed by the government
and approved by Parliament, may jump-start the market for
contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos. The banks, which said
last week their risk-weighted assets may balloon to 400 billion
francs each under the Basel III rules, may have to sell as much
as 72 billion francs in CoCos to meet the new requirements,
according to Bloomberg calculations. The banks said they plan to
take steps to “significantly” reduce risk-weighted assets.  UBS and Credit Suisse both expect to meet the new capital
requirements without having to sell new shares, the banks said
today in separate statements.  “It’s obviously a challenge to the Swiss banks to have a
massive overcapitalization relative to peers, but it is
achievable,”  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, said. He said the minimum common equity
requirement is lower than the 12 percent he expected.  UBS  fell 0.5 percent to 16.58 francs in Zurich trading,
paring this year’s gain to 3.3 percent. Smaller rival  Credit
Suisse  climbed 0.4 percent to 41.94 francs.  Limited Dividends  UBS is “confident” of being able to meet the new
requirements without raising common equity or disposing of any
“material” part of the business, Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  said on a conference call. While UBS still sees the right
level of capital for its business at about 50 billion francs,
meaning a common equity ratio of about 13 percent, the bank may
resume dividend payments before it hits that mark, he said.  Credit Suisse said it can comply with the measures
“without having to materially change its growth plans or
current capital and dividend policies.”  Dividend payments in the coming years will depend on
whether the banks are successful in selling contingent
convertibles, Hoffmann-Becking said. Even if they can’t sell any
CoCos and have to meet the 19 percent target with only common
equity, UBS could achieve that in 2014 and Credit Suisse in 2015
to 2017 by cutting risk-weighted assets and halting dividends.  “There is a big interest in having a functioning CoCo
market,” Thomas Jordan, vice chairman of the Swiss central bank
and a member of the panel, said at a press conference in Bern.
The cost of CoCos may be between those of equity and of
corporate bonds, with the added advantage of interest payments
being tax deductible, he said. “CoCos would provide capital
exactly at the time when it’s needed,” he said.  Breakup Rejected  The panel, which rejected proposals to break up the two
Zurich-based banks or directly limit their size and activities,
such as proprietary trading, recommended a “rapid”
implementation of all the proposals as a package.  Peter Siegenthaler , who heads the commission, said he would expect the
government to send the proposal to Parliament next year.  Three of the four biggest parties in Switzerland’s
parliament signaled they may approve the commission’s proposals.  “This is a good proposal with the right priorities,” said
 Hans Kaufmann , the economic affairs spokesman for the Swiss
People’s Party. We are “very satisfied” with the report, said
 Fulvio Pelli , president of the Swiss Liberals. The CoCo bonds
are a “good idea,” said  Pirmin Bischof , a member of the lower
house for the Christian Democrats.  The minimum equity proposals were watered down by
representatives of the big banks while measures to curb risk-
taking are insufficient, the Social Democrats said.  Capital Buffer  The Basel committee on Sept. 12 set the new minimum ratio
of common equity to risk-weighted assets for banks from 27
countries at 4.5 percent, plus a buffer of 2.5 percent. The
requirement, which has to be met by 2019, compares with the 2
percent minimum ratio under less-strict Basel II rules.  Under today’s proposals, the two banks may need to increase
the capital buffer to 8.5 percent. Of that, at least 5.5 percent
has to be in the form of common equity, compared with Basel’s
2.5 percent, and the rest can be made up of contingent capital,
such as CoCos.  The plan is also the first globally to apply a specific
capital surcharge for systemically important banks. The size of
this additional capital buffer, currently proposed at 6 percent,
can change over time, depending on the ratio of a bank’s assets
to the Swiss economy, its market share of domestic lending and
how easy it would be to liquidate. All of this cushion should be
in the form of contingent capital, the panel said.  Stricter Rules  The first contingent capital buffer should convert into
equity once common equity falls below 7 percent of risk-weighted
assets. The second cushion could convert at a 5 percent common
equity ratio and may be used to support the systemically
important parts of a bank’s business, while the rest is wound
down in a crisis, the panel proposed. The experts also suggested
making stricter liquidity rules for the two banks, which came
into force at the end of June, into law.  UBS’s Cryan said he doubts the bank would let common equity
fall as low as 5 percent, triggering the conversion of CoCo
bonds, which would make the second buffer a “very expensive
insurance policy.” He said he wasn’t sure which investors would
buy the instruments, as equity holders would prefer stocks and
traditional fixed-income buyers would demand a “significant
premium” for the additional risk.  Switzerland rescued UBS in 2008, investing 6 billion francs
to help the bank spin off $39 billion of toxic assets into a
Swiss central bank fund. The state sold its  UBS  holdings for a
profit of 1.2 billion francs less than a year later. Credit
Suisse declined government assistance.  Dodd-Frank Act  Switzerland is not alone in addressing the issues of too-
big-to-fail banks. The Financial Stability Board, which
coordinates the work of national financial regulators on an
international level, is due to make recommendations on the topic
to the Group of 20 leaders’ summit in November.  The U.S. passed a set of financial rules in July, giving
regulators new authority to unwind failing financial firms that
may threaten the entire system, as well as imposing limits on
proprietary trading at banks. The bill, known as the Dodd-Frank
Act, also prevents the Federal Reserve from approving bank
acquisitions that would result in a firm exceeding 10 percent of
the total liabilities of the U.S. banking system and requires
regulators to make recommendations on standards for risk-based
capital, leverage, liquidity and contingent capital.  At the height of the credit crunch in 2008, Swiss
regulators gave UBS and Credit Suisse four years to raise their
risk-weighted capital to as much as double the Basel II
requirements. A cap on leverage means the banks must aim to hold
capital equal to at least 5 percent of their assets in good
times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  