-- Lufthansa, Eurostar Say Europe Terrorism Alert Unlikely to Hurt Bookings
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-04T10:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/lufthansa-eurostar-say-europe-terrorism-alert-unlikely-to-hurt-bookings.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-biggest airline, said the U.S. State Department’s travel
alert about a possible terrorist threat in Europe probably
won’t affect bookings as Christmas approaches.  The carrier doesn’t focus on holiday travel, spokesman
 Boris Ogursky  said, declining to say if additional security
measures will be put in place. Eurostar Group Ltd., the
operator of high-speed trains through the Channel Tunnel, also
doesn’t expect a drop in customers as most of them are based in
Europe and previous alerts didn’t discourage travel, spokesman
 Richard Holligan  said by phone.  The alert, issued yesterday, isn’t as serious as a
“Travel Warning,” which would have advised Americans to stay
clear of Europe. The continent is the favorite foreign
destination for U.S. travelers, with 12 million visitors last
year spending more than $20 billion, according to the U.S.
Commerce Department.  “We’re in constant touch with the relevant ministries and
agencies, and the current assessment is that there is no threat
from terrorists,” said a spokesman for Deutsche Bahn AG,
Germany’s state-owned railway, who declined to be identified,
citing company policy.  The protection system of the Berlin-based  train operator 
features 6,500 video cameras and a security staff of 3,500, he
said. Deutsche Bahn is also educating customers to report bags
left unattended on trains and platforms, he said.  Rail systems, subways and tourist attractions are prime
targets for terrorist attacks, and travelers should “take
every precaution” to stay safe, according to the  alert . French
police have evacuated the Eiffel Tower in Paris twice in the
past three weeks because of threats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  