-- Lufthansa, Eurostar Say Europe Terrorism Alert Unlikely to Hurt Bookings
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-04T13:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/lufthansa-eurostar-say-u-s-s-alert-on-europe-won-t-hurt-travel-to-region.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-biggest airline, and Channel Tunnel train operator
Eurostar Group Ltd. said a U.S. travel alert about a possible
terrorist threat in the region probably won’t affect bookings.  The U.S. State Department’s alert may discourage leisure
travelers more than the business passengers who are Lufthansa’s
main focus, said  Boris Ogursky , a spokesman for the carrier in
Frankfurt, declining to say whether additional security measures
will be put in place. At the same time, reservations for end-of-
year Christmas trips are unlikely to be affected, he said.  The alert, issued yesterday, isn’t as serious as a “Travel
Warning,” which would have advised Americans to stay clear of
Europe. The continent is the favorite foreign destination for
U.S. travelers, with 12 million visitors last year spending more
than $20 billion, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.  Eurostar, which runs high-speed trains linking London with
Paris and Brussels, also doesn’t expect a drop in customers, as
most of them are based in Europe and previous alerts didn’t
discourage travel,  Richard Holligan , a spokesman in the U.K.
capital, said by phone.  Cedric Leurquin , a spokesman at Air France-KLM Group,
declined to comment on possible effects of the alert or on
security measures. The Paris-based company is Europe’s biggest
airline by traffic.  ‘Constant Touch’  Deutsche Bahn AG, Germany’s state-owned railway, is “in
constant touch with the relevant ministries and agencies, and
the current assessment is that there is no threat from
terrorists,” said a spokesman for the Berlin-based company who
declined to be identified, citing company policy.  The German  train operator ’s security network features 6,500
video cameras and a security staff of 3,500, he said. Deutsche
Bahn is also educating customers to report bags left unattended
on trains and platforms, he said.  Rail systems, subways and tourist attractions are prime
targets for terrorist attacks, and travelers should “take every
precaution” to stay safe, according to the State Department
 alert . French police have evacuated the Eiffel Tower in Paris
twice in the past three weeks because of threats.  Tourists travelling to the U.K. from the U.S. would more
likely be deterred by a higher rate of airport tax, set to be
introduced from November, rather than the warnings said Ian
Dulson, marketing and communications manager at UKinbound, a
trade body that represents Britain’s tourism industry.  “Americans are wary when they get these warnings but,
unless something actually happens, I don’t think it will stop
them coming,” Dulson said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 