-- United Nations Talks Open in Tianjin to Tackle Threats From Global Warming
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-10-04T11:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/un-climate-talks-talks-open-in-china-to-tackle-threat-from-global-warming.html
Talks aimed at reaching an agreement
to mitigate climate change opened in China as the United Nations
warned that time is running out before global warming reverses
decades of economic development.  Delegates from 177 governments began a week of talks today
in Tianjin, northern China, the first time the most populous
country and biggest emitter of greenhouse gases has hosted a
meeting of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change.  The Tianjin meeting is the last chance before envoys meet
in Cancun, Mexico, for Nov. 29-Dec. 10 talks to help reach an
agreement that even the UN climate chief has said is unlikely
this year. The last climate summit in Copenhagen in 2009 failed
to produce a binding agreement even after leaders including U.S.
President  Barack Obama  flew in to try to hammer out a deal.  “A concrete outcome in Cancun is urgently needed to
prevent climate change impacts from reversing development gains
that have been painstakingly achieved over the last few
decades,”  Christiana Figueres , the UNFCCC’s executive
secretary, said in Tianjin. An agreement in Cancun “may not be
exhaustive in detail but it must be comprehensive in scope.”  Figueres urged delegates to focus this week on issues that
can form the basis of an agreement in Cancun and to leave aside
those that require further negotiation. Financing from
industrialized countries to help developing ones is one area
where immediate progress is possible, she said.  The Copenhagen talks broke down over issues including
setting a global emissions reduction target and developing a
system to measure and verify emissions cuts to help countries
affected by climate change adapt.  Expiring Kyoto Targets  The talks are aimed at producing a climate treaty for when
the emissions targets set by the Kyoto Protocol expire at the
end of 2012.  Among the sticking points are a demand by countries for
Chinese commitments to more aggressive emissions cuts as well as
for China to accept more stringent verification of its climate
change mitigation, said Xie Zhenhua, vice chairman of the
National Reform Development Commission of China, the country’s
top economic planner.  Some countries tried to tie those conditions to financial
assistance to the least developed countries, he told reporters
through a translator today.  Developed nations have pledged $30 billion in short-term
financing from 2010 to 2012, $2 billion of which still needs to
be sourced, Figueres said. The outline of a longer-term climate
fund could also be agreed upon in Cancun, she said.  “Developing countries view financing as proof that
industrialized countries are serious about the process,” she
said. “We have confidence the developed countries will identify
the full 30 billion in a timely fashion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 