-- Hungary Default Swaps Drop to Lowest Since June on Local Election Result
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-04T13:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/hungary-default-swaps-drop-to-lowest-since-june-on-local-elections-result.html
The cost of protecting Hungary’s
bonds from default fell to the lowest since June and the forint
rallied on speculation Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s victory in
local elections will give him a free hand to lower the budget
deficit.  Five-year credit default swaps declined 11 basis points to
301 basis points today, according to data provider CMA. The
forint advanced for a third day, appreciating 0.7 percent to
271.94 per euro as of 2:10 p.m. in Budapest, the strongest since
May 14. Hungary’s February 2015 bonds rallied, sending the yield
down 4 basis points to 6.46 percent, heading for the lowest
close since Aug. 18.  Orban’s Fidesz party captured mayoral positions in 22 of
the 23 biggest cities and all 19 county assemblies, according to
the  national election commission . The party won two-thirds of
the seats in parliament during April elections, and now has
until 2014 before facing another election.  Investors are betting that will give Orban the freedom to
spell out concrete economic policies and budget cuts after his
government did a U-turn by committing itself to fiscal
restraint. It previously told the International Monetary Fund
and Europe Union the country could not meet deficit targets set
under a 20 billion-euro ($27.4 billion) bailout in 2008.  “This comprehensive victory should put the party in a mood
to negotiate the 2011 budget,”  Guillaume Tresca , an emerging-
market strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Paris, wrote in a
note to clients. “We expect to see fewer, more populist
decisions and then the first steps toward talking with the
IMF.”  S&P, Moody’s  The forint has gained 5.4 percent against the euro since
Sept. 8, when the Cabinet committed to a deficit of no more than
3 percent of gross domestic product. The pledge hasn’t removed
the threat to Hungary’s credit rating because the government
hasn’t clarified its economic policies, Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 15. Orban has until the end
of October to present the next year’s budget to parliament.  Hungary roiled global markets in June as government
officials compared the country to Greece and claimed the
previous administration had lied about public finances. Orban
came to power promising to end five years of austerity and spur
economic growth after Hungary’s worst recession in 18 years.  “Details of the budget are likely to drive the market
outlook,”  Eszter Gargyan , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Budapest, wrote in an e-mailed note. “Local assets may
outperform in the short term on improved fiscal assessment, but
our view is that only structural expenditure cuts can ensure a
sustainable rally in local asset prices.”  ‘Absolutely, Definitely’  S&P lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB- rating to
negative in July and a one-step cut would reduce the grade to
junk for the first time since 1992. Moody’s is also reviewing
Hungary for possible downgrade, though it rates the country
Baa1, two steps higher than S&P.  Hungary will “absolutely, definitely” meet its deficit
targets, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Oct. 1 after
the government revised the 2009 budget gap figure to 4.4 percent
of GDP from 4 percent.  The forint will remain in a “danger zone for a good
while” due to Hungary’s debt level, Orban told the Magyar
Nemzet newspaper. The government needs to reduce the debt level
as soon as possible if it wants to defend the currency, he said,
according to the Budapest-based newspaper’s weekend issue. The
public debt in the EU’s most indebted eastern member reached
78.4 percent of GDP at the end of 2009, the statistics office
said on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  