-- Turkish Inflation Gained in September, Matching Central Bank's Forecast
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2010-10-04T07:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/turkish-inflation-gained-in-september-matching-central-bank-s-forecast.html
Turkey’s  inflation rate  rose to 9.2
percent in September, confirming central bank predictions of an
increase that it says will fade by the end of the year.  Inflation accelerated from 8.3 percent in August, the
government statistics office in Ankara said on its website
today. The rate for September was  forecast  at 8.9 percent,
according to the median estimate of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices rose 1.2 percent in the  month .  The bank said on Sept. 16 that inflation, led by volatile
food prices, would “rise markedly” in the month before
returning to “a downtrend by October.” The bank’s governor,
 Durmus Yilmaz , has kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at
7 percent since November, even as the economy  returned to growth 
after the global crisis. He has pointed to core inflation, which
excludes food and energy, of 4.2 percent in August.  “We expect the bank to remain on hold,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, wrote in a
report on Sept. 28. The bank has other tools to slow the rise in
domestic borrowing and has “stated clearly that reserve
requirements could be adjusted further to restrain loan
growth.”  The bank on Sept. 23 raised the reserves that banks must
deposit against lira liabilities to 5.5 percent from 5 percent
and announced it would no longer pay interest on the deposits.
The change may cost TC Ziraat Bankasi AS, the largest state-run
bank by assets, 150 million liras ($104 million) a year, Chief
Executive Officer  Can Akin Caglar  said on Sept. 28.  Turkey’s economy grew by an annual rate of 10.3 percent in
the second quarter, following expansion of 11.7 percent in the
previous three months.  The  cost of goods  leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
8.9 percent in the 12 months through September, compared with 9
percent a month earlier, the agency said.  Producer prices  rose
0.5 percent in the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant   in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 