-- Vatican Aide Says Nobel Winner Opened `Important' Human Chapter
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-10-04T22:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/vatican-aide-says-medicine-nobel-winner-opened-important-human-chapter.html
The  Vatican’s  head of the Pontifical
Academy for Life said yesterday that the winner of the Nobel
Prize for Medicine, a pioneer of the test-tube baby,
“inaugurated a new and important chapter in the field of human
reproduction.”  Robert G. Edwards , a former University of Cambridge
professor, helped develop in-vitro fertilization, a procedure
condemned by Pope Benedict XVI. Bishop Ignazio Carrasco de
Paula, the Vatican’s voice on bioethics, released an e-mailed
statement that gave his personal views on the subject.  The choice of Edwards for the prize “isn’t completely out
of place,” Carrasco de Paula said. Still, he faulted the
scientist for creating a “market of donor eggs.”  The reaction to the Nobel winner contrasts with some of the
Vatican’s more stringent criticism in the past. The Roman
Catholic Church had condemned embryonic stem cell research and
artificial fertilization, most definitively in a 2008 bioethics
document released a month after Barack Obama was elected the
U.S. president.  IVF violates “the sacred and inviolable character of every
human life from its conception until its natural death,”
according to the document, entitled “Dignitas Personae” or
Latin for “The Dignity of a Person.”  ‘Wrong Door’  Carrasco de Paula cited Edwards for “building a house but
opening the wrong door.” The official said he wasn’t speaking
in the name of Vatican.  Edwards and his research partner,  Patrick Steptoe , created
a procedure that led to the birth of the first so-called test-
tube baby, Louise Brown, in 1978. Since then more than 4 million
IVF babies have been born worldwide, and a multibillion-dollar
market for infertility treatments has arisen.  “Without Edwards, there wouldn’t be freezers full of
embryos waiting to be transferred in utero or, more likely, be
used for research or to die, abandoned and forgotten by all,”
Carrasco said.  The pope’s views have influenced law and medicine in Italy,
which legalized some abortions in 1978.  The Vatican, the Roman Catholic seat situated within Rome,
armed a successful fight against legalizing the RU-486 early
stage abortion pill in Italy and used its clout to scuttle a
2005 referendum proposing to relax rules on surrogate motherhood
and stem-cell research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  