-- Vimpelcom Record-Low Yields Show Bondholders Supporting M&A: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-10-05T10:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/vimpelcom-record-low-yields-show-bondholders-supporting-m-a-russia-credit.html
OAO VimpelCom ’s borrowing costs are
falling to record lows, a sign investors will support higher
indebtedness to fund acquisitions as the Russian mobile-phone
operator buys assets from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris .  VimpelCom’s $1 billion of bonds due April 2013 traded at a
yield of 4.77 percent yesterday, the lowest since the notes were
issued in April 2008 and down from 7.41 percent in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield is 143 basis
points, or 1.43 percentage points, higher than Russian
government bonds due 2015, the smallest premium in two months.  Investor sentiment is shifting after the global credit
crisis and the country’s worst recession since the Soviet era
drove Russian companies to cut foreign acquisitions by 73
percent this year to a five-year low, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Foreign takeovers by Russian firms totaled $3.24
billion this year, lagging behind the biggest emerging markets
as acquisitions from India surged fourfold to $56 billion and
Brazilian companies spent $41 billion, the data show.  “We might see more Russian corporations coming out to snap
up emerging-market assets in other, faster growing countries,”
said  Peter Varga , who helps manage the equivalent of about $171
million of emerging-market corporate bonds at Erste Sparinvest
KAG in Vienna. Varga said he increased VimpelCom bonds to 4
percent of his fund on Aug. 18, when the yield on the notes due
in 2013 was 5.59 percent. “VimpelCom can take on some debt and
still be in the comfort zone,” he said.  Weather, Wind  VimpelCom of Moscow and Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris
agreed yesterday to merge their phone assets in a transaction
valued at about $6.5 billion.  VimpelCom ’s bonds rallied as the Sawiris merger is poised
to turn the Russian company into the world’s fifth-largest
mobile phone operator, with 174 million subscribers, according
to its statement yesterday. The enlarged company will have a
market capitalization of $24 billion, up from $19 billion,
according to the statement.  The Russian company will own the 51 percent stake in Cairo-
based Orascom Telecom Holding SAE held by Sawiris’s Weather
Investments SpA along with all of Italian mobile operator Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA. Weather shareholders will get 20 percent
of the merged entity. The combined entities earned total revenue
of $21.5 billion in 2009, according to the statement yesterday.  VimpelCom  shareholders  will vote on the transaction by
year-end and the company expects to complete the deal in the
first quarter.  ‘Strategic Move’  “This is really a strategic move since this would create a
large mobile company that will cover a wide range of still
unpenetrated markets in the Middle East, North Africa, the CIS
and the eastern part of the world,”  Sergey Dergachev , who helps
manage $6 billion at Union Investments in Frankfurt, said in a
phone interview. “I do not expect a significant deterioration
in VimpelCom’s credit profile.”  Gains in Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 today reduced
the yield ten basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 4.385
percent, the lowest level since they were sold in April. The
yield on government ruble notes due August 2016 fell eight basis
points to 7.2 percent.  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points to 225,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The
difference compares with 153 for debt of similarly rated Mexico
and 207 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 47 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell three basis points to
158, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s, its
third-lowest investment grade rating, cost the same as contracts
for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia
swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April 20.  Ruble Gains  The ruble climbed 0.3 percent to 30.3624 per dollar by 1:18
p.m. in Moscow, its strongest intraday level since Aug. 18. Non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 30.5767 per dollar in three months.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said in November he wants to
reduce the country’s “humiliating” reliance on commodities.
The economy of Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter,
shrank by a record 7.9 percent last year after a 54 percent
slump in oil prices in 2008.  VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Izosimov  said
the deal will be “transformational” for the company. “It
offers our shareholders exposure to attractive growth markets in
both Asia and Africa and the opportunity to diversify further
our revenue base in terms of geography, currency and market
characteristics,” Izosimov said in a regulatory statement
yesterday.  Sawiris said in a statement minority shareholders in
Orascom Telecom will benefit from synergies created by the
merger, “especially in the area of procurement, and by the
overall strengthening and de-risking of the balance sheet.”  Rising Debt  VimpelCom’s debt will increase to 2.5 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization because of the
acquisition, said  Maxim Raskosnov , a banking analyst at Moscow-
based investment bank Renaissance Capital. The current level is
 1.45 times  Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg for
2009.  Wind Italy had net debt of 8.29 billion euros ($11.4
billion) as of June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Orascom
Telecom owed $4.61 billion.  The deal is “risky” as it may saddle VimpelCom with an
additional $12 billion of debt, taking the combined total to $17
billion,  Konstantin Chernyshev , head of research at Moscow
brokerage UralSib Financial Corp., said in an e-mailed report
yesterday. “The upside of the potential deal is also
questionable given the relatively weak position of Wind in its
main Italian market, which is already saturated, as well as
Orascom’s problems in Algeria, where the company has been
charged with back-tax claims,” according to the report.  Tax Tangle  Orascom is entangled in a tax dispute in Algeria, which
will be dealt with “in due course,” VimpelCom’s Izosimov said
yesterday in a conference call with reporters. He and Russian
President Dmitry Medvedev will be in Algeria this week, he said.  Mikhail Galkin, the head of fixed-income research in Moscow
at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of VTB Group,
recommends investors avoid increasing VimpelCom bond holdings.
Reports from ratings companies will be “negative,” he said.  Carlos Winzer , a telecom analyst at Moody’s in Madrid, and
 Michael O’Brien , a credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s in
London, both declined to comment.  VimpelCom’s Amsterdam-based parent, VimpelCom Ltd., was
formed by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman’s  Alfa Group and
Norway’s  Telenor ASA  to consolidate holdings in Russian and
Ukrainian mobile-phone operators. The company is 39.6 percent-
owned by Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor while Alfa’s Moscow-based
Altimo unit controls 39.2 percent and minority shareholders own
21.2 percent.  VimpelCom bonds plunged in August following initial reports
that the company was in talks with Sawiris, pushing the yield on
the company’s bonds due in 2013 to their highest since July 21
at 5.93 percent.  ‘Market Fears’  “The market fears have been allayed somewhat,”  Sergey Kolesnikov , head of fixed income at Moscow brokerage Metropol
IFC, said in a telephone interview. “VimpelCom realized the
negative effect the deal was having on their bonds and shares
and it looks like they will find a clever way to structure the
deal so the debt doesn’t sit on their balance sheet.”  VimpelCom is rated Ba2 at Moody’s, two levels below
investment grade, and BB+ at S&P’s, the highest non-investment
grade. Wind is ranked Ba3 at Moody’s, three levels below
investment grade, and B+ at S&P, four levels short. Orascom
Telecom Holding has a B2 rating at Moody’s, five below
investment grade, and B- at S&P, six levels under.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  