-- VimpelCom, Egypt's Sawiris Agree to Combine Phone Operations
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-10-04T18:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/vimpelcom-egypt-s-sawiris-agree-to-combine-phone-operations.html
VimpelCom Ltd. , Russia’s second-
largest mobile-phone operator, and Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  agreed to merge their phone assets in a transaction
valued at about $6.5 billion.  VimpelCom will own Sawiris’s Weather Investments SpA’s 51.7
percent stake in Egypt’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE and all of
Italian mobile operator Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA. Weather
shareholders will get 20 percent of new VimpelCom shares valued
at $4.7 billion at current prices and $1.8 billion in cash.  The deal would create the world’s fifth-largest mobile-
phone company with a combined subscriber base of more than 174
million customers and give VimpelCom, which has operations in
many of the former Soviet republics, access to markets in Africa
and the Middle East.  “The next growth in telecoms will come from emerging
markets,” VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Izosimov 
said in an interview today in Amsterdam. “The consolidation is
just beginning.”  Had the companies combined in 2009, they would have had
total revenue of $21.5 billion and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $9.5 billion.  The new company will have operations in 20 countries and
post-transaction net debt up to $24 billion, VimpelCom said in a
joint statement. VimpelCom  shareholders  will vote on the
transaction by year-end and the company expects to complete the
deal in the first quarter.  VimpelCom Shares  The company expects “the capital structure that we are
creating will be cheaper than the one existing today in the
assets we are acquiring,” Izosimov said in a conference call
with reporters.  VimpelCom shares rose as much as 4.6 percent in New York
and traded 2.3 percent lower at $14.38 as of 1:57 p.m. Orascom
shares have not traded today.  Weather investments including Orascom’s operations in Egypt
and North Korea won’t be part of the new company.  The deal is Sawiris’s second attempt this year to sell
assets of Orascom, the largest publicly traded mobile-phone
company in the Middle East. Talks with South Africa’s  MTN Group
Ltd.  failed in June. The Algerian government blocked the sale of
Orascom’s local unit in the country, saying it would make an
offer for the operations.  “Minority shareholders in Orascom Telecom will benefit
from the synergies created by the combination of the two
entities, especially in the area of procurement and by the
overall strengthening and de-risking of the Orascom Telecom
balance sheet,” Sawiris said in the statement.  Tax Dispute  Orascom is entangled in a tax dispute in Algeria, which
will be dealt with “in due course,” Izosimov said. He and
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  will be in Algeria this week.  Orascom in September said that its Algerian unit, Djezzy,
received an initial tax reassessment for $230 million for 2008
and 2009, and it will take legal steps to dispute the figure.  VimpelCom, with a listing in New York, was formed from the
consolidation of Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s Alfa
Group and Norway’s  Telenor ASA  of holdings in Russian and
Ukrainian mobile-phone operators.  After the deal, Telenor will hold 31.7 percent of
VimpelCom, Alfa’s Altimo unit will control 31.4 percent and
minority shareholders will represent 17 percent. Weather will
get two of 11 board seats, while Telenor and Altimo will each
continue to designate three members.  VimpelCom was advised by  UBS AG  and Deutsche Bank AG.
Citigroup Inc. also advised and provided a fairness opinion to
the company’s board. Lazard Ltd., EFG-Hermes and Credit Suisse
Group AG advised Weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Celeste Perri
at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 