-- Wheat Futures Have Longest Slump Since June as Rain May Boost Russian Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-04T19:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/wheat-slides-to-nine-week-low-as-rain-improves-conditions-for-russian-crop.html
Wheat fell, capping the longest slump
in four months, as rains in Russia and Eastern Europe improved
the prospects for winter crops.  Russia got as much as 0.7 inch (1.8 centimeters) of rain
last week, and soil moisture may improve with “occasional
showers” this week, said  Mike Tannura , the president of T-Storm
Weather LLC in Chicago. Parts of Ukraine had as much as 2 inches
last week. Wheat futures have jumped 35 percent since the end of
June after drought slashed Russia’s output.  “The Russian situation has maybe not gotten a whole lot
better, but it hasn’t gotten any worse either,” said  Darrell Holaday , the president of Advanced Market Concepts in Manhattan,
Kansas. “They have seen some moisture return there, and it has
been somewhat beneficial.”  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 7.75 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $6.4725 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The grain dropped for the sixth straight
session, the longest slide since early June. Today, the price
touched $6.435, the lowest level for a most-active contract
since July 30.  Last week, futures dropped 9 percent, the most since
January. The price has gained 20 percent this year after Russia
banned grain exports following the most-severe drought in at
least 50 years.  On Oct. 2, Egypt, the world’s biggest importer, agreed to
buy 240,000 metric tons from France and Canada, shunning
supplies from the U.S.  ‘Certainly Negative’  “My thought has always been that if the U.S. can get half
of Egypt’s business, then we’ll be OK,” Holaday said. “Every
time we don’t get half of a tender, that’s not good, and
certainly negative” for Chicago futures, he said. The U.S. is
the largest exporter.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  Higher corn prices may support wheat, because both are used
in livestock feed, said  Jason Britt , an analyst at brokerage
Central States Commodities Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri. Corn
climbed 1.2 percent today after tumbling 11 percent last week.  “End-users may think we’ve reached a little more of a
value zone” in corn and wheat, Britt said. “If corn stabilizes
and starts to pick back up, that’s a stabilizing force for
wheat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 