-- Wines to Go With That Smoky Roast Pork in Backyard: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/wines-to-meld-with-that-smoky-fatty-roast-babe-in-backyard-john-mariani.html
Americans may still eat  more beef 
than pork -- about 63 pounds per capita each year versus 48 --
but the current foodie fascination in the U.S. with all things
porcine has crowned the pig king.  Whether it’s roast Italian maiale or a Vietnamese banh mi
sandwich stuffed with slices of ham, pork hasn’t had better
press since Charles Lamb wrote “A Dissertation Upon Roast Pig”
back in 1823, in which he nailed the appeal of the savory porker
as a kind of “animal manna.”  Yet unlike beef, which demands a big, brawny cabernet
sauvignon to match its mineral-rich, juicy flavor, roast pig,
sausages, and ham require a bit more thought as to what wine
truly enhances the meat.  This year, I decided to find out which wines would go best
with a backyard roast. I collected a dozen bottles of various
varietals. I had already eliminated a few I knew wouldn’t work,
including those big cabernets, expensive pinot noir-based
Burgundies and Super Tuscans.  To some extent I relied on cultural tradition, that is, I
asked myself what wine would be drunk by people who historically
do pig roasts -- Italians, Spaniards, Central and South
Americans. I eliminated the Chinese, who tend to sweeten the
meat with soy sauce, caramel and ginger.  Lite Beer  Pig roasts are certainly a part of the American South’s
culinary tradition, but wine has never played a big role in that
history. Rather like in the hillside barbecues called lechoneras
outside of San Juan, Puerto Rico, where a cold  Medalla Light 
beer seems to work wonders.  Because I basted with a puree of garlic, onion, chili
pepper, and  orange juice , I needed a wine with tannic backbone
and an undertone of sweetness to complement the richness of the
meat. Those two characteristics happen to be part of the appeal
of the best California zinfandels and their Italian
counterparts, primitivos.  A Joel Gott Zinfandel 2008 ($18) from Lodi and Amador had
the right intensity, spice and peppery notes, providing a
counterpoint to the smoke and basting juices.  Primitivo is the Italian name for the same grape as
zinfandel (both came from Croatia), and a 2007 example from
Piana del Sole in Puglia, where the varietal has flourished, had
a perfectly pleasant, cherry and raspberry component. Yet
overall the wine didn’t do much for the roast pig’s big flavors.  Spanish Blend  More complex but still a bit pale were two other Italian
bottlings, a  Masi Campofiorin Ripasso  2005 ($18) and Tre Roveri
Pico Maccario Barbera d’Asti 2007 ($25), while a Spanish Mas de
Can Blau 2005 ($42.50), a blend of carinena and garnacha, had
the depth and brawn those grapes are known for, marrying well
with the meat.  My favorite match-ups were two Amarone della
Valpolicellas. These wines from Italy’s  Veneto  region are made
from corvina, rondinella and molinara grapes left to dry out on
straw mats to achieve a raisin-like status, intensifying the
sugars.  A decade ago this traditional process resulted in unique,
high-alcohol wines that tasted of leather, with more than a hint
of sweetness and oxidation. Today the wines are better made,
cleaner and intended to be drunk earlier, and the result is a
wine of enormous body and 15 percent alcohol, but without the
musty oxidation.  Two Amarones  I tried two Amarones, a  Vaona  2006 ($44) and a  Speri 
Amarone 2004 ($92). The former was right on target to match the
big flavors of the smoky meat, melding fruit and soft tannins
with fat and smoke. It is a silky, sensual wine and the meat
seemed blessed by it.  The Speri, considered one of the finest Amarones now made,
has the benefit of aging, and its layers and layers of dark ripe
fruits and its Port-like bouquet seem tailor-made to go with my
backyard meal.  At $92, it’s one you save for a special occasion -- such
as a major meal like this or a birthday -- which it was: mine.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 