-- Twitter Promotes Dick Costolo to Chief Executive Job
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-04T21:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/twitter-promotes-dick-costolo-former-google-manager-to-chief-executive.html
Twitter Inc., the social-networking
service with more than 165 million users, elevated Chief
Operating Officer  Dick Costolo  to chief executive officer,
turning to a manager who is more focused on building revenue.  Evan Williams , the previous CEO, will concentrate on
product strategy, according to a  blog posting  today. Costolo
joined San Francisco-based Twitter in September 2009, helping
the company introduce advertising services and make licensing
deals with  Microsoft Corp. , Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc.  “During his year at Twitter, he has been a critical leader
in devising and executing our revenue efforts, while
simultaneously and effectively making the trains run on time in
the office,” Williams said in the blog.  Twitter, founded in 2006, spent its early years focused on
attracting users, rather than making money. Now it’s trying to
turn its popularity into advertising dollars. In April, the
company started an ad program for its search service and has
since expanded it to other parts of the site. Early advertisers
included Best Buy Co. and  Starbucks Corp.   Last month, Twitter revamped its site to make it easier to
post photos, video and maps directly on the page. The redesign
also gives marketers a new way to use multimedia in online
promotions.  ‘Keeping Twitter Twitter’  Costolo, 47, has the difficult task of keeping Twitter
users happy and engaged while still adding more advertisers to
the site, said Augie Ray, an analyst with Forrester Research
Inc. in San Francisco.  “The biggest challenge for Dick is going to be to balance
the increasing expectations and needs for revenue with keeping
Twitter Twitter,” Ray said. “He’s been around for a long time,
and that makes him a great candidate to do that.”  Twitter is valued at about $2.4 billion, according to
SharesPost Inc., an exchange for privately held companies.
Earlier this year, Costolo said that an initial public offering
is still “way out” for Twitter.  “It seems they are not interested in rushing into an
IPO,” Ray said. “There is no timetable from what I can tell.”  Since Williams took over two years ago from  Jack Dorsey ,
who is now chairman, the company has grown to 300 workers from
20, and increased its user base by more than 50-fold. Users
create 90 million Twitter posts, or tweets, a day, up from 1.25
million in 2008.  Third Place  Twitter now ranks third globally among social-networking
sites, topping  News Corp. ’s MySpace, according to ComScore Inc.
in Reston, Virginia. Facebook Inc. is No. 1, and Windows Live
Profile is second.  “You couldn’t ask to take a job like this at a better
time,” Costolo said in a statement. “We’re ready to accomplish
more in the next two years than we’ve accomplished in the last
four.”  Costolo founded and ran FeedBurner, a news feed service
bought by Google in 2007. He is a long-time friend of Twitter
co-founders Williams and  Biz Stone . Williams also sold a company
to Google, Blogger, in 2003.  “Evan’s been one of Twitter’s visionaries,” Forrester’s
Ray said. “The job of running the day-to-day of a very complex,
very large business can get in the way of being a visionary.”  The site has continued to grapple with service outages.
Soon after the CEO announcement, Twitter said it was
“experiencing major site issues.” By 3:30 p.m. New York time,
the company said the number of errors was declining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  