-- Treasuries Gain Before Manufacturing Report; Two-Year Yield At Record Low
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-04T13:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/two-year-treasury-yield-falls-to-record-low-on-speculation-of-fed-easing.html
Treasury two-year yields fell to a
record before a government report that economists said will show
orders to U.S. factories declined, adding to speculation the
Federal Reserve will increase asset purchases.  Three-year note yields touched the lowest since 1962 before
an employment report on Oct. 8 is forecast to show no change in
overall payrolls last month. The Fed is scheduled to buy
Treasuries tomorrow and the next day as part of its plan to keep
borrowing costs low. New York Fed President  William Dudley  said
on Oct. 1 the central bank will probably need to take action to
spur the economic recovery.  “There’s nothing materially different out to reshape
expectations about the pace of the recovery or monetary
policy,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “Another round of
quantitative easing effectively puts the Fed on hold well into
the foreseeable future.”  The two-year yield dropped to a record 0.3987 percent
before trading at 0.41 percent, according to Bloomberg generic
data. The three-year yield touched 0.5892 percent.  Ten-year yields declined 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 2.50 percent at 9:17 a.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent security due in August
2020 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 2/32.  Speculation the Fed will purchase additional bonds as a way
to pump money into the economy, a strategy known as quantitative
easing, has been rising since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug.
10 it would reinvest proceeds from maturing mortgage holdings
into government debt.  ‘Further Action’  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too long,” Dudley said last week.  Orders placed with U.S. factories declined 0.4 percent in
August, according to the median estimate of economists before
today’s Commerce Department data. The Labor Department will
likely say on Oct. 8 the unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent
in September from 9.6 percent in August, and overall hiring
stagnated, according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  An industry report last week showed manufacturing expanded
in September at the slowest pace since November.  Separate figures today may show  pending home sales 
increased in August, another survey showed.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is scheduled to buy Treasuries due from September
2016 to August 2020 tomorrow. It plans to purchase securities
maturing from March 2013 to August 2014 on Oct. 6, according to
its  website .  Quantitative easing would probably push 10-year yields down
20 basis points to 30 basis points,  Tom Lam , the Singapore-based
chief economist at OSK-DMG, said in a report today. The company
is a joint venture between Malaysian securities firm OSK
Holdings Bhd. and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  of European shares dropped for a
sixth day, the longest stretch of losses since January 2009,
boosting demand for the safety of fixed-income assets.  A growing number of U.S. government securities dealers,
strategists and economists say additional bond purchases may
have the unintended consequences of pushing rates higher.  Yields on 10-year  Treasury notes,  a benchmark for
everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds, rose last
month for the first time since March even as the Fed hinted that
it may conduct more quantitative easing to bolster the economy.  ‘Priced In’  Based on what happened when the Fed began purchasing $1.725
trillion of government debt and mortgage securities in 2009,
lower yields are not a foregone conclusion. Treasuries lost 3.72
percent last year as a drop in bond prices drove the yield on
the 10-year note to 3.84 percent from 2.22 percent.  “Quantitative easing is priced into the picture,” said
 Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in
Oaks, Pennsylvania. “When the market does turn, as we’ve seen
in the past, it will turn sharply and very swiftly.”  Yields indicate inflation expectations have risen over the
past month.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 1.82 percentage points from 1.67
on Sept. 3. The figure is still less than the five-year average
of 2.10 percentage points.  Investors in a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a unit of
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, became less bearish on
the outlook for Treasuries through the end of June.  Ried’s sentiment index rose to 43 for the seven days ended
Oct. 1, from 42 in the week before. A figure less than 50
indicates that investors expect prices to fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  