-- Wolf Group of Estonia Seeks to Enter Building Markets in China and U.S.
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-10-04T06:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/wolf-group-of-estonia-seeks-to-enter-building-markets-in-china-and-u-s-.html
Wolf Group, Estonia’s largest maker
of building materials, wants to sell its insulation foams and
sealants in China and the U.S. for the first time to reduce
dependence on neighboring Russia, where it is the market leader.  The Tallinn-based company, which exports brands such as
 Krimelte  and Penosil to more than 30 countries, is “actively
working” to enter the Chinese market where it sees
opportunities in higher-end products, Chairman  Jaan Puusaag  said
in an interview.  “It is a matter of “when” not “if” we enter the
Chinese market,” Puusaag said. “Some markets have higher entry
barriers. We still don’t have all the necessary certificates for
U.S. entry after two years of work.”  Construction foam is among the biggest exports in Estonia,
where Germany’s  Henkel AG , the owner of the Makroflex brand,
also has a plant. Estonia was the third-biggest global producer
of polyurethane insulation foams in 2007 with 45 million bottles
behind China and the U.S., which produced 60 million bottles and
50 million bottles, respectively, Puusaag said. China’s output
has probably grown since then “but likely not multiplied.”  Wolf Group aims to grow by 50 percent in the next three
years after returning to annual sales of “about” 1 billion
krooni ($88 million) this year, the level it first achieved in
2008, the 41-year-old Puusaag said.  ‘Will Recover’  “Two years ago we projected that we will recover to
previous levels of revenue and profits in two years and that we
will grow 50 percent in five years from then,” Puusaag said.
“We were able to foresee there will be a slump, and what will
happen after that, and the forecast has held up rather well.”  Russian sales make up about 70 percent of the group’s
total, Puusaag said. The company has a market share of about 23-
25 percent in Russia, including private label products, he said.
The neighboring country’s building market was able to weather
the global credit crisis “relatively quickly,” in part to
rising oil prices and limited use of credit in construction.  “Of course we are trying to reduce dependency on Russia
through global expansion but there is no getting away from the
fact that Russia is a huge market,” Puusaag said. “You can
feed a wolf as much as you want but it won’t become a bear.”  Wolf is among the five biggest producers of foams and
sealants in Europe, with a market share of about 10 percent, he
said.  No ‘Noticeable’ Effect  The global economic crisis hasn’t had a “noticeable”
effect on construction sector in the Nordic countries due to
government support measures, while the building industry is
starting to stabilize in the Baltic and Balkan countries where
no such measures were used, Puusaag said. The U.K. has coped
with the crisis “very well,” while demand in Germany remains
at “modest levels not much different from before the crisis,”
he added.  Puusaag said he wouldn’t rule out listing the company
although there is no need to sell shares to the public “at
present.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  