-- World Trade Center Families Rebuffed by Supreme Court on Landfill Residue
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-04T20:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/world-trade-center-families-rebuffed-by-supreme-court-on-landfill-residue.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  turned away
an appeal from relatives of some Sept. 11 victims, refusing to
revive their effort to have residue from the World Trade Center
collapse moved from a New York City landfill to a cemetery.  The lawsuit, pressed by families of 11 victims, claimed
that the residue at the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island
contains human body parts. The families said they don’t accept
the assurances from city officials that all the material has
been finely sifted.  The families contended that their property and religious
rights were violated by the city’s refusal to take additional
steps to identify remains. Two lower courts, including a New
York-based federal appeals court, said the family members didn’t
have a viable claim.  “We’re extremely disappointed and will be talking with the
9-11 family members to determine whether there are other options
for them,” said Norman Siegel, the lawyer representing the
families.  Remains weren’t found for 1,100 of the 2,752 people who
died at the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001, when al-Qaeda
hijackers crashed airplanes into the towers.  “The city approached the task with dignity, care and
respect, and as a result, thousands of human remains and
personal items were located,” said Peter Wies, deputy chief of
the New York City Law Department’s World Trade Center unit.  The suit named Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  in addition to the
city. The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The case is World Trade Center for Proper Burial v. City of
New York, 09-1467.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 