-- World Bank's Zoellick Predicts Currency `Tensions,' Not a `War' on Trade
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-04T16:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/world-bank-s-zoellick-predicts-currency-devaluation-tensions-not-war-.html
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
said he sees tensions arising from currency devaluations as
nations seek to buoy their economies, though he doesn’t expect
them to turn into “wars.”  “I don’t foresee that we’re moving into an era of currency
wars but there’s clearly going to be tensions, particularly if
you have countries that have trade or current-account surpluses
that are intervening to keep their currencies at lower rates,”
Zoellick said on a conference call with journalists today.  Japan last month sold the yen for the first time in six
years to spur exports and economic growth, joining countries
across Asia and Latin America that have tempered gains in their
currencies against the dollar. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned Sept. 27 of a “currency war” and said that his
government will buy all “excess dollars” in the market to curb
the real’s appreciation.  China has incurred international criticism for limiting
gains in its exchange rate. The yuan has risen about 2 percent
versus the dollar since the People’s Bank of China in June
pledged greater flexibility in the currency after pegging it
around 6.83 for two years.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  today called for “relatively
stable” exchange rates, rebuffing U.S. calls for a stronger
appreciation of the yuan to trim China’s trade surpluses.  Slow growth in mature economies and fast expansion in
emerging ones is creating distortions in financial markets,
Zoellick said.  ‘Money Chasing Yields’  “Money is chasing yield, it can’t find those yields in
developed economies,” Zoellick said. “This is not only pushing
up currency values in emerging and developing countries, it’s
also pushing up the price of some assets, with the risks of
bubbles in property and some commodities.”  Net private capital flows to emerging-market economies will
rise to $825 billion in 2010 from $581 billion in 2009, the
Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based industry
group that represents some of the world’s largest commercial
banks and financial firms, said in a report today.  At the same time, emerging economies face “weak” bank
lending and food prices are “a serious cause for concern” in
some nations, Zoellick said.  Global growth, though it has returned, has slowed since May
and “won’t be fast enough to make inroads” into unemployment,
he said.  The Washington-based World Bank doesn’t expect a ‘double-
dip’ recession and forecasts global expansion of 3.5 percent
this year and 3.3 percent next year, Zoellick said. That
compares with a June forecast of 3.3 percent for both years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  