-- Tyco Wins Bid to Exclude Some Evidence Against Ex-Director Walsh at Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-04T16:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/tyco-wins-bid-to-exclude-some-evidence-against-ex-director-walsh-at-trial.html
Tyco International Ltd . won a bid to
exclude some evidence in a lawsuit that centers on ex-director
 Frank E. Walsh Jr. ’s $20 million “finder’s fee” related to the
purchase of CIT Group Inc.  Walsh had asked U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in New York
to bar Tyco from putting attorneys’ fees into evidence at trial.
Tyco persuaded Cote that the fees were evidence of damages
sustained by the company and that Walsh’s conduct triggered an
internal investigation by the law firm of Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP, which was hired to investigate the payment.  “Tyco has shown that the evidence is properly admitted at
trial,” Cote said.  In a separate ruling, Cote denied a bid by Tyco to exclude
the testimony of an expert witness Walsh wants at a trial about
Bermuda law. Walsh said he relied upon the advice in connection
with his receipt of the $20 million from Tyco.  Walsh, who was “lead director” and a member of the
corporate governance committee, hid the payment from the board
and later refused to return it, Tyco alleges in a suit filed in
New York in 2002. Tyco alleges seven causes of action, including
that Walsh breached his fiduciary duty when he accepted the
payment. He denies allegations of any wrongdoing.  Other Directors  Tyco also sought to bar evidence about the compensation of
directors other than Walsh in the trial. The company argued it
would “burden the trial with mini-inquiries regarding these
irrelevant events.”  Walsh argued the evidence about other directors should be
allowed, because he said Tyco had a practice of paying its
directors without board approval.  Cote conditionally granted Tyco’s motion in part, saying
she will rule later if she will permit Tyco to seek punitive
damages against Walsh.  “Should Tyco have a right to seek punitive damages, then
evidence of its custom and practice with respect to
extraordinary payments to directors other than Walsh may be
admissible,” Cote said.  Mark Levine, a lawyer for Tyco, declined comment. Michele
Pahmer, a lawyer for Walsh, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message left at her office seeking comment.  The case is Tyco International Ltd. v. Frank Walsh Jr. 02-
CV-04633, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 