-- Yen Falls to Four-Month Low Versus Euro on BOJ Easing Outlook; Won Climbs
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-04T05:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/yen-falls-on-gains-in-asian-shares-speculation-importers-selling-currency.html
The yen fell to a four-month low
against the euro on speculation the Bank of Japan will take
additional credit-easing measures at its meeting starting today.  Japan’s currency dropped from near a two-week high versus
the dollar as gains in Asian shares boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets and on speculation Japanese importers were
selling yen. The euro weakened from a six-month high against the
dollar as sovereign-debt concerns reduced demand for European
assets. The won rose for a sixth day after South Korea’s
foreign-exchange reserves reached a record.  “There’s a possibility for more BOJ monetary easing,”
said  Toshihiko Sakai , head of trading for currencies and
financial products in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking
Corp., a unit of Japan’s largest financial group by market value.
“Stocks are rising, which seems to be a factor behind some
selling of the yen,”  The yen declined to 114.99 per euro as of 6:17 a.m. in
London from 114.78 in New York last week, after falling to
115.29 earlier today, the weakest since May 18. Japan’s currency
dropped to 83.60 per dollar from 83.22 on Oct. 1, when it
climbed to 83.16, the strongest since Sept. 15. The euro slipped
0.3 percent to $1.3759, after rising to $1.3807, the strongest
since March 17.  BOJ Meeting  Japan’s currency fell against all of its 16 major
counterparts as the Bank of Japan begins a two-day policy
meeting today at which policy makers are expected to discuss the
need for additional measures to spur growth.  The Bank of Japan is expected to increase its 30-trillion
yen ($359 billion) credit program for lenders to encourage bank
lending when the meeting ends tomorrow, 14 of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News said. One economist forecasts the
bank cut the overnight loan rate to zero from 0.1 percent and
buy more government bonds.  “Expectations that the BOJ will do something at its policy
meeting are bolstering the equity markets,” said  Shinichi Hayashi , a dealer in Tokyo at Shinkin Central Bank. “This may
be leading to selling of the yen.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of shares rose for a second day,
gaining 0.2 percent and spurring demand for higher-yield assets.  The yen also declined on speculation Japanese importers
were selling the currency to settle accounts overseas. The
nation’s fiscal first half ended on Sept. 30.  “There’s talk importers are buying the dollar and other
currencies against the yen,” said  Takashi Kudo , general manager
of market information service at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in Tokyo.  Large manufacturers expected the yen to average 89.44 per
dollar in the six months to March 2011 in the report, according
to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey released last week.  Euro Falls  The euro ended four days of gains versus the dollar as the
Financial Times reported Ireland’s budget deficit this year will
be higher than earlier forecast and Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said the currency’s future is
“looking bleak.”  “There are lingering worries over Europe’s fiscal and
economic situation,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of
foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s
largest currency broker. “This may lead to selling of the euro
and buying of the dollar and the yen.”  Ireland’s budget figures due today are a result of a
slowing economy rather than a reduction in project tax receipts,
The Financial Times said, citing unidentified officials.  Anglo Irish  Ireland said on Sept. 30 it is taking control of Allied
Irish Banks Plc and putting more money into the already
nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp., raising the cost of
stabilizing its financial system to as much as 50 billion euros
($68.8 billion).  Stiglitz said the euro is under pressure because some
countries such as Germany are running trade surpluses while
Ireland, Portugal, Greece and others have deficits, according to
the Sunday Telegraph.  South Korea’s won climbed to a four-month high against the
greenback after a central bank report showed  reserves  increased
$4.4 billion to $289.8 billion last month.  The reserves are sufficient to cope with any crisis, the
finance ministry said today in a report, adding it is prepared
to intervene in the currency market to combat volatility.  “Increasing foreign-exchange reserves means there are more
dollars coming into the country,” said  Yun Se Min , a Seoul-
based currency trader at Busan Bank. “That means more dollars
are being exchanged for won, which is a factor that strengthens
the local currency.”  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,123.35 per dollar, after
advancing to 1,122.93, the strongest level May 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 