-- Yield Spread to U.S. Vanishes in Corporate Bonds on Carney: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-04T09:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/yield-spread-to-u-s-vanishes-in-corporate-bonds-on-carney-canada-credit.html
Canada is losing its yield advantage
over the U.S. in the corporate bond market as the nation’s
central bankers signal little desire to match the Federal
Reserve in easing monetary policy further.  Company debt in Canada pays 3.68 percent on average, or
0.01 percentage point less than similar securities in the U.S.,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The gap
shrunk from about 0.75 percentage point at the start of the
year. The last time Canada corporate bonds yielded more than
their U.S. counterparts for a sustained period was in 2003.  The divergence in yields shows corporate bond investors are
becoming convinced that monetary policy in Canada and the U.S.
are more in line. The Bank of Canada will keep its target
interest rate at 1 percent until the first quarter of next year
as the Federal Reserve signals that it will keep borrowing costs
at record lows, according to the weighted average of 14
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  “I just don’t see how we can raise rates with what’s going
on around the world,” said  Harvey Libby , a manager of fixed-
income trading at Raymond James Ltd. in Toronto.  Yields on 10-year government bonds in Canada will “be
lucky” to rise to 2.9 percent, according to Libby. The yield on
Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bond  ended Oct. 1 at 2.79 percent,
down from the high this year of 3.75 percent in April.  Opting for U.S.  TransCanada Pipelines Ltd., Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.,
AbitibiBowater Inc. and Bank of Nova Scotia are among the
Canadian companies that opted to issue U.S. denominated debt
last month, taking advantage of corporate yields near two-decade
lows. Companies in Canada sold $9.6 billion of debt denominated
in U.S. dollars in September, the busiest month of 2010. That’s
up from $7.98 billion July and $1.4 billion in August.  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds in the U.S. have
fallen to within 184 basis points of government debt, from 239
basis points a year ago, the Merrill Lynch data shows. That
compares with a narrowing of 10 basis points to 145 basis
points, of 1.45 percentage point, in Canada.  Elsewhere in credit markets, spreads on corporate debt
widened 1 basis point last week. Yields fell to 3.68 percent,
from 3.74 percent the week before, the third straight drop. The
securities have returned 7.35 percent this year, compared with
11.2 percent in the U.S. and 9 percent globally.  Cogeco Upgrade  Royal Bank of Canada sold C$90 million in floating-rate
notes on Oct. 1 that mature in September 2011. The note pays
interest at the quarterly Canadian Dealer Offered Rate, or CDOR,
less 3 basis points.  Cogeco Cable Inc. , the Montreal-based cable television
provider, had its credit rating raised to investment grade by
Fitch Ratings. The “issuer default rating” was raised to BBB-,
the lowest investment grade, from BB+, with a “stable”
outlook, reflecting “strength” in the company’s Canadian
operations, according to Fitch.  The ratings firm has boosted the grades of 15 companies
this year and lowered 21, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields widened to
58 basis points on Oct. 1, from 56 on Sept. 24, the Merrill
Lynch data show. It was the first weekly increase since the
period ended Aug. 13, and came as Manitoba, British Columbia,
Alberta, Quebec and Ontario sold debt.  Bonds in the index have returned 7.6 percent this year,
compared with 3.71 percent in all of last year and on track for
their best performance since gaining 11.1 percent in 2000.  Bond Auction  Canadian government bonds returned 0.26 percent in
September, after reinvested interest, according to another
Merrill Lynch index. U.S. Treasuries were flat, compared with a
0.3 percent drop for government bonds globally, the first
monthly loss this year.  Canada will auction C$3 billion of 10-year notes on Oct. 6,
according to a statement on the Bank of Canada’s website. The
3.25 percent securities mature in June 2021.  Bonds due in 10-years issued by Canada yield about 28 basis
points more than Treasuries. As recently as April, Treasuries
yielded as much as 39 basis points more than Canada bonds.  After raising its benchmark rate three times since June 1,
to 1 percent, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  prompted
speculation rates in the country won’t rise further this year
when he said Sept. 30 in a speech in Windsor, Ontario, that
economic growth has slowed more than expected and “the unusual
uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants caution.”  ‘Steady Posture’  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley 
said the next day that the outlook for U.S. job growth and
inflation is “unacceptable” and that the Fed will probably
need to take action to spur the recovery and avert deflation.  “One of the differences between Canada and the U.S. is
that our government has increased rates a few times, whereas the
Fed has maintained a steady posture,”  Jason Parker , head of
fixed-income research at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets,
said by phone from Toronto. “There’s been a little bit more of
a rally on Treasuries because of the expectation of a possible
further round of quantitative easing.”  Lower U.S. rates means Canadian companies may sell more
debt denominated in U.S. dollars, Parker said, although
arbitrage remains in favor of Canadian-dollar issuance by more
than 15 basis points for most companies, according to National
Bank of Canada data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  