-- Zhang’s $6.7 Million Baby Boosts Sotheby’s Mixed Hong Kong Sale
-- B y   A d a m   M a j e n d i e
-- 2010-10-04T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/zhang-s-6-7-million-baby-boosts-sotheby-s-hong-kong-sale-as-buyers-battle.html
Waving paddle 3008, a woman in a
black dress at the center of Sotheby’s Hong Kong saleroom saw
off all comers to win a 1992  Zhang Xiaogang  painting that set an
artist record of HK$52.18 million ($6.7 million), as Chinese
buyers competed for works by established artists.  The Zhang painting of a baby, “Chapter of a New Century --
Birth of the People’s Republic of China II,” was the most
expensive lot in yesterday’s auctions of modern and contemporary
Asian art that tallied HK$471 million. Works by artists such as
Zhang, “Mask Series” painter  Zeng Fanzhi  and gunpowder-on-
paper specialist  Cai Guo-Qiang  drew strong bidding, more than
compensating for patchy interest in lesser-known names.  “The market is getting more mature,” Evelyn Lin,
 Sotheby’s  head of contemporary Asian art, said in an interview.
“Very established quality works will fetch a big price.”  Asian buyers dominated, as the focus switched back to art
from the past two decades that led a run-up in prices before the
recession, over earlier works from the 20th century.  The crimson painting “18-10-60” from 1960 by  Zao Wou-ki ,
who headlined  Christie’s International ’s Hong Kong sale in May
amid frenzied bidding, sold for HK$14.1 million, below the HK$18
million top estimate. Zhang’s picture, by contrast, fetched
almost double its HK$23 million high estimate. (Estimates don’t
include buyer’s premiums.)  White Gloves  Zhang’s piece went up for sale near the end of the evening
session, generating a wave of excitement in a three-quarters-
full saleroom. The picture, the only one brought into the room
and held by two white-gloved Sotheby’s staff, shows a yellow
baby resting on white sheets against a backdrop of historical
photos from 20th-century China.  “It is the first time I’ve used old photos in my work,”
said Zhang in a 2001 interview, according to Sotheby’s catalog.
“That was the beginning of what I’ve become today.”  The buyer, who purchased the painting for a Shanghai
museum, according to the auction house, became more hesitant as
bidding rose from HK$13 million toward HK$40 million, seeing off
two telephone bidders and two rivals in the room. Finally, as
she hesitated, her partner lifted the paddle for her.  Asked after the auction if he was happy with the purchase,
the man laughed and replied: “Not happy! It’s too expensive!”
He declined to give his name.  Masked Men  Zeng Fanzhi’s 1994 “Mask Series No. 5,” showing masked
men with arms around each other’s shoulders, went for HK$16.9
million, against a high estimate of HK$15 million. Cai Guo-
Qiang’s screen “Man, Eagle and Eye in the Sky: People” fetched
HK$11.86 million against a top estimate of HK$9 million.  Of the day’s 485 lots, 372, or 77 percent, found buyers.  The session on modern and contemporary Southeast Asian
paintings was dominated by Indonesian works. Indonesian buyers
pushed up prices at Sotheby’s Hong Kong sale in April. Since
then, the  Jakarta Composite Index  has risen another 25 percent,
boosting wealth of the nation’s collectors.  The top lot among the modern offerings was S. Sudjojono’s
1956 work “A New Dawn,” which sold to a telephone bidder for
HK$10.7 million, more than four times the HK$2.5 million high
estimate. Leading the contemporary lots was  Nyoman Masriadi ’s
“Sok Ngirit (Pretending to be Prudent),” depicting a line of
people outside a telephone booth, which sold for HK$5.06
million, more than double its upper estimate of HK$2.2 million.  Philippine artist Ronald Ventura’s “Natural-Lies”
attracted more than 30 bids to set an artist record HK$2.5
million, nine times its high estimate.  Week’s Sales  This week’s sales by New York-based  Sotheby’s  at the  Hong
Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre  include wines; Modern and
Contemporary Asian Art; traditional Chinese paintings and
ceramics; antiques; jewelry and watches.  At the Grand Hyatt hotel next door, rival Seoul Auction
held a HK$78.5 million sale of Western and Asian modern and
contemporary art, led by  Marc Chagall’s  “Bestiare et Musique,”
which fetched HK$32.2 million.  Sotheby’s auctions continue today with sales of fine
Chinese paintings by masters such as  Wu Guanzhong  and Fu Baoshi,
whose works each have high estimates of HK$7 million.  While Sotheby’s official top estimate for the weeklong
3,200-lot Hong Kong auction is HK$1.6 billion ($210 million),
 Kevin Ching , chief executive officer for Asia, said before the
start that he expected the total would meet or exceed the
auction house’s Hong Kong record of HK$2 billion, set in April.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Adam Majendie  in Hong Kong at  amajendie@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 