-- Zijin Mining Group Shares Halted Ahead of Acid-Waste Leak Penalty in China
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-10-04T07:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/zijin-mining-group-shares-halted-ahead-of-acid-waste-leak-penalty-in-china.html
Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, was suspended from trading in Hong Kong
ahead of a statement on the penalty for the July acid-waste
spill at its largest copper mine.  Chairman  Chen Jinghe  didn’t give details in the Fujian-
based company’s statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  Zijin Mining spilled 2.4 million gallons of acidic waste
from its Zijinshan mine in Fujian province in July, polluting
the Ting river and poisoning enough fish to feed 72,000 people
for a year. The China Securities Regulatory Commission is
investigating the company for a possible breach of information
disclosure rules and the police have detained some executives.  The July 3 leak caused “enormous economic losses,” Zijin
had said, pledging to step up inspections and invest 200 million
yuan ($30 million) within a year to improve its environmental
performance.  Zijin Mining and its waste management staff may be liable
for criminal penalties, Sonia Lu, a Guangzhou-based lawyer at
Alpha & Leader Law Firm, said in July. Environmental pollution
incidents with “especially serious consequences” carry a
prison sentence of three to seven years plus fines, Lu said. The
failure to make proper disclosures carries a maximum prison
sentence of three years, she said.  A nine-day delay in disclosing the spill prompted the
securities regulator to investigate. The Zijinshan copper
plant’s manager, deputy manager and the head of environment were
detained after the leak. It was the worst accident in the
Chinese gold mining industry since July 2008, when runoff from a
Zhongjin Gold Corp. site in Dandong poisoned the water supply
for 210,000 people.  The company on Sept. 27 said four people died after a
tailings dam at its tin mine collapsed following heavy rains
from Typhoon Fanapi. The Guangdong provincial government is
investigating, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  