-- Zimbabwe Security Forces Disrupting Debates on New Constitition, MDC Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-10-04T06:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-04/zimbabwe-security-forces-disrupting-debates-on-new-constitition-mdc-says.html
Zimbabwe should hold at least 1,100
public debates on a new constitution again after security forces
attacked or threatened participants, said a leader of the
discussions in the  Movement for Democratic Change .  “Soldiers in uniform and civilian clothes have been
dropped at sites where the debates are planned,”  Douglas Mwonzora  said by phone from the capital, Harare, on Oct. 1. The
security forces “instruct people what and what not to say and
threaten punishment should they be disobeyed.”  The comments follow a report by New York-based Human Rights
Watch that said President  Robert Mugabe’s   Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front  party was responsible for
violence at the constitutional debates.  Paul Mangwana , a Zanu-PF
lawmaker who co-heads the constitutional process with Mwonzora,
denied his party was behind the campaign of violence.  The MDC and Zanu-PF are organizing the debates in an effort
to get citizens to agree on a new constitution before elections
loosely scheduled for next year. Mugabe was the sole candidate
in the last elections in 2008, after MDC leader  Morgan Tsvangirai  withdrew citing Zanu-PF violence against his party. A
power-sharing agreement subsequently installed Tsvangirai as
Prime Minister in an interim government.  “This violence and intimidation do not bode well for the
referendum and elections that could be held next year,” Human
Rights Watch said in an e-mailed statement Sept. 28.  Zimbabwe National Army spokesman Everson Magwiza denied any
military involvement in the recent violence.  “Some soldiers may be attending the debates in their
private capacity as Zimbabwean citizens, but there is no
military intervention to disrupt the meetings,” Magwiza said by
phone from Harare on Oct. 1.  Calls to Zimbabwe’s police headquarters in Harare weren’t
answered when Bloomberg sought comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 