-- Fed Will Retain Policy on Assets, Low-Rate Pledge, Survey Shows
-- Alex Tanzi
-- 2010-09-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-17/fed-is-likely-to-retain-policy-on-assets-low-rate-promise-survey-shows.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve next week is
likely to affirm its pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period” and maintain the floor on its holdings of
securities, say economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The Fed’s Open Market Committee at its Sept. 21 meeting
will hold off from expanding the balance sheet by purchasing
securities, according to 60 of 64 analysts surveyed Sept. 16-17.
Fifty-four of 63 economists said the Fed will leave unchanged a
sentence saying high unemployment and low inflation warrant
“exceptionally low” rates for an “extended period.”  
 The survey indicates that even with the economy slowing for
two quarters and unemployment persisting at 9.5 percent or
higher for the past year, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may need
more time to decide if additional stimulus is needed to support
a rebound in growth. A few respondents said the Fed may say next
week it’s prepared to take action as needed.  
 “Bernanke has indicated a willingness for the Fed to do
more to support economic growth, but it’s really conditional on
a much more substantial deterioration in the economic outlook,”
said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. in St. Petersburg, Florida. Brown expects no change in Fed
policy or the “extended period” language on Sept. 21.  
 By a 59-4 count, economists expect the Fed to leave
unchanged at 0.25 percent the interest rate it pays on banks’
reserve deposits with the central bank.  
 Setting a Floor  
 At the last FOMC meeting on Aug. 10, Fed policy makers
voted 9-1 to stop letting the balance sheet contract because of
a projected $400 billion of payments on mortgage debt held by
the Fed through the end of 2011. The central bank began
purchasing Treasuries to keep a $2.05 trillion floor on
holdings. The decision ran counter to some analyst forecasts.  
 Nomura Securities International Inc. chief economist  David Resler , who correctly predicted the Aug. 10 decision, said in a
research report yesterday that the Fed “should and will
authorize an increase in its securities portfolio target” at
next week’s meeting.  
 The move may come in the form of buying as much as $200
billion of additional securities until the next FOMC meeting
Nov. 2-3, Resler said in an interview.  
 “The data have been not uniformly weak but consistently
weak,” Resler said. With economists, and probably the Fed,
reducing economic-growth forecasts since the last FOMC meeting,
“there would be no question they would be easing” by cutting
the federal funds rate if the Fed could do so, Resler said. He
wasn’t one of the survey respondents.  
 Preconditions in Place  
 Bernanke, in an Aug. 27 speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
said the “preconditions” for higher 2011 growth are “in
place.”  
 At the same time, he outlined the pros and cons of three
policy tools to boost growth if the outlook worsens: asset
purchases, changes to the  low-rate  pledge and reducing the rate
on reserve deposits. A possible downside of asset purchases is
reduced public confidence, “even if unjustified,” in the Fed’s
ability to exit from its unprecedented expansion of credit.  
 “The potential benefits at this point do not seem to
outweigh the potential costs,” Brown said.  
 A report yesterday showed confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly dropped to a one-year low in September. U.S.
stocks, meantime, have rebounded in recent months, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining about 9 percent so far this
quarter.  
 ‘Significant Impact’  
 “The options alluded to at Jackson Hole are most important
in providing the illusion of significant monetary-policy
potential options,” said survey respondent  Jason Schenker ,
president of Prestige Economics LLC in Austin, Texas. “They’re
not necessarily options that could truly be implemented to have
significant impact in an immediate-term kind of way without
potential long-term consequences.”  
 Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said the FOMC may take a step
closer to increasing asset purchases even without changing
policy at this meeting.  
 “They may insert a line saying they are evaluating the
potential benefits of buying longer-term securities, but they
won’t announce the start of any such purchases,” Rupkey said.  
 The questions were as follows:  
 1. At the FOMC’s Sept. 21 meeting, will the committee decide to
(choose one):  
 a) Retain the current policy of keeping a constant level of the
Fed’s securities holdings by reinvesting principal payments from
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in longer-term
Treasury securities  
 b) Increase the level of securities holdings through an
accelerated pace of asset purchases  
 c) take a different action on the balance sheet. Please be
specific.  
 Result (64 replies): A, 60; B, 3; C, 1.  
 2. Will the FOMC statement following the Sept. 21 meeting
include any changes to the following sentence: “The Committee
will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0
to 1/4 percent and continues to anticipate that economic
conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued
inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely
to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate
for an extended period.” Yes or no.  
 Result (63 replies): Yes, 9; 54, no.  
 3. Will the Fed decide at the Sept. 21 meeting to reduce the
0.25 percent interest rate on excess reserves? Yes or no.  
 Result (63 replies): Yes, 4; 59, no.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Tanzi  in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Dennis Hynes, chief market strategist at RW Pressprich & Co., talks about the outlook for Federal Reserve monetary policy.
     Hynes also discusses U.S. stocks, Treasuries, gold and his investment strategy. He talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
