-- Boeing System Faces Hard Sell in Congress, Casey Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2008-02-19T23:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-19/boeing-system-faces-hard-sell-in-congress-casey-says-update1-.html

          
          
             The $160 billion system of vehicles,
drones and communications that  Boeing Co. (BA)  is building for the
U.S. Army faces more scrutiny and potential cuts this year in
Congress, Army Chief of Staff General George Casey said.  
 While Army and Pentagon officials aren't seeking major cuts
in the Future Combat Systems, ``that's not the case'' with
lawmakers, Casey told reporters today at the Pentagon.  
 The Army wants about $3.6 billion in fiscal 2009 for the
program, or about 10 percent of its combined research and
procurement request for fiscal 2009. Casey said Representative
Neil Abercrombie, a Hawaii Democrat who is chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee's panel on land warfare, told him he
plans to cut this request in order to pay for current needs.  
 ``He says his challenge is near-term readiness,'' Casey
said, ``but the notion you can take care of near-term readiness
by moving money out of FCS, I don't think, is exactly right.''  
 Abercrombie's panel last year trimmed $867 million from the
Army's request for $3.56 billion. Congress settled on a reduction
of $228 million for the current fiscal year. Congress cut the
program by $326 million in fiscal 2007 and $226 million in fiscal
2006.  
 Casey said the Army must convince skeptical lawmakers that
the system is relevant to the war on terrorism as well as
conventional conflicts. The Army plans over the next two years to
field some of the sensor and drone technology being developed for
the final system that's scheduled to be deployed after 2015.  
 Affordability  
 Representative John Murtha, the Pennsylvania Democrat who is
head of the House panel on  defense spending , told a defense
industry conference last week that he's ``concerned about the
affordability of this program.''  
 The program is the Pentagon's second most expensive behind
the $299 billion Joint Strike Fighter.  
 ``We're still in the early stages of the 2009 budget process
so for now our focus will continue to be on executing on FCS and
delivering this capability for the Army,'' Boeing spokesman John Morrocco said in an e-mail statement.  
 Separately, Casey said the Army is still determining how
many fortified Mine-Resistant, Ambush-Protected vehicle it will
eventually purchase. The Army, with the assistance of the U.S.
Central Command, is reviewing whether it needs as many as 10,000
vehicles, a figure that was set last year.  
 ``There will be a decision made by the end of the month,''
Casey said. About 1,000 vehicles have been fielded to the Army
since October, he said. Casey said the vehicles are performing
``very well.''  
 ``We've only had one soldier killed operating an MRAP'' in
 Iraq  out of up to 30 attacks dating from October to last week, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        