-- Onyx Falls After Nexavar Trial for Lung Cancer Ends
-- Shannon Pettypiece
-- 2008-02-19T21:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-19/onyx-falls-after-nexavar-trial-for-lung-cancer-ends-update5-.html

          
          
             Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., developer
with Bayer AG of the liver and kidney cancer drug Nexavar, fell
the most in more than a year in Nasdaq trading after the
companies halted a test against lung tumors.  
 Onyx, of Emeryville,  California , dropped $11.89, or 26
percent, to $33.09 at 4 p.m. New York time in composite trading.
The company rose 82 percent over 12 months through Feb. 15, the
last day the market was open before the announcement.  
 Bayer, Germany's biggest drugmaker, and Onyx said yesterday
they stopped the study because the product failed to help
patients live longer than standard treatment. Nexavar was being
tested in the last of three rounds of studies needed for U.S.
regulatory approval for lung cancer.  
 ``This pretty much eliminates the lung cancer indication
from everybody's model,'' said Jason Zhang, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in New York, in an interview today. ``It also
brings into question other indications such as breast cancer,
which is currently in Phase II trials.''  
 Zhang said he was surprised the trials were stopped early,
though he wasn't expecting positive results after previous
trials. BMO Capital Markets, which doesn't own any shares of
Onyx, will lower its rating on the shares, Zhang said.  
 Competing Drugs  
 Nexavar is a so-called targeted therapy and would compete
for lung cancer patients with Roche Holding AG and Genentech
Inc.'s Avastin treatment. ImClone System Inc. also is testing
its Erbitux drug, currently used to treat colon and head and
neck tumors, in lung cancer patients. ImClone sells Erbitux with
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. in the U.S. and  Germany 's Merck KGaA
markets the product in Europe.  
 New York-based  ImClone rose  99 cents, or 2.5 percent, to
$40.05 in Nasdaq trading. Shares have risen 36 percent in the
last twelve months.  
 The Nexavar trial, dubbed Escape, showed a higher death
rate in patients with the squamous cell form of lung cancer who
took standard chemotherapy and Nexavar together than in those
taking standard chemotherapy alone, the companies said. Escape
studied more than 900 patients with non-small cell lung cancer.  
 Bayer and Onyx are studying whether the Escape testing
affects other lung-cancer trials.  
 Onyx also reported an adjusted fourth-quarter loss of 21
cents a  share , more than twice the estimated 9-cent loss in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. The company declined to
forecast future sales of Nexavar, its only product on the
market, Zhang said.  
 The earnings announcement was ``very very disappointing,''
Zhang said. ``If you know the market is big, but if you don't
have any confidence at projecting the revenue, that's not a good
sign.''  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
   trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        