-- Gazprom Says Ukraine Deal Unlikely as Cutoff Looms
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2008-02-11T14:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-11/gazprom-says-ukraine-deal-unlikely-as-cutoff-looms-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom doesn't expect a debt
agreement with Ukraine, raising the likelihood  Russia 's natural-gas exporter will enforce a deadline and curb supplies tomorrow.  
 ``It's hard to believe all the problems will be solved
today,'' Kupriyanov said in a live interview on Ekho Moskvy
radio station.  
 Gazprom has threatened to reduce deliveries by a quarter
tomorrow if Ukraine doesn't specify how it will pay a $1.5
billion debt. Gazprom Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  is
holding talks in Moscow with Oleh Dubyna, head of Ukrainian
state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, Kupriyanov said.  
 Gazprom, which supplies a quarter of  Europe 's gas, cut
supplies to Ukraine during a price dispute in January 2006,
leading to shortfalls across Europe. The company in October
threatened to cut deliveries to Ukraine over a similar dispute
over debts.  
 State-run Gazprom would only shut off shipments of Russian
gas, which now account for a quarter of Ukrainian consumption,
and continue delivering supplies from Central Asia, Kupriyanov
said. The cutoff will take place at 10:00 a.m. Moscow tomorrow
if no agreement is reached, he said.  
 Gazprom claims it started shipping Russian gas to make up
for shortfalls caused by an unseasonably cold winter in Central
Asia.  
 Ukrainian Prime Minister said today that Ukraine only used
Central Asian gas in January and owes Russia $1.1 billion for
debts accumulated by her predecessor,  Viktor Yanukovych .  
 Ukrainian President  Viktor Yushchenko  is expected in Moscow
for a visit tomorrow. Gazprom will hold its 15th anniversary
party in the Kremlin's Palace of Congresses later today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        