-- U.S. OKs first anti-subsidy probe vs China since '91
-- By  Doug Palmer
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 3:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/businesspro-usa-china-trade-subsidies-dc-idUSN1533967820061215

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. International Trade 
Commission on Friday approved the first U.S. investigation into 
suspected Chinese government subsidies to exporters since 1991 
in a case that could open the floodgate to more probes. 

  The trade panel voted 4-1 to clear the way for the Commerce 
Department to decide whether to slap countervailing duties on 
coated paper from China to offset what U.S. manufacturers 
charge are subsidies that include government grants, 
preferential loans and tax breaks.  At issue is a long-standing Commerce Department policy, 
upheld by a 1986 court ruling, that U.S. countervailing duty 
laws do not apply to non-market economies like China.  When Commerce accepted the countervailing duty petition 
last month, it said it would decide within the course of that 
investigation whether to change its policy.  The department is expected to issue its preliminary 
decision in the case next month.  NewPage Corp., the Dayton, Ohio, manufacturer that filed 
the case, also asked the Commerce Department to investigate 
separately whether China is selling coated free sheet paper in 
the United States at below fair-market value.  The ITC also approved the anti-dumping probe and similar 
sets of investigations on coated paper from Indonesia and South 
Korea. By the 4-1 vote, it found a reasonable indication that 
imports from all three countries had materially injured, or 
threatened to materially injure, domestic industry.  NewPage is seeking anti-dumping duties of 99.65 percent on 
China, 99.14 percent on Indonesia and 71.81 percent on South 
Korea, as well as additional countervailing duties determined 
in the course of the investigation.  Coated free sheet paper is a high-end product used for 
coffee table books, company reports, magazines and brochures.
  THOUSANDS OF JOBS  "This is a large important industry that employs thousands 
of workers across the United States," NewPage ( NWP.N ) chief 
executive officer Mark Suwyn said. "In the past year, we've 
watched many paper machines shut down in the United States as a 
result of competition from low-priced imports."  But the significance of the countervailing duty case 
against China goes beyond the paper industry, as the U.S. trade 
deficit with China nears a record $240 billion this year.  U.S. manufacturers have not tried to bring a countervailing 
duty complaint against China since 1991, when Commerce rejected 
two cases dealing with lugnuts and ceiling fans. However, they 
have been pushing for a change in the policy, through 
legislation if necessary.  Commerce's long-standing position has been that it is too 
difficult to determine subsidy levels in a "non-market 
economy," as China is still considered under U.S. trade laws, 
said John Magnus, president of TRADEWINS, a Washington law firm 
specializing in trade cases.  The U.S. Court of Appeals upheld that view in a 1986 case 
involving steel wire rod imports from Poland and the former 
Czechoslovakia. But many trade experts say the department's 
stance no longer makes sense when it comes to China.  "Poland and Czechoslovakia in 1985 is a very different 
world than China in 2006," said Gilbert Kaplan, an attorney 
with King & Spalding that is representing NewPage. "I think by 
starting the case, (the Commerce Department has) shown they're 
willing to take a fresh look at the issue."  The department did reject one part of NewPage's petition, 
which asked it to investigate the issue of whether China 
manipulates its currency in a way that subsidizes exports, 
Kaplan said.