-- Ford shakes up top team, names product chief
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 10:54pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/businesspro-ford-realignment-dc-idUSWEN118820061215

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co. announced on Thursday a 
shake-up of its top management intended to streamline vehicle 
development efforts and bring Chief Executive Alan Mulally 
closer to key operations. 

  In his first major move since taking his position full time 
in October, Mulally created a post of global product 
development chief at the struggling No. 2 U.S. automaker and 
eliminated a layer of management in its international 
operations.  Derrick Kuzak, 55, who played a key role in the launch of 
Ford's small Focus sedan, will lead Ford's new global 
development group, reporting to Mulally.  Under the reorganization, three business unit chiefs will 
now report directly to the CEO: Mark Fields, 45, who heads the 
Americas; Lewis Booth, 58, who is in charge of Europe and 
Ford's luxury brands; and John Parker, 58, who has 
responsibility for the Asian region and Mazda.  Mulally, who joined Ford from Boeing Co., had made it clear 
he was looking to revamp the automaker's operational structure 
to make Ford leaner and more centrally driven in areas such as 
product development, purchasing and engineering.  In a series of interviews since taking office, Mulally has 
criticized Ford's regional operating structure as an impediment 
that was keeping the company from competing effectively against 
rivals such as Toyota Motor Corp.  "An integrated, global product development team supporting 
our automotive business units will enable us to make the best 
use of our global assets," Mulally said in a statement 
announcing the reshuffle, which came after a Ford board 
meeting.  The new management structure at Ford parallels one already 
in place at larger rival General Motors Corp., where Bob Lutz 
was named global product chief last year in a move that 
analysts have praised for amping up GM's product pipeline.  "This kind of thing makes sense, it is a global company 
that has been operated regionally for a long time," Morningstar 
analyst John Novak said of Ford. "To some extent they have been 
trying to do this, but having a reporting structure that is 
explicit is a good thing."  As part of the management changes announced on Thursday, 
Mulally will have four additional executives reporting directly 
to him with responsibility for purchasing, manufacturing 
engineering, information systems and technology.  The restructuring also eliminated the position that had 
been held by Mark Schulz, Ford's former head of international 
operations, who announced his early retirement last week after 
more than 30 years with the automaker.  Ford, which has seen its sales drop by 8 percent this year, 
has faced scrutiny because of what many analysts see as the 
weakness of upcoming products at a time when consumers are 
shifting away from its stronghold in trucks and SUVs.  In one example, Ford is not expected to have a subcompact 
car for the U.S. market until 2009, though executives see that 
segment as one of the fastest growing because of shifting 
generational dynamics and concern over higher fuel prices.  Mulally's arrival at Ford has been viewed positively by 
Wall Street analysts as a catalyst that could push the 
automaker through the next phase of a restructuring that has 
already seen more than 50,000 jobs cut and 16 plants closed.  Morningstar's Novak said he expected Mulally to put his own 
stamp on Ford's restructuring plan over the next few months.  In a note issued before Wednesday's announcement of Ford's 
executive shake-up, Merrill Lynch analyst John Murphy upgraded 
Ford's stock to "neutral" from "sell," saying the company's 
recent $25 billion borrowing program had given the beleaguered 
automaker "much-needed breathing room."  Murphy said he expected Mulally to give more detail on his 
operating plan as soon as the Detroit Auto show in early 
January.  "It is tough to believe that a turnaround can be effected 
in short order, but clarity on Mulally's plan could be viewed 
positively by the market," he said in note to clients.  Novak said he thought Ford's fundamentals would remain 
difficult at least through 2007.  Prior to the announcement of the shake-up, Ford shares 
closed up 3.3 percent at $7.11 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The stock is down about 8 percent since the start of the year.  (Additional reporting by  David Bailey  in Chicago)