-- Schering-Plough proposes governance changes
-- 
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 3:59pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/businesspro-scheringplough-governance-dc-idUSN1537994020061215

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Drug maker Schering-Plough Corp. 
SGP.N said on Friday it is taking actions to improve 
corporate governance, including ending a "poison pill" 
anti-takeover provision and proposing directors be elected by a 
majority of votes cast instead of a plurality. 

  The U.S. drugmaker also proposed a major reduction in 
shareholder voting requirements for key decisions such as the 
removal of a director, and expediting a previously approved 
change providing for the annual election of directors.  Poison pills are provisions that effectively raise the 
price of a takeover target. They came into vogue two decades 
ago to halt hostile takeovers, but many companies are now 
allowing them to lapse.  The board will recommend shareholders approve changes to 
shareholder voting requirements at the 2007 annual meeting, the 
company said.  Schering-Plough's poison pill was created years ago, before 
the company brought Fred Hassan aboard as chief executive 
officer in 2003.  Although elimination of the poison pill in theory would 
make it easier for a rival drugmaker to acquire the company, 
Mehta Partners analyst Shaojing Tong said Schering-Plough's 
lucrative partnerships with Merck & Co. ( MRK.N ) and Johnson & 
Johnson ( JNJ.N ) have provisions that would pose major continued 
roadblocks to a takeover.  Merck and Schering-Plough split ever-growing revenue from 
cholesterol fighters Zetia and Vytorin through a joint venture, 
while Schering-Plough has overseas rights to popular arthritis 
drug Remicade through its partnership with J&J.  Should either Merck or Schering-Plough be acquired by 
another company, either of the joint venture partners is 
entitled to buy out the other's interest in Zetia and Vytorin, 
Tong said.  "Similarly, if somebody tries to buy Schering-Plough, J&J 
would have rights to buy back rights to Remicade, and without 
much compensation," Tong said.  Tong said more than half of Schering-Plough's value comes 
from Vytorin and Zetia, while about 25 percent comes from 
Remicade.  "So strategically, it would not seem to make sense to 
acquire Schering-Plough without these products," he said.  A Schering-Plough spokesman said elimination of the poison 
pill, which was set to expire in any case by July 2007, is 
among a number of moves meant to "increase transparency in 
corporate governance."  "Its elimination clearly should be understood as a 
corporate governance action and not a strategic action" by the 
company, the spokesman said.  Schering-Plough shares were up 2 cents at $23.62 in 
afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.