-- Adobe profit up, product upgrades on track
-- By  Jim Finkle
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 10:55pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/businesspro-adobe-earns-dc-idUSWEN118020061215

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Adobe Systems Inc. ( ADBE.O ) reported on 
Thursday that quarterly profit grew 16 percent, meeting 
forecasts on higher sales of design software, and it reassured 
investors that new products are on schedule, sending its shares 
up 6 percent. 

  Adobe said it was on track to start shipping new versions 
of its Creative Suite line of 14 design programs at the end of 
the second quarter. It also announced that a preliminary 
version of the upgrade of one of its top sellers, Photoshop 
photo editor, will be available for download on Friday.  Adobe also issued a first-quarter earnings forecast that 
was generally in line with Wall Street expectations.  Investors had worried that the company's fourth-quarter 
results might miss forecasts or that its outlook for the 
current quarter would disappoint as buyers waited for the 
updated programs due out next year, analysts said.  The programs that are being upgraded include Acrobat 
document-sharing software, the Illustrator drawing program and 
Dreamweaver Web site developer.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to $181.9 million, or 30 
cents per share, in the fiscal fourth quarter ended December 1, 
from $156.3 million, or 31 cents per share, a year ago. The 
per-share net income was down because the number of Adobe 
shares rose in the past year.  Revenue rose to $682.2 million from $510.4 million in the 
year-earlier quarter, buoyed by sales of software titles from 
Macromedia, a one-time rival that Adobe acquired a year ago.  "It was a really strong quarter at the tail end of the 
Creative Suite product cycle," said Canaccord Adams analyst 
Steven Frankel.  Adobe said it expects to start shipping the new products at 
the end of the second quarter. While that is in line with what 
Wall Street expected, investors were relieved to hear that 
Adobe executives do not anticipate any delays, analysts said.  "I think there is always a fear of that (delays) in the 
software world," Frankel said.  Acrobat and Creative Suite were top sellers during the 
quarter, Adobe said.  Excluding special items and stock-based compensation, Adobe 
reported fourth-quarter profit of 33 cents per share, in line 
with forecasts.  Adobe said it expects to report first-quarter profit 
excluding items and stock-based compensation of 28 cents to 30 
cents a share on revenue of $640 million to $670 million.  Analysts, on average, had expected that figure to be 31 
cents per share, on revenue of $653 million.  Adobe shares were quoted at $43.31 in after-market 
electronic trading, having closed in Nasdaq trade at $40.81.