-- Merck wins Vioxx trial in Alabama state court
-- By Verna Gates
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 2:34pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/businesspro-merck-vioxx-dc-idUSN1536555220061215

 

 BIRMINGHAM, Alabama  (Reuters) - Merck & Co. scored its 
second swift victory this week in a Vioxx product liability 
trial when an Alabama jury found on Friday it did not hide 
health risks associated with its withdrawn arthritis drug or 
knowingly market a faulty product. 

  The Alabama state court jury of eight women and four men 
deliberated for less than two hours before finding for the drug 
maker on both counts.  Merck ( MRK.N ) had been sued by 59-year-old Gary Albright, 
who blamed Vioxx for his 2001 heart attack. Albright took Vioxx 
for arthritis for a year before his heart attack and continued 
to take it until 2004.  A federal court jury in New Orleans on Wednesday took just 
90 minutes to find that Merck had provided adequate warnings of 
the Vioxx health risks in another case of a man who blamed the 
drug for his heart attack. It also found that Vioxx was not the 
prime cause of that plaintiff's heart attack.  Merck attorney Mike Brock said of the Alabama verdict, "The 
jury focused on the science of the case and saw that the drug 
did not cause (Albright's) heart attack."  "The jury decision confirms that Merck acted responsibly," 
he added.  During the trial the jury was told that Albright had 
severely clogged heart arteries and that for decades he had 
suffered from other health problems associated with high risk 
for heart attack such as diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure 
and untreated high cholesterol.  One juror, who asked not to be named, told reporters that 
Albright's many health problems and the fact that he did not 
make regular visits to his physician influenced their decision 
to find in Merck's favor.  Albright's attorney, Steve Heninger, expressed 
disappointment at the verdict and suggested he would consider 
an appeal. He noted that Merck is a formidable opponent in such 
cases.  "It's hard to go against a Goliath. They present the same 
evidence in every case," Heninger said.  Merck is facing more than 27,000 lawsuits from people who 
claim to have been harmed by the once $2.5 billion a year drug 
that was pulled off the market in September 2004 after a study 
showed it doubled the risk of heart attack and stroke in 
patients taking it for at least 18 months.  The New Jersey-based drugmaker has insisted it will fight 
each lawsuit case by case, rather than submit to any kind of 
broad settlement agreement.  "All of the Vioxx cases are individual claims involving 
very different circumstances, so we need to consider the facts 
of each case on an individual basis," Merck General Counsel 
Kenneth Frazier said in a statement.  "Juries continue to determine that Merck acted responsibly 
in its research of Vioxx and provided the appropriate 
information about Vioxx to patients and the medical community," 
Frazier said.  Alabama Circuit Court Judge J. Scott Vowell presided over 
the trial in Birmingham, Alabama, the first Vioxx case to be 
tried in that state.  Of the Vioxx trials that have reached a jury verdict thus 
far, Merck has won eight and lost four. An additional Merck 
victory in New Jersey was overturned by the judge and will be 
retried.  Merck shares were up 33 cents, or 0.8 percent, at $43.93 in 
afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.