-- Navistar to miss filing deadline
-- 
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 1:42pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/businesspro-navistar-restatement-dc-idUSN1529020720061215

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Truck and engine maker Navistar 
International Corp. ( NAV.N ) warned on Friday that it will miss 
its own deadline for filing delayed financial reports, 
prompting the New York Stock Exchange to say it will begin 
procedures to delist the stock. 

  Navistar's top executive later seemed to signal his 
apparent willingness to entertain offers to take the company 
private -- though a spokesman quickly said the remark was a 
joke.  The news sent Navistar shares, which have rallied in recent 
months on hopes that the company was putting its accounting 
issues behind it, on a roller coaster ride.  Down nearly 10 percent shortly after the opening bell, the 
stock recovered a good chunk of those losses by early afternoon 
trading after a conference call with analysts -- and talk of a 
possible buyout -- buoyed investor spirits.  The dramatic day began before the opening bell, when Bill 
Caton, Navistar's chief finance officer, said in a statement 
that the company's "commitment to accuracy" would force it to 
postpone its already delayed 2005 financial statements, as well 
as its 2006 results, "beyond February 1, 2007."  In June, the Warrenville, Illinois-based company, which has 
not reported earnings since 2005 and is restating results back 
to 2002, promised to file the restated numbers and delayed 
results "shortly before" mid-January.  The delay is the latest setback in Navistar's year-long 
effort to clean up its books and burnish its image on Wall 
Street.  Those troubles began in mid-January, when the company said 
it would not file its form 10-K annual report with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission on time.  Navistar blamed the delay on a disagreement with its 
auditors at Deloitte and Touche over "complex and technical 
accounting issues." It suggested the issue was exacerbated when 
a key member of Deloitte's audit team, who was more familiar 
with Navistar's finances, went on an unexpected, extended 
medical leave.  In April, Navistar fired Deloitte, its independent auditor 
for 98 years, and hired KPMG. At the same time, it warned that 
it needed to restate earnings back to 2002 to fix accounting 
errors.  In June, when the company promised to get current by 
mid-January, it said that its audit committee had hired an 
independent law firm to look into vendor rebates, one of most 
important issues Deloitte had flagged as problematic, and that 
the law firm had "found no evidence of fraud or intentional 
misconduct."  Getting delisted from the NYSE, where Navistar has traded 
since 1908, and relegated to trading on the Pink Sheets could 
be bad news for the company's shareholders because it would 
likely result in some institutional investors selling the 
issue. The NYSE said it will suspend trading by December 20.  In addition, Navistar would risk being replaced in the 
Standard & Poor's 500 Index. Being ousted from the index would 
put additional selling pressure on the shares because S&P 500 
index fund managers would drop Navistar from their holdings.  But after initially plunging on news of the delay and 
probable delisting, Navistar shares recovered a good deal of 
their losses.  In early afternoon trading on the NYSE, they were down 
$1.16, or about 3.4 percent, at $32.99 after earlier falling as 
low as $30.82.  Some of the rebound came after Dan Ustian, the company's 
chairman and chief executive, apparently indicated during a 
conference call that the company might be open to buyout 
offers.  "If you've got a lot of money, come over and see us," 
Navistar Chief Executive Dan Ustian said after an analyst asked 
whether any parties had expressed interest in helping 
management take the company private. Ustian would not say 
whether the company had been approached.  Roy Wiley, the company's spokesman, quickly insisted that 
Ustian's remarks were in jest -- though he, too, refused to 
rule out any possibility.  "Everything has its price," Wiley told Reuters. "But Dan 
was responding lightheartedly to an analyst's question."  During the call, Ustian also updated analysts on Navistar's 
forecast for truck and engine shipments next year, when new 
U.S. clean-air regulations take effect that are expected to 
initially weigh on sales.  Ustian said the company expects truck shipments to fall 
around 25 percent next year and engine shipments to fall 10 
percent.