-- UPDATE 9-Japan Tobacco agrees to buy Gallaher for $14.7 bln
-- 
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 8:32am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/japan-tobacco-gallaher-announcement-idUST8540520061215

 

  (Adds more Japan Tobacco and analyst comment, updates shares) 

  By Sachi Izumi and  David Jones TOKYO/LONDON  Dec 15 (Reuters) - Japan Tobacco Inc. ( 2914.T )
is buying British cigarette maker Gallaher Group Plc GLH.L in
an agreed 7.5 billion pounds ($14.7 billion) cash deal, in the
biggest-ever foreign acquisition by a Japanese company.  Analysts said the takeover could help Japan Tobacco offset
declining sales in Japan and reinforce its position as the
world's third-largest tobacco firm behind Marlboro maker Altria
Group Inc. ( MO.N ) and British American Tobacco Plc ( BATS.L ).  Japan Tobacco said on Friday it has agreed to pay 11.40
pounds in cash per share for Gallaher, the maker of Benson &
Hedges and Silk Cut cigarettes in Europe, valuing Gallaher at
7.5 billion pounds, or 9.75 billion pounds including debt.  Shares in Japan Tobacco, which makes Mild Seven cigarettes
and owns the Camel, Winston and Salem brands outside the United
States, closed up 3.1 percent to 597,000 yen, while Gallaher
shares were off 0.1 percent at 11.54 pounds by 1315 GMT, which
analysts said reflected some lingering hopes of a rival bid.  But they said there was little real chance of another bid
emerging at this stage. ABN AMRO analyst David Ireland said the
counter-bid story was a myth after assessing possible rival
offers from Altria, BAT and even Britain's Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc ( IMT.L ). "It can't be done," he said.  Gallaher has agreed to pay Japan Tobacco a break fee of 52.6
million pounds if a rival bid for Gallaher was successful.  Japan Tobacco is paying a 16.4 percent premium to Gallaher's
share price close of 9.79 pounds on Dec 6, just before Gallaher
reported a bid approach.  The shares leapt to a record high of 12.10 pounds the next
day, prompting hopes of a 12-pound bid, but analysts said on
reflection the 11.40 pounds offer was a fair price and should be
accepted since the shares traded as low as 8 pounds in June,
while the bidder was in a strong position backed by its hefty
cash pile and the low cost of raising capital in Japan.  "We approached the Gallaher management because having a
large scale is increasingly important as regulations are getting
stricter worldwide," Japan Tobacco Chief Executive Hiroshi
Kimura told a news conference.  "We believe they had judged that it would bring more merits
in the future if they join us and expand in size," he added.  The deal is Kimura's first big acquisition since taking over
in his current position in June after running the company's
Geneva-based international operations for seven years.  Buying Gallaher will give Japan Tobacco a 14 percent market
share in the European Union, Kimura said. Its share currently
stands at about 6 percent, compared with Gallaher's 8 percent.  
  SPATE OF MOVES  Analysts said the deal could trigger a spate of moves
similar to 1999 when Japan Tobacco's purchase of the non-U.S.
side of RJR Nabisco for $7.8 billion prompted BAT to buy
Rothmans, and France's Seita and Spain's Tabacalera to merge and
form Altadis ALT.MC.  Imperial, ranked fourth in the world, has been linked with a
possible bid for sixth-ranked Altadis over the last two years,
while Philip Morris is planning to split its U.S. and non-U.S.
businesses which may prompt, especially the latter, into deals.  "We believe the industry has to consolidate and we expect at
least one more significant deal in the next 12 months," said
analyst Michael Smith at JP Morgan.  Gallaher said it intends to recommend the deal to its
shareholders, while Japan Tobacco said it was aiming to complete
the acquisition in the first half of 2007.  Japan Tobacco, 50 percent owned by the Japanese government,
will use cash reserves and loans from Merrill Lynch MER.N to
fund the purchase. It said the offer was at 13 times Gallaher's
EBITDA 2005 earnings compared to 12.8 for the RJR deal in 1999.  The deal will give the combined group annual output of 587
billion cigarettes, behind Philip Morris' 990 billion and BAT's
678 billion but ahead of Imperial's 175 billion.  Japan Tobacco said the only significant overlap in the deal
will be in Russia and Ukraine, but said it was too soon to talk
about cost savings or possible job cuts.  Overseas cigarette sales have been Japan Tobacco's main
source of profit growth in recent years and in 2005 they 
overtook those in Japan for the first time as the domestic
market declined and it slipped to a two-thirds market share.  Gallaher earns 70 percent of its profits from the shrinking
cigarette markets of Britain, Ireland, Austria and Sweden. To
offset this fall it has been expanding into Russia, Kazakhstan
and Ukraine, and earnings there have risen sharply.  In Europe, Japan Tobacco is strong in Spain, France and
Italy. It, like Gallaher, is a major player in the fast-growing
tobacco markets of the former Soviet Union.  Japan Tobacco could sell off Gallaher's German and Austrian
distribution businesses to Altadis ALT.MC for $1 billion to
get around any antitrust problems, analysts said.  Lead advisers for Gallaher were Dresdner Kleinwort ( ALVG.DE )
and Greenhill ( GHL.N ), while Goldman Sachs ( GS.N ) also acted as
adviser. Merrill Lynch was adviser for Japan Tobacco.  The Gallaher deal is worth about 50 percent more than
telephone operator NTT DoCoMo Inc.'s ( 9437.T ) $9.8 billion
takeover of AT&T Wireless Group in 2000, the previous record for
a Japanese international acquisition.
 (Additional reporting by  Edwina Gibbs , Alison Tudor, Aiko Wakao
and Kiyoshi Takenaka)




