-- UPDATE 4-Shell CEO in Moscow in search of Gazprom deal
-- 
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 11:27am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/15/russia-shell-idUSL1576926220061215

 

  (Adds supervisory board clear 2007 budget) 

  By  Tom Miles  and  Douglas Busvine MOSCOW  Dec 15 (Reuters) - The heads of Royal Dutch Shell
( RDSa.L ) and Gazprom ( GAZP.MM ) met for the second time in a week
on Friday, a signal they could be nearing a deal to allow the
Russian gas monopoly to join the $22 billion Sakhalin-2 project.  One source familiar with the matter said the talks may set
out a "road map" to guide negotiations on a deal for Gazprom to
acquire a stake in Sakhalin-2, the world's largest liquefied
natural gas project, that would be finalised in the New Year.  "It's most likely to be something that gets more intense as
we get into January," the source said. "Both sides want to find
a solution and both want to work with each other."  Neither Shell nor its Sakhalin-2 partners -- Japan's Mitsui
( 8031.T ) and Mitsubishi ( 8058.T ), whose chief executives were
also in Moscow -- disclosed any details of the talks.  In a brief statement, Gazprom said only that its chief
executive Alexei Miller met Shell CEO Jeroen van der Veer to
discuss Gazprom's participation in Sakhalin-2, which is due to
come on stream in 2008 and supply Asia and North America.  After a meeting between the heads of the two firms last
Friday, industry sources told Reuters Shell had offered to let
Gazprom take a controlling stake in Sakhalin-2, the largest
single foreign investment in Russia.  Chris Weafer, chief strategist at Alfa-Bank, said the key
questions were the valuation of the project and what Gazprom
would offer Shell in return for a stake in Sakhalin-2.  Originally Shell was to accept a stake in Gazprom's
Zapolyarnoye field, but industry sources have said it no longer
wants that. Weafer said he understood Gazprom was now offering a
smaller stake in Zapolyarnoye, but Shell wanted other assets
with greater potential and a clearer development timetable.  "They're obviously holding out for something better," Weafer
said. "But not cash. They really can't afford to reduce their
involvement in Russia."  Gazprom's chairman, Russia's First Deputy Premier Dmitry
Medvedev, this week confirmed the company wanted a stake of
around 50 percent and Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko said a
deal could be done in the first quarter of next year, raising
hopes that an end to the lengthy negotiations was in sight.  In a confidence-boosting step, Khristenko's ministry said on
Friday that Sakhalin-2's 2007 budget and works programme of
$1.17 billion had been approved. Khristenko also met van der
Veer, but no details of their meeting were disclosed.  A Kremlin source said he was unaware of any plan for van der
Veer to meet President Vladimir Putin. Such face-to-face
meetings often signal a major deal has won official blessing.  
  GOODWILL  A second source familiar with the talks also expected the
bosses to agree on a plan of action targeting a deal in the
first quarter. "That's how it looks, and there is goodwill on
both sides," the source told Reuters.  Under the proposed deal, Shell would cede up to 30 percent
out of its 55 percent holding. Mitsui and Mitsubishi may each
sell 10 percent of their respective stakes of 25 percent and 20
percent, enabling Gazprom to secure a bare majority.  Russian officials have put Shell under pressure since it
doubled its cost estimate for Sakhalin-2 last year, wrecking the
preliminary Zapolyarnoye swap agreement with Gazprom.  The escalation of the costs infuriated the Kremlin, which
will now have to wait longer for royalties from the project's
production sharing agreement, signed in the 1990s.  Russia's Natural Resources Ministry and environmental
officials have threatened administrative sanctions, withdrawal
of key permits and damages claims of up to $30 billion.  "Some time back it became quite clear that Shell had no
choice but to do a deal with Gazprom. If they didn't, Sakhalin-2
would be shut down," Weafer said.  "The priority for the government is certainly the
restructuring of ownership rather than getting these projects
under way."  Officials' zealous pursuit of Shell prompted a diplomatic
row, with several foreign governments demanding an explanation
from Russia. European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
said on Friday he was also keeping an eye on Russia's behaviour.
  "It's a matter of concern for us what is happening in
Sakhalin," Barroso told a news conference on Friday.  Sakhalin Energy, the Sakhalin-2 operating company, said
earlier this week the activities of Russian officials were now
threatening to cause the entire project timetable to slip.  Shell has said it wants any agreement to tie up all the
loose ends at once, implying it plans to seal its budget, terms
for Gazprom's entry and also a ceasefire in the rhetorical
onslaught from Russian officials.  The sources said it would be key for Russia to ease the
official pressure on Sakhalin Energy so that both sides can
hammer out a satisfactory business deal in good faith.  (Additional reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov in Moscow, Osamu
Tsukimori in Tokyo and  Jeff Mason  in Brussels)

