-- Hewlett-Packard Settles Claim by Reporters in Probe
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2008-02-14T04:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-14/hewlett-packard-settles-claim-by-reporters-in-probe-update3-.html

          
          
             Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  settled a case
filed by journalists over claims their privacy was invaded by a
company investigation that relied on detectives posing as
reporters to obtain phone records.  
 Hewlett-Packard paid an undisclosed sum to resolve the
dispute with the  New York Times (NYT) , a reporter working for the
newspaper and three journalists working for Business Week, said
Terry Gross, a lawyer who represented the reporters and their
families.  
 ``H-P was trying to get the trade secrets of the  New York 
Times and Business Week and their reporters, which is the
identity of their sources,'' Gross said today in a phone
interview. ``It's pretty appalling that a major corporation can
believe that this was acceptable.''  
 Hewlett-Packard Chairman Patricia Dunn was fired in
September 2006 for approving boardroom spying, which spurred a
national debate over  identity theft . Hewlett-Packard hired
investigators who posed as reporters and company directors to
obtain phone records, a practice called pretexting, to root out
board members who leaked information to the media.  
 A  California  judge in March dismissed criminal charges
against Dunn that stemmed from the probe, and in June dismissed
the same charges against three investigators after they
performed community service.  
 Legislation Passed  
 The investigation moved Congress and the California
Legislature to pass laws prohibiting the release of phone
records without consent.  
 Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo-Alto, California, settled
with the New York Times and reporter John Markoff and his wife,
according to Gross. He said the company also settled with three
Business Week reporters -- Roger Crockett, Peter Burrows and Ben
Elgin -- and their wives.  
 ``The matter has been resolved to the mutual satisfaction
of the parties, and we are pleased to put this matter behind
us,'' Hewlett-Packard spokesman Ryan Donovan said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Hewlett-Packard, the world's largest printer maker, still
faces lawsuits based on similar claims filed by reporters for
Cnet Networks Inc. and the  Associated Press .  
 The company said in August that it made a ``substantial
settlement offer'' to settle those suits in San Francisco
Superior Court. That offer was rejected, according to the
company.  
 The reporters seek damages for invasion of privacy and
emotional distress.  
 Gross said the New York Times donated the money it received
from the settlement to charitable and nonprofit organizations
including the New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, the journalism
school at the  University of California  at Berkeley and the
Center for Investigative Reporting.  
 Hewlett-Packard, Donovan said, was pleased the New York
Times ``decided to donate all or some portion of the settlement
to charity, although H-P was not consulted about the charities
selected.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        