-- Fed's Evans says US economy "moving forward"
-- By  Ros Krasny
-- Mon Oct 22, 2007 7:43pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/22/businesspro-usa-fed-evans-dc-idUSN2221146820071022

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Chicago Federal Reserve Bank President 
Charles Evans said on Monday that outside of housing the U.S. 
economy is "moving forward," and that the Fed cannot afford to 
go soft on inflation. 

  "We cannot afford to be lax on the inflation front," Evans 
said in a speech to a University of Chicago Graduate School of 
Business global markets forum.  "I would see any increase in inflation or inflation 
expectations from their current levels as a serious concern."  Evans said U.S. economic activity will remain "soft" this 
fall, still dragged down by the decline in residential housing 
investment.  "But we see growth recovering next year and moving up to 
average close to potential later in 2008," Evans said, terming 
potential growth "somewhat above 2.5 percent."  The Federal Open Market Committee lowered its key lending 
rate by one-half percentage point on September 18, its first 
rate cut since 2003, after weeks of turmoil in credit markets 
triggered by problems in the U.S. subprime mortgage sector.  That preemptive policy action has helped guard against a 
worst-case outcome for the economy after August's financial 
market shakeout, Evans said.  "At times we may need to adopt a risk management approach 
to policy -- that is, adjust the stance of policy to guard 
against the risk of events that ... if they did occur, would 
present an especially notable threat to sustainable growth or 
price stability," he said.  Still, risks remain that housing demand and prices "could 
weaken a good deal more than we expect," pulling consumer 
spending down as well, despite recent evidence of resiliency in 
consumer spending.  Further delinquencies and foreclosures could add to the 
problems with mortgage-backed securities and "pose a more 
serious downside risk to growth," Evans said.  "I want to emphasize that I do not see this extreme outcome 
as likely. But it is one of those high-cost outcomes that we 
should guard against," he said.  "If in fact the more likely scenario unfolds, in which 
conditions improve and risks recede, then policy should be 
prepared to respond to any developments that threaten the 
inflation outlook."  Evans was making his first public remarks on the economy 
since taking over at the Chicago Fed from Michael Moskow in 
September. He is a voting member of the Federal Open Market 
Committee in 2007.  A former director of research at the Chicago Fed, Evans 
termed the most recent inflation numbers "positive" and the 
balance of the economic data since the September FOMC meeting 
as supportive of the Fed's baseline forecasts.  The core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price 
index should be in a range of 1.5 percent to 2 percent in 2008 
and 2009, Evans said. "Relative to our outlook six months ago, 
this is a favorable development," he said.  Evans said the recent changes to inflation and productivity 
have lowered the effective neutral rate on federal funds. 
Coming into the September FOMC meeting "it was no longer 
appropriate for monetary policy to include a slight degree of 
policy restraint," he said.  Evans said recent jobs growth of about 100,000 per month in 
August and September is consistent with "an economy growing at 
potential." Labor markets in general should remain healthy, 
although the jobless rate is likely to increase slightly from 
its current level, he said.