-- Dell to sell computers in 1,400 Staples stores
-- By  Philipp Gollner
-- Mon Oct 22, 2007 1:43pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/22/businesspro-dell-staples-dc-idUSN2217754620071022

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Dell Inc DELL.O said it would 
sell personal computers, printers, monitors and ink supplies in 
1,400 Staples Inc ( SPLS.O ) stores in the United States, its 
latest move into retail after breaking from 23 years of selling 
directly to consumers. 

  Staples, the world's largest office supplies retailer, will 
start selling the Dell products in November. The agreement, 
which includes sales on Staples' Web site, brings the number of 
retail outlets carrying Dell products to more than 10,000, both 
companies said in a statement.  The deal widens Dell's expansion in retail after it began 
selling PCs through Wal-Mart Stores Inc ( WMT.N ) in North 
America in June. Since then, Dell has entered into agreements 
with retailers in Britain, Japan and China, among others.  "There are communities of people that we have not reached, 
and we will continue to look at these options in the near term 
and long term," Michael Tatelman, Dell's vice president and 
general manager for consumer sales and marketing, said in an 
interview.  "We're bringing the advantages of our direct model to 
shoppers whose busy lifestyles require them to have products 
available wherever they are and wherever they want to be," 
Tatelman added.  Dell, founded by Michael Dell in his university dorm room 
in 1984, grew to become the world's largest PC maker by selling 
machines directly to consumers and businesses via the phone or 
its Web site.  The company resisted analysts' and investors' calls to 
expand in retail until this year, after it lost the No. 1 PC 
market share spot to Hewlett-Packard Co ( HPQ.N ), which has been 
growing by selling notebook computers in retail stores, 
including Staples and Wal-Mart.  Dell shares were up 25 cents, or 0.9 percent, at $28.17 in 
early afternoon Nasdaq trading.