-- Key Delphi deal deadline extended after GM offer
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Wed Mar 5, 2008 7:38pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/06/businesspro-delphi-dc-idUSN0541320080306

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Delphi Corp DPHIQ.PK said on 
Wednesday Appaloosa Management, the lead investor behind a 
planned equity infusion of $2.55 billion in the bankrupt auto 
parts maker, had agreed to extend a deadline to terminate that 
deal as Delphi scrambles to complete its exit financing. 

  Delphi also said in a filing with securities regulators 
that its former parent General Motors Corp ( GM.N ) was ready to 
provide it with additional financing to exit bankruptcy, a step 
GM had indicated was possible last week.  But in a development that underscored the uncertainty that 
continues to shadow Delphi's $6.1-billion exit financing, the 
Troy, Michigan-based company said one of its plan investors had 
informed it that additional commitment from GM did not meet the 
terms of Delphi's agreement with its planned equity investors.  As a result, Delphi said it had gone to a federal 
bankruptcy judge in New York to seek a ruling that GM's 
additional contribution was in compliance with the 
court-approved plan in place and to order the investors to keep 
up their commitments under the deal.  In the meantime, Delphi said Appaloosa had agreed to extend 
the first deadline beyond which it could pull out of the 
investment deal if other financing is not in place from March 
31 to April 5.  GM in its own securities filing last week said that it was 
willing to convert $2.25 billion that had been scheduled to be 
paid out in cash to GM into debt for Delphi to help the parts 
maker complete its exit financing arrangements.  "A great deal of effort has gone into developing a 
framework to aid Delphi's emergence," GM spokeswoman Renee 
Rashid-Merem said in a written statement.  "GM continues to work with Delphi and its stakeholders 
toward the company's successful exit from bankruptcy, and GM's 
willingness to take an expanded role in Delphi's exit financing 
represents another step GM is taking toward that end," she 
added.  Delphi has struggled to obtain the $6.1 billion it needs in 
exit financing by the end of the first quarter because of the 
tight credit markets.  In its annual report filed on Thursday with securities 
regulators last week, GM said that if the current exit 
financing deal falls through and another is not cobbled 
together, it could face a range of risks.  GM said those included a disruption to production, strained 
relations with the United Auto Workers and a higher final bill 
for of its exposure to Delphi, which filed for bankruptcy in 
October 2005.  When GM spun the parts company off in 1999, it retained 
some responsibility for retiree health care and other benefits. 
It also relies on the supplier for a range of parts it needs to 
keep its own factories running.  But the loan market's capacity to absorb Delphi's $6.1 
billion exit financing deal and others like it has proved 
extremely limited, putting pressure on GM to step up and cover 
any shortfall, according to bankers.  Delphi said its exit financing package was now expected to 
include a $1.6-billion asset-backed revolving credit facility, 
at least $1.7 billion of first-lien term loans, a $2.0 billion 
first-lien term note to be issued to GM and an $825 million 
second-lien term loan. GM will cover any unsold portion of that 
second-lien loan, Delphi said.  "Delphi believes that GM's increased participation in the 
exit financing structure is necessary to successfully syndicate 
its exit financing on a timely basis," the company said.  (Reporting by Kevin Krolicki; Editing by Marguerita Choy)