-- Bond insurers' possible downgrade spurs market angst
-- By  Herbert Lash
-- Wed Jan 30, 2008 6:57pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/30/businesspro-usa-bondinsurers-worstcase-d-idUSN3023144520080130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Fear of bond insurers losing their 
investment-grade credit ratings is rattling investors as 
estimates mount for the cost of paying for the latest chapter 
in the widening U.S. credit crisis. 

  Many investors hoped the worst was over when banks took 
about $100 billion in write-downs in the fourth quarter for 
subprime-related loans. Investors thought the big global banks 
had cleared the decks to put their losses behind them.  But Wall Street is having second thoughts about the depth 
of the crisis and many investors now fear more pain is in 
store, especially if MBIA Inc ( MBI.N ) and Ambac Financial Group 
Inc ABK.N -- the largest bond insurers -- lose their triple-A 
ratings.  U.S. monoline bond insurers back stop about $2.3 trillion 
in debt.  Wall Street stock indexes are already feeling the pressure. 
The markets rose sharply on Wednesday after the second Federal 
Reserve interest rate cut in eight days, but those gains were 
erased after a television commentator said he believed the two 
biggest bond insurers will lose their 'AAA' credit ratings.  The downgrade of MBIA or Ambac would not be well received 
by investors, said Ralph Cole, who helps manage $2.5 billion in 
assets at Ferguson Wellman Capital Management in Portland, 
Oregon.  "But something like this (a downgrade) would just extend 
the expected recovery date that much further out -- there would 
be that much more risk associated with financial stocks," Cole 
said.  If the insurers go bust, the cost of paying for the losses 
and recapitalizing the insurers would be about $130 billion, 
Independent Strategy, a London-based consultancy, has 
estimated.  "That would be the hit to the taxpayer to put the sector 
back on its feet," it said in a note to investors.  MBIA and Ambac face losses of more than $23 billion from 
bonds they insure, and should be forced to stop paying 
dividends, hedge fund Pershing Square Capital told regulators 
in a letter.  The fund has bet the companies' stock prices will fall.  Meanwhile, the Oppenheimer brokerage said on Wednesday that 
U.S. financial institutions are on the hook for as much as $70 
billion in new write-downs from the bond insurers -- known as 
monolines in the industry -- in 2008, but write-offs will more 
likely be about $40 billion.  "We have dramatically changed our thought process with 
respect to the monolines and their impact on banks and the 
larger financial market," Oppenheimer said on Wednesday.  "Among the myriad of negatives that surround financial 
stocks today, there is no issue more critical than the fate of 
the monoline insurers," it said.  However, Oppenheimer & Co said it no longer thinks systemic 
risk is realistic or a bailout of the monolines is viable.  About $80 billion of eventual losses for the six biggest 
bond insurers can be expected, Sean Egan, managing director of 
credit rating firm Egan-Jones Ratings Inc, said last week.  The bond insurers have about $47 billion to cover their 
claims, Independent Strategy said. But if losses range from 18 
percent to 22 percent on the $335 billion in real estate-based 
credit derivatives they insure, that in itself would be about 
$65 billion, it said.  How bad a monoline failure would be depends on the analysis 
with estimates ranging from $15 billion to $200 billion, 
Independent Strategy said.  Assuming only $107 billion of the credit default swaps are 
truly junk because they are based on subprime mortgages and 
low-grade CDOs, the lower figure is feasible if losses on the 
default swaps are 15 percent, it said.  The higher figure comes from assuming all $825 billion of 
swaps get hit and losses are about 25 percent, it added.