-- Swiss bank regulator to probe UBS: report
-- By  Jonathan Lynn
-- Mon Dec 24, 2007 3:22am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/24/businesspro-ubs-probe-dc-idUSL2344139120071224

 

 GENEVA  (Reuters) - Switzerland's banking regulator will 
investigate how UBS ( UBSN.VX ) ran up losses in the credit 
crisis requiring billions of dollars of writedowns, a spokesman 
for the body was quoted as saying on Sunday. 

  Federal Banking Commission spokesman Alain Bichsel told 
Swiss weekly Sonntag.CH that the regulator was putting pressure 
on the world's biggest wealth manager to overcome the crisis 
quickly and strengthen its capital base.  "In a second step we will investigate how these enormous 
writedowns could arise," Bichsel said. "And one aspect of that 
is who was responsible for it."  UBS announced further writedowns of around $10 billion this 
month, bringing the total to around $14 billion and making it 
one of the most prominent victims of the credit crisis among 
banks so far.  A spokesman for UBS was not immediately available for 
comment.  Banking Commission President Eugen Haltiner told the weekly 
SonntagsZeitung that as far as he knew UBS had not breached 
internal lending limits, and that the bank met the commission's 
requirement to separate risk management and risk supervision.  He said the situation in Swiss banking today was not as 
serious as in the 1990s, when a banking crisis arising from 
property lending led to some banks being taken over or 
receiving public bail-outs as losses consumed capital.  "The timely measures taken by UBS and the obviously 
conservative provisions have restored the situation to 
equilibrium to the best of our knowledge," said Haltiner, 
himself a former senior UBS executive.  He added it was not yet clear whether the writedowns would 
lead to actual losses, and the provisions, while large, should 
be seen in the context of the bank's size and capital.  "The existence of UBS was never threatened," he said.  He said it was prudent to assume that there would be 
further corrections in the market resulting from the crisis.  But so far UBS was the Swiss bank most affected, with 
Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ) less exposed to subprime business and 
other banks either not affected at all or only marginally.
  DISCONTENT AND DISQUIET  The losses at UBS have prompted discontent among 
shareholders and open disquiet within Switzerland's normally 
secretive banking industry, with other institutions concerned 
at the damage done to the country's standing as a financial 
centre.  UBS sold a stake of roughly 9 percent to the Government of 
Singapore Investment Corporation, and a second smaller stake to 
an investor from the Middle East, named on Friday by the 
Financial Times as Saudi Arabian investors. UBS has declined to 
comment on that report.  UBS will seek approval for the writedowns and plans to 
issue a mandatory convertible bond for a total of 13 billion 
Swiss francs ($11.25 billion) to the two new investors at a 
shareholders' meeting in February.  But investors in Switzerland have set the stage for a 
stormy meeting, with advocacy group Ethos on Thursday urging 
more clarity from UBS over its losses.  Bichsel said that resolving the crisis was the priority and 
the commission regards the measures proposed by UBS to raise 
capital as sensible.  Ethos does not object to the capital increase as such, but 
is unhappy that the new Singaporean and Saudi investors are 
being welcomed on favorable terms while existing shareholders 
are excluded from the deal.  "We are hoping for two tranches," Sonntag.CH quoted Ethos 
director Dominique Biedermann as saying.  UBS is already the target of a investigation by U.S. 
regulators, one of about three dozen probes launched by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) into firms involved in 
the subprime mortgage collapse and subsequent credit crunch.  The SEC is looking into how financial firms priced 
mortgage-backed securities such as collateralized debt 
obligations (CDOs) and whether they should have told investors 
earlier about the declining value of the securities.  Sonntag.CH said U.S. law firm Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman 
and Robbings LLP has launched a class action against UBS for 
all purchases of shares in the bank between March 13 and 
December 11, accusing UBS of keeping its share price 
artificially high by not writing down its CDO positions sooner.  (Editing by  Richard Hubbard )