-- Merrill investor Davis follows value tradition
-- 
-- Mon Dec 24, 2007 3:15pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/24/merrilllynch-davis-idUSN2450511320071224

 

 NEW YORK  Dec 24 (Reuters) - Investor Christopher Davis,
whose firm is buying $1.2 billion of stock in Merrill Lynch &
Co Inc MER.N at a substantial discount, is known as a
long-term value player who sometimes does years of research
before making a portfolio decision. 

  On Monday Merrill said Davis Selected Advisers LP and
Singapore's Temasek Holdings planned to buy as much as $6.2
billion of Merrill stock at $48 a share, or more than 13
percent below where the stock closed on Friday. The shares
dropped 3 percent at the end of Monday's trading.  New York-based Davis Advisors was started by Christopher
Davis' father, Shelby Davis, in 1969 and now manages more than
$100 billion. His grandfather, Shelby Cullom Davis, also was a
well-known investor.  In addition to the Davis and Selected funds, the firm
manages the Clipper Fund, which owns 1.61 million shares of
Merrill, according to data from fund research firm Lipper Inc,
a subsidiary of Reuters Group PLC RTR.L RTRSY.O.  Christopher Davis, who is 42, was not available for
comment.   About 35 percent of Davis' holdings are in financial
services companies. Kenneth C. Feinberg, a co-portfolio manager
for Davis, said his company contacted Merrill Lynch about two
weeks ago, inquiring if it would be interested in getting an
outside investor.  Feinberg said Davis believes in Merrill Lynch's franchise
value, citing the strength of its more than 16,000 brokers and
its 49 percent stake in asset manager BlackRock Inc.  "We think (Thain) has very high integrity," Feinberg said.
"We have the right fellow at the top."  TOP RATINGS  Davis Selected Advisers is known not only for a good
long-term track record but for a management culture that puts
shareholders first.  Earlier this year fund research firm Morningstar Inc, in a
review of corporate governance standards at more than 1,000
funds, gave top ratings to Clipper and Davis.  A Morningstar commentary about Clipper said the board of
that fund was a "standard-bearer for corporate governance"
while the management team was "fundholder-focused" and had
reasonable fees.  According to the Web site davisfunds.com, the Davis family
and its employees and directors have more than $2 billion of
their own money invested in the funds.  The Davis investment approach seeks "durable, well-managed
businesses that can be purchased at value prices and held for
the long-term," the Web site says. The average holding period
of a stock in the Davis New York Venture Fund is four to seven
years.  A Morningstar commentary on Clipper, dated Aug. 30, noted
that the firm's heavy concentration in financial stocks had
hurt returns as subprime mortgage problems caused havoc in a
wide swath of the sector.  "Over the years, Davis and (co-manager Kenneth) Feinberg
have shown a knack for finding firms able to survive and thrive
after such dislocations," Morningstar wrote.  Clipper is up 0.25 percent year-to-date through Dec. 21,
compared with nearly 5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500
stock index on a total return basis, according to Morningstar.  Selected American Shares, also managed by Davis and
Feinberg, is up 5.46 percent so far this year, ahead of the S&P
by 61 basis points, according to Morningstar.
 (Reporting by Cal Mankowski; Additional reporting by Tim
McLaughlin; Editing by  Brian Moss )


