-- Etam Shares Drop on Deterioration in China Profit
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2007-09-07T16:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-07/etam-shares-drop-on-deterioration-in-china-profit-update4-.html

          
          
             Etam Developpement SA (CS) ,  France 's
largest publicly traded maker of women's lingerie, tumbled the
most in three years in Paris trading after it said profit in
China dropped in the first half.  
 Etam's shares fell 10.85 euros, or 22 percent, to 39.99
euros, giving the Paris-based company a market value of 474
million euros ($651 million).  
 Etam, which sells women's lacy underwear and prêt-a-porter
at outlets in many European and Asian capitals, said operating
profit in China declined in the first half because it was
reorganizing its unit there amid growing competition from
retailers such as Inditex SA's Zara and  Hennes & Mauritz AB. (HMB) 
China is the company's second-biggest market after France.  
 ``Management gives the impression it doesn't control the
situation in  China ,'' said David Da Maia, an analyst with Aurel
Leven in Paris. ``To succeed in China you need a local manager
who knows the market well and works in a Chinese way.'' Da Maia
has put his ``buy'' rating on Etam under review.  
 Operating profit as a percentage of sales in China fell
about 4 percentage points to between 6 percent and 6.5 percent
in the first half, Chief Executive Officer Richard Simonin said
in a telephone interview. The drop stemmed from costs associated
with the reorganization, he said.  
 ``We weren't good enough in piloting, that's perfectly
clear,'' Simonin said.  
 Chinese Operations  
 Etam is restructuring its business in China after Paul Liu,
who headed the Chinese unit for 12 years, quit his operational
job for personal reasons in April, Simonin said. Liu remains a
non-executive vice-chairman and is a 40 percent owner of Etam's
Chinese joint venture, according to Simonin.  
 Simonin declined to give revenue and profit forecasts for
the company's Chinese operations in the second half, saying it
was difficult to estimate the length of the restructuring.  
 ``You can't stop a process all of a sudden,'' he said.  
 In July, Etam said  sales growth  in the Asian country slowed
to 4.1 percent. Chinese revenue represented a fifth of total
sales in the first half. Sales growth continued to fall in July
and August, the executive said.  
 Etam, which has more than 10,000 employees in China at
2,317 selling points in malls and shopping centers, plans to
present a new management team for the country as it releases
full earnings for the first-half on Sept. 27, Simonin said.  
 In  Europe , Etam's operating profit as a percentage of sales
was stable in the first half, Simonin said, declining to provide
a forecast for all of the company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fbenedettiva@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Victoria Richards at   vrichards@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        