-- Lawyer Acquitted in Blackstone Director Extortion Case
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-30T21:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-12/blackstone-manager-s-father-in-law-pleads-guilty-to-attempted-larceny.html
New York attorney Stuart Jackson was
found not guilty of participating in an alleged extortion plot
targeting  Blackstone Group LP  Senior Managing Director  David Blitzer .  Jackson is the former lawyer for Stuart Ross, who pleaded
guilty in August after being accused of trying to extort money
from Blitzer, his son-in-law.  Ross, the father of Blitzer’s wife, Allison, and Jackson
were charged in 2008. Prosecutors accused them of threatening to
ruin David Blitzer’s life unless he paid them as much as
$11 million.  “It should never have been brought in the first place,”
Jackson, 81, said today of the case in a courtroom interview
after the verdict in New York state court. “It was a domestic
dispute between father-in-law and son-in-law.”  Jackson was acquitted of attempted grand larceny and grand
larceny. Ross pleaded guilty to attempted grand larceny.  In August, when he pleaded, Ross admitted demanding
$5.5 million to cease harassing and communicating with Blitzer
and others at the Blackstone Group, and an equal amount in
exchange for giving up rights to visit his grandchildren,
prosecutors said.  State Supreme Court Justice  Bonnie Wittner  has said she
would sentence Ross to probation.  On Nov. 8, Ross filed a motion to withdraw his plea,
according to prosecutors.  Helping a Client  “I was only helping my client in the ordinary course of
business,” Jackson said today.  Tom Johnson, a spokesman for Blitzer, declined to comment
on the verdict.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for the
Blackstone Group, also declined to comment. Matthew Myers, a
lawyer for Ross, did not immediately return a call for comment.  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment on the verdict.  Ross made millions when he brought the Smurfs cartoon
characters to the U.S. from Europe in the 1980s. Myers said in
June that his client later made “some bad investments.”  Ross was charged after evidence presented to a grand jury
showed he demanded that Blitzer give him large sums of money or
he would harass him over the telephone and make accusations to
his supervisors at Blackstone, law enforcement and the media,
evidence, Wittner wrote in court papers.  Escalating Threats  “These threats escalated to a point where Ross, through
his attorney, defendant Jackson, told Blitzer’s attorney,  Roger Stavis , that for $5.5 million, Ross would not try to visit his
daughter or grandchildren and would stop harassing Blitzer and
contacting his business,” the judge wrote.  Jackson mentioned “settlement numbers” of $5.5 million to
$11 million to Stavis, according to court papers filed by
Jackson’s attorneys, Levitt & Kaizer. Stavis did not immediately
return a call for comment today. He has declined to comment in
the past.  An agreement was ultimately obtained for Blitzer to pay
$250,000 to $400,000 to Ross to cease the contact, Wittner
wrote. At an Aug. 21, 2008, meeting in New York, Blitzer paid
Jackson and Ross $50,000 as a down payment.  The meeting was a recorded “sting,” according to
Jackson’s court papers.  New York-based Blackstone, founded by Chairman  Stephen A. Schwarzman , is a global investment and advisory firm with 19
offices worldwide, according to its website.  Blitzer, based in London, is a senior managing director in
the private-equity group, the website says.  The cases are People v. Ross, 08-062712, and People v.
Jackson, 08-062713, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 