-- Tiger Woods Has TV Networks `Nervous' About Next Contracts
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-08-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-12/tiger-woods-s-slump-has-networks-nervous-about-next-television-contracts.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods  was heading out of Ohio
by the time live final-round television coverage of last week’s
Bridgestone Invitational began.  
 That’s become a familiar occurrence as Woods searches for
his first victory since a five-month break from golf following a
sex scandal. It’s drawn the attention of television networks,
led by CBS Corp., the sport’s leading broadcaster with 21
tournaments on the U.S. PGA Tour, including this week’s  PGA
Championship .  
 Ratings for the past two events on CBS -- the Greenbrier
Classic and the Bridgestone -- have declined as much as 68
percent from the events held the same weeks a year ago, when
Woods won them both. During his 13-year reign over the sport,
Woods drove up the value of television contracts to as high as
the four-year, $850 million deal that expired after the 2006
season, an increase CBS President  Sean McManus  termed
“inflated.” With the PGA Tour’s current contracts with CBS and
NBC set to run out in 2012, that value may soon deflate. The
tour’s contract with Comcast Corp.’s Golf Channel expires in
2021.  
 “This is a business, and right now the networks are
nervous,”  Brad Adgate , research director at Horizon Media, a
New York-based advertising company, said in a telephone
interview.  
 Negotiations on new contracts likely won’t begin in earnest
until next year. McManus said he will keep a close eye on Woods,
the No. 1 player in the Official World Golf Ranking and the
sport’s most valuable commodity.  
 ‘Monitor Carefully’  
 “Fortunately, we have a couple more years to go, but we
have to monitor the Tiger situation very carefully and see how
often he is in contention and then factor that into all the
other variables and try to quantify when you’re putting a value
on a sports property,” McManus said on a media conference call
on Aug. 9. “You have to try to figure out what the intelligent
bid is.”  
 Ratings alone don’t determine future contracts, McManus
said. He is also relying on the return on core golf advertisers,
such as the financial institutions that have shied away from the
sport due to government criticism over the past two years.  
 “That marketplace, having been very depressed in ‘08 and
’09, has come back very strong this year,” McManus said. “So I
would say that’s a positive factor.”  
 The sport’s biggest negative lately has been Woods. At the
Bridgestone event in Akron, Ohio, a tournament he had won a PGA
Tour-record seven times, Woods finished 18-over-par, 30 shots
behind winner  Hunter Mahan . It was his worst performance as a
professional.  
 Woods, 34, began his final round at about 7:45 a.m. local
time and was out of the Firestone Country Club almost three
hours before CBS went on the air at 2 p.m. There was no live
coverage of his final round anywhere.  
 Underdog  
 Woods’s fall has left him an underdog at this week’s PGA,
where Masters Tournament winner  Phil Mickelson , 40, is favored
by Las Vegas oddsmakers. Woods remains stuck at 14 major titles,
four behind  Jack Nicklaus ’s record, and in jeopardy of failing
to qualify for the PGA Tour’s season-ending FedEx Cup playoffs.
The four-event finale was created in 2007 to coincide with the
start of the new television contracts as a way to draw more
viewers to golf as football and baseball viewership picks up.  
 Woods also may not play in the Ryder Cup, the biennial team
competition between the U.S. and Europe. He is two spots out of
the eight that automatically qualify in the U.S. standings.  
 Woods’s play has left even his opponents wondering when it
will turn around, if ever.  
 “Slumps come with a lot of soul searching,” U.S. Open
winner  Graeme McDowell  said in a press conference at Whistling
Straits in Kohler, Wisconsin. “You start questioning absolutely
every aspect of what you’re doing. Questioning the deep, dark,
depths of your soul as to what you’ve done wrong and where you
need to go from there. You make some big decisions.”  
 Scores Up, Ratings Down  
 As Woods’s scores have soared, ratings have plummeted.  
 The final round of the Greenbrier event in White Sulfur
Springs, West Virginia, two weeks ago drew a 1.2 national rating
compared with a 3.7 rating for the 2009 Buick Open, which was
held the same week and won by Woods. This year’s tournament,
which Woods skipped, was won by  Stuart Appleby  with a final-
round score of 59, only the fifth time a U.S. PGA Tour golfer
has broken 60 during tournament play.  
 Golf Value  
 Without Woods dominating golf, CBS will have to decide if
the sport is worth as much as it has been in the past.  
 McManus said he “doesn’t worry” about how Woods or
Mickelson, golf’s No. 2-ranked player, fare on the course
because he “can’t control it.”  
 McManus can control how much CBS spends for a sport that
has been migrating to cable. Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN took over
early-round coverage of the Masters in 2008 and aired all four
rounds of this year’s British Open. The Golf Channel airs the
first two rounds of 29 PGA Tour events and all four rounds of 14
others.  
 And with Woods slipping, Adgate said, it wouldn’t be
surprising to see more weekend coverage of golf tournament being
carried on cable when new contracts are negotiated. In the
meantime, unless Woods is able to regain his form, advertisers
might be looking for some golf bargains.  
 “Come next year, this could open up,” Adgate said.
“There are three (advertising) rate cards now. There’s Tiger in
contention, Tiger not in contention and Tiger not in the field.
And two of those three are not good.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Kohler, Wisconsin at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tiger Woods  
                       
                         
                           Scott Halleran/Getty Images 
                         
                         Tiger Woods is interviewed during a press conference prior to the start of the 92nd PGA Championship on the Straits Course at Whistling Straits. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tiger Woods is interviewed during a press conference prior to the start of the 92nd PGA Championship on the Straits Course at Whistling Straits. Photographer: Scott Halleran/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Ratings for the past two golf tournaments on CBS, the Greenbrier Classic and the Bridgestone Invitational, have declined as much as 68 percent from the events held the same weeks a year ago, when Tiger Woods won both. Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports on the impact of Woods's performance on golf viewership and the prospects for future broadcast contracts. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
