-- Saks Says Earnings Jump on Shoes, Tourist Spending
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2007-11-20T21:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-20/saks-says-earnings-jump-on-shoes-tourist-spending-update4-.html

          
          
             Saks Inc., the luxury retailer
targeted for a possible takeover by Icelandic investment company
Baugur Group HF, said third-quarter profit more than tripled on
tourist spending and shoe sales at its main  New York  store.  
 Net income rose to $21.6 million, or 14 cents a share, in
the three months through Nov. 3, topping the average estimate of
analysts. A year earlier, profit was $6.18 million, or 5 cents,
Saks said today in a statement.  
 The August opening of a new shoe salon at the Fifth Avenue
store spurred sales, as did spending by tourists benefiting from
the U.S. dollar's decline, the retailer said. Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Sadove said Saks was facing a ``more
challenging'' holiday season, with its ``aspirational''
customers hurt by the U.S. economic slowdown.  
 ``The upper-end consumers continue to enjoy good economic
health,'' said Patricia Edwards, a Seattle-based money manager
at Wentworth, Hauser & Violich. ``The lower-and middle-income
consumers are feeling the bite of the credit crunch and higher
costs for fuel and food.'' The firm holds Saks shares among the
$13.4 billion in assets it manages.  
 Saks declined 30 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $19.83 as of 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
added 11 percent this year.  
 Topping Analyst Estimates  
 Excluding 3 cents of expenses, the company earned 17 cents
a share, exceeding the 16-cent average estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 14 percent to $796.1 million,
topping the analyst estimates of $780.6 million.  
 Sales at stores open at least a year jumped 11.4 percent,
the New York-based company said.  
 Saks said same-store sales would increase in the ``high-single digits'' in percentage terms in the fourth quarter. On
Aug. 21, Saks projected such a gain for the second half of the
year.  
 ``We are now operating in a more challenging economic and
competitive environment,'' Sadove said on a conference call.
Customers who buy the company's least-expensive goods may have
been hurt the most, he said.  
 ``You are seeing more pressure on that aspirational
customer,'' Sadove said. ``You have clearly seen more price
competition at the lower end of that spectrum.''  
 Sadove said he hasn't seen a slowdown in demand for more
expensive goods.  
 Saks' third-quarter same-store sales increase outpaced
Nordstrom Inc.'s growth of 2.2 percent and a 6.5 percent gain at
Neiman Marcus Group Inc. The figures include online and catalog
shopping.  
 Sadove, 56, has emphasized office wear and Saks brands for
women ages 35 to 55 to increase sales, reversing his predecessor
 Fred Wilson 's strategy of pursuing younger shoppers with
contemporary sportswear.  
 Baugur, owner of the House of Fraser department store
chain, said in a U.S. regulatory filing Oct. 29 that it may make
a joint bid for Saks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        