-- Yahoo internal memo urges major shake-up, job cuts
-- By  Eric Auchard
-- Sat Nov 18, 2006 4:48pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/19/businesspro-yahoo-dc-idUSN1818198320061119

 

 BERKELEY, California  (Reuters) - Yahoo Inc. ( YHOO.O ) needs 
a dramatic organizational shake-up and cuts in its work force 
of up to 20 percent, according to an internal memo written last 
month by Senior Vice President Brad Garlinghouse. 

  Garlinghouse, a second-tier Yahoo executive who has taken 
increasing powerful roles in the company since joining 3 1/2 
years ago, argues that Yahoo suffers from a lack of consistent 
leadership, business focus and a "single cohesive strategy."  "We lack a focused, cohesive vision for our company," 
Garlinghouse writes. "We want to do everything and be 
everything -- to everyone."  The document was published in the Saturday edition of the 
Wall Street Journal. A Yahoo spokesman confirmed the 
authenticity of the memo, but declined to comment directly on 
details contained in the memo or in the newspaper story.  The Journal story also describes rumors that Chief 
Operating Officer Dan Rosensweig and Chief Financial Officer 
Sue Decker could be elevated to become co-presidents, in 
preparation for the retirement of Chairman and Chief Executive 
Terry Semel, age 64, who joined Yahoo five years ago.  The call for restructuring follows a series of 
embarrassments that have caused Yahoo shares to lose 31.5 
percent of their value so far this year. It is struggling with 
a slowdown in parts of its advertising business while racing to 
keep pace with far-faster growing rival Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ).  The memo -- known as "The Peanut Butter Manifesto" because 
it argues that Yahoo's investment strategy is like spreading 
peanut butter too thinly on bread -- argues for a "radical 
reorganization" of the 12-year-old Internet media giant.
  JOB CUTS URGED  "I hate peanut butter," Garlinghouse writes.  The Yahoo executive said the company should cut its work 
force by 15 percent to 20 percent as part of a plan to reshape 
the current business unit structure and eliminate the 
bureaucratic duplication of functions that exist across Yahoo.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company has nearly 10,000 
employees worldwide.  "There are so many people in charge (or believe that they 
are in charge) that it's not clear if anyone is in charge."  "I believe we must embrace our problems and challenges and 
that we must take decisive action," the memo states bluntly.  Garlinghouse names a variety of duplicative groups that pit 
established business units against new initiatives, including 
music, photos, search, applications, social networks, global 
strategy and even who controls the Yahoo home page.  In a statement, Yahoo's leadership has defined three areas 
of focus for its business.  During its quarterly financial conference call last month, 
Semel described efforts to close the gap with rival Google Inc. 
( GOOG.O ) in how much revenue it generates from its search 
business, increase its lead in brand advertising and get a jump 
on emerging markets like video, mobile and social networks.  "The memo itself highlights that we have an open, 
collaborative culture and a senior management team that is 
intensely committed to helping Yahoo! fulfill its potential as 
an Internet leader," the Yahoo statement said.  The Journal said the memo has received support from Yahoo 
senior management and that Garlinghouse had been asked to head 
an internal committee to investigate the issues he raises.  "All is not well," Garlinghouse writes. The memo itself was 
written in response to an October 11 New York Times article 
that he describes as "a painful public flogging."  "While it lacked accurate details, its conclusions rang 
true, and thus was a much needed wake up call," the Yahoo 
executive writes. "It's time for us to get back up."