-- N. Korea Cargo-Screening May Miss Nuclear Contraband
-- Jeff Bliss
-- 2006-11-03T17:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-03/n-korea-cargo-screening-may-miss-nuclear-contraband-update3-.html

          
          
             The radiation detectors at the heart
of U.S.-backed cargo inspections aimed at stopping the spread of
 North Korea 's nuclear technology may miss some contraband while
mistaking harmless materials for dangerous ones.  
 The detectors used at border crossings and in major ports
serving North Korea may be triggered by items as innocent as
kitty litter, ceramics or bananas, said Parney Albright, who
created the science and technology unit at the U.S. Department
of  Homeland Security . At the same time, they won't pick up
sensitive non-radioactive technology that North Korea might try
to sell.  
 North Korea has in the past threatened to sell its nuclear
knowledge, with the U.S. and other nations expressing the fear
that its know-how might wind up in the hands of other rogue
states or terrorists. After North Korea's Oct. 9 nuclear test,
U.S. Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  shuttled among the
capitals of Asian nations and  Russia , urging the use of
radiation and imaging detectors to check cargo crossing land
borders and coming into ports.  
 Such detectors ``can't be the system,'' said Albright,
managing director of Civitas Group LLC, a Washington-based
homeland-security consultant. While detectors may be
``goaltenders that are there when all else fails,'' he said,
``at the end of the day, none of these systems is leak-proof.''  
 UN Resolution  
 North Korea's agreement earlier this week to return to
talks aimed at ending its nuclear weapons program won't affect
the cargo inspections or financial sanctions the Oct. 14 United
Nations Security Council resolution calls for. President  George
W. Bush  said the system would remain in place until North Korea
verifiably abandons its program.  
 UN members have until Nov. 13 to report on how they are
implementing the sanctions under the resolution.  
 The cargo-inspection effort aims to make use of an existing
U.S.-funded program to install state-of-the-art detectors in
allies' ports and border posts. Weapons experts say the nuclear-detection net surrounding North Korea is full of gaps; for
instance, while Russia has U.S.-supplied radiation monitors
along its 12-mile (19-kilometer) border with North Korea,  China 
doesn't have any along the 880-mile border it shares with the
country.  
 Plastic Scintillation  
 Most of the detectors deployed overseas are based on a
technology known as plastic scintillation. While the detectors
are ``better than nothing,'' they can't distinguish between
radiation from a natural source and material used in a nuclear
weapon, said Gene Aloise, director of natural resources and
environment at the Government Accountability Office, Congress's
non-partisan investigative arm.  
 The detectors -- which are made by San Diego-based  SAIC
Inc. (SAI) , Longmont, Colorado-based TSA Systems Ltd., Sweetwater,
Texas-based Ludlum Measurements Inc. and the Aspekt Scientific
Production Center in Dubna, Russia -- contain a piece of
specially molded plastic whose atoms emit glimmers of light when
struck by gamma rays emitted by a radioactive source. The light
glimmers are then amplified by the machine.  
 The detectors may produce false positives because certain
harmless materials contain low levels of naturally occurring
radiation. The potassium in bananas is radioactive, and any
products created from dirt or clay -- including kitty litter and
ceramics -- include small amounts of radioactive minerals; some
pottery glazes contain minute amounts of thorium and uranium.  
 Hiding Contraband  
 While such shipments might trigger false readings, they
might also help smugglers hide contraband -- by inserting
nuclear material the size of a baseball into a shipment of
ceramics, for example.  
 The detectors can also be fooled if uranium, which the
North Koreans have been mining for some time, is wrapped in
lead, said  David Albright , president of the Washington-based
Institute of Science and International Security, a Washington-based nuclear-nonproliferation group.  
 TSA President Allan Frymire said plastic scintillators have
limits yet their relatively low cost means large numbers can be
used. He compared them to metal detectors in airports which
``cannot distinguish between your car keys and a gun but in both
cases sound the alarm.'' When used with other screening methods,
they are a ``very cost-effective means'' of detecting nuclear
and radioactive materials, he said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Bill Huckabee, a distribution sales manager for Ludlum,
declined to comment, as did SAIC spokesman Thomas D. Hampton.  
 `Layered Defense'  
 Edgar Vasquez, a State Department spokesman, said the
detectors are just one element in a strategy that includes
training and sharing intelligence with regional allies. ``We are
building a layered defense against North Korean proliferation,''
Vazquez said in a statement responding to a request for comment.  
 Since 1994, the U.S. has spent $178 million to provide
radiation detectors to 36 countries to stop the spread of
nuclear material, according to a March 2006 GAO report.  
 Earlier this year, the Homeland Security Department awarded
$1.2 billion in contracts to Waltham, Massachusetts-based
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and Thermo Electron Corp. and Paris-based  Areva
SA (AREVA) 's Canberra Industries Inc. to develop detectors capable of
distinguishing the sources of radiation.  
 Flawed Data  
 Deployment overseas of such next-generation detectors
aren't scheduled to begin until the end of next year, maybe
later. The GAO last month said the department's Domestic Nuclear
Detection Office used flawed data in awarding the contracts, and
that it isn't clear the machines will work. Congress has limited
funding for the project until that question is answered.  
 Thomas Loewald, president of Thermo Electron's
environmental instruments division, said in an e-mailed
statement that the new technology ``represents a significant
improvement,'' and the GAO report ``does not provide a complete
picture.'' Stephen Mettler, senior product manager for Canberra,
said the nuclear detection office has plans for testing ``to
prove'' the detectors will work. ``I certainly think our
technology will be effective,'' he said.  
 Raytheon spokesman Jon Kasle declined to comment, referring
questions to the nuclear detection office.  
 Jenny Burke, a spokeswoman for the nuclear detection
office, said efforts to improve the detectors will continue so
lawmakers will realize the machines are worth buying. The office
``plans to subject systems to additional high fidelity testing
prior to full-scale production,'' she said.  
 Gamma Rays  
 The U.S. also has helped place in foreign ports machines
such as SAIC Inc.'s VACIS systems, which use gamma rays to
create images of shipping containers and what's inside them.  
 The Homeland Security Department in September awarded $1.35
billion in contracts to SAIC, New York-based L-3 Communications
Corp. and Billerica, Massachusetts-based American Science and
Engineering Inc. to provide 300 imaging machines that would be
able to detect nuclear or ``dirty'' bombs shielded by lead or
other materials. They're scheduled to be deployed over the next
six years. ``Dirty'' bombs use conventional explosives to
disperse radiological material.  
 Port-security experts such as Stephen Flynn, a senior
fellow at the Council of Foreign Relations in  New York , say the
imaging machines are most effective when used in combination
with the radiation detectors. That's only being done in  Hong
Kong , where a pilot project scans all cargo in two out of the 40
lanes of traffic coming into the port.  
 Selling Technology  
 Another concern for experts is that North Korea might
export technology rather than nuclear material itself, said Jon
Wolfsthal, a fellow at the Washington-based Center for Strategic
& International Studies.  
 The North Koreans initially won't part with the little
plutonium they have, although they may be prepared to sell
uranium, weapons experts say. Instead, they might market
aluminum tubes, pumps and special chemicals such as tributyl
phosphate, which is used to extract radioactive material from
spent nuclear fuel rods, said David Albright.  
 Some of those products have other, more peaceful purposes:
The pumps, for example, could be used in  oil fields , and
tributyl phosphate can be used as a solvent or an ingredient in
aircraft hydraulic fluid.  
 Chinese border guards have been getting U.S. help in
spotting so-called dual-use products for a year, and more
training is planned. The training ``is helpful, but by no means
is it enough,'' said Albright. ``It's doubtful the Chinese
border guards are up to the task.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ken Fireman at 
 kfireman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        