-- Schneider Shares Rise on Speculation of LBO Interest
-- Nicolas Johnson
-- 2006-11-03T18:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-03/schneider-shares-rise-on-speculation-of-lbo-interest-update2-.html

          
          
             Shares of  Schneider Electric SA (SU) ,
the world's biggest maker of circuit breakers, rose the most
in four months on speculation that the French company may be
a takeover target for private-equity companies.  
 The stock climbed 3.05 euros, or 3.7 percent, to 86.4
euros, the sharpest gain since June 30, for a market value of
19.6 billion euros ($24.9 billion). That was the sharpest gain
on  France 's benchmark CAC 40 Index and the sixth-biggest on the
Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index of  Europe 's top companies.  
 Buyout firms have announced an unprecedented $493 billion
in takeovers this year, up from $265.5 billion in all of 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They've also raised a
record $170 billion for new takeover funds, according to
London-based researcher Private Equity Intelligence Ltd.
Schneider Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire said on
Oct. 12 that he was aware of interest in his company.  
 ``The scale of any such transaction would be highly
unusual and groundbreaking in the European industrial space,''
said  Ben Uglow , an analyst in London at Morgan Stanley.
``Sooner or later in industrials, we are going to have a knock-out bid. We are in an advanced stage of the stock market cycle,
and that's usually when unusual things happen.''  
 Schneider's shares fell 7.2 percent on Oct. 30 after the
French company agreed to buy American Power Conversion Corp.
for $6.1 billion to become the largest maker of equipment that
protects computers and factories from power outages.  
 The purchase might have been a defensive move and may
act as a ``poison pill'' to deter suitors, said Uglow, who
has an ``equal-weight'' rating on the shares.  
 A bid for Schneider at the current price would be one of
the biggest private-equity offers.  
 ``In theory, might private-equity companies be looking at
a company like Schneider? The answer is yes,'' Uglow said.
``Investors are also coming back to the market to take
advantage of the recent pullback in the stock.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicolas Johnson in Paris 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        