-- Suing Wall Street Banks Never Looked So Shady: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-02-25T02:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-24/suing-wall-street-banks-never-looked-so-shady-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             Next time you see some company
complain its “mark-to-market” losses aren’t real, remember
this name: the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. It used to
claim that, too. And it couldn’t have been more wrong.  
 About a year ago, the government-chartered lender blamed
accounting rules after it wrote down its portfolio of mortgage-
backed securities by $304.2 million to reflect how much their
fair-market values had fallen. While those declines counted
against its earnings and regulatory capital, the bank  said  they
were “well beyond any expected economic loss.”  
 The bank’s executives said they expected to lose a mere  $12
million  of principal over the life of the securities. That
estimate proved far too hopeful, though.  
 The  bank , one of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks that
supply low-cost loans to about 8,000 member banks and finance
companies, now says it  expects  about $311.2 million of credit
losses on its portfolio. And in December, it filed lawsuits
against 11 Wall Street underwriters, including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley, seeking more than $3.9 billion of
refunds on the securities, plus interest. You know the losses
are real when the bank is suing to get its money back.  
 Yet there’s a far greater outrage here than this one 
bank’s unpleasant surprise. That would be what transpired in 
Congress and at the Financial Accounting Standards Board 
last year after the Seattle bank disclosed its rosy $12 
million estimate, which soon took on a life of its own.  
 ‘Disturbing’ Example  
 The bank became a poster child for everything supposedly
wrong with mark-to-market accounting. At a March 12, 2009,
congressional hearing, U.S. Representative  Ed Perlmutter  of
Colorado cited the disparity between the bank’s writedown and
its much smaller anticipated loss as “an example that really
was disturbing.”  
 The congressman leading the hearing,  Paul Kanjorski  of
Pennsylvania,  pointed  to a similar instance at the Federal Home
Loan Bank of Atlanta. The bank reported an $87.3 million
writedown on its mortgage-backed securities for the 2008 third
quarter; however, it said it expected its actual losses would be
only $44,000.  
 While that’s roughly equivalent to the losses from a modest
studio condo foreclosure, Kanjorski didn’t question the tiny
number, saying: “I find that accounting result to be absurd.”  
 “It fails to reflect the economic reality,” he  said . “We
must correct the rules to prevent such gross distortions.”
Kanjorski, Perlmutter and other lawmakers told  Bob Herz , the
chairman of the FASB, that it needed to change its rules
immediately so banks could show stronger earnings. The board,
which fancies itself as an independent standard setter, complied
a few weeks later.  
 Changing the Rules  
 The rest of the story: Last year when the Atlanta bank
released its financial results for the  third quarter , it said it
had raised the credit-loss estimate to $263.1 million. (Here’s
the math in case you missed it: $263.1 million > $44,000.)  
 The FASB  rule change  gave companies a new way to avoid
counting paper losses from toxic debt securities in their
earnings. Before 2009, whenever companies recorded writedowns on
impaired securities that they labeled as held-to-maturity or
available-for-sale, they had to run the full amounts through net
income for any losses deemed to be “other than temporary.”  
 Now they get to separate the impairments into two parts:
estimated future credit losses and everything else. The first
kind reduces earnings and regulatory capital. The other doesn’t.  
 What Regulators Count  
 Here’s how it works in practice. When the Atlanta bank
 reported  its results for the first nine months of 2009, it
showed net income of $201.3 million. That included the $263.1
million of credit-related charges. However, it excluded $943.4
million of other mark-to-market writedowns on its securities
portfolio. Those got dumped into a line item on the equity
statement that banking regulators  don’t count .  
 Of course, it’s impossible for anyone to know how much of a
given security’s decline in market value is due to perceived
future credit losses as opposed to other factors, such as
liquidity risk. The obvious incentive for companies is to
estimate as few credit losses as possible.  
 That’s how the rules work now, though. The  banking lobby 
got most of the accounting  forbearance  it was  looking  for at a
critical point in the financial crisis. It didn’t seem to matter
if the new  standard  made sense.  
 For their part, when I asked officials at the Atlanta and
Seattle banks why their credit-loss estimates last year were so
low, they said the new FASB rules introduced a more stringent
test for determining if a security is impaired. Additionally,
they said the increases in their credit-loss estimates reflected
changes in market conditions, including the performance of loans
underlying their securities.  
 ‘Material Weaknesses’  
 “Over time, assumptions changed as the input variables,
based on market data, deteriorated,” said  Chris McEntee , a
spokesman for the Atlanta bank. The Seattle bank had a unique
circumstance, too. It disclosed last year that it had “material
weaknesses” in its internal accounting systems, although a
spokeswoman, Connie Waks, tried to assure me this was “not a
contributing factor.”  
 Those explanations aside, what happened here is that a few
members of Congress bum-rushed the FASB into action based on a
premise that was false, in a misguided effort to boost public
confidence in the financial system through smoke and mirrors.
It’s an open question if the board’s standard-setting process
can regain its credibility someday. Undoing this disaster of a
rule change would be a good start.  
 ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        