-- Court reverses convictions of 2 ex-NYSE specialists
-- 
-- Wed Jul 30, 2008 11:00am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/30/businesspro-traders-ruling-dc-idUSN3045512520080730

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A federal appeals court reversed the 
convictions of two former New York Stock Exchange floor traders 
on Wednesday, the latest blow to a U.S. government case that 
had originally charged 15 traders with fraud. 

  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned 
the convictions of Michael Hayward and Michael Stern, former 
specialists for Van der Moolen Specialists USA, a unit of 
Amsterdam-based Van der Moolen Holding NV VDMN.AS.  In January, the two had each been sentenced to six months 
in prison and fined $250,000 after being found guilty of one 
count of securities fraud at trial.  In a written order, a panel of three judges on the appeals 
court said the evidence against the men "was insufficient to 
prove 'deception."'  Hayward and Stern had been specialists on the NYSE trading 
floor, responsible for executing trades for NYSE customers as 
well as trading their firm's own accounts.  The government originally charged Hayward and Stern, along 
with 13 other former NYSE specialists, with fraud for violating 
securities law by trading ahead of or between customer orders, 
creating millions in illegal profits.  But prosecutors have had mixed results, and Manhattan U.S. 
Attorney Michael Garcia said in November 2006 that he would not 
prosecute five of the cases awaiting trial.  Last year, a Manhattan federal court judge tossed out the 
verdict against former specialist David Finnerty, who was found 
guilty of fraud in October 2006 for allegedly making illegal 
trades that cheated the exchange's customers out of $4.5 
million. The Second Circuit upheld the judge's decision to 
throw out the conviction in a ruling earlier this month, and 
cited that decision in its ruling to overturn the case against 
Hayward and Stern.  (Reporting by  Chelsea Emery , editing by Dave Zimmerman)