-- ArcelorMittal's record Q2 profit tops expectations
-- By Julien Ponthus
-- Wed Jul 30, 2008 5:30am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/30/businesspro-arcelormittal-dc-idUSL055720920080730

 

 BRUSSELS  (Reuters) - World No. 1 steelmaker ArcelorMittal 
( ISPA.AS ) reported record second-quarter results, far above 
expectations, on Wednesday as it managed to raise prices and 
offset raw material costs despite economic gloom. 

  "In contracts which have been renegotiated and closed, we 
have achieved significant (price) increases and we expect that 
trend to continue until the end of the year and in 2009," Chief 
Financial Officer Aditya Mittal told a conference call.  Mittal said the group's policy to acquire mines and boost 
its self sufficiency in raw materials had also been key in 
boosting profits.  ArcelorMittal shares rallied, gaining 8 percent to 57.57 
euros at 4:40 a.m. EDT, having hit 57.87, while the DJ Stoxx 
basic material index .SXPP gained 3.5 percent. The stock was 
top gainer in the blue-chip DJ Stoxx 50 index  .STOXX50 .  "These new record-high results are far above what could be 
expected," said BHF Bank analyst Hermann Reith, adding that the 
analyst community had underestimated ArcelorMittal's ability to 
increase steel prices charged to its customers.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortization (EBITDA) were $8.05 billion against the average 
forecast in a Reuters poll of 10 analysts of $6.75 billion and 
a previous record of $5.32 billion in the year-ago quarter.  The company, roughly three times bigger than its closest 
rival Nippon Steel ( 5401.T ), had guided towards a 
second-quarter figure above $6.5 billion and now aims to 
achieve EBITDA exceeding $8.5 billion in the third quarter.  "You will probably see many rating upgrades, there is a 
good pricing dynamic," said one analyst, explaining that the 
new profit target for the third quarter was much higher than 
expected.  Sales and net profit were $37.84 billion and $5.84 billion 
while the Reuters poll of analysts gave averages of $34.65 
billion and $3.97 billion respectively.  "We continue to look for opportunities to further enhance 
our raw material self sufficiency," Chief Executive and main 
owner Lakshmi Mittal said in a statement, adding the company 
expected capital expenditure of $7 billion this year.  "We have a few investment ideas," his son Aditya said, 
declining to be more specific but pledging to pursue the 
strategy aggressively.  ArcelorMittal aims to raise its iron ore self sufficiency 
to 75 percent by 2012 from 45 percent currently and has 
recently raised it coal self sufficiency to 20 percent from 15 
percent after acquiring mines in Russia and the U.S this year.  Analysts speculate on what will be ArcelorMittal's next 
move after press reports said it could consider fully buying 
Coal of Africa Ltd ( CZA.L ) CZA.AU or Australian miner 
Macarthur Coal Ltd MCC.AX.  Since its creation in 2006, ArcelorMittal has aggressively 
pursued consolidation, with a flurry of investments and 
acquisitions in developing countries such as Senegal, India, 
Russia and China as well as in mature economies.  (Editing by Mike Nesbit and  Louise Ireland )