-- U.S. beer industry charts stormy economic seas
-- By  Martinne Geller
-- Wed Jul 30, 2008 7:29pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/30/businesspro-beer-usa-dc-idUSN3021297720080730

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. beer makers are trying to plot a 
new course as their industry faces a roiling sea of political 
and economic uncertainty and global consolidation. 

  Industry executives gathered in New York on Wednesday for 
the annual members-only meeting of the Beer Institute, a U.S. 
lobbying group, where discussions touched on taxes under a new 
U.S. administration, the weakening economy in the United States 
and Europe and the impact of recent brewer mergers.  The Beer Institute, which is lobbying Congress to roll back 
federal beer excise taxes to pre-1991 levels, is also eyeing 
the race for the White House, seeing benefits in each 
candidate.  "On one hand, Republicans tend to be low-tax," said Jeffrey 
Becker, the Beer Institute's president. "On the other hand, 
Democrats brought us out of Prohibition and have a better 
appreciation for low- to middle-income wage earners than 
generally Republicans do."  The Beer Institute says federal excise taxes on beer, which 
are about 33 cents per six-pack, unfairly target lower-income 
groups that make up the bulk of beer drinkers. Taxes make up 
about 42 percent of the cost of a beer, Becker said.  He takes no comfort in the fact that Cindy McCain, wife of 
the presumption Republican president nominee, Arizona Sen. John 
McCain, is in the business.  She is the chairman of Hensley and Co, a family business 
that is one of Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc's ( BUD.N ) largest U.S. 
distributors. Becker said the relationship could make McCain 
give the beer industry a wider berth.  "That distance could include some things that we may not 
particularly care for, but I think you'd see that anyway. I 
think there could be some challenges regardless."  Common lore states that beer is recession-proof, and Becker 
said that is true only up to a point, since a real recession 
will hurt everyone.  He predicted the U.S. beer industry would see sales grow "a 
little bit over 1 percent" in 2008.  "While it doesn't sound very dramatic for some people, it's 
very good for us." Year-to-date sales were up about 1 percent, 
with cheaper domestic beers up about 1 percent and more 
expensive imports down 3 percent, he said.  "In a down economy, you do see some trading down with 
consumers. That's why it'd be interesting to see what we do in 
a good economy."
  CHANGING FACES  Grupo Modelo ( GMODELOC.MX ) Chief Executive Carlos 
Fernandez, who spoke at Wednesday's meeting, told Reuters 
afterward that he discussed industry challenges, such as 
competition from other kinds of beverages, increasing 
consumption, as well as lowering taxes, and improving 
communication and corporate responsibility.  Fernandez declined to comment on the fate of his company, 
Corona beer maker Modelo, now that Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc 
( BUD.N ), which owns half of it, has agreed to a $52 billion 
takeover by Belgian rival InBev NV INTB.BR to create the 
world's largest brewer.  Along with the just-launched U.S. joint venture between 
SABMiller Plc ( SAB.L ) and Molson Coors Brewing Co ( TAP.N ), the 
Anheuser deal is helping change the face of the beer industry, 
said Beer Institute President Jeffrey Becker.  "It's not necessarily a bad thing. Change is good. Change 
keeps you focused ... makes you rethink your priorities, plan 
differently and think more globally," Becker said.  Becker, who serves as a national advocate and spokesman for 
the U.S. brewing industry, said he was looking forward to 
considering larger global issues, such as world health and 
trade, now that the U.S. players are fewer and bigger.  "As for further consolidation, it's anybody's guess," he 
said, and declined to talk about specific companies.