-- Severstal Net Falls 30% on Asset Revaluation, Costs
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-04-02T16:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-02/severstal-net-falls-30-on-asset-revaluation-costs-update5-.html

          
          
             OAO Severstal,  Russia 's largest
steelmaker, said profit plunged 30 percent last year after the
company cut the value of assets and raw-material costs rose.  
 Net income fell to $1.18 billion, or $1.27 a share, from $1.7
billion, or $1.86, a year earlier, the Moscow-based company said
today in a statement. Sales climbed 19 percent to $12.4 billion.  
 A ``revaluation of fixed assets'' led to additional
depreciation of about $300 million, Severstal said. Rising prices
for  iron ore , coal, energy and higher operating costs also hurt
earnings. Iron-ore prices have gained for five consecutive years
as Chinese steelmakers led a global production boom.  
 The results ``underlined our view that Severstal's international
acquisitions dilute the profitability of the company's core steel and
mining operations in Russia,''  Vladimir Zhukov , an analyst with  Alfa
Bank  in Moscow, wrote today in a note to investors.  
 Severstal raised $1.06 billion in a London share sale in
November, less than the $1.89 billion it wanted. Alexei Mordashov,
the company's billionaire owner, acquired Italy's Lucchini SpA last
year and has vowed to expand into  Latin America  and  Asia .  
 ``At today's price environment, however, it has to be
proven'' that transactions are commercially justifiable,
Mordashov said today during a conference call.  
 Shares (CHMF)  of Severstal dropped 12.30 rubles, or 3.4 percent, to
349.03 rubles on the Micex exchange in Moscow, valuing the
company at 351.7 billion rubles ($13.5 billion).  
 Rising Domestic Demand  
 Severstal will increase crude-steel output by 5.7 percent
this year to 18.6 million tons, Mordashov said. The company
produced 17.6 million tons last year and spent $1.2 billion on
expanding the steel product mix.  
 The increase will come mainly from Severstal's main plant in
northwest Russia in Cherepovets, with a new blast furnace and
oxygen-generation units boosting output, Mordashov said. Domestic
sales rose to account for 75 percent of Cherepovets' output, due
Russia's expanding economy, he said.  
 Mordashov forecast the Russian steel market will grow more
than 10 percent this year, at least as much as in 2006. The
company is ``seriously thinking'' of raising prices, he said.  
 Columbus, Mississippi-based SeverCorr, the company's car-component venture with SteelCorr of the U.S., will begin
operations this fall, Mordashov said. The $1.2 billion SeverCorr
plant will have the capacity to make 3 million tons of steel and
be consolidated by Severstal after production starts.  
 Severstal also agreed today to sell a unit of its Italian
steel business, Lucchini Group, to the Lucchini family. The
family will buy the Sidermeccanica high-technology steel unit for
215 million euros ($288 million). The family retains 30 percent
in Lucchini Group, with Severstal holding the rest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        