-- Hedi Slimane Says He Declined Offer to Keep Dior Post
-- Sara Gay Forden
-- 2007-04-03T15:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-03/hedi-slimane-says-he-declined-offer-to-keep-dior-post-update1-.html

          
          
             French fashion designer Hedi Slimane
said he declined an offer to continue as artistic director for
 Christian Dior  SA's Dior Homme unit after seven years in the job.  
 ``I had no other choice than to refuse the kind proposition
that was made and to decline a new Dior Homme contract,'' Slimane
said in a letter on his Web site,  http://www.hedislimane.com .  
 Christian Dior last week replaced Slimane with one of his
former assistants, Belgian designer Kris Van Assche, after
ending more than a year of contract negotiations. Slimane is
known for introducing a slim silhouette to Dior's men's wear,
which won fans including fellow designer  Karl Lagerfeld . Singer
Courtney Love is among women who wear his sleek styles.  
 ``There are areas I will not compromise with at all when it
comes to my work and setting up a label under my own name,''
Slimane, 38, said on his Web site. He didn't disclose whether he
plans to create his own fashion house.  
 A spokesman for luxury goods maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA, (MC)  which is controlled by Christian Dior, said
negotiations continued with Slimane after the Dior Homme fashion
show in Paris Jan. 30. The spokesman, who declined to be
identified, said Dior rejected the final proposals presented by
Slimane after his show and decided to stop the negotiations.  
 Fashion Brands  
 LVMH wants to have a stake in the labels it finances, the
spokesman said. The luxury goods maker owns lines created by
 John Galliano , who designs Christian Dior's women's line, and
 Marc Jacobs , creative director for  Louis Vuitton .  
 PPR (PP)  SA's Gucci Group owns 51 percent of the Alexander
McQueen label and has a 50-50 joint venture with London designer
 Stella McCartney . Gucci Group also owns 91 percent of
Balenciaga, with the outstanding 9 percent owned by creative
director Nicolas Ghesquière.  
 Designers Jil Sander and Helmut Lang sold majority stakes
in their labels to Prada SpA in 1999 and then left after
clashing with management. Prada later sold both brands, which
contributed to the company's 62 million euro-loss in 2004.  
 ``I always kept in mind the precedence of some designers I
admire who were in a similar situation and chose the other
path,'' Slimane wrote, without being specific. ``Perhaps in
another time in my life, under other circumstances, my name, and
the management of a company under my own label would be
considered differently. Right now I feel it's important to stay
true to my principles, and the idea I have of fashion.''  
 The designer said he hopes LVMH Chairman  Bernard Arnault 
``will understand my position and decision, if not now, then
hopefully with some time.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Gay Forden in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        