-- Air Force to seek new tanker bids: outgoing boss
-- By  Jim Wolf
-- Fri Jun 20, 2008 11:14pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/21/businesspro-tanker-airforce-dc-idUSN2047118120080621

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The ousted head of the U.S. Air 
Force said Friday he expected the service to seek new bids for 
midair refueling aircraft from Boeing Co and Northrop Grumman 
Corp after federal auditors faulted the selection process for a 
$35 billion program. 

  The service probably would miss its 2013 goal for putting 
the new tankers into use, said Michael Wynne, forced to resign 
as Air Force secretary by Defense Secretary Robert Gates.  "I would say there's going to be a lot of fear in the 
system," Wynne, the service's top civilian, told reporters on 
his last day in office. At issue, he said, would be "can we 
ever do this right?"  On Wednesday, the Government Accountability Office faulted 
the contract awarded nearly four months ago to the team of 
Northrop Grumman ( NOC.N ) and Airbus parent EADS ( EAD.PA ), and 
recommended a new competition be held.  Boeing Co ( BA.N ), the losing bidder, successfully 
challenged the award with the GAO, a nonpartisan congressional 
watchdog. GAO said the Air Force had made "significant errors 
that could have affected the outcome of what was a close 
competition."  On February 29, the Air Force announced plans to buy 179 
refueling tankers based on the A330 built by Airbus, Boeing's 
passenger plane-maker rival. Valued at $35 billion over 15 
years, this was to be the first of three purchases of a new 
fleet potentially costing $100 billion or more.  Northrop said Friday it remained under Air Force contract 
and called for speedy resolution of the issues raised by GAO.  "We respect the GAO process and are confident the Air Force 
will appropriately address its recommendations," said Paul 
Meyer, Northrop Grumman's tanker program manager.  Wynne, forced to resign June 5 over nuclear and ballistic 
missile safety oversights, said the Air Force in effect had 
leaned over backward to maintain competition after a botched 
sole-source plan to lease and then buy modified Boeing 767s as 
tankers.  That deal collapsed four years ago after it emerged that 
Darleen Druyun, a top Air Force procurement official later 
imprisoned on conflict-of-interest charges, was simultaneously 
negotiating a $250,000-a-year missile-defense job at Boeing.  "We wanted to make sure we had competition," Wynne said of 
the selection process faulted by GAO. "It's very hard now 
because the industrial base in America is shrinking."  "I think getting a competitor to hang in there was one of 
our early-on responsibilities because we felt like that was the 
best way to get the best price for the government and the best 
value for the taxpayer," he added.  Pressed on what went wrong, Wynne said, "I think we made it 
overly complex." He said a "flyoff" competition was worth 
considering.  Richard Aboulafia of Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia, 
aerospace consultancy, said a flyoff involved evaluating the 
performance of prototypes equal or close to the tankers being 
built.  Such an approach likely would favor Northrop, he said, 
because "they're a little closer to having a fully 
representative plane."  An Air Force spokeswoman said on Friday the service was 
continuing to impose a "stop-work" order on the Northrop 
program while it mulls the GAO recommendations. The Air Force 
has 60 days from Wednesday to respond.  Wynne said the Air Force would seek GAO clarification on 
what he called certain "subjective" criticism.  The service then "hopefully" would put out a quick, fresh 
request for proposal "that will allow them (the bidders) to use 
all the information they've already produced," he said.  Of the 2013 goal for starting to fly new tankers, which are 
used to refuel warplanes in midair, Wynne said: "There's almost 
no way to do that in the face of a straightforward delay in the 
start date."  After the GAO ruling, Northrop said it had put off 
indefinitely a planned June 28 groundbreaking for facilities in 
Mobile, Alabama, designed to produce tankers from the Airbus  A330.  Wynne said he had been increasingly "strident" in clashes 
in the past year with Gates, his boss as defense secretary.  "We advised the secretary -- I did -- that I was not with 
him on the F-22 budget, for example," he said, referring to the 
top-of-the-line Lockheed Martin Corp ( LMT.N ) fighter aircraft. 
The Air Force has pushed to extend the production line. Gates 
had left the decision to the next administration.  (Editing by Phil Berlowitz and Steve Orlofsky)