-- U.S. Housing Market Is Cursed by Brain Freeze: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-07-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-08/u-s-housing-market-is-cursed-by-brain-freeze-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             If you are buying or selling a home
in a market glutted with distressed properties, it’s time to
change your attitude.  
 Don’t be misled by pundits saying the bottom may be visible
in this stultifying decline. The real-estate recession will
continue unless a massive brain freeze thaws. Buyers are afraid
of purchasing a home at the wrong price while millions of
sellers are locked into unrealistic listing prices.  
 Some good news after almost three years of deterioration is
welcome, of course. In the latest S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price
 Index of 20 major U.S. cities , values fell 18 percent in April.
That pace was slower than forecast.  
 That’s cold comfort as the collective psychology of the
U.S. home market has been short-circuited for some time. We are
largely hostage to the way our mind works. According to prospect
theory, pioneered by psychologists Amos Tversky and  Daniel Kahneman , the idea of losing money is a much more powerful
motivator than a gain.  
 Our brains are telling us it’s painful to price our homes
to reflect 20 percent to 50 percent losses in market values. So
sellers overprice houses and wait for something to happen.  
 A myopic, loss-averse view of the market, for example,
means listing for $500,000 or more when comparable upscale homes
are selling for $400,000 or less. I have seen it in my suburban
Chicago neighborhood, where homes have been on the market and
unsold for years.  
 Logic Circuits  
 Our loss-aversion fears are so powerful that they override
our logic circuits. We tend to ignore economic reality because
we are emotionally anchored to our homes and values based on
boom-era prices. It’s like holding on to a favorite stock long
after it has tanked.  
 There are also influential cerebral centers for optimism
and self-confidence. We hang on to properties, falsely believing
that prices will rebound to the bubble years of 2005-2006.  
 Actual market conditions don’t offer much hope, however.
“Real house prices have fallen by more than 30 percent from
their peaks in 2006, destroying more than $6 trillion in housing
wealth,” writes economist  Dean Baker  in his  Housing Market
Monitor . “They have been falling at the rate of 2 percent per
month thus far in 2009. There is no evidence that this rate of
price decline has slowed, much less stopped.”  
 Rewiring Brains  
 How do you succeed in this market? When you are selling,
take into account all market conditions.  
 Forget listing prices that you are anchored to; in most
places, homeowners have lost equity that may not be restored,
especially if unemployment is rising. The only way out may be a
short sale for less than the mortgaged amount.  
 What are comparable homes actually selling for and how much
discounting moves a property? Are there foreclosures in your
neighborhood, which will necessitate even more discounting?  
 Reframe your pricing decision. Focus on the benefits
instead of seeing a price as loss-inducing.  
 Will you get out of an unaffordable mortgage payment? Will
your property taxes drop by moving? Will you be able to save
more for college or retirement?  
 Buyers, in contrast, should beware. There are still too
many reasons to wait before you jump into this market. Congress
and the Obama administration haven’t shut down foreclosures.
 Unemployment  is the highest it has been in almost 26 years. More
than 15 million homeowners owe more on their mortgages than
their homes are worth.  
 Fixing the Market  
 Is help on the way? There are many carrots that Congress is
considering to get buyers into the market again.  
 Under the stimulus plan passed in February, you can reap an
$8,000 rebate if you are a first-time buyer. One proposal would
raise that credit to $15,000.  
 Yet all the tax credits in the world won’t make a
difference if foreclosures continue, prices keep falling and
unemployment rises. Congress seems to be avoiding this reality.  
 More sensible ways to curb the foreclosure crisis would be
to allow homeowners to write down principal or enroll in a rent-
to-own arrangement.  
 Congress should consider guaranteeing all mortgages in the
primary and secondary markets through the full faith and credit
of the U.S. Treasury until the market stabilizes.  
 The government helped create the false euphoria that led to
the bubble and meltdown. The least it can do is to enact sober
solutions on fostering the market’s recovery.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Cul-de-Sac Syndrome,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        