-- Abbot Point in Queensland Seeks to Be World's Biggest Coal Export Harbor
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-06-25T07:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/abbot-point-in-queensland-seeks-to-be-world-s-biggest-coal-export-harbor.html

          
          
             Australia’s Abbot Point plans to
increase its export capacity 11-fold, transforming the port into
the world’s biggest coal harbor as demand for the commodity from
Asia rises.  
 North Queensland Bulk Ports Corp., manager of Abbot Point,
intends to seek expressions of interest toward the end of 2010
to develop additional terminals and expand export capacity to
about 230 million metric tons of coal a year, Chief Executive
Officer  Brad Fish  said in an interview. The harbor is being
enlarged to 50 million tons in 2011 from 21 million tons now.  
 Chinese and Indian demand is underpinning a strong market
outlook for steelmaking and power station coal, UBS AG said in a
June 22 note. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining
company, and Hancock Coal Pty in April won preferred status to
develop two additional terminals at Abbot Point that will take
export capacity to 110 million metric tons.  
 “If you were to fast forward about 10 years, it’s not
impossible to imagine that there could be four or five coal
terminals sitting at the port of Abbot Point,” Fish said from
Brisbane today. “That would make it, by a country mile, the
largest coal port in the world.”  
 Abbot Point, 25 kilometers (16 miles) north of the town of
Bowen, has one terminal with an export capacity of 21 million
tons a year, Fish said. The port shipped 14.4 million tons and
handled 176 vessels in the 12 months ended June 30, 2009,
according to the North Queensland Bulk Ports Corp  website .  
 Bowen is about 1,100 kilometers north of Brisbane, the
Queensland state capital.  
 Biggest Ports  
 Newcastle port in Australia’s New South Wales state is the
world’s biggest export harbor for coal. It has a capacity of 113
million tons and is being increased to 163 million tons by the
end of 2011 through the development of a new terminal and
expansion at an existing facility.  
 Port Waratah Coal Services, operator of two of the three
terminals at Newcastle, said June 4 it received planning
approval from the state government to develop additional
infrastructure, including a fourth vessel loader, that will help
increase the harbor’s total export capacity to 175 million tons.  
 South Africa’s Richards Bay, Europe’s biggest source of the
fuel burned for power, this year increased its capacity to 91
million tons.  Dalrymple Bay  in Queensland has the capacity to
export 85 million tons a year. Gladstone, also in Queensland,
shipped more than 58 million tons in 2009.  
 Rail, Port Spend  
 “The real advantage Abbot Point has over some other
locations is that it’s the most northern coal port,” Fish said.
“When you’re comparing with Hay Point, Gladstone, or Newcastle,
it’s either a day or two, or up to four or five days closer to
the Asian customers.”  
 Port and rail infrastructure in Queensland and New South
Wales is being expanded at a cost of A$4.8 billion ($4.1 billion)
as coal producers develop mines to tap global demand, a  report 
last month from the Australian Bureau of Statistics shows.  
 Development of the A$1.1 billion Northern Missing Link in
Queensland, which started last month, is targeted for completion
by January 2012, the state’s Premier  Anna Bligh  said in April.
The 69-kilometer rail line will allow producers in the Bowen
Basin, including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, to ship
the commodity through Abbot Point.  
 The Northern Missing Link will connect the Goonyella rail
system, the busiest network in Queensland, to the Newlands line.
 Goonyella  services 22 mines operated by companies which include,
Xstrata Plc, the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance and Peabody
Energy Corp.  
 “This will open a whole new transport corridor for coal
companies, giving them a huge increase in export capacity for
their existing mines and for future mining developments in the
region,” Bligh said April 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        