-- AbitibiBowater Wins Court Approval for Agreement on Notes Offer Guarantee
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-06-25T20:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/abitibibowater-wins-court-approval-for-agreement-on-notes-offer-guarantee.html

          
          
             AbitibiBowater Inc. , the world’s
biggest newsprint maker by capacity, won court approval of an
agreement that guarantees the proposed sale of as much as $500
million in notes to help finance its exit from bankruptcy.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  said at a hearing
today in Wilmington, Delaware, that he would authorize the
Montreal-based paper maker’s agreement with  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. , Avenue Capital Management, and other unsecured
noteholders as the company has “demonstrated its proper
business judgment.” The agreement is reasonable, he added.  
 Fairfax and the noteholders agreed to buy any notes the
company’s unsecured creditors fail to take, ensuring the
required amount is raised through the offering, according to
court documents. AbitibiBowater has said it may reduce the size
of the offering or cancel it if financing can be obtained
elsewhere.  
 The note sale would allow the company to get out of
bankruptcy “expeditiously,”  Kelley Cornish , an attorney for
AbitibiBowater, told Carey.  
 AbitibiBowater  and 31 units sought bankruptcy protection on
April 16, 2009, after U.S. lenders refused to accept a proposed
 debt  restructuring. The company listed $7 billion in assets and
$9.5 billion in debt as of March 31, according to court
documents. The paper-maker had sales of $4.4 billion in 2009.  
 Pulp and Paper Mills  
 The company has 22 pulp and paper mills and 26 wood-
products plants in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and South Korea.
The company was formed in October 2007 with the merger of
Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Bowater Inc. in a stock
transaction valued at about $4.8 billion.  
 In exchange for guaranteeing the sale investors would get
at least $15 million and could see as much as $30 million if the
full $500 million is raised, court papers show. They would be
paid half in cash and half in stock.  
 If the agreement in terminated on or before Oct. 15 they
would get a payment of about $15 million, if it is ended after
Oct. 15 they would get the greater of 6 percent of the amount
raised or $15 million.  
 Aurelius Capital Management LP and Contrarian Capital
Management LLC, two of the company’s noteholders, objected to
the agreement arguing in court papers the notes offering isn’t
needed because the company itself believes that “internally
generated cash and available financing” should be “sufficient
to fund their proposed plan of reorganization.”  
 Adviser  
 The company’s financial adviser,  Steven Zelin  from a unit
of the  Blackstone Group LP , said under questioning from Cornish
that while they were developing the turnaround plan the company
realized there would be a significant “hole of about $500
million” to pay off the secured creditors. He said that note
offering was the best option and it guarantees they have the
liquidity they need.  
 Under AbitibiBowater’s restructuring plan, unsecured
creditors would share the reorganized company’s stock in
addition to the right to participate notes offering. The notes
would be convertible into equity in the reorganized company,
according to a May 24 statement.  
 Secured creditors would be paid in full in cash, or get
some other mutually agreed upon treatment that would give them a
full recovery, according to the disclosure statement. The
company’s existing shareholders would be wiped out under the
proposal.  
 The case is In re AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        