-- Alleged Jamaican Drug Lord Pleads Not Guilty After Arraignment in N.Y.
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-06-25T20:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/accused-jamaican-drug-lord-coke-pleads-not-guilty-to-charges-in-u-s-court.html

          
          
             Christopher “Duddus” Coke, a
Jamaican accused of running an international narcotics-
trafficking empire since the 1990s, pleaded not guilty today to
drug charges in a federal court in New York.  
 Coke, 41, headed a criminal enterprise known as the “Shower
Posse” in Jamaica and the U.S., prosecutors in the Manhattan
U.S. Attorney’s office charged in an indictment unsealed in
August 2009. The U.S. has called Coke one of the “world’s most
dangerous narcotics kingpins.”  
 He was arrested June 22 near Kingston, Jamaica after a
five-week pursuit by local authorities, U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said in a statement yesterday. Gang members and Coke’s
supporters clashed with Jamaican security forces, resulting in
the death of more than 70 people.  
 “Drugs and guns were the bread and butter of Coke’s ‘Shower
Posse’” Bharara said in the statement. “We are relieved that
Coke’s arrest and transfer to New York was not marked by the
violence that had gripped the streets of Jamaica.”  
 Wearing dark blue prison fatigues and guarded by at least
four U.S. marshals, Coke said “Yes, sir” today when U.S.
District Judge  Robert Patterson  asked him if he wanted to plead
not guilty to the charges.  
 Russell Neufeld, Coke’s court-appointed lawyer, told the
judge that his client wanted to hire three attorneys. Patterson
scheduled a June 28 hearing on whether Coke will be able to
retain private counsel. Neufeld declined to comment after
today’s proceeding.  
 Drugs and Guns  
 The U.S. alleges that between 1994 and 2007, Coke’s
organization sold marijuana and crack cocaine in the New York
area and sent the proceeds to Jamaica. Coke and his co-
conspirators are also accused of arming their group with
illegally trafficked guns.  
 Coke was secretly indicted in New York in 2007. The charges
were disclosed last year. If convicted of narcotics conspiracy,
he faces as long as life in prison and a fine of as much as
$4 million, prosecutors said.  
 The government wants to keep Coke in custody, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Jocelyn Strauber told Patterson today. The judge
said pretrial services had recommended that Coke not be
released.  
 The case is U.S. v. Coke, 07-CR-971, filed in the Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in New York at 
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York at 
4171 or  rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        