-- Afghans Talk to ArcelorMittal, Total on Developing Iron Ore, Oil Deposits
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-25T16:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/afghans-talk-to-arcelormittal-total-on-developing-iron-ore-oil-deposits.html

          
          
             Afghanistan , sitting on as much as
$3 trillion of untapped minerals according to the government,
held talks with ArcelorMittal on developing an iron-ore deposit,
and Total SA and Eni SpA on oil and natural-gas deals.  
 The country also plans discussions with Rio Tinto Group in
London today as it prepares to invite bids for deposits in late
2010 or early 2011, Minister of Mines  Wahidullah Shahrani  said
at a briefing for potential investors in London. The minister
spent most time promoting the nation’s Hajigak deposit, site of
an estimated 1.8 billion metric tons of iron ore.  
 In an attempt to stabilize  Hamid Karzai ’s government and
support “ economic sovereignty ” against Taliban insurgency, the
U.S. is promoting development of Afghan resources, U.S. Deputy
Under Secretary of State  Paul Brinkley  said on June 14. At the
same time, the Taliban’s growing ability to attack even sites
such as the U.S. airbase at Bagram is discouraging investment.  
 In February, Shahrani canceled a  tender  for Hajigak after
the ministry failed to attract major mine operators and only one
of seven bidders visited the site 80 miles west of Kabul.  
 “Security is the main concern but clearly it was one of
the first things they talked about and they’ve given it serious
consideration,”  Michael Lynch-Bell , head of mining and metals
at Ernst & Young LLP in London, said in an interview after
today’s briefing. “I certainly will be going back and talking
to a number of my clients” on the tender.  
 Five Short-Listed  
 Afghanistan plans tenders for more than five mineral and
energy projects by the end of 2011, including gold, copper, iron
ore, gemstones, marble, lithium, oil and gas, Shahrani said. The
nation’s mineral wealth may total $1 trillion to $3 trillion, he
said. U.S. officials estimate untapped minerals worth about $1
trillion in the country, the New York Times reported on June 14.  
 The mines ministry and advisers received 14 expressions of
interest for Hajigak before the previous tender was canceled,
with five companies short-listed, Shahrani said.  Metallurgical
Corp. of China Ltd. , which won a tender for the Aynak copper
mine after offering an $808 million bonus to the government, was
one of the companies that registered interest, he said.  
 “It’s not necessarily the Chinese, there could be some
Australian companies, or South African, Brazilian or Indian
companies,” the minister said of a renewed tender.  
 Talks with  ArcelorMittal  included discussions on Hajigak
and Afghanistan representatives will also talk to  Rio Tinto 
about the deposit, he said. Initial expressions of interest are
due in September, bids due by July 2011 and the winner likely to
be announced the following month, he said. The nation expects
first production five years later, Shahrani said.  
 Chinese Interest  
 “There clearly will be Chinese interest,” E&Y’s Lynch-
Bell said. “Having said that, there are very few major iron ore
projects around the world and there are a lot of companies
looking for big projects. The Indians will be interested but I
think some of the majors will certainly look at it.”  
 Shahrani said he met with oil company officials on June 22
interested in a field in the Afghan-Tajik basin that has an
estimated 1.6 billion barrels of the fuel. They included Total,
U.K.-based explorers Heritage Oil Plc and Sterling Energy Plc,
Toronto-listed Tethys Petroleum Ltd. and Eni of Italy, he said.  
 The nation’s only major mining project, at the Aynak copper
deposit south of Kabul, may create 4,000 jobs for Afghans,
Shahrani said last week.  Metallurgical Corp. of China  is
scheduled to start production there as early as 2014.  
 The company has built a 10-mile road from the nearest town,
and paid to build 65 police posts to guard the deposit, said
Afghan Mines Ministry spokesman  Jawad Omar . Aynak’s ore is
buried in rocky hills 21 miles south of Kabul in a zone where
Taliban guerrillas periodically attack government targets.  
 Since winning the tender in November 2007, the company has
carried out exploratory drilling and cleared unexploded land
mines laid during the 32 years of civil warfare from areas
totaling more than a square mile, Omar said on June 23.  
 -- With assistance from  Cam Simpson  in London and Eltaf
Najafizada in Kabul Editors:  Amanda Jordan ,  Tony Barrett   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        