-- Lagarde Says Pension Reform Must Be Rapid; No Threat to Triple-A Rating
-- Mark Deen
-- 2010-06-25T08:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/lagarde-says-french-pension-reform-must-be-fast-no-threat-to-aaa-rating.html

          
          
             France’s plan to lift its retirement
age is a signal to investors about the seriousness of President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s intention to cut the  budget deficit , Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  
 “The priority is to protect the retirement system,”
Lagarde said today on France Inter radio. “We are also trying
to send a message of security to the markets.”  
 Sarkozy’s government set out proposals last week to raise
the minimum age at which workers can tap the state pension to 62
in 2018 from 60 currently. The age at which full benefits are
reaped is to rise to 67 from 65 under the plan, which labor
unions protested yesterday.  
 France is the only country among Europe’s five biggest
economies not to have presented a detailed savings plan for next
year. Britain set out deficit-cutting measures totaling 113
billion pounds ($167 billion) earlier this week and Germany
announced cuts of 81.6 billion euros ($101 billion) on June 7.  
 Sarkozy has committed to reducing the  deficit  from 8
percent of gross domestic product this year to 6 percent in 2011
and 3 percent in 2013.  
 Lagarde said “there’s no reason to think” that France’s
AAA credit rating is threatened, though she said the country
doesn’t have the luxury of time to debate the pension overhaul.  
 “We have time pressure, it’s not possible to delay,”
Lagarde said. “The public finance situation doesn’t allow for
it. We need to take measures quickly.”  
 Sarkozy and Lagarde join leaders and finance ministers of
the Group of Eight later today in Huntsville, Ontario, before
meeting their Group of 20 counterparts tomorrow in Toronto.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        