-- Agility Evidence Points to Continued Fraud, U.S. Tells Judge in Atlanta
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-25T18:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/agility-evidence-points-to-continued-fraud-u-s-tells-judge-in-atlanta.html

          
          
             Agility  may still be overbilling the
U.S. on military supplies, federal prosecutors said in a
pretrial hearing in a criminal case against the Middle East’s
largest storage and logistics company.  
 “We feel very strongly and have evidence that the fraud
has continued,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  Barbara Nelan  told U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Alan Baverman  today in Atlanta. Agility is
accused of overcharging the U.S. government on a multibillion-
dollar contract to supply food for troops in Kuwait and Iraq.
The Kuwaiti company is “war-profiting,” she said.  
 The U.S.’s contract with Agility, formerly known as Public
Warehousing Co., runs until December, Nelan said.  
 In a filing earlier this week, prosecutors accused the
company of being a “fugitive from American justice” that is
trying to evade a trial on charges of overbilling on military
supplies. Agility, based in Safat, Kuwait, claims it has not
been properly served in the case.  
 Richard Deane , attorney for Agility, declined to comment on
Nelan’s statements in today’s hearing.  
 Tom Bever , attorney for Agility DGS Holdings, an Agility
unit also named in the indictment, told the court that the case
is a contract dispute over whether Agility should have kept
discounts it received from vendors or refunded them to the
government.  
 The company was indicted in November on allegations it
overcharged the U.S. government on a multibillion-dollar
contract to supply food for troops in Kuwait and Iraq. The
company said April 28 it was negotiating with the U.S. Justice
Department on a possible settlement of the case.  
 The case is U.S. v. Public Warehousing Co., 09-cr-490, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at  dbeasley4@yahoo.com .  
          
          


  


        