-- Magna Says It Will Comply With Order for Additional Stock-Plan Disclosure
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-06-25T13:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/magna-says-it-will-comply-with-order-for-additional-stock-plan-disclosure.html

          
          
             Magna International Inc., Canada’s
largest auto-parts maker, said it will comply with a provincial
agency’s order to make additional disclosures before proceeding
with a vote to eliminate its dual-class share structure.  
 “We intend to work cooperatively with the Ontario
Securities Commission staff to address the commission’s concerns
and comply with the with OSC’s additional disclosure
requirements,” Chief Financial Officer  Vincent Galifi  said in a
statement.  
 Magna said it suspended the planned June 28 special meeting
of shareholders without setting a new date. The Aurora, Ontario-
based company wants to end founder  Frank Stronach ’s control
through the two classes of shares in exchange for C$965 million
($925 million) based on yesterday’s closing price in Toronto.  
 The commission said Magna must provide more information to
shareholders before they vote. A three-member panel of the OSC
said the “circular does not provide sufficient disclosure to
shareholders to permit them to make an informed decision,”
according to a statement.  
 The OSC sought approval from the panel led by Vice Chairman
 James Turner  for a cease-trade order on Magna’s Class ‘B’ shares
or a ban on issuing new ‘A’ shares to prevent the company from
converting stock that gives Stronach control.  
 “We welcome a vote,” commission lawyer James Angus told
the panel at a hearing in Toronto yesterday. “We want the
voters to be properly informed.”  
 Under the plan approved by  Magna’s  board, the Stronach
Trust would receive $300 million in cash and 9 million Class A
shares for the Class B stock that now gives the family about 66
percent of voting rights.  
 The Class A shares gained 57 percent over the  past year ,
including and 8 percent gain from June 18 through yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        