-- Agora, CEDC, Lotos, OTL, PKN Orlen May Move: Central Europe Equity Preview
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-06-25T06:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/agora-atc-cargo-kghm-pko-orlen-may-move-central-europe-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  
 Poland’s  WIG20 Index  fell 0.2 percent, the Czech  PX Index 
declined 1.1 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index  slid 0.7 percent.  
 Agora SA  (AGO PW): Shareholders of Poland’s largest
publisher meet to vote on the management’s proposal to pay a
dividend of 0.5 zloty a share from 2009 profit. Agora dropped
1.2 percent to 25.2 zloty.  
 ATC Cargo SA  (ATA PW): The Polish transportation company
will start trading on the Warsaw Stock Exchange’s NewConnect
market for smaller companies, the bourse said in an e-mailed
statement on June 24.  
 Central European Distribution Corp.  (CDC PW): The spirits
producer that trades in Warsaw had its share-price estimate cut
to $31 from $39 at ING Groep NV. Its shares declined 4.9 percent
to $23.40 in U.S. trading yesterday.  
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA  (KGH PW): The copper producer, which
is buying deposits in Canada and seeks to expand in the Polish
power industry, holds a news conference on expansion plans. KGHM
shares gained 0.6 percent to 90.5 zloty.  
 Grupa Lotos SA  (LTS PW): Poland’s state-controlled refiner
will delay its takeover of the Lithuanian oil drilling company
Geonafta pending Polish government approval of the transaction,
Rzeczpospolita reported, without citing anyone. Lotos earlier
planned to complete the takeover in June, the newspaper said.
Its shares lost 0.9 percent to 30.5 zloty.  
 OTP Bank Nyrt.  (OTP HB): Hungary’s special tax on financial
institutions, originally planned for three years, will be in
effect for two years, Hirszerzo said citing an interview with
Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay. OTP,
Hungary’s biggest bank, declined 1.1 percent to 5,105 forint.  
 PKN Orlen SA  (PKN PW): Shareholders of Poland’s biggest oil
refiner meet to vote on the management’s proposal to retain all
2009 profit and pay no dividend. Orlen declined 0.7 percent to
37.35 zloty.  
 Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  (PGN PW):
Poland’s dominant gas company agreed to buy a 10 percent stake
in an offshore concession including the Gro gas deposit from
Statoil Petroleum, subject to government approval. The company’s
Norwegian unit plans to invest a total of 500 million zloty
($150 million) this year. Its shares slipped 0.6 percent to 3.43
zloty.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        