-- Sugar Output in Thailand Will Slump 13% Next Year on Drought, Board Says
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-25T01:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/thai-sugar-output-may-fall-13-next-year-on-drought-flooding-board-says.html

          
          
             Sugar output in Thailand, the
second-largest exporter, may plunge as much as 13 percent in the
next crop year as delayed rain and subsequent floods will likely
damage cane crops, said the  Office of the Cane and Sugar Board .  
 “It’s a worrisome scenario as farmers will suffer with the
double impact of drought and flood,”  Prasert Tapaneeyangkul ,
the office’s secretary-general, said by phone.  
 Cane output may fall to around 60 million metric tons --
equivalent to sugar production of 6 million tons, he said. The
forecast is lower than the office’s estimate in May of 6.2
million to 7 million tons. Sugar output this crop year, which
began in November, is around 6.9 million tons, he said.  
 An El Nino weather pattern reduced June rainfall, which may
be delayed to early August, according to the  Meteorological
Department . The tropical monsoon heading toward Thailand will
bring heavy rain and flooding in September and October, damaging
crops, the department said on its website.  
 “In the worst case scenario, we may see sugar output
slightly over 6 million tons in the next crop year, due mainly
to drought,”  Piromsak Sasunee , chief executive of the country’s
largest exporter, Thai Sugar Trading Corp., said in an interview.
Production may be 6.6 million tons at best, with prices between
14 cents to 18 cents a pound through early next year, he said.  
 The price of raw sugar has tumbled 47 percent since
reaching a 30-year high of 30.4 cents a pound on Feb. 1 as
hedge-and index-fund managers cut holdings and on signs that
output from Brazil and India, the top producers, will improve.
The most-active contract more than doubled last year.  
 Raw sugar for July delivery rose 2.4 percent yesterday to
16.19 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  
 Declining Output  
 Declining output and an increase in local consumption will
further reduce Thai sugar exports in 2011 to below the 4.6
million tons expected for this year, said Prasert. Thailand will
increase the amount of domestic sugar production allocated for
local consumption by 4.5 percent to 2.3 million tons to ease a
tightening supply situation, paring  exports , he said.  
 Premiums for Thai raw sugar and white sugar will probably
remain near record highs until output from the next crushing
season arrives in November, said Piromsak.  
 “A supply shortage in the region amid strong demand will
continue to support Thai premiums to stay at a high level,”
said Piromsak. “Thailand lacks sugar supplies at the moment.
Only a small amount is changing hands among traders,” he said.  
 Cash Premium  
 The Thai raw sugar cash premium over the immediate-delivery
New York contract is likely to stay at more than 5 cents a pound,
Piromsak said. It reached a record of 6 cents a pound in May.
The Thai white sugar premium will probably stay at more than
$100 a ton over the London contract, he added.  
 The raw premium was about 0.3 to 0.5 cents a pound when the
futures contract reached a 29-year high of 30.4 cents on Feb. 1.
The white premium was around $5 to $10 a ton when futures
touched a peak of $759 a ton on Jan. 21, he said.  
 More demand will come from Malaysia, Indonesia, the
Philippines and China, said Piromsak. The Philippines plans to
import an additional 100,000 tons because of El Nino, the Sugar
Regulatory Administration said June 10.  
 “Strong demand for white sugar is attracting producers to
increase production of white sweetener, lowering the raw sugar
output and driving premiums higher,” said Piromsak.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        