-- Taiwan Opposition Aims to Rally 100,000 People in Trade Protest
-- Chinmei Sung
-- 2010-06-26T14:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/taiwan-opposition-aims-to-rally-100-000-people-against-china-trade-accord.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s  opposition rallied tens of
thousands people in Taipei today to protest President  Ma Ying- jeou’s  plan to sign a trade accord with China that it says will
damage the local economy and undermine the island’s sovereignty.  
 “We are against the ‘one-China market’ concept,” said
 Tsai Chi-chang , a spokesman for the opposition Democratic
Progressive Party, or DPP. “Taiwan’s companies and labor market
will be hurt by cheap Chinese goods. The jobless rate will go up
and the gap between the rich and the poor will widen.”  
 Today’s is the third rally against the trade negotiations
since China and Taiwan resumed cross-strait talks in 2008. The
opposition is concerned that China’s willingness to negotiate
with Taiwan may put the island’s sovereignty at stake as Ma, 59,
makes concessions in return for favorable policies. Ma has been
pushing for the trade deal to keep Taiwan from being
marginalized after an accord China has with the 10-member
Association of Southeast Asian Nations takes effect next year.  
 About 32,000 people joined the rally since the protest
began on the streets of Taipei at 3 p.m. local time, Wu Ching-
tien, deputy chief of Taipei’s Zhongzheng First Police District
said by phone today. Crowds were peacefully dismissed by 7 p.m.,
Wu said. The opposition had aimed to gather 100,000 people.  
 Cross-strait negotiations resumed after a nine-year halt
during which former president  Lee Teng-hui  described talks as
“state-to-state,” a term Beijing rejected. China claims the
self-ruled island as its territory and has threatened force to
impose unification with the mainland.  
 ‘Early Harvest’  
 The trade agreement is scheduled to be signed June 29
during the latest round of cross-strait negotiations in the
Chinese city of Chongqing.  
 “Ma Ying-jeou out,” protestor Chen Wen-lung said, holding
a red card resembling to a World Cup referee. “Ma must stop the
trade talk immediately.”  
 The two sides have completed details of an “early
harvest” list of 806 items that will be the first to enjoy
tariff reductions under the trade agreement,  Kao Koong-lian ,
vice chairman of the Taipei-based Straits Exchange Foundation
said this week.  
 China will cut tariffs on 539 items from Taiwan valued at
$13.8 billion, or about 16 percent of Taiwan’s 2009 exports to
the mainland, Kao’s Chinese counterpart,  Zheng Lizhong , vice
chairman of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan
Straits, said this past week. Taiwan will cut tariffs on 267
items from China worth $2.86 billion, or about 11 percent of the
country’s shipments to Taiwan in 2009.  
 1,000 Missiles  
 The reductions on items including petrochemicals, auto
parts, textiles and machinery will be implemented in three
stages over two years, by which time tariffs will be brought to
zero, Zheng said.  
 China, Taiwan’s largest trading partner and the No. 1
investment destination, has more than 1,000 missiles pointed at
the island to stave off any moves toward formal independence.  
 The island exercises de facto independence with its own
foreign policy, currency and elected government since  Mao Zedong ’s Communist Party took over the mainland in 1949 and the
Kuomintang fled to Taiwan after losing the civil war.  
 Ma returned the Kuomintang to power in 2008 eight years
after its five-decade reign was ended. Ma’s government has
resumed direct flights to China after banning them for six
decades, allowed Chinese tourists to visit the island and eased
investment rules.  
 Taiwan last month raised its 2010 GDP growth projection to
6.14 percent from 4.72 percent, and its annual inflation
forecast to 1.4 percent from 1.27 percent. A government report
this week showed the jobless rate fell to 5.22 percent in May,
lowest in 17 months.  
 Taiwan’s central bank this past week unexpectedly raised
its benchmark interest rate for the first time since 2008 and
said the move reflected the global and domestic recoveries, the
island’s falling jobless rate and significant export gains.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        