-- Akzo Unit Wins 20% Reduction in Antitrust Penalty at European Union Court
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-25T09:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/akzo-unit-wins-20-reduction-in-antitrust-penalty-at-european-union-court.html

          
          
             Akzo Nobel NV’s Imperial Chemical
Industries unit won a 2 million-euro ($2.5 million) reduction in
a 10 million-euro European Union antitrust fine.  
 The  European Union General Court , the EU’s second-highest
court, cut the fine for Imperial Chemical by 20 percent to 8
million euros in Luxembourg today, saying the EU’s antitrust
regulator “was wrong to find that an aggravating circumstance
existed in the applicant’s case” that justified a higher fine.  
 The European Commission in 2000 re-imposed a 10 million-
euro fine on London-based Imperial Chemical, a few months after
an EU court threw out the original penalty. The EU antitrust
agency also reinstated a 23 million-euro fine on  Solvay SA ,
accusing both companies of abusing their dominant positions in
the market for soda ash, used to make glass for cars and
buildings.  
 The original fines by the commission date back to 1990. The
EU’s top court canceled the fines 10 years later citing
procedural errors.  
 Solvay and Imperial Chemical in 2008 both challenged the
re-adopted fines, saying they came too late after the alleged
breaches were committed.  Akzo , the world’s biggest maker of
paints,  bought  Imperial Chemical in the same year.  
 The EU court in December reduced Solvay’s 23 million-euro
fine by 1.75 million euros. Solvay has appealed the decision to
the European Court of Justice, the EU’s highest court.  
 Lawyers for Amsterdam-based Akzo “will have to study the
ruling first before making a decision on a possible appeal,”
said spokesman Oskar Bosson by telephone.  
 Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the commission’s antitrust
unit, didn’t immediately respond to calls and an e-mail seeking
comment.  
 The case is  T-66/01  Imperial Chemical Industries v
Commission.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        