-- Marlboro Replaces 'Light' With 'Gold' As FDA Enforces Word Bans
-- Greg Miles
-- 2010-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/altria-s-marlboro-replaces-light-with-gold-as-fda-enforces-word-ban.html

          
          
             Marlboro Lights are no more. From
now on smokers will have to ask for “Marlboro Golds.”  
 Corporations do not change brands lightly. In this case
cigarette manufacturer Altria Group Inc. had no choice. The Food
& Drug Administration, which last year began regulating tobacco
products, banned the use of the words “mild,” “light,” or “low”
tar on packages effective June 22. The agency said such
cigarettes are just as harmful as regular ones.  
 Before Richmond, Virginia-based Altria made the switch, it 
used labels on the old packs to tell smokers that while the look 
of Marlboro Lights would change, the “cigarette stays the same.”
That got the FDA’s attention, Bloomberg Businessweek reported in
its June 28 issue.  
 The agency said some consumers might continue to assume
Marlboro Golds are safer than regular smokes and ordered Altria
to hand over market research showing why it used the tactic.  
 “What we’re concerned about is that it is potentially
perpetuating this untruth that these products are somehow less
harmful,” said Dr. Lawrence R. Deyton, the agency’s top tobacco
regulator, in an interview. “They are not less harmful.”  
 Altria will cooperate with the agency, said spokesman Bill
Phelps in an e-mail.  
 Altria fell 15 cents yesterday to $19.62. The company’s
shares outperformed the S&P 500 this year.  
 Altria was the only cigarette maker to support FDA
oversight, said Phelps, because the company wanted consistent
rules of the road for the entire tobacco industry.  
 Second Clash  
 Still, this is the second time Altria has clashed with
federal regulators in recent months. In March it challenged the
membership of an FDA tobacco science panel studying the health
risks of menthol cigarettes, which account for more than a
quarter of U.S. cigarette shipments, according to tobacco
company Lorillard Inc.  
 If the panel decides menthol increases the risk for
smokers, the FDA could ban such cigarettes.  
 On March 22 Altria sent the FDA a 16-page letter requesting
the removal of four members of the 12-person panel. The company
noted that the four had testified in more than 90 legal cases
against the tobacco industry and said that as paid expert
witnesses they had “grave financial conflicts and intellectual
bias.”  
 One of the panelists, Gregory N. Connolly, a tobacco
specialist at the Harvard School of Public Health, said he
hasn’t been an expert witness in five years and that his
research makes him uniquely qualified for the panel.  
 ‘Umbrage’  
 “I take umbrage at Altria’s challenge,” he said in an
interview. The three other panelists cited in Altria’s letter
did not return calls seeking comment. The FDA rejected Altria’s
request to have the four removed.  
 Altria’s challenge to the FDA may be only the first in a
series of battles between the tobacco industry and the
government, some health-care policy experts and officials at
anti-tobacco groups say.  
 “This is the beginning of a significant series of
regulatory actions by the FDA,” said Gregg Haifley, a lobbyist
for the American Cancer Society. “The industry will fight this
hammer and tong. It will be a titanic fight.”  
 Tobacco czar Deyton said the industry so far has cooperated
with the FDA. He added, however, that if tobacco companies
resist new rules and policies, “the law gives FDA quite broad
and deep authority to enforce all provisions, everything from
issuing warning letters to seizures, injunctions, civil money
penalties, criminal investigation--the whole thing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Miles in New York at 
 gmiles1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cindy Jones smokes a Marlboro 100's cigarette on the Auraria Higher Education campus in Denver. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
