-- Analysts Split on Outlook for Oil Price on Economy, Supplies, Survey Shows
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-06-25T21:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/analysts-split-on-outlook-for-oil-price-on-economy-supplies-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
were split over whether crude oil prices will rise or fall next
week amid mixed economic reports and ample stockpiles.  
 Sixteen of 47 analysts, or 34 percent, forecast crude will
advance through July 2. Sixteen more respondents predicted that
futures will decline. Fifteen said there will be little change.
Last week, 52 percent of analysts expected an increase.  
 Orders for computers and machinery climbed in May, showing
gains in global business investment and demand that will give
the U.S. economy a lift, a Commerce Department report yesterday
showed. On June 23 a government report showed that sales of new
homes in the U.S. declined in May to a record low as a tax
credit expired.  
 “There is a great deal of uncertainty right now about the
economy and what it will mean for oil demand,” said  Kyle Cooper , managing director at energy consultant IAF Advisors in
Houston. “Given all that’s out there it’s hard to bet one way
or another. There are a lot of arguments for it to move in
either direction.”  
 U.S. stockpiles of crude oil rose 2.02 million barrels to
365.1 million last week, the Energy Department said on June 23.
The increase in inventories left supplies at the highest level
for the period since 1990, according to the report. It was the
18th gain in 21 weeks.  
 The crude oil futures contract for August delivery rose 0.8
percent to $78.86 a barrel this week on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Prices are down 0.6 percent this year.  
 The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 48 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  

 
     Bloomberg’s survey of oil analysts and traders, conducted
each Thursday, asks for an assessment of whether crude oil
futures are likely to rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming
week. The results were:

                    RISE      NEUTRAL    FALL
                     16         15        16
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        