-- Apple: Hold New IPhone Differently to Fix Reception
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-06-25T20:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/apple-tells-users-to-hold-new-iphone-4-differently-to-improve-reception.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  responded to complaints
about reception on its new iPhone 4 by telling customers they
should hold the device differently.  
 “Gripping any mobile phone will result in some attenuation
of its antenna performance, with certain places being worse than
others depending on the placement of the antennas,”  Apple  said
today in an e-mailed statement. “If you ever experience this on
your iPhone 4, avoid gripping it in the lower left corner in a
way that covers both sides of the black strip in the metal band,
or simply use one of many available cases.”  
 Yesterday’s introduction of the iPhone 4 was marred by
criticism that signal strength diminishes when users cover the
bottom-left corners with their palms. The iPhone has become
Apple’s  top-selling  product since its 2007 debut, accounting for
40 percent of sales last quarter.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  added a high-definition
video camera, multitasking and video calling to the iPhone 4 to
fend off competition from phones running  Google Inc. ’s Android
operating system. It also has a stainless-steel band that’s
designed to improve network reception.  
 Customers have posted videos on the Internet demonstrating
trouble with the iPhone 4’s new antenna.  
 According to an e-mail exchange posted on the MacRumors.com
website, Jobs called the matter a “non issue.” Users expressed
disappointment with the response.  
 ‘Really Awful’  
 “I’m an  Apple  person going back a long time and have spent
a small fortune on Apple stuff over the last few years,” said
Patrick Coleman, 58, a senior systems administrator from
Rockville, Maryland, who purchased two iPhone 4s. “It’s really
awful when Jobs has this kind of attitude.”  
 Shaw Wu , an analyst at Kaufman Bros. LP in San Francisco,
doesn’t expect the antenna problem to lead to a product recall.  
 “Most users have a case anyway to protect their iPhone,”
he said in a report. He recommends buying Apple stock. “In the
worst case, Apple provides a discount on the $29 iPhone 4 bumper
case or includes one for free with an iPhone 4 purchase. Either
way, we do not think this would have a material impact on our
forecasts.”  
 David Carey, vice president of technical intelligence at
 UBM TechInsights , an Austin, Texas-based company that studies
the engineering of electronic devices, said it’s not clear
whether the antenna problem can be fixed with a software update
or if it’s more structural.  
 Software Solution?  
 “There is a point where software can’t dig you out of a
hole,” he said. Still, given the phone’s rigorous testing
process, “it would strike me as surprising that they would have
a permanent problem on their hands,” Carey said.  
 The antenna matter didn’t stop analysts from increasing
their projections.  Yair Reiner , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.
in New York, estimated Apple sold 1.5 million iPhone 4s
yesterday and said the company’s stock may reach $345 a share.  
 “Apple continues to capture the attention and catalyze the
passions of the American consumer in an unprecedented way,”
Reiner said.  
 Reviews of the device have been positive, with Bloomberg
Businessweek’s  Rich Jaroslovsky  saying Apple has “brilliantly”
created a “unified user experience” with its video calling,
multitasking and high-definition video features.  
 Apple  fell $2.30 to $266.70 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 27 percent
this year.  
 The company said this week it’s delaying the release of
white iPhone 4 models until the second half of July because of
unexpected manufacturing challenges. Jobs unveiled the phone on
June 7.  
 Android Phones  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is facing increased
competition from Android phone makers, such as  HTC Corp. , which
rely on  Google ’s operating system. There are some 60 Android-
based mobile phones.  
 In the U.S., a 16-gigabyte model of the iPhone 4 costs
$199, and a 32-gigabyte model is priced at $299. AT&T Inc., the
exclusive U.S. carrier for the iPhone, said this month it will
end unlimited data plans, an effort to manage the surge in
demand caused by devices like the iPhone. The carrier has been
criticized for dropped calls.  
 Apple may sell more than 10 million iPhones in the quarter
ending in September, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC
Partners in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., demonstrates the iPhone 4. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
