-- Argentine GDP Warrants Climb to a One-Week High on Economic Growth Outlook
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-06-25T20:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/argentine-gdp-warrants-climb-to-a-one-week-high-on-economic-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Argentine warrants linked to gross
domestic product climbed to a one-week high on bets that growth
in South America’s second-biggest economy will trigger payments.  
 The dollar-denominated warrants rose 0.05 cent on the
dollar to 7.91 cents at 3:54 p.m. New York time, the highest
since June 18.  
 The warrants are advancing after the government this week
closed its offer to restructure $18.3 billion worth of defaulted
bonds held out of a 2005 settlement.  
 Creditors holding about $12.1 billion of eligible defaulted
debt, or 66 percent of it, tendered their securities in a
restructuring that ended June 22, Economy Minister  Amado Boudou 
said June 23.  
 “Overall, the trend is probably positive,” said  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets debt strategist at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto. “The country has solid foreign-exchange
reserves and strong economic growth that supports tax revenues.
The upside from the swap is probably offset by risk of the new
bonds being sold and the Paris Club not being settled.”  
 Argentina won’t resolve about $6.7 billion in additional
outstanding debt with the Paris Club group of creditor nations
if it is required to have an oversight program with the
International Monetary Fund, Boudou said yesterday.  
 Argentina’s B- rating will remain constrained by the
government’s limited sources of funding, Standard & Poor’s said
yesterday in a statement.  
 The country’s access to international credit markets will
“remain challenging” due to lawsuits by creditors who rejected
the government’s swap offer, S&P said.  
 Argentina defaulted on a record $95 billion of debt in
2001.  Boudou  said a successful restructuring will help the
country regain access to international credit markets and lower
borrowing costs for provinces and companies that seek to sell
debt.  
 The peso dropped 0.1 percent to 3.9308 per dollar, from
3.9275 yesterday. The currency dropped 0.2 percent this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        