-- G-8 Leads in $7.3 Billion Maternal Health Program for Developing Nations
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-06-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/harper-urges-g-8-leaders-to-help-fund-world-wide-maternal-health-program.html

          
          
             Group of Eight leaders announced a
$7.3 billion plan to promote child and maternal health in poor
countries even as they struggle to maintain old aid pledges.  
 “Leaders made a historic commitment,” Canadian Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  said yesterday. “We are committed to
moving towards a day when women in developing countries will not
die or suffer disabilities from pregnancy or childbirth.”  
 Harper, who is chairing a meeting of leaders from the G-8
including President  Barack Obama  in Huntsville, Ontario, said G-
8 countries will contribute $5 billion, while foundations and
other countries, such as New Zealand and the Netherlands, will
give $2.3 billion.  
 The Canadian leader, under pressure from nongovernmental
organizations including World Vision Canada, CARE Canada and
Save the Children Canada, made the initiative his signature
issue going into the G-8 meeting, which will wrap up today.
Leaders will then move onto a Group of 20 meeting in Toronto.  
 Save the Children estimates it costs about C$1,000 ($964)
on average to save a life through home-birthing kits and
training of health workers. Harper has said that 500,000 women
die during pregnancy or childbirth each year and that 9 million
die before reaching age 5.  
 The U.S. pledged $1.35 billion over two years, subject to
the congressional appropriations process, the White House said
in a statement yesterday. Japan said it will offer $500 million
over five years starting in 2011.  
 While aid groups praised the focus on maternal health, they
said the G-8’s commitment fell short.  
 ‘Needless Deaths’  
 The pledge “looks more like a down payment than an
adequate investment, and won’t reach as far as it must to stop
needless deaths,” said Robert Zachritz, director of government
relations for  World Vision  U.S., in a statement.  
 The  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation  earlier this month
committed $1.5 billion over the next five years to related
programs. And that’s more than some governments will pay,
according to international aid organization Oxfam.  
 The emphasis on maternal health also hides the G-8’s
inability to deliver on a 2005 pledge to double aid to the
poorest nations to $50 billion a year, Oxfam said.  
 “It is such a painfully small piece of an increasingly
small pie,”  Robert Fox , Oxfam Canada’s executive director, told
reporters in Toronto.  
 There’s an additional risk that countries will present as a
new maternal health commitment money they’re already planning to
spend, Fox said.  
 ‘Overarching Commitments’  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  won’t insist that G-8
nations maintain a pledge to double aid agreed to when  Tony Blair  chaired the Gleneagles, Scotland, summit five years ago.
Instead, the U.K. will insist the G-8 fulfills its “overarching
commitments on aid,” his spokesman,  Steve Field , told reporters
at the summit yesterday.  
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
says G-8 members Germany, Italy and France will fall short of
their aid pledges.  
 In current dollar prices, the G-8 and major donors are $10
billion, or 20 percent, short of the 2005 target, according to
an  accountability report  prepared by officials. The OECD
estimates that the G-8 is $18 billion, or 40 percent, short of
their aid targets using 2004 prices. The G-8 accounts for about
70 percent of global aid to poor nations.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Huntsville, Ontario at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .
 Sandrine Rastello  in Toronto at  srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        