-- Asian Stocks Decline as Housing Sales Spur Concern U.S. Growth Faltering
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-06-25T22:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/asian-stocks-decline-as-housing-sales-spur-concern-u-s-growth-faltering.html

          
          
             Most  Asian stocks  fell, sending the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index to its third weekly decline in four as a
slump in U.S. housing sales triggered concern growth in the
world’s biggest economy is faltering.  
 James Hardie Industries SE , the biggest seller of home
siding in the U.S., declined 2.4 percent in Sydney.  Canon Inc. ,
which got about 28 percent of sales in the Americas last year,
dropped 6.6 percent in Tokyo.  Elpida Memory Inc. , the world’s
third-biggest maker of computer memory chips, and Tokyo Electron
Ltd., the world’s second-biggest market of semiconductor
equipment, slumped following brokerage downgrades.  
 “People are somewhat circumspect about the prospects for
global growth,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about
$1.1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Doubts
about how strong the U.S. recovery is and its trajectory,
particularly for the second half of 2010, have increased.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 0.5 percent. It has
lost 4 percent this year on concern Greece and other European
countries will struggle to curb their budget deficits and repay
debt.  
 Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  dropped 3.1 percent, the most
among major benchmark indexes in the Asia Pacific region, as
 Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s biggest investment bank,
declined 11 percent after saying increasingly uncertain markets
are weighing on some parts of its business.  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  declined 2.6 percent as
exporters dropped after the yen strengthened for a third week.
Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  slipped 0.3 percent after the nation’s
central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest rate for
the first times since 2008.  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 1.6 percent and
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 2 percent, bucking the regional
decline, after the People’s Bank of China signaled an end to the
currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar one week before a
Group of 20 Summit.  
 Exporters Drop  
 A gauge of electronics companies led this week’s decline on
speculation shipments by exporters to the U.S. will drop as new-
home sales in the world’s biggest economy tumbled to a record
low as a tax credit expired, threatening the nation’s stimulus-
driven recovery.  
 James Hardie, which got about 76 percent of sales from the
U.S. in the last fiscal year, dropped 2.4 percent to A$6.54.
 Billabong International Ltd. , the world’s biggest publicly trade
surfwear maker, slid 5.3 percent to A$8.88. Samsung Electronics
Co., the world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones by sales,
fell 2.1 percent to 805,000 won.  
 Japanese exporters also declined as a stronger yen
threatened to reduce the value of overseas sales when
repatriated. The dollar fell for a third week against the yen on
speculation Group of 20 leaders meeting this weekend will fail
to agree on ways to tackle Europe’s debt crisis, boosting demand
for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 Broker Downgrades  
 Canon declined 6.6 percent to 3,530 yen. Panasonic Corp.,
the world’s largest maker of plasma televisions, dipped 4.1
percent to 1,165 yen. Sony Corp., the maker of Playstation
gaming consoles and Bravia TVs, slipped 4.2 percent to 2,442
yen.  Nintendo Co. , the world’s largest video-game company, lost
6.4 percent to 26,570 yen.  
 Shares of Japan’s chip-related stocks declined following
brokerage downgrades. Elpida Memory, which Mizuho Securities Co.
cut to “underperform” from “outperform,” slumped 16 percent
to 1,401 yen, the  biggest decline  this week on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. Tokyo Electron, which was downgraded to
“neutral” from “outperform” by both Mizuho and Credit Suisse
Group AG, fell 8.3 percent to 5,220 yen.  
 In Sydney, Macquarie decreased 11 percent to A$39.50, its
lowest since July 2009. The bank’s Chief Financial Officer  Greg Ward  said in a presentation on June 24 that it’s “difficult”
to assess the impact of market uncertainties on earnings.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest lender,
slid 4.9 percent to A$50.  
 The latest statement from Macquarie compares to the outlook
it gave on April 30 when it said earnings in the next fiscal
year will rise as the global economic recovery drives a surge in
trading. Since then, Europe’s debt crisis has spawned a $1
trillion bailout package, while in U.S. Federal Reserve
officials said on June 23 financial conditions have become less
supportive of economic growth.  
 Mining, Airlines  
 Declines in financial stocks offset gains in some mining
stocks, which rose after  Julia Gillard , who replaced  Kevin Rudd 
as Australia’s prime minister on June 24, said she’s open to
negotiations over a tax Rudd had proposed on the industry.
Newcrest Mining Ltd., the nation’s biggest gold producer,
climbed 2.2 percent to A$36.  
 Air China Ltd. , the world’s biggest airline, gained 2.9
percent to HK$8.24 in Hong Kong after China’s central bank said
June 19 it will make the yuan, which has been pegged at about
6.83 per dollar since mid-2008, more flexible.  
 “This is very positive news for the airlines,” said  Kenny Tang , a Hong Kong-based stock analyst at Redford Assets
Management Ltd. “It will cut their debt-servicing costs and
boost profit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        