-- Bank Stocks Advance as S&P 500 Fluctuates; Oil Rises on Storm
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-25T07:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/asian-stocks-fall-on-u-s-earnings-forecasts-yen-gains-on-europe-concern.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  dropped the most in
nearly three weeks on disappointing sales and earnings forecasts
by U.S. companies. The yen traded near a two-week high against
the euro on speculation a Group of 20 summit this weekend won’t
decide how to tackle Europe’s debt crisis.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 1.5 percent to 115.37 at 8
a.m. in London with three stocks down for every one that rose.
The Stoxx Europe 600 increased 0.1 percent to 250.00. The yen
traded at 110.72 per euro in Tokyo from 110.52 in New York
yesterday. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures were up 0.2
percent, following a 1.7 percent drop in U.S. trading yesterday.  
 “People are somewhat circumspect about the prospects for
global growth,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about
$1.1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Doubts
about how strong the U.S. recovery is and its trajectory,
particularly for the second half of 2010, have increased.”  
 U.S. reports showing a decline in jobless claims and rise
in durable goods orders failed to stem the  S&P 500 ’s longest
losing streak in seven weeks yesterday as Dell Inc. forecast
2011 sales below some analysts’ expectations.  Nike Inc.  shares
lost 4 percent after reporting revenue that missed the average
of analyst estimates. Group of Eight leaders prepared for a
summit today in Canada in which they’ll debate how far
governments can slash budgets without choking the recovery.  
 European policy makers fear failure to patch up public
finances now risks reviving a bond market selloff that required
a bailout for Greece last month, while President  Barack Obama 
says deficit reduction could hurt growth and employment. Obama
and colleagues from the G-8 meet today in Huntsville, Ontario,
and join their G-20 counterparts tomorrow in Toronto.  
 Asian Exporters  
 Asian exporters to the U.S. declined after Dell, the
world’s third-largest maker of personal computers, said fiscal
2011 earnings may be as little as $60.31 billion, compared with
analysts’ predictions of $61.79 billion.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc .,
a retailer of home-furnishings, forecast second-quarter earnings
that missed analyst estimates. The Nikkei 225 plunged 2 percent,
the biggest drop in three weeks.  
 Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, lost 2.5
percent in Tokyo.  Canon Inc ., a camera maker that gets about 80
percent of revenue outside Japan, fell 4.6 percent. BHP Billiton,
the biggest mining company, slid 2.2 percent. The No. 1 computer
memory chipmaker, Samsung Electronics Co., slipped 2 percent.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.8 percent, the
fourth straight daily decline, set for its longest losing streak
in seven weeks. Net inflows to developing-nation stock funds
this year have reached 57 percent of the tally for the same
period in 2009 even after money managers got fresh funds in the
week ended June 23, EPFR Global said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Taiwan Rates  
 Taiwan’s  Taiex index  fell 1.5 percent after the central
bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest rate for the
first time since 2008 and urged lenders to increase risk
controls on mortgage loans.  Farglory Land Development Co .,
Taiwan’s biggest real-estate developer, plunged 4.8 percent.
The South Korean benchmark  Kospi index  declined 0.8 percent,
paring its fourth straight weekly advance.  
 Copper dropped in London, trimming the third weekly gain in
11 weeks, as signs of a slowdown in the recovery offset
expectations of a stronger yuan and a weaker dollar. Zinc also
declined. Three-month delivery copper fell 1.1 percent to $6,617
a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Zinc fell 1.9 percent
to $1,839.50 a ton.  
 Yuan Gains  
 The yuan headed for its biggest weekly gain since December
2008 as China set the currency’s daily reference rate at a
record high against the dollar, allowing appreciation before the
G-20 meeting which President  Hu Jintao  will attend. Obama said
yesterday that it’s “too early to tell” whether China’s
decision to allow more flexibility in its currency will be
sufficient to rebalance the world economy.  
 The yuan was at 6.7932 per dollar as of 1:45 p.m. in
Shanghai, up 0.1 percent. It has gained 0.48 percent this week,
the most since December 2008. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman
 Qin Gang  told reporters in Beijing yesterday that a revalued
yuan won’t solve U.S. economic woes.  
 Crude oil traded below $77 a barrel in New York, poised for
the first weekly decline in three. Crude for August delivery was
at $76.21 a barrel, down 30 cents, in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific bonds from non-payment
rose, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  
 The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 3.5 basis points to
136.5 basis points in Tokyo, according to Morgan Stanley. The
Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 3 basis points to 133
basis points in Sydney, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 2 basis points to 135 in Singapore,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will McSheehy  in Singapore at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net 
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past an electronic board showing the closing figure of the Hang Seng Index. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Tim Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for the nation's relations with the U.S. 
     Adams, speaking from Washington, also discusses the outlook for the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, U.K.'s budget, and U.S. and European fiscal policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Whitehead, equity analyst at Fat Prophets, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the potential implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australian prime minister for the government's proposed mining profits tax.
     Gillard, who was sworn in yesterday after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the tax with mining companies. Whitehead, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the outlook for Australian mining stocks and the global economy.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
