-- Massachusetts Lawmakers Pass $28 Billion Budget After Losing Medicaid Cash
-- Michael McDonald
-- 2010-06-25T14:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/massachusetts-lawmakers-pass-28-billion-budget-after-losing-medicaid-cash.html

          
          
             Massachusetts  legislators, facing a
July 1 deadline, authorized a $27.9 billion budget that cuts
spending and uses reserves to compensate for the loss of extra
federal support for Medicaid.  
 Lawmakers authorized a spending plan that uses $374 million
of cuts and draws at least $100 million from the state’s rainy
day fund to help make up for the Medicaid funds that may never
arrive, according to a joint statement today from Senate
President  Therese Murray  and House Speaker  Robert DeLeo .  
 Part of the new gap was closed on the assumption that more
revenue will come from programs such as the state lottery,
said Kara Keefe, a spokeswoman for Senate Ways and Means
Committee Chairman  Steven Panagiotakos , a Democrat from Lowell.  
 The vote was 121-28 in the state’s House of Representatives
and 33-7 in the Senate. Both chambers are controlled by
Democrats. Fiscal 2011 begins July 1.  
 Massachusetts was among states counting on Congress to
extend extra subsidies for Medicaid, the health-care program for
the poor. That bill has stalled in the Senate. A vote yesterday
failed to end debate and allow final action on the measure.  
 Governor  Deval Patrick , a Democrat, and lawmakers earlier
this year proposed budgets that assumed the receipt of at least
$600 million from the additional Medicaid subsidies.  
 There were at least 23 states that completed budgets for
the coming fiscal year that counted on enhanced Medicaid
spending, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said in a
 report  earlier this month. Before the failed attempt to move the
bill forward yesterday, U.S. Senate Democrats cut the extra
Medicaid support to $16 billion from $24 billion originally, to
hold down the cost and rally support for the measure.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        