-- Bafokeng, Anglo Platinum to List South African Mine Venture Next Quarter
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-25T10:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bafokeng-anglo-platinum-to-list-south-african-mine-venture-next-quarter.html

          
          
             The Royal Bafokeng Nation, which
represents a 300,000 strong community in northern South Africa,
plans to list the Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine venture with
 Anglo Platinum Ltd.  by October.  
 Bafokeng Rasimone, of which  Anglo Platinum  owns nearly a
third, could produce twice its current 200,000 ounces of
platinum annually when it digs a second mine shaft near the town
of Rustenburg in the North West province, Royal Bafokeng
Holdings Ltd.’s Chief Executive Officer  Niall Carroll  said in a
June 23 interview in Johannesburg. His company oversees the
community’s financial interests.  
 “We’re listing the vehicle that controls the mine,” he
said. “It will be third quarter, we hope.”  
 The group, which also holds a 13.4 percent stake in  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. , has used control of mining rights on its
land to generate revenue to build roads, run schools, electrify
villages and erect a stadium that is being used for matches in
the soccer World Cup. By selling shares in the venture to the
public it hopes to fund expansion to boost revenue.  
 Royal Bafokeng is yet to decide how much money it will seek
to raise from selling stock in the 10 billion rand ($1.3
billion) venture, Carroll said.  
 The group also plans to step up efforts to use its revenue
from platinum to diversify future earnings as its mineral
resources will eventually run out.  
 Bought Back Land  
 “Our biggest challenge is to, over time, move away from an
overdependence on mining revenues, particularly platinum, to a
more balanced asset base, which in turn will create a more
consistent income stream,” Carroll said.  
 The Bafokeng community labored in South African diamond
mines almost 150 years ago to raise money to buy their land
after it was expropriated during white rule. That land is now
the site of the Impala Lease Area mine, the world’s biggest
platinum operation.  
 The community led by  King Leruo Molotlegi , who succeeded
his brother seven years ago, converted a right to royalties from
Impala’s mine into a stake in the company in 2007.  
 Royal Bafokeng now has 18 investments worth over 30 billion
rand in companies ranging from shares in mobile phone company
 Vodacom Group Ltd.  to Zurich Insurance Co. South Africa Ltd.  
 The group, whose lands are in a semi-arid area of South
Africa approaching the Botswanan border, may set up an office in
London to help it access funding, skills and business partners
as it seeks opportunities in mining, financial services and
infrastructure across Africa, Carroll said.  
 “The ideal transaction for us would be 3 to 5 billion rand
in size and we’d want to do a couple of those,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        