-- Bank of America U.K. Mortgage Bonds May Use Reserves to Pay First Coupon
-- Esteban Duarte
-- 2010-06-25T13:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bank-of-america-u-k-mortgage-bonds-may-use-reserves-to-pay-first-coupon.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. ’s proposed
bonds backed by U.K. non-conforming mortgages may need to use
cash reserves to pay the first coupon because income from the
underlying loans won’t be enough, Standard & Poor’s said.  
 The largest U.S. lender is selling 122.5 million pounds
($181 million) of bonds secured on mortgages that don’t meet
standard lending criteria, according the three people with
knowledge of the transaction. The issue is the first public
offering of this kind of securities since the start of the
credit crisis, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  
 The junior-ranked bonds are being marketed at yields of
about 400 basis points to 900 basis points more than benchmark
rates, according to three people with knowledge of the deal.
That compares with an average yield of 322 basis points on the
underlying mortgages, S&P said in a report on the transaction. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “The notes have relatively high weighted-average margins
compared with the assets’ yield,” S&P analysts led by Nadezhda
Aleshina wrote in a June 23 report. “As a result, we expect
that there will be draws on the reserve fund from the first
payment date.”  
 Bank of America is providing cash reserves equivalent to
about 27 percent of the size of the transaction, while 14
percent of mortgages backing the deal are in arrears, S&P said.  
 Bank of America spokesman  Andrew Todd  in London declined to
comment.  
 The Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender is offering four
portions of mezzanine and junior notes rated between AA, S&P’s
third-highest investment grade, and BB, two steps below
investment grade, said the people, who declined to be identified
before the sale is completed. The bank plans to retain 598.2
million pounds of top-rated senior notes.  
 The bonds will be issued by Moorgate Funding 2010-1, a
company set up to package the mortgages into securities.  
 The last public sale in Europe of non-conforming loan-
backed bonds was a 730 million-pound issue from Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s Eurosail-UK 2007-4BL program in August 2007,
JPMorgan data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        