-- Banks Make More Loans for Acquisitions as Institutional Investors Cut Back
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-06-25T14:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/banks-make-more-loans-for-acquisitions-as-institutional-investors-cut-back.html

          
          
             Banks are agreeing to provide more
money for acquisitions as non-bank lenders cut back commitments
for leveraged loans to curb risk amid concern that the European
sovereign-debt crisis may derail an economic recovery.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG, which are
arranging the debt backing  Universal Health Services Inc. ’s
purchase of  Psychiatric Solutions Inc. , doubled the size of a
bank-backed loan to $1 billion while cutting a loan that would
be bought by investors by almost half to $1.55 billion.  
 Investors are demanding higher interest rates and deeper
discounts on new loans as companies and private-equity firms
seek as much as $12 billion to support their transactions. The
premium that non-bank lenders require is widening as high-yield,
high-risk bond sales plummet, forcing borrowers to rely on bank
commitments.  
 “There is no need to test capacity in the B loan market,
and that’s secondary to the fact that in the A loan market banks
are in good shape, they’re lending, they want to put some assets
on their balance sheet,” said  AJ Murphy , head of leveraged-
loans capital markets for the Americas at  Bank of America Corp.   
 A term loan A is sold primarily to banks, while a term loan
B is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized
loan obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and hedge funds.  
 ‘Save Dry Powder’  
 Universal Health, based in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania,
follows Gentiva Health Services Inc. and Canwest Global
Communications Corp., both of which carved out term loan As from
their institutional term loan Bs to take advantage of bank
demand, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and
Data and Bloomberg.  
 “We’re all happy to take B loans down and save dry powder
given the new-issue loan calendar,” Murphy said yesterday in a
telephone interview from her New York office. “If we can
preserve some capacity on that side by taking A loan dollars
where we can, we’ll see that happen.”  
 Banks have agreed to arrange as much as $20 billion of
loans that haven’t yet been completed, 60 percent of which will
finance acquisitions or leveraged buyouts, according to Barclays
Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Plc.  
 Company borrowing costs for the most actively traded
leveraged loans, as measured by the average spread to maturity
over the three-month London interbank offered rate, widened this
week by 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 478 basis
points, according to S&P LCD. Libor, the rate banks charge to
lend to each other, was set at 53.47 basis points today.  
 Bond Sales Drop  
 The premium that investors demand for leveraged loans
climbed to as high as 483 basis points over the lending
benchmark on May 20, according to S&P LCD.  
 Speculative-grade companies sold $5.82 billion of junk
bonds in June, dropping to the lowest level this year after a
record monthly issuance of $39.9 billion in March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  
 Fed officials this week maintained a pledge to keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent
for an “extended period” and signaled that Europe’s debt
crisis may harm American growth.  
 “Financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments
abroad,” the Fed’s Open Market Committee said in a June 23
statement.  
 Commercial Bank Lending  
 Most banks in the U.S. didn’t tighten lending standards in
the first quarter, the central bank said May 3. The smallest
portion of banks in two years restricted terms for providing
credit to businesses, according to the Fed.  
 Commercial banks extended $32.1 billion of leveraged loans
to companies this year, up from $20.4 billion in the first half
of 2009 and on pace to surpass the $38 billion for all of last
year, according to S&P LCD.  
 Until now, the increase in bank lending was outpaced by
that of institutional investors, which had bought $72 billion of
term loan Bs as of June 23, nearly double the amount sold in all
of 2009, according to S&P LCD.  
 Institutions may have backed off their purchases because
“maybe banks are bringing deals that the investor community
isn’t comfortable with,” said  Stephen Antczak , head of U.S.
credit strategy at Societe Generale in New York. “I don’t know
that investors have a lot of capacity to take on challenged
capital structures.”  
 Jonathan DeSimone , a managing director at Sankaty Advisors
LLC, said, “There aren’t many credits I want to sell at today’s
levels and there is no rush to invest cash.” Sankaty Advisors
oversees $20 billion of assets including leveraged loans.  
 ‘Happy to Wait’  
 The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  extended  gains  for
a second week following a monthlong sell-off, climbing 0.09 cent
to 88.88 cents on the dollar as of yesterday. The index, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, is down from 92.9 cents on April 26, the highest since
Jan. 21, 2008.  
 “I’m happy to wait until we see a new-issue loan that is
really attractive relative to the secondary market,” DeSimone
said yesterday in a telephone interview from his Boston office.
“There’s a lot of that across the buy side.”  
 Universal Health proposed a spread of 3.25 percentage
points over Libor for its term loan A and an upfront fee of 75
to 100 basis points, compared with a 4 percentage-point spread
over the lending benchmark on the term loan B.  
 The company also offered a 1.5 percent Libor floor on the
institutional loan, which may be sold to investors at 98.5 cents
on the dollar, reducing proceeds for Universal Health and
boosting the yield for investors.  
 “The A loans are going well across the board, they are at
a different price point, they are relationship driven, they are
lower cost, so they’re very attractive financing,” Bank of
America’s Murphy said. “In the leveraged-loan market, assets
came off the books in the last few years and now banks are
bringing them back.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Weekly loan market wraps: TNI SYNLOANS WRAP <GO>
Stories about syndicated loans: NI SYNLOANS <GO>
Loan issuance and amendments: NIM14 <GO>
Top loan news: TOP LOAN <GO>
Top deal news: TOP DEAL <GO>
Search loans: LOAN <GO>  
          
          


  


        