-- Banks `Dodged a Bullet' as U.S. Congress Dilutes Trading Rules
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-06-25T17:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/banks-dodged-a-bullet-as-congress-dilutes-u-s-trading-rules-in-overhaul.html

          
          
             Legislation to overhaul financial
regulation will help curb risk-taking and boost capital buffers.
What it won’t do is fundamentally reshape Wall Street’s biggest
banks or prevent another crisis, analysts said.  
 A deal reached by members of a House and Senate conference
early this morning diluted provisions from the tougher Senate
bill, limiting rather than prohibiting the ability of federally
insured banks to trade derivatives and invest in hedge funds or
private equity funds.  
 Banks “dodged a bullet,” said  Raj Date , executive
director for Cambridge Winter Inc.’s  center  for financial
institutions policy and a former  Deutsche Bank AG  executive.
“This has to be a net positive.”  
 Hashed out almost two years after the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, the legislation shepherded by
Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  and House
Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank  places limits on
potentially risky activities such as proprietary trading or
over-the-counter derivatives and gives regulators new powers to
seize and wind down large, complex institutions if needed.  
 The overhaul, which still requires approval from the full
Congress, won’t shrink banks deemed “too big to fail,” leaving
largely intact a U.S. financial industry dominated by six
companies with a combined $9.4 trillion of assets. The changes
also do little to solve the danger posed by leveraged companies
reliant on fickle markets for funding, which can evaporate in a
panic like the one that spread in late 2008.  
 ‘Fig Leaf’  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index , whose 79
companies include  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. , rose 1.4 percent at 1:02 p.m. in New York.  
 The legislation is “largely a fig leaf,” said  Dean Baker ,
co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in
Washington. “Given where we were when this got started, I’d
have to imagine the Wall Street firms are pretty happy.”  
 Banks avoided drastic curbs on their highly profitable
derivatives businesses. Lenders including  JPMorgan  and  Citigroup
Inc.  will be required to move less than 10 percent of the
derivatives in their deposit-taking banks to a broker-dealer
division during the next two years, which may require additional
capital.  
 Goldman Sachs  and  Morgan Stanley , which were the two
biggest U.S. securities firms before converting to banks in
September 2008, won’t be as affected because they kept most of
their derivatives in their broker-dealer units.  
 ‘Pennies’ of Dilution  
 “There’s going to be some adaptation, but I don’t think
there’s going to be any colossal impact,” said  Benjamin Wallace , an analyst at Grimes & Co. in Westborough,
Massachusetts, which manages $900 million and holds stakes in
Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. 
Derivatives rules mean “there’s going to be a capital raise,
but the analysis we’ve seen suggests we’re talking in the
pennies in terms of dilution” of earnings per share.  
 Senator  Blanche Lincoln , a Democrat from Arkansas, had
originally advocated forbidding banks that receive federal
support such as deposit insurance from trading swaps, a rule
that could have required banks to spin off those businesses.  
 The final agreement provides a number of exemptions: Banks
can continue trading derivatives used to hedge their risks and
can keep trading interest-rate and foreign-exchange contracts.
Banks will have up to two years to move other types of
derivatives, such as credit default swaps that aren’t standard
enough to be cleared through a central counterparty, into a
separately capitalized subsidiary.  
 97% of Market  
 U.S. commercial banks held derivatives with a notional
value of $216.5 trillion in the first quarter, of which 92
percent were interest-rate or foreign-exchange derivatives,
according to the  Office  of the Comptroller of the Currency. The
five U.S. banks with the biggest holdings of derivatives --
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,  Bank of America , Citigroup and Wells
Fargo -- hold $209 trillion, or 97 percent of the total, the OCC
 said .  
 The rules are “nowhere as bad as what the banks might have
feared as recently as a week ago,”  Bill Winters , the London-
based former co-chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s investment
bank, told Bloomberg Television today. “Banks have pretty much
factored in already the idea that most derivatives will have to
be cleared through a central clearing counterparty. Not a huge
surprise and probably not a huge cost either.”  
 Volcker Rule  
 Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates or weather.
They include credit-default swaps, which act like insurance for
investors in case a debt issuer can’t repay.  
 Swaps sold by  American International Group Inc.  that later
went sour helped push the insurer to the brink of bankruptcy and
triggered a $182 billion federal bailout of the New York-based
company during the near collapse of the financial system in
2008.  
 Another portion of the legislation that was amended in the
final conference was the so-called Volcker rule, named after
 Paul Volcker , the former Federal Reserve chairman who championed
it. Originally the rule would have prevented any systemically
important bank holding company from engaging in proprietary
trading, or bets with its own money, as well as investing its
own capital in hedge funds or private-equity funds. Goldman
Sachs executives have estimated that about 10 percent of the
firm’s annual revenue comes from proprietary trading.  
 3% Rule  
 In the final version, the banks will be allowed to provide
no more than 3 percent of a fund’s equity, and will be limited
to investing up to 3 percent of the bank’s Tier 1 capital in
hedge funds or private equity funds. That represents a ceiling
of about $3.9 billion for JPMorgan, $3.6 billion for Citigroup
and $2.1 billion for Goldman Sachs, according to the companies’
latest quarterly reports.  
 “I don’t think it will have any impact at all on most
banks,” Winters said of the amended Volcker rule. “It’s a
pragmatic solution that will result in the banks having no big
issues.”  
 While the rule has been watered down, it still represents
an important change in direction for a financial industry that
had been allocating a larger and larger portion of capital over
the last decade to making bets and investments with their own
money, said  James Ellman , president of San Francisco-based hedge
fund Seacliff Capital LLC, which specializes in financial
industry stocks.  
 ‘Casino’ Must Go  
 “You’re going to be taking out of the banks areas of
investing that every 10 years or so, at certain points in the
cycle, tend to have dramatic losses,” Ellman said.
“Effectively you’re telling the system: We have to take the
casino out of the utility.”  
 While Ellman said the legislation will help to make the
financial system safer, he added that “it won’t satisfy anybody
who wanted really strict additional regulation of banks.”  
 The new version of the Volcker rule also incorporates
changes proposed by Democratic Senators  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon
and  Carl Levin  of Michigan that aim to curb conflicts of
interest by preventing firms that underwrite an asset-backed
security from placing bets against the investment. In April,
Levin presided over a hearing in which Goldman Sachs executives
were accused of betting against some of the same collateralized
debt obligations that they underwrote; the executives responded
by saying they were acting as market-makers.  
 Market-Based Funding  
 While requirements for an increase in capital will provide
banks with a bigger cushion to absorb losses, the legislation
does little to reduce banks’ dependence on the markets to
finance their balance sheets. It was that market-based funding
that made firms like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley vulnerable
to the panic that spread in 2008.  
 “Something has to be put in place to cause banks to have
deposit-based liabilities and not market-based liabilities,”
Grimes & Co.’s Wallace said.  
 The effects of the legislation won’t be seen for several
years as new regulations are drafted and implemented, analysts
said. New international capital requirements under consideration
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which could be
implemented by the end of 2011, will also be important.  
 Investors and analysts including Optique Capital
Management’s  William Fitzpatrick  said bank stock prices have
already factored in any likely reduction in revenue from the
changes.  
 “Profitability is indeed going to take a hit and we’re
going to see more stringent capital requirements,” said
Fitzpatrick at Milwaukee-based Optique, which oversees about
$800 million including stock in Bank of America, Goldman Sachs
and JPMorgan. “The changes are most certainly necessary. They
can certainly lead to a more stable and predictable earnings
stream.”  
 Still, he added, “this doesn’t remove all of the elements
of financial distress that could lead to some of the challenges
we had in 2008.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Barney Frank places limits on potentially risky activities such as proprietary trading or over-the-counter derivatives. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, discusses the impact of legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system on U.S. banks.
     Lawmakers from the House and Senate worked through the night in a 20-hour session to reach deals on a ban on proprietary trading by banks and oversight of the derivatives market. Bove talks with Betty Liu and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Gardner, senior vice president for Washington research at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the outlook for a final financial regulatory bill.
     A deal reached by members of a House and Senate conference early this morning diluted provisions from the tougher Senate bill, limiting rather than prohibiting the ability of federally insured banks to trade derivatives and invest in hedge funds or private equity funds. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Barney Frank talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the agreement reached today by members of a House and Senate conference committee on the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great Depression.
     The legislation shepherded by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd and Frank places limits on potentially risky activities such as proprietary trading or over-the-counter derivatives and gives regulators new powers to seize and wind down large, complex institutions if needed. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
