-- Barclays `Windfall' Trial Over Lehman Brokerage Buy Takes Summer Holiday
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-06-25T17:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/barclays-windfall-trial-over-lehman-brokerage-buy-takes-summer-holiday.html

          
          
             The trial of  Barclays Plc  over an
alleged $11 billion “windfall” on its purchase of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s brokerage goes on summer holiday today
after three weeks of testimony by witnesses including Barclays
Group Chief Executive  John Varley .  
 The defunct investment bank is due to wrap up its case
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, where it is seeking
money from Britain’s third-biggest bank to pay creditors.
Barclays lawyer  David Boies  is scheduled to present the bank’s
side of the story starting Aug. 23. The brokerage deal was
approved by Judge  James Peck  and closed a week after Lehman’s
Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy, the biggest in U.S. history.  
 On the witness stand today,  Luc Despins , a former lawyer
for Lehman creditors, said he didn’t oppose the Barclays deal in
September 2008 even though his financial adviser believed late
changes to the terms might cost creditors billions of dollars.  
 “There was no other apparent viable alternative at the
time,” he said. “The assumption was that the Barclays
transaction was better than liquidation.”  
 Despins was responding to questions from Boies, who was
trying to show that Lehman creditors had enough information to
oppose the deal as it closed and didn’t do so. At issue is
whether creditors have a right 21 months later to reopen a sale
contract that would normally be final in bankruptcy court.  
 Secret Raid  
 Lehman, its creditors and the brokerage trustee  James Giddens  in separate lawsuits have accused Barclays of making a
secret “raid” on Lehman’s assets that wasn’t disclosed to Peck
or to them, justifying a review of the contract. Absent a
settlement of the dispute, Peck must decide whether to overturn
a deal he approved.  
 Lehman has paid its lawyers and managers $830.6 million for
20 months of work so far, with $296 million going to the
restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, co-headed by Lehman’s
chief executive officer,  Bryan Marsal . Marsal has said he will
spend five years selling assets to pay unsecured creditors as
little as 14.7 cents on the dollar. Any proceeds from litigation
would add to the payout.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and James W. Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        