-- Barclays Predicts Buoyed Treasury Yields After Fourth of July on Economy
-- Margaret Brennan
-- 2010-06-25T18:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/barclays-predicts-buoyed-treasury-yields-after-fourth-of-july-on-economy.html

          
          
             Treasury yields will rebound on
signs Europe is containing its sovereign-debt crisis and
evidence the global economic recovery is regaining momentum,
according to Barclays Plc.  
 Economic reports should turn positive after the Fourth of
July holiday weekend, gradually lifting U.S. debt yields, said
 Ajay Rajadhyaksha , head of U.S. fixed-income strategy in New
York at Barclays Capital Inc., in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .” The
firm is one of 18 primary dealers that trade directly with the
Federal Reserve.  
 “As risk aversion starts to abate, as people start to get
a little more confidence, not just in the economy, but more
importantly in the belief that Europe is not going to blow up,
Treasury yields will start to rise,” Rajadhyaksha said.  
 The two-year note  yield  was headed for a weekly drop of 5
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, the biggest since the
five days ended May 7. The Fed said on June 23 that the U.S.
recovery pace is “likely to be moderate for a time.”  
 The  yield  fell yesterday to 0.6329 percent, the lowest
level since Nov. 27. It reached the record low of 0.6044 percent
on Dec. 17, 2008. The median forecast of 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey is for the yield to be 1.32 percent at
year-end.  
 Treasury two-year notes rose today, pushing the yield down
two basis points to 0.66 percent. The 10-year note’s  yield 
decreased three basis points to 3.10 percent.  
 The strategist called the 33 percent plunge last month in
U.S. new-home sales reported this week by the Commerce
Department “completely askew” because of pent-up demand.  
 “It’ll recede slowly,” said Rajadhyaksha, referring to the
prevailing pessimistic sentiment. “I am by no means suggesting
we are going to see 10-year Treasuries rise by 50 basis points
over the next month.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        