-- Beijing Companies Settle First Trade Deals With Yuan, Eroding Dollar Usage
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T03:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/beijing-companies-settle-first-trade-deals-with-yuan-eroding-dollar-use.html

          
          
             Companies in Beijing, including some
of China’s largest trading groups, this week used yuan to settle
cross-border trades for the first time, furthering government
efforts to reduce the nation’s reliance on the U.S. dollar.  
 Subsidiaries of Sinochem Group, China’s biggest chemicals
trader, and  China Minmetals Corp ., the largest metals trader,
were among the first to pay a total 24.24 million yuan ($3.6
million) to Hong Kong and Macau suppliers via Beijing-based
China Citic Bank Co., the lender said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Nokia’s Oyj ’s China unit also opted to pay yuan after
a program allowing trade settlement in the currency was expanded.  
 “Beijing has an abundance of big state-backed companies
that want to pay for imported goods and services in yuan to
reduce foreign-exchange risks and transaction costs,” said
Zhang Lijun, assistant general manager at the operation and
business department of Citic, the banking unit of the nation’s
largest investment company. “We expect the market for local-
currency settlement to grow quickly.”  
 The use of yuan for trade settlement has been expanded to a
total 20 provinces and cities, the People’s Bank of China said
June 22, almost a year after such payments were approved for
five cities. Trade settlement using the yuan totaled 18.4
billion yuan ($2.7 billion) in the first quarter, five times
more than the amount in the second half of 2009, the central
bank said on May 10.  
 Dollar Risk  
 China is seeking alternatives to the dollar as U.S.
President Barack Obama boosts spending to revive the economy and
lower unemployment following the deepest recession since the
1930s, a policy that’s forecast to widen the budget deficit to a
record $1.6 trillion this year. The Asian nation has foreign-
exchange reserves totaling $2.45 trillion, the world’s largest,
and Premier Wen Jiabao in March said he is “worried” about
holdings of assets denominated in the greenback.  
 China on June 19 scrapped the yuan’s two-year peg to the
dollar, a measure aimed at deflecting criticism from its trading
partners. The currency has strengthened 0.5 percent this week to
6.793 per dollar and forward contracts reflect bets for 1.6
percent appreciation in the coming 12 months.  
 “Expectations for the yuan to rise may help spur business
demand for using yuan in trade in the short term,” said  Liu Xin ,
an analyst at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications
Ltd., China’s fifth-biggest lender. “In the long run, however,
the yuan’s internationalization pace will be limited if China
won’t open its capital account for investments.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jing Ulrich, chairwoman for China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about China's decision to end the yuan's peg to the U.S. dollar and the outlook for the currency. 
     Ulrich also discusses Chinese stocks, the country's economy and her investment strategy for China. Ulrich talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Tim Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for the nation's relations with the U.S. 
     Adams, speaking from Washington, also discusses the outlook for the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, U.K.'s budget, and U.S. and European fiscal policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
