-- Berkeley Reports Higher Net Income for the First Half as Revenue Increases
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 2010-12-03T18:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/berkeley-profit-falls-on-selling-prices-as-company-cancels-2010-dividend.html
Berkeley Group Holdings Plc , the
U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by market value, said first-
half profit rose 20 percent as the company sold more houses.  Net income climbed to 44.4 million pounds ($69 million) in
the six months through October from 36.9 million pounds a year
earlier, the Cobham, England-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue increased 16 percent to 336.2 million pounds.  The homebuilder has benefited more than some competitors
from an increase in demand for homes in the southeast of
England, which started in April 2009, because of its focus on
the area. Berkeley sold 1,249 homes in the first half compared
with 914 a year earlier.  “We see an anemic recovery,” Managing Director  Rob Perrins  said in an interview. “Credit is constrained out there,
especially for people getting mortgages. There is a lot of
uncertainty.”  U.K. consumer confidence fell to a 19-month low in October
as Britons faced the deepest budget cuts since World War II,
Nationwide Building Society said on Nov. 12. House prices have
fallen for five months in a row, according to Hometrack Ltd.  Berkeley rose 4.5 percent to 878 pence in London trading,
its biggest gain since May. That boosted its market value to
1.15 billion pounds and extended its gain this year to 7.1
percent, making it the only U.K. homebuilder that has shown an
increase. Redrow Plc, the next-best performing competitor, has
lost 11 percent.  Reservations Increase  Sales reservations have risen by 20 percent compared with
the last fiscal year, Perrins said. The operating margin of 17.4
percent that Berkeley achieved in the first half will probably
be little changed in the second, he said.  “Good performance in the first half,” Peel Hunt analyst
 Robin Hardy  said in a note to investors today. “The best news
is that Berkeley is finally spending more money on land rather
than hoarding cash.” Hardy has a “hold” rating on the stock
and plans to raise his price estimate.  Berkeley bought 2,512 plots of land in the first half in
sites including Westminster in London, the company said. The
homebuilder had net cash of 252.7 million pounds at Oct. 31,
down from 316.9 million pounds in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net ;
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  