-- BNP Paribas Hires Former Barclays Strategist McAdie for Credit Research
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-06-25T12:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bnp-paribas-hires-former-barclays-strategist-mcadie-for-credit-research.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA hired  Robert McAdie 
to head its global credit research and strategy unit in London,
as banks in the U.K.’s City financial district beef up debt
teams.  
 McAdie will report to  David Brunner , the deputy global head
of fixed income, BNP Paribas said in a statement. He left
Barclays Plc in April and starts work at France’s largest bank
in August. Barclays in turn appointed  Daniel Rekrut  from UBS AG
to oversee high-yield research in London, according to two
people familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
before an announcement is made.  
 The City is hiring again as banks from Citigroup Inc. to
HSBC Holdings Plc return to profitability after the worst
financial crisis since the 1930s led to $544 billion of losses
and writedowns in Europe, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks are rebuilding credit teams to profit from
reviving markets, according to  Simon Barker , head of fixed
income at Jared James Associates, a London-based recruiter.  
 “Fixed income has gone nuts,” said Barker. “There was such
a lack of hiring last year that there’s a squeeze on to hire,
and there’s a strong possibility that this will continue.”  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, hired Paul Williams to
manage junk-rated debt sales from its German counterpart
Deutsche Bank AG, two people familiar with the situation said.
Gemma Ward, a London-based spokeswoman for UBS, declined to
comment. Williams couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Baldini to Barclays  
 Marco Baldini , former head of emerging market and corporate
bond syndicate at Bank of America Corp., will rejoin Barclays’s
credit syndicate team in London in September, according to two
people familiar with the matter. He ended a previous stint with
the U.K. bank in 2007, said the people, who didn’t want to be
identified.  
 Phillippa-Jane Vermoter, a spokeswoman for Barclays,
declined to comment. Baldini couldn’t be reached and Rekrut
wouldn’t comment on his appointment to the bank.  
 Greg Venizelos  joined BNP Paribas in London as a credit
strategist from RBS, two people with knowledge of the
appointment said. Venizelos declined to comment, as did BNP
Paribas spokespeople, who spoke on the condition they wouldn’t
be named.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        