-- BNY Mellon, State Street Say Financial Overhaul Changes Safeguard Managers
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-06-25T19:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bny-mellon-state-street-say-financial-overhaul-changes-safeguard-managers.html

          
          
             Bank of New York Mellon Corp . and
 State Street Corp ., the two largest independent custody banks,
said they are satisfied with last-minute changes by U.S.
lawmakers to a financial-regulatory overhaul that protect their
investment-management businesses.  
 The so-called Volcker Rule was softened early today after
an all-night session on Capitol Hill to merge House and Senate
versions of the legislation. The provision, which is intended to
curb risk-taking by financial companies, limits rather than
prohibits federally insured banks’ ability to invest in private-
equity or hedge funds.  
 “The Volcker Rule as adopted by the conferees achieves the
important goal of reining in risky behavior while preserving the
ability of asset managers to continue to develop and offer
appropriate investment opportunities for their clients,”  Ron Gruendl , a BNY Mellon spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The Volcker Rule, named for former U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , was proposed in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis. New York-based BNY Mellon and Boston’s State
Street lobbied against a private-equity and hedge-fund ban,
saying it would put them at a competitive disadvantage to other
asset managers.  
 State Street and BNY Mellon said institutional clients they
advise, such as pension funds, expect their money manager to
invest alongside them so that their interests are aligned. The
companies also often put “seed money” into new funds to help
get them started.  
 ‘Good Balance’  
 “Although we’re still assessing the bill, it appears to
strike a good balance between reducing systemic risk while still
allowing banks to provide solutions for customers,”  Carolyn Cichon , a State Street spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The legislation still needs to be approved by the full
House and Senate. Lawmakers hope to send the bill to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature by July 4.  
 Custody banks earn fees from keeping records, tracking
performance and lending securities to institutional investors
including mutual funds, pensions and hedge funds. Their asset-
management units invest money for retail and institutional
customers.  
 BNY Mellon oversaw $22.4 trillion in assets under custody
as of March 31, and managed $1.1 trillion in client investments.
State Street held $14.1 trillion in custody assets and $1.93
trillion in investment assets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        