-- Bolivia's Morales Blames Honduran `Dictatorship' for Team's World Cup Loss
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-06-25T20:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bolivia-s-morales-blames-honduran-dictatorship-for-team-s-world-cup-loss.html

          
          
             Bolivian President  Evo Morales  said
the Honduran government, which won power in national elections
following a coup against former president  Manuel Zelaya , is to
blame for the country’s poor showing in the  World Cup  of soccer.  
 “We’re truly sorry that a Latin American country was
eliminated from the World Cup, the first Latin American country,
Honduras,” Morales said at a summit of the  Alba political bloc 
today in Ecuador. “It’s the fault of the dictatorship that they
haven’t qualified for the best of 16 like other countries in the
region.”  
 Morales said that Latin American leaders allied with him,
including Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , defended democracy in
Honduras and that the U.S. backed a “dictatorship” by
supporting the new government led by  Porfirio Lobo .  
 Zelaya was overthrown last year by the military and kicked
out of the country after the Supreme Court ruled his push for
constitutional change was illegal. His opponents claim he was
planning to follow in the footsteps of Chavez and attempt to
modify the Honduran charter so that he could stay in power after
his term expired.  
 Honduras was eliminated from the tournament today after
playing Switzerland to a scoreless draw in its last game in
Group H. The Central American country failed to score any goals
in its three games.  
 All other Latin American countries participating in the
World Cup, including Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Uruguay
and Paraguay, have qualified for the next round.  
 Bolivia didn’t qualify for the World Cup, finishing ninth
among 10 countries in South American qualifiers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        