-- Bourbon to Spend $2 Billion Expanding Fleet, Sells Bulk Vessels to Genco
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-06-25T06:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bourbon-to-spend-2-billion-expanding-fleet-sells-bulk-vessels-to-genco.html

          
          
             Bourbon SA , owner of the second-
biggest fleet of supply and crew ships for the oil industry,
plans to spend $2 billion to nearly double its fleet through
2015, partly financed by the sale of bulk carriers to Genco
Shipping and Trading Ltd..  
 Bourbon’s plan to further expand in the offshore business
means it will have 600 vessels by 2015, up from 357 at the end
of last year, the Paris-based company said in a statement. The
French ship owner will sell 16 Supramax bulk carriers to Genco
for $545 million.  
 The bigger fleet will generate average revenue growth of 17
percent a year in the offshore division, the company said. That
compares with a target of 21 percent under a previous expansion
plan.  
 “The market is growing in deep offshore,” Chief Executive
Officer  Jacques de Chateauvieux  said on a conference call with
journalists. The new “enormous” target also includes replacing
aging vessels, he said.  
 This is the second push by Bourbon into the offshore
supply-boat industry. A boom in deep-water exploration in 2008
boosted orders for the company, which announced a 2 billion-euro
($2.47 billion) spending program in February of that year to
expand its fleet of offshore supply ships, underwater robots and
bulk carriers by 2012. Annual offshore sales growth was a more-
than-anticipated 28 percent on average between 2002 and 2009.  
 To finance the latest ship-building project, Bourbon plans
to use the proceeds from the sale of the bulk carriers and other
assets such as sugar operations in Vietnam. It will reduce
installments paid on new vessels, providing three- quarters of
the total on delivery, and borrow $400 million through a 12-year
loan from China Exim Bank.  
 Bourbon’s unit Setaf SA, which is selling the bulk carriers
to Genco, owns a 28,000-ton cement carrier under long-term
contract with Lafarge SA and charters a fleet of an average 10
to 12 bulk carriers, according to a separate statement on the
sale.  
 Dividends  
 The company said its net debt to ebitda ratio will be less
than 2 by 2015 and it will generate positive cash flow from
2013. Investors will receive about 40 percent of consolidated
profit in dividends.  
 The further expansion into the deep offshore business comes
amid uncertainty created by the April 20 well blowout that
destroyed the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of
Mexico, killing 11 crew members and triggering the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history.  
 “One way or another, new oil developments will come from
deep offshore,” de Chateauvieux said of the implications of the
spill on the industry. “I don’t see a major drop in activity.”  
 Bourbon will open tenders to supply the new vessels,
although about 50 additional so-called Liberty models will be
built by Sinopacific Shipbuilding Group, de Chateauvieux said.
He has a stake in the Chinese shipyards that may seek a listing
on the Shanghai stock exchange.  
 Bourbon was founded in 1948 by sugar plantation-owning
families on Reunion, the French island east of Madagascar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        