-- Bove Says `Buy' Banks Because U.S. Regulatory Overhaul Won't Hurt Shares
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-06-25T16:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bove-says-buy-banks-because-u-s-regulatory-overhaul-won-t-hurt-shares.html

          
          
             Investors should buy  bank stocks , as
they will be able to pass on to consumers the cost of the most
sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great
Depression, according to  Dick Bove  of Rochdale Securities LLC.  
 “They can increase prices,” Bove, who is based in Lutz,
Florida, said in a telephone interview. “You’ll see prices on
just about every bank product soar. Everybody else will be
negatively impacted by this bill, but not the banks. The
industry has been pummeled because everybody believed that banks
caused the financial crisis. That pummeling is over.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Banks Index  fell 18 percent from
a 17-month high on May 3 through June 9 on concern that widening
European deficits and a new U.S. financial regulation would curb
lending. Since then, the index has risen 0.3 percent through
yesterday. Today, it gained 0.7 percent as of 11:09 a.m. in New
York.  
 Lawmakers from the House and Senate worked through the
night in a 20-hour session to reach deals on a ban on
proprietary trading by banks and oversight of the derivatives
market. This month, they’ve also agreed on measures to wind down
big firms whose collapse might shake markets, to keep tabs on 
hedge funds and to make it easier for investors to sue credit-
rating companies.  
 The Obama administration’s proposal to ban banks from
proprietary trading, called the Volcker rule after former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was softened by Senate
negotiators. Banks will be allowed to invest in private-equity
and hedge funds, though they will be limited to providing no
more than 3 percent of the fund’s capital. Banks also can’t
invest more than 3 percent of their Tier 1 capital.  
 ‘Get Around’  
 “Banks have mechanisms to get around the most onerous
proposals in the bill,” Bove said. “If they can put a
derivatives desk in the holding company and they can put that
derivatives desk offshore, it’s going a long way toward allowing
them to do exactly what they’re doing already.”  
 Bove said investors should buy stocks of banks that serve
the business community, such as  U.S. Bancorp , Minnesota’s
largest bank, Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. , BB&T Corp., based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and
Fifth Third Bancorp, Ohio’s largest lender.  
 The results of Bove’s past predictions have been mixed. He
recommended selling  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  stock four
months before it collapsed, helping investors avoid a 65 percent
plunge in the shares. Bove raised it to “buy” on Aug. 21,
2008, and Lehman filed the world’s largest bankruptcy three
weeks later.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, discusses the impact of legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system on U.S. banks.
     Lawmakers from the House and Senate worked through the night in a 20-hour session to reach deals on a ban on proprietary trading by banks and oversight of the derivatives market. Bove talks with Betty Liu and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
