-- BP CEO Tony Hayward Will Meet With Russian Officials in Moscow Next Week
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-06-25T14:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bp-ceo-tony-hayward-will-meet-with-russian-officials-in-moscow-next-week.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  will be in Moscow June 28-29 for talks with Russian
government officials, said  Dmitry Peskov , spokesman for Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin .  
 “We’re planning the meetings,” Peskov said by phone in
Moscow today. “We know he’ll be in Moscow on those dates.”  
 The participants and date haven’t been set yet, Peskov
said. No meeting is scheduled with Putin, he said.  Vladimir Buyanov , a spokesman for BP in Moscow, declined to comment on
the schedules of company executives.  
 BP, which agreed to deposit $20 billion to cover cleanup
costs and compensation claims for the worst oil spill in U.S.
history, owns half of  TNK-BP , Russia’s third-largest crude
producer and bought $1 billion of shares in state-run OAO
Rosneft’s initial public offering in 2006.  
 The spill in the Gulf of Mexico cut BP’s market value by 54
percent since the April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon
rig. Shares  dropped  to a 14-year low today even after BP said it
could access $15 billion in cash and credit lines, abandoned
dividends for three quarters and planned $10 billion in  asset 
sales.  
 ‘Happy Investor’  
 BP may sell its holding in Rosneft as well as gas assets
and stakes in oil projects in the Gulf of Mexico as it seeks to
raise $10 billion to repay victims of the spill, Handelsblatt
said June 22, without saying how it obtained the information.  
 BP is a “happy investor” in Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil
producer,  David Peattie , the head of BP in Russia, told
reporters in St. Petersburg last week. BP hadn’t sold any shares
in Rosneft and didn’t plan to, he said.  
 Rosneft CEO  Sergei Bogdanchikov  said a day earlier that he
doubts BP will need to sell the shares and hasn’t consulted the
company about a possible sale.  
 Viktor Vekselberg , a billionaire shareholder in TNK-BP,
said BP will probably hold on to its half of the oil venture,
which provides about a quarter of BP’s output and reserves. TNK-
BP’s traded unit has its annual meeting on June 30.  
 “I think TNK-BP is a brilliant in BP portfolio,”
Vekselberg said June 8, speaking in English. “Brilliant” is
the Russian word for a cut diamond. “It would be the last
decision from them.”  
 Alexei Miller , the CEO of  OAO Gazprom , the world’s largest
natural-gas producer, said today he won’t meet with Hayward next
week as he’s on vacation then.  
 “I’d love to meet him” to discuss a number of issues
including the Gulf of Mexico, Miller said.  
 Gazprom is interested in buying a stake in the BP-led Shah
Deniz project in Azerbaijan’s part of the Caspian Sea, Miller
said. No offer has been made, he said.  
 BP should sell shares now to ease concerns about the
company’s creditworthiness as the cost of insuring its debt
against default climbs to a record, Nomura analyst  Alastair Syme 
said June 25.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        