-- BP Relief Well May Begin Plugging Leak in a Few Weeks
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-06-25T19:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bp-says-gulf-relief-well-reaches-leak-depth-plugging-may-start-in-weeks.html

          
          
             BP Plc  said it drilled near its
Macondo well beneath the seafloor in the Gulf of Mexico and may
begin efforts in a few weeks to plug a leak that caused the
biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The first of two relief wells detected the metal casing of
the leaking wellbore at a depth of 16,275 feet (5,050 meters)
and aims to intercept Macondo after additional tests and more
drilling, London-based BP said today in a statement. An
electromagnetic sensor found the leaking well, which is gushing
as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day into the ocean.  
 “Subsequent ranging runs will be needed to more precisely
locate the well,”  BP  said in the statement. “Drilling and
ranging operations will continue over the next few weeks towards
the target intercept depth of approximately 18,000 feet, when
kill operations are expected to begin.”  
 Those operations will include stanching the flow of oil
with drilling mud and plugging the well with cement. BP has  lost 
more than half of its market value since an April 20 explosion
on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig killed 11 crew members and
triggered the spill. The first intercept well started on May 2.  
 BP failed in several efforts to stop the leak from above
the well, including a so-called top-kill technique and placement
of a 40-foot-tall steel chamber that clogged with slush-like gas
hydrates. The  company  is capturing some leaking oil, including
about 23,725 barrels of crude yesterday, through two systems
that are taking crude to vessels on the Gulf’s surface.  
 Shares, Bonds Drop  
 BP fell 6.4 pence to 304.6 pence, the lowest since August
1996, today in London. The company’s 3.875 percent notes due in
2015 dropped to a record low, trading below 81.5 cents on the
dollar, as costs of spill response reached $2.35 billion. Costs
to protect against default on BP debt rose to an all-time high.  
 The first tropical storm of the Atlantic hurricane season
has an 80 percent chance of forming this weekend and may head
into the Gulf, the National Weather Service said on its website.
That threatens to idle drilling of the relief wells and cleanup
efforts, which involve 4,500 vessels and 37,000 people.  
 The oil-recovery and drilling vessels will begin evacuating
when the National Weather Service forecasts gale-force winds at
the well site within 120 hours, U.S. Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen  said today at a press conference in Washington.  
 Oil to Gush  
 Oil will spill unconstrained so long as the recovery
vessels are disconnected, probably for about two weeks, Allen
said. Skimming of oil from the surface won’t be possible during
that period because of rough seas, he said.  
 The Weather Service defines a gale as sustained wind of 39
miles (63 kilometers) per hour to 54 miles per hour.  
 The drillship Discoverer Enterprise, responsible for about
two-thirds of the oil diverted from the well, will disconnect
114 hours before a gale is forecast to hit, Allen said. The rig
drilling the first relief well will disconnect 104 hours before
a gale, and the Q4000, a rig that’s burning oil captured from
the well, will disconnect 56 hours ahead of such winds.  
 Government forecasters say the hurricane season that began
June 1 may be the worst since 2005, when storms including
Katrina devastated the U.S. Gulf Coast and damaged offshore
platforms and pipelines.  
 BP  agreed this month to set aside $20 billion in an
independently managed account to cover cleanup costs and
compensation claims from people affected by the spill.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, testifies at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on the accident in the Gulf of Mexico involving the BP Deepwater Horizon rig in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Feinberg, the government-appointed administrator of a $20 billion fund to compensate victims of the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, says he will work to minimize the risk of fraudulant claims. Bloomberg's Al Hunt reports on Feinberg, legislation to overhaul the U.S. financial regulatory system and the outlook for this weekend's meetings of the Group of 20 nations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
