-- British Airways Revises Pay Offer for Cabin Crew in Attempt to End Dispute
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-06-25T16:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/british-airways-revises-pay-offer-for-cabin-crew-in-attempt-to-end-dispute.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc  made a new pay
offer to the union representing 12,000 cabin crew at a meeting
today in an effort to prevent the resumption of strike action in
a 17-month dispute over staffing levels and future wages.  
 Europe’s third-biggest carrier has offered to increase
allowances for existing crew once new recruits join their ranks
this autumn, drop plans to reduce benefits in order to fund
higher staffing levels on some flights, and lift salaries for
two years starting in 2011, it said today in a statement.  
 The proposals don’t address the removal of travel perks,
the suspension of strikers and the use of volunteer crews,
issues that the Unite union says must be resolved before a deal
on a wider cost-cutting plan can be agreed. Walkouts have forced
British Airways to ground flights on 22 days since March 20 and
workers will be balloted on further strike action next week.  
 “We have changed our offer in line with feedback we have
received from crew,” Bill Francis, head of cabin crew at the
carrier, said in the statement. “Crew who are not members of
Unite are being invited to accept the offer on an individual
basis. Members of Unite who want to accept the offer are being
urged to express their views to the union.”  
 British Airways closed down 0.3 percent at 207.2 pence,
paring gains this year to 11 percent and valuing the company at
2.39 billion pounds ($3.58 billion).  
 Unite said it will consider the fresh proposals and consult
with cabin-crew representatives before making a formal response.  
 ‘Not Optimistic’  
 “We are not at all optimistic that this offer provides a
basis for resolution of the dispute,”  Derek Simpson , the
union’s joint general secretary, said in a statement.  
 Today’s meeting took place under the auspices of Britain’s
state-funded Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service,
which said it aims to reconvene talks next week.  
 “The company made a revised offer which the trade union
has taken away to consider,” Acas said in a statement “We are
not able to comment on the details.”  
 British Airways says it aims to operate all long-haul
services from its London Heathrow base during any new strike,
with services from Gatwick and London City airports unaffected.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        