-- Build America Bonds Extension Dealt Setback in Senate Fight Over Job Bill
-- William Selway
-- 2010-06-25T19:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/build-america-bonds-extension-dealt-setback-in-senate-fight-over-job-bill.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate’s failure to pass
legislation extending unemployment benefits also set back
efforts to prolong the Build America Bond program, the fastest-
growing part of the $2.8 trillion municipal securities market.  
 The effort to keep the expiring Build America program alive
through 2012 was included in the unemployment bill rejected by
Senate Republicans yesterday. The measure passed the House of
Representatives last month.  
 Build America securities were created last year as part of
President  Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus package to help ease
borrowing by state and local governments. The program is set to
expire Dec. 31. Failure to extend it may dampen investor
interest in the debt by limiting the size of the market, said
 John Hallacy , a municipal strategist in New York for Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  
 “The market is a little unsettled because of it,” Hallacy
said in an interview today. “There’s an antispending sentiment
developing in Congress and people are wondering if the extension
is going to get caught up in it.”  
 The extra yield on Build America Bonds above U.S.
Treasuries has risen to about 1.9 percentage points from about
1.5 percentage points in May, according to a Bank of America
research note sent to clients today. Hallacy attributed some of
that jump to concern that the extension would fail, which could
make the securities more difficult to resell after the
legislation lapses.  
 $116 Billion Sold  
 The program, which provides a 35 percent subsidy on
interest costs from the U.S. Treasury, was adopted in the wake
of the  credit crisis . Issuers have used it to lower the cost of
public works, from a new bridge across San Francisco Bay to
nuclear reactors in Georgia. More than $116 billion has been
raised with the bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Because the securities are taxable, they may attract
investors such as pensions and overseas mutual funds that don’t
typically buy tax-exempt municipal debt. The U.S. Treasury pays
rebates directly to Build America issuers, while most municipal
debt provides tax-free income to investors. The program saved
municipalities about $12 billion in its first year, according to
the Treasury.  
 “It’s been a big boon to states and municipalities,” said
Jim Currie, the director of federal relations for the National
Association of State Treasurers, which favors extending the
program.  
 May Still Pass  
 The Senate voted 57-41 in favor of  the jobs measure 
yesterday, falling short of the 60 votes needed to head off
Republican maneuvers to keep it from passing. No Republican
senators backed the bill, which also would have raised taxes on
the share of profits paid to executives of buyout firms.  
 “The Build America Bonds program has helped create jobs
and lower borrowing costs for states and municipalities in every
corner of our country,” a Treasury spokesman,  Andrew Williams ,
said today. “We’ll work with Congress to ensure that local
communities can continue to benefit from this important
program.”  
 Congress may still find a way to extend the Build America
program, said Bill Daly, who handles government relations for
the Regional Bond Dealers Association, a trade group in
Washington.  
 “None of the controversy that surrounded this bill has
centered on the extension of this bond program,” he said. “I
am hopeful that Congress will pass the extension at some point,
when we don’t really know.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        