-- European Yield Spreads Widen on Concern Region's Debt Crisis Is Deepening
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-25T16:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/bund-yield-stays-near-1-week-low-as-concerns-about-euro-debt-crisis-deepen.html

          
          
             Belgian, Italian and French 10-year
bonds declined, sending their yield differences with benchmark
German bunds wider, on concern the region’s debt crisis is
deepening as the economic recovery sputters.  
 The bonds also fell amid speculation banks are selling some
government debt they bought during the year-long emergency
refinancing program from the European Central Bank, which
expires on July 1. Germany’s 10-year  bond  yield headed for a
weekly decline amid signs the global economy is slowing after
data released two days ago showed growth in Europe’s services
and manufacturing industries slowed in June. A report due June
29 will show confidence in the economic outlook in the 16 euro
nations fell this month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 “This is a supply shock” as banks consider dumping their
holdings to repay the ECB, said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “Banks are checking out
the market. I anticipate this will intensify next week.”  
 The Belgian 10-year bond yield rose seven basis points to
3.57 percent, increasing the extra yield investors demand to
hold the debt instead of bunds to 97 basis points, the most
since June 8, from 90 points yesterday, based on  closing prices .  
 The 10-year bund yield was little changed at 2.61 percent
as of 5:20 p.m. in London. The yield reached 2.59 percent
yesterday, the lowest since June 15. The 3 percent security
maturing July 2020 slipped was at 103.41. The bund yield fell 12
basis points from 2.73 percent on June 18.  
 The yield on the equivalent-maturity Italian security
gained four basis points to 4.09 percent, and French 10-year
yields advanced three basis points to 3.10 percent.  
 Bund Returns  
 Bunds have returned 6.7 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, driven by investors seeking the
safest assets as the crisis that started in Greece threatened to
spread across Europe. Italian securities gained 1.1 percent,
while Greek debt handed investors a 19 percent loss, the indexes
showed. U.S. Treasuries gained 5 percent.  
 The Greek 10-year bond yield was 12 basis points lower at
10.51 percent. The close at 10.64 percent two days ago was the
highest since May 7, before the European Union unveiled a 750
billion-euro rescue package and the ECB started buying
government bonds.  
 While the ECB’s first and largest long-term refinancing
operation, or LTRO, will expire on July 1, the central bank has
reinstated unlimited three-month lending to provide banks with
access to cash.  
 “Greek banks participated in the LTRO a year ago and what
they did was largely buy Greek debt, especially in the long
end,” said  Ioannis Sokos , an interest-rate strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London.  
 Greek Debt, Indexes  
 Greek debt will leave indexes managed by Citigroup Inc.,
Barclays Plc and the  Markit iBoxx  index at the end of June after
the nation’s sovereign credit rating was downgraded to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service last week.  
 “This might be partly responsible for a sell-off in Greek
debt and the credit-default swaps that we’ve seen recently,”
 Andre de Silva , deputy head of global fixed income at the bank
in London, said in a telephone interview. “It has a profound
effect because this is not just a duration adjustment, but one
sovereign falling out of the basket.”  
 Markit Economics said this week its index based on a survey
of euro-area purchasing managers in services and manufacturing
fell to 56, from 56.4 in May. An index of executive and consumer
sentiment in the 16 euro nations slipped to 98.1 this month from
98.4 in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists
before the report is published on June 29.  
 ‘Increasing Concerns’  
 The difference in yield between German two-year notes and
10-year bonds  narrowed  to 204 basis points, the least since
December, as investors added to bets interest rates will stay
lower for longer.  
 “In light of increasing concerns about the pace of
economic recovery and periphery countries, bunds should defend
their latest gains accordingly at the end of the week,”  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
Germany, wrote today in an investor report.  
 Belgium will sell up to 3.7 billion euros of debt due in
2013, 2016, 2020 and 2028 on June 28, the nation’s debt agency
said today. France will sell up to 7.5 billion euros of
securities maturing in 2018, 2020, and 2026 the same day, Agence
France Tresor said today.  
 Italy, Slovakia, Germany and Spain are also scheduled to
sell bonds next week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        