-- Canadian Dollar Climbs as Outlook for Global Recovery Spurs Haven Buying
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-25T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/canada-s-dollar-climbs-for-first-time-in-five-days-as-equities-rebound.html

          
          
             Canada’s currency strengthened
versus the greenback for the first time this week as crude oil
gained and signs of a slowing U.S. recovery spurred investors
toward currencies backed by relatively strong balance sheets.  
 The loonie, as Canada’s legal tender is sometimes known,
rose against 10 of its 16 most-traded counterparts as crude oil,
the nation’s biggest export, gained 3.2 percent and stocks rose.
The U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner, grew at a 2.7
percent annual rate in the first quarter, less than previously
calculated.  
 “As long as commodity prices stay fairly solid, you’ll see
the Canadian dollar perform well, just based on the fact that
their books are in order,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S.
currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., said by phone
from New York. “Last year when you were predicting who would
come out of recession fastest, a lot of people looked at Canada.
They didn’t have the same problems we did.”  
 The Canadian dollar rose 0.6 percent to C$1.0364 per  U.S.
dollar  at 4:04 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0430 yesterday, when it
touched C$1.0470, the weakest level since June 9. One Canadian
dollar buys 96.49 U.S. cents.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3 percent. The
Canadian dollar tends to follow movements in stocks and
commodities.  
 The loonie is emerging as a reserve currency for central
bankers seeking alternatives to debt-laden governments in
Europe, the U.S. and Japan. Canada, the last member of the Group
of Seven industrialized nations to enter the global recession,
was the first to recover, thanks partly to having the G-7’s
lowest debt-to-GDP ratio and the world’s soundest financial
system, according to the World Economic Forum.  
 Russia’s Reserves  
 Russia may add Australian and Canadian dollars to its
international reserves for the first time after fluctuations in
the U.S. currency and euro,  Alexei Ulyukayev , the first deputy
chairman of the nation’s central bank, said in an interview in
Moscow on June 15. UBS AG, the world’s second-largest foreign-
exchange trader, predicts the International Monetary Fund may
include the Canadian dollar in a basket of currencies it uses in
transactions.  
 Canada’s dollar declined 1.4 percent this week, the most
since the five days ended May 21. Signs of a faltering North
American recovery combined with renewed concern that deficits in
some euro-area countries may spiral out of control sapped
investor confidence, prompting a flight to the perceived safety
of currencies such as greenback and yen.  
 ‘Less Supportive’  
 Canadian retail sales fell in April five times more than
forecast, while inflation slowed last month on moderating prices
for gasoline and clothing, Statistics Canada said in separate
reports this week. Sales of existing homes in the U.S.
unexpectedly declined. Financial conditions have become “less
supportive of economic growth,” the U.S. Federal Reserve said
in a June 23 policy statement.  
 “Speculative sentiment is definitely against the pro-
cyclical currencies and the risk trade,”  Stephen Gallo , head of
market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in London, said by
e-mail. “Poor money-market conditions are once again weighing
on risk and boosting demand for safe havens and U.S. dollar
funding. The Canadian dollar’s weakness of late is a product of
increased demand for U.S. dollar funding and financial market
tensions in general.”  
 The yield on Canada’s 10-year benchmark bond dropped 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 3.19 percent this
week. It touched 3.175 percent on June 24, the lowest level in
more than a year. The 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020
gained C$1.10 to C$102.59.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        