-- Canola Production to Plunge in Canada as Floods Destroy Crops, Group Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T04:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/canada-canola-output-may-fall-nearly-2-million-tons-on-floods-group-says.html

          
          
             Canada may harvest almost 2 million
metric tons less canola than last year and exports may drop
after floods reduced seeding and excessive moisture stressed
the plants, the  Canadian Canola Growers Association  said.  
 “It would be fair” to estimate a crop of about 10
million tons, General Manager Rick White said in interview from
Winnipeg. “If that’s what it is, exports could fall to 6
million tons from little over 7 million tons last year.”  
 Farmers across Western Canada, the world’s biggest canola
exporter, only seeded about 85 percent of the crop they
intended to plant this year, as rains flooded fields and 
deprived the plants of oxygen and nutrients, White said.  
 The wet conditions are “still a significant concern” and
farmers are already seeing some crops yellowing, White said.
Showers are forecast in southern Alberta and Saskatchewan in
the next week, he said. As plants in flooded fields have
shallow roots, they may not tolerate hot, dry weather when the
wet conditions clear up, he said.  
 The most active canola contract on the ICE Futures Canada
has gained about 10 percent since April, and last traded
at $418.50 a ton.  
 The industry was initially projecting 16.8 million to 17.8
million acres (7.2 million hectares) seeded to canola, White
said. It may take a few more weeks to have a more thorough
assessment of the damage because some fields are still under
water and it’s not clear how the crops will stand when fields
do dry up, he said.  
 Crop Insurance  
 As it is almost 10 days past June 15, the so-called crop
insurance deadline, it is unlikely any farmers would want to
risk planting canola now, White said. Canola takes at least
three months to mature, so any crops planted today face higher
risk of frost in September, so most insurance companies won’t
cover crops seeded past June 15, he said. Frost on average
begins on Sept. 15 in Western Canada, he said.  
 Canola-growing regions worst hit by the floods are in
northern Saskatchewan, White said. “There are some good areas:
it’s not completely a blanket approach across Canada.” Many
areas of Alberta are looking “pretty good,” White said.  
          
          


  


        