-- Caribbean Storms Strengthen, May Head for Oil Spill
-- Stuart Biggs
-- 2010-06-25T13:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/caribbean-storms-strengthen-may-disrupt-bp-gulf-spill-cleanup-next-week.html

          
          
             The first tropical storm of the
Atlantic hurricane season has a 70 percent chance of forming
this weekend, with one computer model indicating it could head
into the Gulf of Mexico where BP Plc has a flotilla of vessels
trying to clean up an oil spill.  
 A collection of thunderstorms was intensifying in the
Caribbean off Honduras and Nicaragua, the U.S.  National
Hurricane Center  said at 8 a.m. Miami time today. The center
said its forecast for the system turning into a tropical storm
would evolve over the next 48 hours as it heads toward Mexico’s
Yucatan peninsula.  
 “It’s favorable to become a tropical depression by
tomorrow night, perhaps a tropical storm by the weekend and
maybe even a hurricane by the end of the weekend or early next
week,” said Jack Boston, a senior meteorologist at  AccuWeather
Inc.  “Right now the chances of it going over the oil or going
to the west of it are about equal.”  
 Another system now developing east of the Lesser Antilles
has a less than 10 percent chance now of becoming a tropical
storm in the next 48 hours.  
 Government forecasters say the hurricane season that
started June 1 may be the worst since 2005, when storms
including Katrina devastated New Orleans and damaged oil
platforms and pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Storms will hamper what President  Barack Obama  has called
the biggest environmental cleanup in U.S. history to deal with
BP’s leaking oil well off the coast of Louisiana.  
 Computer models show several scenarios if a tropical storm
forms this weekend, Boston said. One heads through the center of
the Gulf early next week toward Louisiana where BP is trying to
clean up its oil slick. Another heads across the western Gulf
toward Texas or Mexico, and away from the spill.  
 If it goes over the oil, “we don’t know what that’s going
to do because it’s never happened before,” Boston said. “That
would be the worst-case scenario.”  
 Gulf Storms  
 The Gulf of Mexico produces 30 percent of the oil and 12
percent of the natural gas from the U.S. and is home to 7 of the
10 busiest ports in the country. Hurricanes and tropical storms
can force evacuation of oil and gas rigs, reducing supply and
driving up prices.  
 Even if a tropical storm doesn’t develop this weekend, it
will produce heavy rain and potential flooding wherever it
tracks, Heather Buchman, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc.,
said on her  weblog  yesterday.  
 AccuWeather on June 21 raised its forecast for the 2010
Atlantic hurricane season to 18 to 21 named storms, up from 16
to 18. There have been five seasons with 18 or more storms in
160 years of record-keeping, the Pennsylvania-based commercial
forecaster said.  
 The U.S. National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration forecast 14 to 23 named storms for this season.  
 Oil Disaster  
 Atlantic weather systems are named when they reach tropical
storm status with sustained winds of 39 miles (63 kilometers)
per hour, while hurricanes have a minimum wind speed of 74 miles
per hour. The first tropical storm of this season, which runs
from June 1 to Nov. 30, will be named Alex.  
 The April explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig, leased by BP from Transocean Ltd., killed 11
workers and triggered the spill.  BP  is using chemical
dispersants to break down the fuel while collecting some of the
oil from the damaged well.  
 A hurricane could stop oil-capture efforts and delay
drilling of intercept wells to plug the leak by 10 days, U.S.
Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the government’s national
incident commander, said this week. Rig crews would need to
begin preparing to evacuate three to seven days ahead of the
storm, Allen said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander Admiral Thad Allen. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
