-- Carlyle's Ramsay Resigns as Leveraged Finance Managing Director in Europe
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-06-25T21:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/carlyle-s-ramsay-resigns-as-leveraged-finance-managing-director-in-europe.html

          
          
             Carlyle Group, the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, said  Mike Ramsay , a London-based
managing director for leveraged finance in Europe, has resigned.  
 Ramsay is leaving the Washington-based firm to “look for
other opportunities in the credit market,”  Emma Thorpe , a
Carlyle spokeswoman in London, said today by telephone.  
 Colin Atkins , a managing director based in London, will
take over as head of Carlyle’s European leveraged finance unit
and report to  Mitch Petrick , head of global credit alternatives,
Thorpe said.  
 Ramsay established the European unit in September 2004,
according to Carlyle’s website. Ramsay, who headed leveraged
finance at Prudential Plc’s M&G Investment Management Ltd.
before he joined Carlyle, couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Atkins also moved to Carlyle from Prudential’s M&G unit,
where he established the leveraged finance arm that invested
more than 2.5 billion euros ($3.1 billion) from 1999 to November
2004, Thorpe said.  
 Carlyle hired Petrick in March to expand its European and
U.S. operations in leveraged finance, mezzanine and distressed
debt, Thorpe said today in an e-mail. Before joining the firm,
Petrick worked for 20 years at  Morgan Stanley , where he headed
institutional sales and trading worldwide.  
 While at the New York-based bank, Petrick also worked in
corporate credit, oversaw high-yield debt, and led distressed
investing, as well as leveraged finance and restructuring
groups, Thorpe said.  
 High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        