-- Cassano, Goldman's Cohn to Testify at Crisis Panel's Derivatives Hearing
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-06-26T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/cassano-goldman-s-cohn-to-testify-at-crisis-panel-s-derivatives-hearing.html

          
          
             Joseph Cassano , whose bad bets on
subprime mortgages pushed  American International Group Inc.  to
the brink of collapse in 2008, will appear before the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission next week to give his first testimony
since leaving the insurer more than two years ago.  
 Cassano, 55, had shied away from public statements as U.S.
and U.K. regulators investigated his role in the money-losing
trades, which he said in December 2007 would be profitable.
Probes by the Justice Department and U.K. regulators were
dropped last month.  
 “Perhaps he thinks now is the time that he would be able
to speak more freely,”  Ernest Patrikis , a former AIG general
counsel, said in an interview. “It’s not going to be a pleasant
thing. It takes a lot of fortitude for him to do it. He owes an
awful lot to the people of AIG who were harmed financially,”
said Patrikis, now a partner at White & Case LLC.  
 Cassano oversaw an AIG unit managing $2 trillion in
derivative trades tied to bonds, currencies, commodities and
stocks. As markets turned in 2008, New York-based AIG was unable
to meet collateral calls from Wall Street firms including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on credit-default swaps. AIG was saved
by a U.S. bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion and ensured
payment of $12.9 billion to Goldman Sachs on contracts including
the swaps.  
 Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn  and Chief Financial
Officer  David Viniar  will also testify, as will ex-AIG Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Sullivan , according to a  statement 
yesterday on the FCIC’s website. The hearing will be held June
30 and July 1 in Washington.  
 Reviewing Crisis  
 The panel, led by former California Treasurer  Phil Angelides , is reviewing the role of derivatives in the credit
crunch. Angelides announced on June 7 that the FCIC had
subpoenaed New York-based Goldman Sachs, claiming the company
tried to hinder a probe by overwhelming the panel with documents
and resisting attempts to interview managers including CEO  Lloyd Blankfein .  
 The commission is “examining causes of the collapse of
major financial institutions that failed or would likely have
failed had they not received exceptional government
assistance,” according to the statement.  
 Lawmakers appointed the 10-member FCIC last July to
investigate the causes of the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. The panel, which has the power to issue
subpoenas, has until December to report its findings to
Congress.  
 ‘Now Is the Time’  
 Cassano was under investigation as regulators sought to
determine whether executives misrepresented the value of AIG’s
swaps portfolio, which insured bonds tied to the U.S. housing
market. The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said on May 26 that a
review of the business Cassano oversaw didn’t turn up any
criminal violations. U.S. prosecutors also won’t bring charges,
a person familiar with the investigation said last month.  
 The resolution of the investigations may prevent Cassano
from sidestepping FCIC questions by invoking the Fifth Amendment
right against self-incrimination, Patrikis said.  
 Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and  Mark Herr  of AIG declined to comment on the FCIC hearing.  Joseph Warin  and  Jim Walden , Cassano’s lawyers at Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP, didn’t immediately return calls for comment.
Tucker Warren, a spokesman for the FCIC, said next week will be
Cassano’s first testimony since his departure from AIG.  
 Cassano told investors in December 2007 that “it is very
difficult to see how there can be any losses” in the swaps
portfolios of AIG Financial Products.  
 AIG is yet to repay about $49 billion in Treasury
assistance and owes about $25 billion on a Federal Reserve
 credit line . Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall
Street history, has paid back bailout funds with interest.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs
in April for misleading clients in trades involving
collateralized debt obligations. Goldman Sachs has said the suit
is unfounded.  
 Robert Lewis , AIG’s chief risk officer, will testify at a
panel on June 30 with Sullivan and Cassano. Cohn will testify
later that day.  
 Viniar, former New York Insurance Superintendent  Eric Dinallo , and  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, are among those scheduled to appear July 1.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        