-- Cathay Pacific's Dragonair Says Sales May Rise 20% on Rebounding Economy
-- Wing-Gar Cheng
-- 2010-06-25T08:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/cathay-pacific-s-dragonair-says-sales-may-rise-20-on-rebounding-economy.html

          
          
             Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.’s
Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. unit may boost sales as much
as 20 percent this year, as a global economic rebound spurs
travel demand, Chief Executive Officer  James Tong  said.  
 Dragonair may increase flights to existing destinations
such as Guangzhou and add routes in the region, Tong told
reporters in Hong Kong today. The carrier typically targets
smaller regional cities and any new routes would complement
Cathay flights, Grace Lee, a Dragonair spokeswoman said.  
 The global  airline industry  will post a $2.5 billion
profit in 2010, reversing two years of losses, the
International Air Transport Association said June 7. Economic
growth in Asia and the U.S. increased demand for travel and
capacity cuts imposed last year bolstered ticket prices.  
 “Business is definitely improving and we have resumed
some of the flights cut last year and are considering flying
to new cities,” Tong said. “The rebound in passenger
numbers has come close to the 2008 levels.”  
 Dragonair in May said it will receive two Airbus SAS
A320s next month, increase service to Wuhan in China to daily
from four times per week and make more frequent flights to
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.  
 Rising Passengers  
 Cathay and Dragonair’s combined passenger numbers
increased 5.3 percent in the first five months to 10.7
million.  
 Cathay rose 0.5 percent to close at HK$15.88 in Hong
Kong. The stock has risen 9.7 percent this year compared with
a 5.4 percent decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  
 Dragonair is studying possible effects an appreciation
of the yuan would have on the company’s operations, Tong said.
Some of the carrier’s wages and fuel costs in the mainland
are settled in the Chinese currency, he said.  
 The yuan headed for its biggest weekly gain since
December 2008 as China set the currency’s daily reference
rate at a record high, allowing appreciation before the Group
of 20 meeting tomorrow. The yuan was at 6.7914 per dollar as
of 4:41 p.m. in Shanghai, up 0.1 percent. It has gained 0.46
percent this week the most since December 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        