-- Chidambaram in Pakistan for First Minister Visit Since 2008 as Ties Thaw
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-06-25T07:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/chidambaram-in-pakistan-for-first-minister-visit-since-2008-as-ties-thaw.html

          
          
             India’s home minister travels to
Pakistan today on the first visit by a cabinet member since the
2008 Mumbai attack, as the nations attempt to recover a wide-
ranging peace process shattered by the guerrilla raid.  
 Palaniappan Chidambaram , who is attending a regional summit
on the two-day trip, will hold talks with his counterpart  Rehman Malik  in Islamabad. Yesterday, the two countries’ foreign
secretaries met for discussions, which they said included all
outstanding issues between the two countries.  
 “These are trust-building exercises,” said B. Raman,
director of the Chennai-based  Institute for Topical Studies .
“While India will maintain pressure for action against
terrorism, it will try to move relations forward. Pakistan will
want the composite dialogue to resume.” Prisoners held by both
sides have been ordered free as “goodwill gestures” ahead of
the visit.  
 The attack by 10 Pakistani gunmen on India’s financial
center in November 2008 killed 166 people and overturned five
years of steady progress in improving a relationship bedeviled
by six decades of distrust and three wars. The U.S. wants a
revival of regional peace talks to support its surge strategy to
defeat the Taliban in Afghanistan, where India and Pakistan are
competing for influence.  
 A meeting between Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and
Pakistani premier  Yousuf Raza Gilani  in April in the Bhutanese
capital saw them agree to a stepped-up dialogue. Foreign
ministers will get together in Pakistan on July 15.  
 Economic Impact  
 India maintains that no return to full-fledged talks --
earlier referred to as the Composite Dialogue -- is possible
until Pakistan fully dismantles terrorist groups on its soil,
especially the Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit that India blames for the
assault on Mumbai.  
 “We discussed all issues, obviously our core concerns on
terrorism were also articulated,”  Nirupama Rao , India’s foreign
secretary, said yesterday in Islamabad in a joint press
conference with counterpart  Salman Bashir .  
 Economic progress in South Asia has suffered because of the
rivalry between India and Pakistan, which account for four-
fifths of the region’s economy. India accuses
Pakistan of supporting armed extremists in Jammu and Kashmir,
its only Muslim-dominated state. Pakistan denies it and says it
offers only moral support to separatists.  
 Kashmir and the threat posed by terrorist groups remain the
biggest flashpoints. The 2003 to 2008 peace process restored
diplomatic, sporting and transport links, improving prospects
for progress on contentious issues such as the sharing of water
from major rivers.  
 Closed Trial  
 Pakistan says it has begun a closed trial of some members
of Lashkar, formed to fight Indian rule in the divided Himalayan
territory of Kashmir, which is claimed in full by both countries.
India wants Pakistan to target the militant outfit’s chief,
 Hafiz Saeed .  
 An Indian court on May 6 sentenced to death  Mohammed Ajmal Kasab , 22, the only gunman caught alive during the 60-hour siege
of Mumbai after he was found guilty of waging war and murder.  
 Chidambaram, the finance minister in Singh’s first
government, has led efforts to overhaul India’s internal
security and tighten border controls since taking over at the
home ministry in the wake of the Mumbai attack.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        