-- China Shipping Container Adds Surcharges on Cargo-Box Shortage Next Month
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/china-shipping-container-plans-to-add-surcharge-on-shortage-of-cargo-boxes.html

          
          
             China Shipping Container Lines Co. ,
the nation’s second-biggest cargo-box carrier, plans to impose
additional surcharges on transpacific shipments next month
because of a global shortage of containers.  
 The shipping line will levy an “emergency equipment
surcharge” of $400 per forty-foot box from July 1, Deputy
General Manger  Zhao Hongzhou  said yesterday in Shanghai after a
shareholders meeting. The company introduced a peak-season
surcharge of the same amount on Asia-Americas routes from June 1,
he said.  
 AP Moller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container line,
has forecast an “unprecedented” shortage of  cargo boxes 
because of a surge in shipping demand amid the global economic
revival. Supplies of new containers plunged worldwide last year
as shipping lines pared orders amid a trade slump.  
 “The demand recovery has led to a shortage of boxes,”
Zhao said. The surcharge will help the company address the
shortfall before shipments are disrupted, he said.  
 Maersk has increased orders for new containers and re-
activated vessels parked during the recession to help move empty
boxes from the U.S. to Asia. Containers are used to ship
manufactured goods such as furniture, clothes and auto parts
from factories in China to shops in the U.S. and Europe.  
 The demand pick-up and surcharges are helping boost
earnings at shipping lines. Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest
shipping line by sales, this week said that its container unit
may beat its annual profit target helped by peak-season levies.  
 China Shipping Container’s “profitability is improving as
demand recovers,” said Zhao, who declined to elaborate further.
The shipping line had a loss of 6.49 billion yuan ($955 million)
last year and a first-quarter loss of 192.7 million yuan.  
 The company fell 1 percent in Hong Kong trading yesterday
to close at HK$2.90. It has risen 3.6 percent this year compared
with a 5.4 percent decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  
 Industrywide container volumes on Asia-U.S. routes rose
about 13 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to
1.27 million 40-foot boxes, according to the  Transpacific
Stabilization Agreement , a shipping group.  
 -- Winnie Zhu  with assistance from  Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong
Kong. Editors:  Neil Denslow ,  Mark McCord .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7044 or
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        