-- China's Stocks Drop for Third Day on Concern Slowdown Will Reduce Profits
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T07:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-on-concern-banks-bank-loans-may-increase.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  fell for a third day,
led by brokerages and industrial companies, on concern slowing
economic growth will erode corporate earnings.  
 Citic Securities Co.  and Haitong Securities Co. dropped at
least 1.8 percent after stock trading values slid to the lowest
in 18 months. Angang Steel Co. lost 1.7 percent and  Anhui Conch
Cement Co. , China’s biggest maker of the building material, slid
1.9 percent. SAIC Motor Corp. rose 1.7 percent on plans to raise
funds to expand in the world’s biggest auto market.  
 “Uncertainty in the macro economy and the risk of downward
earnings growth forecast revisions are weighing on stocks,”
said  Zheng Tuo , president of Shanghai Good Hope Equity
Investment Management Co. “There’s not a buying opportunity
particularly in those companies with large capitalizations.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, retreated 13.93, or 0.5 percent, to
2,552.82 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index  fell 0.8 percent to
2,736.29. The Shanghai gauge gained 1.6 percent this week after
the central bank said it will increase the flexibility of the
nation’s exchange rate.  
 Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, fell
3.1 percent to 13.19 yuan. Haitong Securities dropped 1.8
percent to 10.32 yuan.  China Merchants Securities Co.  lost 1.5
percent to 21.25 yuan.  
 Shares worth 51.5 billion yuan ($7.58 billion) changed
hands on the Shanghai Stock Exchange yesterday, the lowest since
January 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The slump in trading has coincided with a 22 percent plunge
in the Shanghai Composite this year, Asia’s worst performer, on
concern government measures to rein in housing prices and the
European debt crisis will damp economic growth.  
 ‘Immature’ Markets  
 China’s stock markets are “immature” compared with
regional rivals, posing a challenge to Shanghai’s ambition of
becoming a global financial center within a decade, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 “Despite the high level of liquidity and capitalization,
Shanghai’s equity market is still small,” Goldman analysts
 Christopher Eoyang ,  Jason Lui  and  Sunil Koul  said in a report.
“The structure of Shanghai’s equity market is still relatively
undeveloped by regional standards as Chinese regulators have
taken a gradualist approach to market development.”  
 Shanghai’s share market has a so-called free float of 30
percent, the lowest among the benchmark equities exchanges in a
dozen Asian-Pacific nations, according to data compiled by
Goldman. It also has the lowest foreign ownership level.  
 A measure tracking industrial companies dropped 1.4 percent,
the third most among the 10 industry groups of the CSI 300.  
 Angang Steel fell 1.7 percent to 7.61 yuan. Anhui Conch
lost 1.9 percent to 17.13 yuan.  China First Heavy Industries Co. ,
a maker of equipment used in the mining and energy industries,
slid 0.4 percent to 5.77 yuan.  
 Slowing Growth  
 China’s economic growth, the engine of the global economic
recovery, will slow to 9.6 percent in the third quarter and 9
percent in the following three months, from 10.5 percent in the
second quarter, according to as many as 21 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in almost three years.  
 The central bank has ordered a larger proportion of
deposits as reserves at lenders three times this year to rein in
investment growth after banks advanced an unprecedented 9.59
trillion of new loans in 2009.  
 Stock Valuations  
 The “bottom” for China’s shares will likely come later
given the “aggressive tightening” in the nation’s residential
property market, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets strategist
 Christopher Wood  said in a report.  
 Still, it’s “too late” to underweight China as there is
now a “significant valuation case” for the nation’s big-cap
domestic equities, according to yesterday’s report.  
 SAIC Motor  advanced 1.7 percent to 12.26 yuan. China’s
largest domestic automaker plans to raise as much as 10 billion
yuan in a private share placement to develop its own brand of
vehicles.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 China United Network Communications Ltd.  (600050 CH), which
controls the nation’s second-largest cell phone operator, gained
2.1 percent to 5.32 yuan. Its Hong Kong-listed unit China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. said it has started talks with Apple Inc. over
sales of the latest version of the smartphone and the iPad
tablet computer.  
 Fujian Nanfang Textile Co.  (600483 CH), a textile
manufacturer, dropped 2.1 percent to 5.61 yuan, its lowest since
October 2009. The company said it has a loss of 430 million yuan
from a storm in the southern part of the country that damaged
factories and blocked transport.  
 Hangzhou Silan Microelectronics Co.  (600460 CH), a
manufacturer of lighting emitting diode, added 2.6 percent to
17.29 yuan after saying first-half profit may jump fivefold from
a year earlier.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan , Richard Frost  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jing Ulrich, chairwoman for China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about China's decision to end the yuan's peg to the U.S. dollar and the outlook for the currency. 
     Ulrich also discusses Chinese stocks, the country's economy and her investment strategy for China. Ulrich talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
