-- China Showing `Bad Faith' in Yuan Move Before G-20, Krugman Writes in NYT
-- Russell Ward
-- 2010-06-25T05:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/china-showing-bad-faith-in-yuan-move-before-g-20-krugman-writes-in-nyt.html

          
          
             Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  said
China’s pledge to make the yuan more flexible was an “exercise
in bad faith” intended to fend off international pressure for a
stronger currency at this week’s Group of 20 summit.  
 China is still undervaluing the yuan to make its exports
“artificially cheap” and keep imports expensive, a policy that
is “very damaging at a time when much of the world economy
remains deeply depressed,” Krugman wrote in an opinion piece
published on the New York Times’s website yesterday.  
 The yuan has gained 0.53 percent this week, the most since
December 2008, following the central bank’s June 19 announcement
on abandoning a fixed peg to the dollar. The People’s Bank of
China had held the yuan at 6.83 since July 2008 to shield
exporters during the global financial crisis.  
 The country has “barely” allowed the currency to rise,
and further movements will be “like watching paint dry,”
Krugman wrote. The undervalued Chinese currency fuels
inflationary pressure and diverts national income to the
purchase of foreign assets with a low return, he said.  
 G-20 leaders begin a two-day meeting in Toronto tomorrow to
discuss how to sustain the recovery from the worst global
recession in postwar history. Following China’s announcement on
the yuan, the talks are likely to focus on the pace of fiscal-
deficit reductions rather than exchange rates.  
 Trade Sanctions  
 Policy makers outside of China should consider trade
sanctions unless the country delivers “real change,” Krugman
said. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that it’s “too
early to tell” whether China’s decision to allow more yuan
flexibility will be sufficient to rebalance the world economy.  
 The Obama administration is under pressure from some
members of Congress to push harder on China over its currency
policy. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York, has
said he’ll seek a vote soon on legislation to let U.S. companies
seek tariffs on Chinese imports to help offset the weak yuan.  
 U.S. economic woes can’t be solved by a revaluation of the
yuan and American leaders will “help no one” by politicizing
the issue, Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Qin Gang said
yesterday.  
 Krugman said the Chinese government’s idea of
“flexibility” is for the yuan to move slightly either up or
down, while U.S. officials were using the word as a euphemism
for seeking a “much stronger” currency.  
 Chinese officials are “seizing on the form of American
language to avoid dealing with the substance of American
complaints,” the Princeton University professor said. “In
short, they’re playing games.”  
 Krugman, who won the Nobel Prize in 2008 for his theories
on global trade, said in an October article in the New York
Times that China is taking jobs from other countries by
maintaining a cheap yuan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Russell Ward  in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        