-- CLSA Raises `Overweight' in H Shares on Yuan Gain, Trims Taiwan Weighting
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-06-25T04:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/clsa-raises-overweight-in-h-shares-on-yuan-gain-trims-taiwan-weighting.html

          
          
             CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets raised its
weighting for Chinese shares traded in Hong Kong and cut  Taiwan
stocks  after China relaxed the yuan’s peg to the dollar,
strategist Christopher Wood  said in his Greed & Fear report.  
 The “overweight” for  H shares  was increased by 1
percentage point and Taiwan’s “overweight” trimmed by the same
amount. A stronger yuan may aid China’s domestic-demand stocks
and further threaten profit margins for Taiwanese exporters that
are already grappling with rising wages, Wood said.  
 The yuan, also known as the renminbi, is poised for its
biggest weekly gain since December 2008 after the People’s Bank
of China said on June 19 it would end a two-year peg to the
dollar and manage the yuan with reference to a basket of
currencies. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  jumped 4.4
percent on June 21 while Taiwan’s  Taiex index  gained 1.9 percent.  
 “The move is a tactical positive since it has further
delayed the still likely onset of a row between China and
America on trade,” Wood said. “Taiwan is at the margin the
loser because renminbi appreciation is a further threat to the
profit margins of Taiwan exporters with mainland operations.”  
 CLSA remains concerned about a deterioration in demand for
technology products amid Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, though
Taiwan’s stocks have “to a large extent discounted” the impact
of rising costs, said Wood, the second-ranked Asia strategist in
Institutional Investor’s 2010 poll.  
 Foxconn  
 The  Taiex  has dropped 8.1 percent this year, the third-
biggest decliner in Asia after the Shanghai Composite Index and
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index. The “lackluster” performance of
the stock market reflects the failure of the Economic
Cooperation Framework Agreement with China to provide “bullish
catalysts,” Wood said.  
 For China’s  yuan-denominated shares , Wood said that a
“bottom” will likely come later, after a rebound this week,
given the “aggressive tightening” in the nation’s residential
property market.  
 Still, it’s “too late” to underweight China as there is
now a “significant  valuation  case” for the nation’s big-cap
domestic equities, according to yesterday’s report.  
 Taiwan’s central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time since 2008, joining Asian
policy makers from China to Malaysia in signaling confidence the
global recovery will withstand Europe’s debt woes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        