-- Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Rose to 76
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-06-25T20:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-increases-to-76-from-73-6-in-michigan-index.html

          
          
             Confidence  among U.S. consumers rose
in June to the highest level since January 2008, indicating the
decline in stock prices prompted by the European debt crisis has
failed to weigh on sentiment.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment increased to 76, from 73.6 in May, the group
said today. The index has averaged 84.5 over the past decade.  
 Gains in confidence need to be accompanied by faster job
growth to allow for a pickup in the consumer demand that
accounts for 70 percent of the economy. Americans spent less in
the first quarter than previously estimated, a government report
showed today, reinforcing the Federal Reserve’s forecasts for a
“moderate” pace of expansion.  
 “Spending growth will continue to be decent,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
who correctly forecast the index level. “It won’t be booming
but it won’t be flat or declining.”  
 Stocks advanced as banks surged after Congress diluted a
bill overhauling financial regulations. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,076.76 at 4 p.m. in New York.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index
was projected to rise to 75.5, according to the median forecast
of 64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The Michigan gauge of  current conditions , which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it is a good time to buy big-ticket items such as cars, rose to
85.6 in June from 81 in May.  
 Expectations Index  
 The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
increased to 69.8 in June from 68.8. The index is down from 91.2
in July 2004.  
 Consumers and homeowners are “still a little bit fragile,
given the state of the economy today and the fact that we
haven’t seen robust growth, haven’t seen robust employment
coming back,”  Robert Niblock , chief executive officer at Lowe’s
Cos Inc., the second largest home-improvement chain, said in a
June 23 teleconference.  
 Sales at U.S. retailers unexpectedly dropped in May for the
first time in eight months, the Commerce Department reported on
June 11.  Purchases  fell 1.2 percent, led by a record plunge in
demand at building-material stores that may have reflected the
end of a government rebate on energy-saving appliances,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  
 Europe Crisis  
 Stocks have fallen on concern the global economic rebound
may falter as European governments struggle with swelling budget
deficits. The S&P  500  has dropped 12 percent from a 19-month
high on April 23 through yesterday.  
 The Fed this week signaled that slowing inflation and
Europe’s debt crisis will push an interest rate increase further
into 2011. The Fed kept its benchmark rate in a range of zero to
0.25 percent and repeated a pledge to keep borrowing costs low
for an “extended period.”  
 The central bank said the labor market is “improving
gradually,” changing April’s assessment that it was “beginning
to improve.” Consumer spending still “remains constrained” by
joblessness and “tight credit,” it said.  
 Private payrolls rose by 41,000 in May, fewer than
forecast, Labor Department figures showed on June 4. Overall
employment climbed by 431,000, boosted by government hiring of
temporary workers for the census. The  jobless rate  fell to 9.7
percent as discouraged workers left the labor force.  
 A Bloomberg survey this month showed the jobless rate will
end the year at 9.5 percent and average 9.1 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate.  
 Inventory Restocking  
 Today’s revised figures for gross domestic product showed
an economy that was more dependent on inventory restocking and
less driven by demand from consumers and businesses.  
 Last quarter’s trade gap was revised to $373 billion from
$368.3 billion as imports climbed more than previously
estimated.  
 A bigger gain in inventories, now calculated at $41.2
billion rather than $33.9 billion, partly offset the slowdown in
household spending and a bigger trade deficit. The new data
indicate inventory restocking will contribute less to growth
this quarter.  
 Corporate Profits  
 Corporate profits  increased 8 percent in the first quarter,
the same as in the previous three months, today’s report showed.
Earnings were up 34 percent from the same time last year, the
biggest year-over-year gain since 1984. The gain is one reason
some economists project business investment and employment will
pick up.  
 Manufacturers in the U.S. are reaping the benefits of the
global recovery. Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, will see revenue rise 25 percent this
year on surging demand for equipment from the mining and energy
industries in developing nations, Chief Executive Officer James
Owens said this week.  
 “We’re coming back very strongly after the recession,”
Owens told reporters after a conference in Lima. “We’ll see
growth in oil, gas and coal because we need energy for these
rapid-growth emerging countries that are driving the need for
commodities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        