-- Copper Rises, Caps Biggest Weekly Gain in Four Months on Dollar's Weakness
-- Yi Tian
-- 2010-06-25T19:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/copper-rises-caps-biggest-weekly-gain-in-four-months-on-dollar.html

          
          
             Copper rose, capping its biggest
weekly gain in four months, as the dollar’s decline boosted
demand for commodities.  
 The  greenback  erased earlier gains against a basket of six
major currencies, pushing the Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19
raw materials up as much as 1.6 percent. Copper will see
“modest increases” in the second half of 2010 on limited
supplies and the weakening dollar, according to Barclays
Capital.  
 Copper rebounded after the dollar reversed directions, said
 Matt Zeman , a metals trader at LaSalle Futures Group in Chicago.
“The metal wasn’t able to extend losses as shorts were
scrambling for the exit,” he said.  
 Copper futures for September delivery climbed 8.7 cents, or
2.9 percent, to $3.111 a pound on the Comex in New York, after
reaching $1.119, the highest level for a most-active contract
since June 1. The metal is up 7.2 percent this week, the biggest
gain since the week ended Feb. 19.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months jumped $76, or 1.1 percent, to $6,770 a metric ton, or
$3.07 a pound. The commodity surged 5.2 percent for the week,
also the biggest advance since Feb. 19.  
 Copper will outperform aluminum and zinc over the next few
months because of “a substantial global deficit this year,”
 Kevin Norrish , a London-based Barclays analyst, said in a
quarterly outlook report released today.  
 “There has been very little growth in mine production with
most of the world’s major miners reporting year-over-year
production declines in the first quarter,” Norrish said. He
recommended buying the metal “on dips toward $6,000 a metric
ton.”  
 Aluminum and nickel also gained on the LME. Tin, zinc and
lead fell.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        