-- Copper May Decline in New York on Concern Economic Rebound Might Falter
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-06-25T12:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/copper-drops-in-london-paring-weekly-gain-on-concern-rebound-may-falter.html

          
          
             Copper may fall in New York, paring
a weekly climb, as concern that the world economic rebound may
falter spurs some investors to sell the metal to lock in gains.  
 Prices jumped on June 21 as China, the world’s biggest
copper user, signaled an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the
dollar. They slid later in the week as reports indicated further
weakness in the U.S. housing market. Group of 20 leaders meet
this weekend in Toronto to discuss policies aimed at addressing
Europe’s debt crisis and spurring global growth.  
 “The downside is supported, but with all the worries about
growth and sovereign debt, rallies are going to be sold into,”
said  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Credit Agricole CIB in London.
“We are moving into the slow summer period, so if anything, we
are probably going to drift gradually lower again.”  
 Futures for September delivery slipped 0.08 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $3.016 a pound at 8:40 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. The contract is up 3.9 percent this week, heading for the
biggest gain since the week ended April 2. Copper for delivery
in three months fell 0.7 percent to $6,645 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange.  
 Comex prices added as much as 5.1 percent, the most in a
month, on June 21 after the People’s Bank of China indicated it
would abandon the peg of 6.83 yuan to the dollar. The U.S.
Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the greenback’s strength,
slid as much as 0.7 percent that day, making dollar-priced
metals cheaper in terms of other monies.  
 Stronger Dollar  
 “Initially the Chinese news was seen as positive, and that
sort of dissipated,” Bhar said.  
 The dollar index is up 10 percent this year, contributing
to LME copper’s 9.6 percent decline along with concern about
monetary tightening in China. Tin, ahead 6.9 percent, has taken
over from nickel as the best performer in 2010 among the six
main metals traded on the LME.  
 G-20 policy makers are at odds over whether fiscal
austerity will lead to recovery or another recession. European
officials fear failure to patch up public finances now risks
reviving a bond-market selloff that required a bailout for
Greece, while President Barack Obama says deficit reduction
could hurt economic growth and employment.  
 “I am still concerned about debt around the world,”
investor Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings, said in an
interview with Bloomberg-UTV television today. He continued to
predict higher raw-materials prices, though. “I am long
commodities,” Rogers said.  
 Higher Taxes  
 Governments in European nations including Spain and the
U.K. are freezing pay for state workers, raising taxes and
taking other steps intended to help reduce borrowing.  
 Nine of 17 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 53 percent, said copper will decline next week
after the reports on housing in the U.S., the world’s second-
largest consumer of the metal.  
 Sales of new homes in the U.S. plunged by a record 33
percent last month, Commerce Department figures showed on June
23. Sales of previously owned homes, which make up most of the
market, unexpectedly fell in May, a report showed a day earlier.
Construction accounts for a quarter of copper demand, according
to the Copper Development Association.  
 First-quarter growth in the U.S. economy was weaker than
previously calculated, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today. Gross domestic product expanded at a 2.7 percent
annual rate, compared with last month’s 3 percent estimate.  
 Stockpiles of copper tracked by the LME fell for a sixth
day to 454,250 tons, the lowest level since Dec. 8. Bookings to
remove metal from warehouses jumped for a second day to 30,975
tons, the highest since March 5. Copper stockpiles monitored by
the Shanghai Futures Exchange declined 12,005 tons this week to
123,939 tons, the bourse said today.  
 Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME rose 0.4
percent to $1,973 a ton and nickel climbed 0.6 percent to
$19,525 a ton. Zinc fell 1.6 percent to $1,846 a ton, lead
gained 0.7 percent to $1,833 a ton and tin fell 0.1 percent to
$18,125 a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        