-- Corn Crop in China May Miss Output Target Because of Dry Weather, DTN Says
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-06-25T06:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/corn-crop-in-china-may-miss-output-target-because-of-dry-weather-dtn-says.html

          
          
             China, the second-largest corn
consumer, may miss an output target of 168 million metric tons
in the year beginning October if dry weather persists in the
central and northeastern growing areas, Telvent DTN Inc. said.
Futures snapped four days of losses.  
 “It’s a little uncertain right now if they’re going to be
able to really reach that kind of production level,” Bryce
Anderson, chief agricultural meteorologist at DTN, said today.
“If they don’t get any rain by the second week of July, they’re
looking at some real problems.”  
 China’s corn harvest faces the risk of damage as U.S.
 inventories  in the year ending 2010-2011 were estimated by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture to drop to the lowest since 2006-
2007. The U.S., the world’s largest grower, will account for 57
percent of global exports this year, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.  
 Production losses may push China to become a net corn
 importer  for a second straight year, helping support global
prices,  Takaki Shigemoto , an analyst at research and investment
company JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  
 “Current hotter and drier weather in northern China, which
people say is more severe than last year, may be a key driver”
for the market, Shigemoto said. “Less production will drive the
country to import more grain.”  
 Corn futures advanced for the first time in five days. The
contract for December delivery added as much as 0.4 percent to
$3.66 a bushel in Chicago before trading at $3.655.  
 China Imports  
 “This is a scenario that I think is still a little bit
concerning because right now we don’t see that there’s going to
be a real widespread rainfall pattern in central and northeast
China during the next week or so,” DTN’s Anderson said in a
phone interview from Nebraska.  
 The northeastern part of China, which accounts for most of
the nation’s corn output, has been having dry weather while in
the south almost 30 million people in 10 provinces have been
affected by storms, displacing 2.4 million people.  
 China’s corn production this year may increase 2.5 percent
from 2009 to 168 million tons as farmers boost plantings, the
state-backed China National Grain & Oils Information Center said
this month. Northeastern China, including the provinces of
Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang, accounted for almost 40
percent of the nation’s corn output, according to a  study  by
the Economic Research Service of the USDA.  
 As of June 17, the outstanding sales of U.S. corn to China
were 885,100 tons for delivery by Aug. 31, and accumulated
exports were 60,000 tons, the USDA said yesterday.  
 China may buy more than 1 million tons in the next 18
months, on top of what has already been purchased,  Thomas Dorr ,
president of the U.S. Grains Council said June 16.  
 The Asian nation’s growing regions need rain this month as
the corn crop enters its reproductive stage, which requires more
water, determining the final yield, said Anderson, who has been
DTN’s chief agricultural meteorologist since 1991.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        