-- Corn Demand by South Korea to Climb 5% on Meat Consumption, Nonghyup Says
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-06-25T05:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/corn-demand-by-south-korea-may-climb-5-on-meat-consumption-nonghyup-says.html

          
          
             Feed-corn demand in South Korea, the
world’s third-biggest corn buyer, may advance 5 percent this 
year as the recovering economy boosts meat consumption, 
spurring demand for livestock feed, Nonghyup Feed Inc. said.  
 Corn consumption for use in domestic feed is forecast to
climb by 300,000 to 400,000 metric tons to about 6.3 million 
tons this year, Lee Young Il, general manager for the foreign
trade team, said in an interview in Seoul yesterday.  
 Futures have dropped 12 percent this year on speculation
that warm, wet weather would boost production in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest exporter.  
 “Demand has increased because the economic environment is
good,” Lee said. “Cattle and cow breeding rose a lot and
farmers are raising more poultry too.”  
 South Korea, Asia’s fourth-biggest economy, yesterday
raised its growth forecast for this year to 5.8 percent, from
the 5 percent projected in December, saying the faster-than-
expected global recovery has spurred exports and domestic demand.  
 Production of compound feed for livestock, which uses
grains including corn as ingredients, may increase about 5
percent to more than 16 million tons this year, Lee said.  
 Beef cattle breeding increased 9 percent from a year
earlier to 2.7 million heads in the first quarter, while pig and
chicken breeding rose 4 percent, data on the  website  of the
Korea Meat Trade Association show.  
 Corn Needs  
 The Asian nation, which imports 99 percent of its corn
needs, last year bought from overseas a total of 7.3 million
tons of corn including both feed and food use, according to  data 
from the Korea International Trade Association.  
 Import prices for shipments contracted up to October
averaged about $220 a ton on a cost-and-freight basis, lower
than his forecast of $225 a ton, Lee said. Prices may decline
further on expectations for a bumper crop in the U.S. and
falling freight prices, he said.  
 The U.S. crop is forecast to expand to a record 339.6
million tons in the 2010-11 marketing year, from 333 million
tons a year earlier, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. That will push global stockpiles to 147.3 million
tons at the end of the season from 143.4 million a year ago, it
said June 10.  
 China’s Buying  
 Still, China’s buying remains a potential trigger for
prices to gain, Lee said.  
 China, the world’s most populous nation, has bought at
least 885,000 tons of corn for delivery by Aug. 31, according to
USDA data. China may buy more than 1 million tons in the next 18
months, on top of what has already been purchased,  Thomas Dorr ,
president of the U.S. Grains Council said June 16.  
 “We are very closely watching China,” he said. “If China
increases imports, that may swing the market.”  
 Lee didn’t give his projection for South Korea’s feed-corn
demand next year as uncertainties over the economic recovery
remain because of China’s tightening and Europe’s debt crisis.  
 “Demand for livestock products is very sensitive to
household incomes,” he said. “Still, some experts are doubtful
about the growth picture.”  
 Corn futures in Chicago gained 0.3 percent to $3.655 a
bushel at 1:50 p.m. Seoul time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        