-- Cotton Rises on Signs of Demand at U.S. Textile Mills; Orange Juice Drops
-- Elizabeth Campbell
-- 2010-06-25T14:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/cotton-rises-on-signs-of-demand-at-u-s-textile-mills-orange-juice-drops.html

          
          
             Cotton prices rose for the fourth
day this week on signs of improved demand from mills in the
U.S., the world’s largest exporter of the fiber. Orange-juice
futures fell.  
 Domestic mills used the fiber at an adjusted annual rate of
3.582 million bales in May, more than the April rate of 3.48
million and up 7.6 percent from a year earlier, the Memphis,
Tennessee-based National Cotton Council said yesterday. A bale
weighs 480 pounds (218 kilograms).  
 “The demand side has shown a little life,” said  Sid Love ,
the president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting Services Inc.
in Overland Park, Kansas. “It looks as if we’re seeing a little
bit better demand. That’s what’s happening around the market.”  
 Cotton for December delivery rose 0.28 cent, or 0.4
percent, to 79 cents a pound at 10:10 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York. A close at that level would leave prices little
changed for the second straight week.  
 China, the world’s biggest consumer of cotton, will raise
its import quota by almost 1 million metric tons, according to
the China Cotton Association. The country’s central bank has
signaled an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar, which
may boost demand for imported goods traded in the U.S. currency.
The country is the world’s third-biggest economy.  
 “There seems to be more optimism in the world cotton
market than there is in almost every other commodity,” Love
said. “The thought is if China lets their yuan rise, well then
we can sell them more cotton.”  
 Orange-juice futures for September delivery fell 0.45 cent,
or 0.3 percent, to $1.415 a pound in New York. A close at that
level would leave prices down 2.2 percent this week, the first
such decline since June 4. Before today, the commodity rose 10
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        