-- Crude Oil Trades Below $77 on Renewed Concern Europe Debt Crisis to Spread
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-06-25T12:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/crude-oil-trades-below-77-on-renewed-concern-europe-debt-crisis-to-spread.html

          
          
             Crude oil headed for its first
weekly decline in three weeks, as retreating equity markets and
growing supplies sowed doubts about the economic recovery.  
 Oil traded around $76 a barrel in New York, near its lowest
in a week. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
will increase shipments to consumers, according to tanker-
tracker Oil Movements, even though crude inventories in the U.S.
are 8.4 percent above their seasonal average. The U.S. economy
grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less
than previously calculated, a report today showed.  
 “Inventories are still very high and there is a lot of
uncertainty over economies in the U.S., Europe and China,” said
 Andy Sommer , senior analyst at EGL AG in Dietikon, Switzerland.
“Everyone is waiting for fundamentals to tighten or soften and
until then the market is trading sideways.”  
 Crude for August delivery was at $76.71 a barrel, 20 cents
higher, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange at 1:34 p.m. London time. Brent crude for August
delivery was at $76.45 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London, down 2 cents.  
 Prices are set to decline 0.6 percent this week, ending two
weeks of advances. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  is poised for a
2.4 percent loss this week after four straight weeks of gains.  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, revised down from a previous 3 percent estimate,
the Commerce Department said, reflecting a smaller gain in
consumer spending and a bigger trade gap.  
 Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were split over whether
crude oil prices will rise or fall next week amid mixed economic
reports and ample stockpiles.  
 ‘Mood Is Cautious’  
 Sixteen of 47 analysts, or 34 percent, forecast crude will
advance through July 2. Sixteen more respondents predicted that
futures will decline. Fifteen said there will be little change.
Last week, 52 percent of analysts expected an increase.  
 “The macro mood is still cautious,” said  Toby Hassall , a
commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty in Sydney. “The
durable goods numbers offered some positives for the demand
outlook for oil. I doubt whether crude can rally without general
market sentiment improving.”  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments as Asian refiners boost imports to meet
demand for driving fuels, according to Oil Movements.  
 OPEC, which pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude,
will ship 23.73 million barrels a day in the four weeks to July
10, up 0.7 percent from the month ended June 12, the Halifax,
England-based consultant said in a report yesterday. The data
excludes Ecuador and Angola.  
 The  International Energy Agency , an adviser to oil-
consuming nations, said on June 23 growth in world fuel demand
will decline over the next five years as the pace of Chinese
consumption slows.  
 The IEA estimates annual demand growth will slow every year
to average 1 percent in 2015, or 940,000 barrels a day, from 1.9
percent, or 1.62 million barrels a day, in 2010, it said on June
23 in its Medium-Term Oil and Gas Markets 2010 report.  
 U.S. crude stockpiles rose 2.02 million barrels to 365.1
million in the week ended June 18, according to the Energy
Department. Supplies were forecast to drop 800,000 barrels,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        