-- Dell Tests Google's Chrome Operating System on Some Computers
-- Aaron Ricadela
-- 2010-06-25T22:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/dell-tests-google-s-chrome-operating-system-on-netbook-tablet-computers.html

          
          
             Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker, is testing Google Inc.’s Chrome
operating system on some computers, a move that might give users
an alternative to  Microsoft Corp. ’s Windows.  
 Trials of Chrome OS are being conducted on prototypes of
netbook-style devices and tablet computers,  Stephen J. Felice ,
Dell’s consumer and small and medium business president, said in
an interview yesterday at Dell’s annual analyst meeting.  
 “We have to wait and see how this product is received,”
Felice said at the meeting in Austin, Texas. He called Chrome a
“very compelling” operating system.  
 Dell is trying to lessen its dependence on PCs, moving into
technology services and smartphones and releasing a tablet
computer called Streak that is powered by Google’s Android
operating system. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  said
yesterday that Chrome “runs great on many Dell  products .”  
 Chrome OS, a free operating system based on the open-source
Linux software, is designed to let computer users quickly boot
up their machines and access the Internet. Google, owner of the
world’s most popular search engine, aims to have Chrome drive
more users to the Web as a means to boost advertising sales. The
first machines using it are due later this year.  
 Chrome and Android will “eventually play a role” on
personal computers, Felice said. The concept of “always-on
technology,” which allows users to quickly get online, could be
compelling to customers, he said.  
 Dell, based in Round Rock, Texas, was  little changed  at
$12.93 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. They have dropped
9.9 percent this year.  
 Microsoft Rivalry  
 Chrome OS increases Google’s rivalry with Microsoft, which
includes  Internet search , browsers and business applications.
Microsoft Windows runs about 90 percent of the world’s PCs.  
 Mark Martin , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  
 Google, at the time of the Chrome OS announcement last
year, said it was working with Acer Inc., Asustek Computer Inc.,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. , Lenovo Group Ltd. and Toshiba Corp., among
others.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, declined to
comment directly on Dell’s plans.  
 “The Google Chrome OS team is currently working with a
number of technology companies to design and build devices that
deliver an extraordinary end user experience,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 Dell is selling its Streak tablet in the U.K. and plans to
introduce it in the U.S. in July,  Paul Bell , president of Dell’s
public sector business, said at a reception for analysts earlier
this week. The company plans to sell several tablet computers by
early 2011, he said.  
 Dell’s testing of Chrome OS was previously reported by
Reuters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        