-- Delta, FedEx Lose Ruling Over Union Organizing
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-25T22:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/delta-fedex-lose-court-bid-to-block-rule-easing-way-for-union-organizing.html

          
          
             Delta Air Lines Inc., FedEx Corp.
and other carriers lost a court bid to block a new federal rule
that makes it easier for unions to organize employees into
collective bargaining units.  
 U.S. District Judge  Paul Friedman  in Washington today
upheld a change in union voting procedures that lets airline and
railroad workers form bargaining units with approval from the
majority casting ballots rather than a majority of potential
members. The  Air Transport Association , an industry trade group,
claimed the shift was arbitrary and illegal. The rule is
effective on July 1.  
 “Non-participation rates are high,” Tamra Moore, an
attorney for the National Mediation Board, the panel that issued
the rule, said in a June 21 hearing. “That doesn’t mean they
don’t want representation. There are many reasons why people
don’t vote.”  
 The association’s lawsuit was a last step in the airlines’
battle to turn aside a regulation that could ease the way for
organizing the remaining carriers that lack company wide union
representation, such as Delta, FedEx and JetBlue Airways Corp.
Others participating in the suit were AirTran Holdings Inc.,
Alaska Air Group Inc. and Hawaiian Holdings Inc., according to
an Air Transport Association statement.  
 The three-member  board , which under the 1926 Railway Labor
Act referees labor-management relations at railroads and
airlines, approved the change in May after a request by the AFL-
CIO, the largest U.S. federation of labor unions.  
 Under the new rule, unreturned ballots are no longer
counted as “no” votes. The association argued that by making a
change in the 75-year-old rule, a minority of the employees
would be able to make decisions on unionization for the
majority. The association’s complaint pointed out that the rule
was changed by a 2-1 vote, with two appointees of President
Barack Obama in the majority against a holdover from President
George W. Bush’s administration.  
 “We are disappointed with the Court’s ruling and believe
the National Mediation Board does not have the authority to
impose this new rule,” the association said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will thoroughly study the decision to determine
what, if any steps ATA will take, including exercising our right
to appeal the ruling.”  
 The case is Air Transport Association of America v.
National Mediation Board, 10cv804, U.S. District Court for the
District
of Columbia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        