-- Denmark May Tighten North Sea Drilling Rules After BP Gulf of Mexico Spill
-- Gelu Sulugiuc
-- 2010-06-25T15:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/denmark-may-tighten-north-sea-drilling-rules-after-bp-gulf-of-mexico-spill.html

          
          
             Denmark may tighten North Sea oil
drilling regulations in the wake of the  BP Plc  Gulf of Mexico
oil spill, Danish Climate and Energy Minister  Lykke Friis  said.  
 The  Danish Energy Agency  is reviewing all energy safety
rules at her request, Friis said today in an interview at her
Copenhagen office.  
 “We are also in a very intense dialogue with other
countries in the North Sea to make sure we strengthen our
overall safety level if necessary,” she said.  
 Denmark won’t rule out stricter drilling regulations “once
we have a better understanding of what actually happened” in
the April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig that killed
11 crew members and triggered the spill, according to Friis.  
 Denmark’s oil production fell 9 percent last year compared
with 2008, while its gas production declined by 13 percent. The
country will cease to be a net exporter of oil in 2018 and of
gas in 2020, the energy agency said on June 8.  
 “The fact that we are running out of oil and gas is
dawning on people,” Friis said. “We need to have more of our
own green energy otherwise we end up spending lots of money
importing fossil fuels from countries that do not necessarily
share our values instead of investing in our own country.”  
 EU Mandate  
 Denmark  plans  to live up to its European Union mandate to
meet 30 percent of its energy needs from renewable sources by
2020, mainly by investing in offshore wind farms such as the
400-megawatt farm Dong Energy A/S will build using 111 turbines
from  Siemens AG  off the island of Anholt, Friis said.  
 The 10 billion Danish kroner ($1.65 billion) project will
be completed by 2013, according to Dong. Denmark got 18.7
percent of its energy from renewable sources in 2008, according
to the energy agency.  
 “We need more major offshore projects,” Friis said. “The
second part is to cut energy consumption even more. Our goal is
to become at least the third most efficient country in the world
in energy consumption.”  
 This will be partly attained through new building codes,
which will require progressively more energy-efficient housing
by 2015 and 2020, said Friis, who yesterday opened Denmark’s
first Passive+ house -- a house that produces more energy than
it consumes.  
 Denmark, the EU’s largest pork exporter, also wants to see
its farmers become energy producers using biomass and to use
some of its wind power to charge a planned network of electric
cars at night. The first charging stations will be installed
this year, Friis said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        