-- Derivatives Clearinghouse-Ownership Limits Are Dropped From U.S. Bank Bill
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-06-25T17:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/derivatives-clearinghouse-ownership-limits-are-dropped-from-u-s-bank-bill.html

          
          
             Banks may not have to limit their
ownership of derivatives clearinghouses or execution services
after a plan to restrict them to 20 percent stakes was excluded
from U.S. legislation.  
 A compromise bill awaiting confirmation by Congress allows
regulators to create caps with their own criteria.  
 The limit was meant to reduce bank conflicts of interest
over their control of clearinghouses and how they could block
over-the-counter derivatives from being processed because they
benefit from keeping the trades private. Banks, exchanges and
clearinghouse owners argued that preventing them from
controlling what is cleared would increase risk and reduce
incentives to use clearinghouses.  
 Lawmakers from the House and Senate worked through the
night in a 20-hour session to approve the most sweeping overhaul
of U.S. financial regulation since the Great Depression that
reshaped oversight of Wall Street. Senate negotiators declined
to add the ownership limit proposal by Representative  Stephen Lynch , a Democrat from Massachusetts, that passed the House in
December.  
 The conference bill includes a provision requiring the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and
Exchange Commission to create unspecified limits on bank
ownership of clearing and execution services.  
 “The rules adopted may include numerical limits on the
control of, or the voting rights with respect to, these
entities,” according to the bill.  
 Clearinghouses  
 Capitalized by their members,  clearinghouses  reduce the
effects of a firm defaulting on its obligations by sharing the
risk and using daily margining procedures. They also allow
regulators to see market positions and prices.  
 Investors use OTC derivatives to hedge against or speculate
on changes in interest rates, commodities, currencies or a
company’s ability to repay debt. The private, unregulated market
complicated regulators’ efforts to assess the interconnectedness
of financial firms in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008.  
 Companies that would have been affected include Tradeweb
LLC, a bond and derivatives trading network based in Jersey
City, New Jersey; London-based LCH.Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s
largest clearinghouse; NYSE Liffe U.S.; online currency trading
network FXall; and BATS Global Markets, operator of a U.S. stock
market.  
 The largest U.S. clearinghouses aren’t owned by banks.  CME
Group Inc. , the world’s biggest futures market, owns and
operates its clearinghouse.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. ’s,
ICE Trust, the world’s largest credit-default swap
clearinghouse, is managed by a board of directors that is
majority-controlled by independent members of the parent
company’s board.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        