-- Derivatives Compromise Breaks Financial Regulation Impasse
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-06-25T09:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/derivatives-compromise-breaks-impasse-over-u-s-bill-on-finance-regulation.html

          
          
             U.S. lawmakers reached a compromise
on a measure that will force banks to move their swaps-trading
desks to subsidiaries, clearing the way for a final agreement on
the biggest overhaul of financial regulation since the 1930.  
 Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Citigroup Inc. 
will be permitted to maintain swaps operations used to hedge
risk under an accord announced today during House-Senate talks
to resolve differences over the regulatory legislation. The deal
ended a standoff over a provision crafted by Senator  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat, that was among the most
contentious in the debate over new rules for Wall Street.  
 The compromise plan will give banks two years to push out
to subsidiaries trading of non-investment grade entities,
commodities and credit-default swaps not cleared through an
exchange. The bill also requires most derivatives to be cleared
and traded on exchanges.  
 “There are people who want more restrictive language than
I do, and there are those who want to open up the barn door,”
Lincoln said today. “We have reached a good compromise.”  
 During a 20-hour session that began at 9:30 a.m. yesterday,
House and Senate negotiators also reached agreement on the so-
called Volcker rule, President  Barack Obama ’s plan for banning
proprietary trading and restricting investments by U.S. banks.  
 The final language on Volcker, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , allows banks to invest as much as
3 percent of their Tier 1 capital in private-equity and hedge
funds. Investments can’t exceed 3 percent of a fund’s capital.  
 The original language in the Senate bill would have barred
banks, their affiliates and holding companies from sponsoring or
investing in private-equity or hedge funds.  
 Lincoln Provision  
 Lincoln, who leads the Senate Agriculture Committee,
accepted a proposal crafted by her staff, the Treasury
Department and House Democrats that would let banks trade
interest-rate swaps, foreign exchange swaps and instruments
deemed as “hedging for the bank’s own risk.”  
 Lawmakers, in negotiations over the broad derivatives
proposal, agreed to changes to a provision that would have
placed a fiduciary duty on swaps dealers. Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat leading the negotiations,
proposed replacing the fiduciary requirement with a “code of
conduct” that dealers would be required to follow.  
 “Not that there should be no rules, but rather than a
fiduciary standard, we’d have a code of conduct,” Frank said.  
 End-Users  
 Businesses that use derivatives to hedge risk from
producing or consuming commodities, deemed “end-users,” would
be exempt from the clearing requirements as long as the swap met
generally accepted accounting principles for hedging, and the
firm wasn’t deemed a financial entity.  
 Frank also added a measure providing for any leftover costs
of the legislation to be paid by the largest financial firms,
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase and
Citigroup. He said the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. would
impose risk-based assessments on the largest financial firms to
cover the shortfall. The industry would need to cover about $19
billion, said Frank.  
 White House and Treasury Department officials worked into
the early morning hours with House-Senate conferees to craft a
compromise on the Lincoln proposal, after spending much of the
last two days negotiating with staff members.  
 Representative  Collin Peterson , the Minnesota Democrat who
chairs the House Agriculture Committee, outlined the agreement
to the conference committee, which he helped craft with
Lincoln’s staff, a group of House Democrats representing the New
York delegation and the New Democrat Coalition.  
 ‘Best Compromise’  
 Frank said he thought the language went “a little further
than I would go, but it’s the best compromise we can get.”  
 The banking industry focused had much of its lobbying
efforts on removing the swaps-desk provision, including a
personal appeal to lawmakers by JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon . Banking officials said the original proposal would
have introduced more risk into the system by eliminating a
primary hedging mechanism and would restrict bank capital at a
time of economic stress.  
 Besides the financial industry, it was opposed in its
original form by Volcker, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair . Supporters, including Nobel Laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  and
three Federal Reserve Bank presidents, said it was necessary to
prevent banks from passing their risks to taxpayers.  
 Derivatives, such as stock options, are financial
instruments based on the value of another security or benchmark.
Some instruments, including contracts that insured mortgage-
backed bonds, have been blamed for fueling a financial crisis
that led to the worst recession since the Great Depression.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        