-- Deutsche Boerse Says It Can Extend Clearing to Derivatives Beyond Swaps
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-06-25T10:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/deutsche-boerse-says-it-can-extend-clearing-to-derivatives-beyond-swaps.html

          
          
             Deutsche Boerse AG , which lags rival
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  in providing clearing for the
credit-default swap market, said it can extend the service to
other derivatives.  
 Eurex , owned partly by Deutsche Boerse, Europe’s largest
exchange, has processed credit-default swaps since July 2009.
The Frankfurt-based exchange in September said it’s seeking ways
to process some equity-based derivatives, total return swaps and
variance swaps even as the biggest traders of credit-default
swaps use London-based ICE Clear Europe for clearing.  
 “We have built our clearing service not just with the
narrow focus on CDS but as an engine that’s asset-class
agnostic,”  Andreas Preuss , deputy chief executive officer of
Deutsche Boerse and CEO of Eurex, said at the exchange’s annual
investor day in Frankfurt yesterday. It will “allow us to
enhance the offering as a reaction to market demand.”  
 Congressional negotiators today approved the most sweeping
overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great
Depression, reshaping oversight of Wall Street and some of its
most complex financial products. The largest part of the over-
the-counter derivatives market is interest-rate swaps, at $349
trillion,  according  to the Bank for International Settlements.  
 At the same meeting yesterday, the exchange said European
regulators shouldn’t force clearing-house links, or
interoperability, for the cash equities market. Regulators are
working on the European Markets Infrastructure Legislation, or
EMIL, which will focus on central counterparties.  
 Systemic Risks  
 “We do not think EMIL should legally mandate CCP
interoperability in cash equities,” said Deutsche Boerse’s
 Frank Gerstenschlaeger , the board member responsible for cash
markets. “The rising number of CCP links is expected to create
new systemic risks and additional costs for the market.”  
 Deutsche Boerse owns, operates and makes money from its
clearing and settlement houses, revenue that would be at risk if
interoperability became mandatory.  
 Central counterparties, or CCPs, seek to access each
others’ systems, a move that offers traders choice and cuts the
cost of trading. It also yokes them together, increasing the
risk of one default affecting others.  
 The European Union ’s voluntary  code of conduct  for
clearing, which included interoperability, was signed by
Europe’s leading exchanges and clearing houses in November 2006.
It aimed to spur competition and improve a system that costs
investors as much as 5 billion euros ($6.2 billion) a year.  
 The process stalled after the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  in September 2008 as regulators studied the risks
of clearing houses being exposed to their peers. In February,
U.K., Swiss and Dutch regulators reached an agreement and sent a
letter to firms saying they don’t object in principle to
interoperability, three people familiar with the situation said
at the time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        