-- Drill Ban, IBM, UBS, SocGen, Morgan Stanley, Skilling, Black in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-25T12:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/drill-ban-ibm-ubs-socgen-morgan-stanley-skilling-black-in-court-news.html

          
          
             A federal judge denied the U.S.
government’s request to delay an order that allows deepwater oil
drilling to resume while the U.S. notified an appeals court it
would challenge the decision lifting the six-month moratorium.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans yesterday
refused to stay his June 22 order lifting a moratorium imposed
by President Barack Obama in reaction to the worst oil spill in
U.S. history. The government said it would appeal and asked
Feldman to put his order on hold.  
 “The defendants’ motion to stay pending appeal is hereby
denied for the same reasons given in this court’s June 22, 2010,
order granting the plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary
injunction,” Feldman wrote in yesterday’s ruling. The judge
said in the earlier decision that the ban was too broad and
would cause irreparable harm to offshore-oil service companies.  
 Charles Miller, spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department,
declined to comment on yesterday’s ruling.  
 The government yesterday filed a notice with Court of
Appeals in New Orleans saying defendants including Kenneth
Salazar, secretary of the Interior, “hereby appeal.”  
 Obama temporarily halted all drilling in waters deeper than
500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential commission time to
study improvements in the safety of offshore operations.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen
Louisiana offshore service and supply companies sued U.S.
regulators to lift the ban, arguing they would suffer
irreparable economic harm from the suspension in drilling.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans), and the appeal is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Banker Who Blew Whistle on Tax Cheats Secrecy Seeks Pardon  
 Bradley Birkenfeld, once a  UBS AG  banker who handled a $200
million investment for a billionaire client, now makes 12 cents
an hour mopping floors at the federal prison in Minersville,
Pennsylvania.  
 Sleeping in a bunk bed in a dormitory-style building with
35 other inmates is far from the reward Birkenfeld says he
deserves for exposing a massive tax-evasion scandal at UBS, the
biggest Swiss bank. He told U.S. authorities how UBS bankers
came to the U.S. to woo rich Americans, managed $20 billion of
their assets, and helped them cheat the Internal Revenue
Service.  
 Birkenfeld, 45, has asked President Barack Obama to commute
a 40-month term he began in January at Schuylkill Federal
Correctional Institution for his part in the conspiracy. He is
seeking payment from the IRS whistleblower program and wants the
U.S. Department of Justice to punish prosecutors who wouldn’t
grant him immunity before his 2008 indictment and guilty plea.  
 “I delivered and documented this entire scandal, the
largest in U.S. history,” Birkenfeld said in one of two prison
interviews with Bloomberg News. “I’m the most famous
whistleblower in the history of the world. It’s a question of
doing the right thing, and that’s what I did.”  
 His disclosures preceded UBS’s decision to pay $780 million
to avoid prosecution, admit it fostered tax evasion from 2000 to
2007, and turn over data on 250 secret accounts to the IRS. UBS
later agreed to reveal data on another 4,450 accounts, a
transfer upheld last week by the Swiss Parliament. For lifting
the veil on Swiss bank secrecy, Birkenfeld said, he’s a hero,
not a criminal.  
 The case is U.S. v. Birkenfeld, 08-cr-60099, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 IBM Sues to Bar Former Services Manager From Joining Oracle  
 International Business Machines Corp.,  the largest
computer-services provider, sued a former technology services
manager to keep her from working at Oracle Corp., saying the new
position violates a non-compete clause.  
 Joanne Olsen, a 31-year veteran of IBM, left the company
this month to become a senior vice president at  Oracle ,
according to the suit, filed June 16. As a general manager in
IBM’s technology services division, Olsen knew about IBM’s
growth strategies and potential acquisitions, the company said.  
 “As a long time general manager in our services business
and as a member of the company’s leadership team, Joanne Olsen
possesses valuable confidential information about IBM and our
operations,” IBM spokesman Doug Shelton said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Olsen signed a non-compete clause in July 2009, stating she
can’t join a competitor for a year after leaving, according to
the suit. At Oracle, she would become senior vice president of
on-demand services, managing the delivery of its applications
and reporting directly to Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison,
it said.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Prosecutor Seeks Four-Year Prison Sentence  
 Jerome Kerviel should serve four years in prison for his
role in  Societe Generale SA’s  4.9 billion-euro ($6 billion)
loss, French prosecutor Jean-Michel Aldebert said in his closing
arguments to judges in Paris.  
 Kerviel, 33, is accused of abuse of trust, faking documents
and hacking the bank’s computers. The trading loss occurred as
the bank unwound 50 billion euros in positions he’d built up by
January 2008, far beyond his trading limits, and concealed with
faked hedges and forged orders.  
 “Jerome Kerviel is a liar, a trickster, and a fraudster,”
Aldebert said. “I ask you to declare him guilty of the
charges.”  
 Kerviel has insisted that his actions were “professional
errors” rather than crimes. He told the court earlier in the
trial that the faked documents were so simple anyone would have
known they were forgeries, his excuses were so far-fetched they
shouldn’t have been believed, and that the money he was using
was always visible to the bank.  
 The recommended sentence is “very, very heavy,” Kerviel
lawyer Olivier Metzner said outside the courtroom. Kerviel’s
goal “was to make money for the bank.”  
 Metzner will deliver closing arguments today, on the
trial’s final day.  
 The three-week long trial has featured more than 30
witnesses, including Kerviel’s bosses, colleagues and bank
controllers. Daniel Bouton, Societe Generale’s chief executive
officer at the time of the loss, called the former trader’s
conduct a “catastrophe” for the bank.  
 For more, click here.  
 Chinese Drywall Claimant Count Is Unknown, Judge Says  
 Courts are still unsure how many claimants will sue  USG
Corp.  and Knauf Group over defective drywall as they seek to
determine the magnitude of the litigation, said a federal judge
who is overseeing the cases.  
 U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon said yesterday during a
court conference in New Orleans that his rulings have resolved
only 10 of what could be 40,000 claims. The court is using
various methods to determine the “whole census” of parties to
the litigation, he said.  
 Those cases, part of coordinated litigation over allegedly
defective drywall, are intended as a bellwether to help
determine property damage issues in other cases against
manufacturers. Two of the bellwether claims settled this week
before trial.  
 Under that settlement, Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co.
agreed to pay for removal and replacement of the drywall from
one home and repairs to the electrical system, as well as
$40,000 for moving, rent, storage and personal items. In the
other claim, Knauf agreed to pay $20,175 to an apartment owner
for lost rental income pending a six-month inspection of 21
units allegedly damaged by the drywall. The company also agreed
to remove and replace the drywall and replace wiring.  
 In the first jury trial in the U.S. over defective drywall,
a state court panel in Miami last week said a Florida family
suffered $2.5 million in damages as a result of defective
drywall.  
 The case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Morgan Stanley to Pay $102 Million in Subprime Accord  
 Morgan Stanley  reached a $102 million settlement with
Massachusetts over  allegations  the firm financed and securitized
unfair residential loans, state Attorney General Martha Coakley
said.  
 “Morgan Stanley backed loans for homeowners they knew or
should have known were destined to fail,” Coakley said during a
press conference yesterday in Boston.  
 The bank is barred from making unfair loans and will be
required to make additional disclosures going forward, Coakley
said yesterday.  
 The bundling of the riskiest type of  mortgages  into
securities turned the U.S. housing slump into a global recession
as foreclosures deflated bond values and toppled Wall Street
firms such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Massachusetts
attorney general reached a $60 million settlement last year with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 A representative of New York-based Morgan Stanley didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  
 Skilling, Black Get Partial Victories From High Court  
 The U.S. Supreme Court  scaled back a favorite tool used by
prosecutors in fraud cases, ruling in favor of Jeffrey Skilling
on his conviction for leading the  Enron Corp.  accounting fraud
while stopping short of granting him a new trial.  
 The court also sided with former Hollinger International
Inc. Chairman Conrad Black, telling a lower court to reconsider
his corporate fraud conviction.  
 With both men, the effect on their convictions will be
determined by lower courts. Skilling’s lawyers said before the
ruling that a victory on the honest-services question would give
them grounds to seek reversal of the rest of the conviction,
along with his 24-year sentence. The government has said even
the conspiracy verdict that was directly before the high court
might not have to be overturned.  
 “We’re back in the game,” Daniel Petrocelli, Skilling’s
lead lawyer, said in a telephone interview. He said yesterday’s
ruling would be “fatal to the government’s case.”  
 Black was convicted of mail fraud and obstruction of
justice and sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison. As with
Skilling, his lawyers will have a chance to seek invalidation of
the entire verdict, while the government can argue that the
entire conviction should stand.  
 Writing for the court, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the
law, which covers fraud schemes to “deprive another of the
intangible right to honest services,” was so vague it could be
constitutionally applied only to cases involving bribery or
kickbacks. The ruling raises questions about potentially
hundreds of other convictions and pending prosecutions.  
 The case is Skilling v. United States, 08-1394, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-Qwest Chief Nacchio Loses Bid for Reduced Prison Sentence  
 Joseph Nacchio, the former chief of  Qwest Communications
International Inc. , lost a bid to reduce his insider trading
sentence by almost half after a judge heard arguments on how
much he gained from his crime.  
 U.S. District Judge Marcia Krieger in Denver said yesterday
that Nacchio, who had been sentenced to six years in prison,
must serve 70 months. She upheld a $19 million fine -- the
maximum Nacchio faced -- and approved forfeiture of $44.6
million, a figure that Nacchio and the government had agreed on.
He was originally ordered to forfeit $52 million.  
 Nacchio, 61, of Rumson, New Jersey, was convicted in 2007
for illegally selling $52 million of stock in Denver-based Qwest
in 2001 based on inside information. A federal appeals court
last year ordered that he be resentenced because the trial judge
incorrectly calculated his gains from stock sales. He has served
almost 15 months.  
 Nacchio, over the objection of at least one Qwest officer
he worked with, “refused to tell investors about the breakdown
of revenue,” Krieger said at yesterday’s hearing. Specifically,
he withheld how much Qwest was relying on riskier, declining,
non-recurring sources of revenue, she said.  
 “Mr. Nacchio knew what the risk was, he could assess the
risk” as he sold more than $50 million in Qwest shares in 2001,
Krieger said. “The public did not know.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Nacchio, 1:05-cr-00545, U.S. District
Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  
 For more, click here.  
 Philip Morris $100 Million Punitive Verdict Reversed  
 Philip Morris USA  won a ruling from the  Oregon Supreme
Court  blocking a $100 million punitive damage verdict awarded to
the husband of Michelle Schwarz, an Oregon woman who died of
lung cancer in 1999.  
 The court yesterday ordered a new trial on punitive
damages, ruling that the jury that awarded the money received
faulty instructions from the trial judge. Yesterday’s ruling
upholds the decision of a state appeals court.  
 The Oregon Supreme Court found that the trial court should
have told jurors that they weren’t permitted to award punitive
damages to punish Philip Morris for harm caused to anyone other
than Schwarz.  
 “The trial court did, in giving the uniform jury
instruction, permit the jury to consider evidence of harm to
nonparties in assessing punitive damages,” Justice Martha Lee
Walters wrote on behalf of the court.  
 The case is  Estate of Michelle Schwarz v. Philip Morris
Inc., S053644, Oregon Supreme Court.  
 Ex-Brocade Chief Reyes Gets 18 Months for Backdating  
 Greg Reyes, former chief executive officer at  Brocade
Communications Systems Inc. , was sentenced to 18 months in
prison for backdating employee stock-option grants and hiding
the practice from company auditors and shareholders.  
 U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco also
ordered Reyes yesterday to pay a fine of $15 million and said he
must surrender by Sept. 10 to begin his term.  
 Reyes, 47, was found guilty of securities fraud and other
charges in March at his second trial stemming from stock-options
manipulation at Brocade, the biggest maker of switches for data-
storage networks.  
 Reyes’s attorney, Stephen Neal, pleaded for leniency.  
 “I find Greg Reyes a man of extraordinary integrity,”
Neal said. “I would trust him with everything in my life, from
my family to the shirt off my back.”  
 In a courtroom that included Reyes’s family and more than
two dozen supporters, Reyes broke down in tears standing before
the judge, too overcome to read his prepared statement. Instead,
Neal read Reyes’s statement, saying in part, “I am a shell of
the man I once was. Words cannot express how sorry I am.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Reyes, 06-556, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  
 For more, click here.  
 Court Curbs Overseas Reach of U.S. Securities Laws  
 The U.S. Supreme Court  limited foreign investors’ ability
to sue companies based abroad in American courts, throwing out a
shareholder lawsuit against  National Australia Bank Ltd.   
 The justices unanimously said federal securities laws don’t
reach allegations by three Australians who bought shares of
Melbourne-based NAB in that country. The Australians argued that
U.S. courts could consider the case because it centered on
alleged wrongdoing by a former U.S. subsidiary of the bank.  
 The investors in the Supreme Court case said HomeSide
Lending Inc., formerly a Florida-based mortgage-service
subsidiary of NAB, fraudulently overvalued its assets,
eventually forcing $2.2 billion in writedowns.  
 NAB disclosed in 2001 that interest-rate assumptions used
by HomeSide in a valuation model were incorrect and caused
inflated estimates of mortgage-servicing fees. Writedowns in
2001 caused the bank’s American depositary receipts to fall more
than 11 percent.  
 NAB acquired HomeSide in 1998, then sold it to  Washington
Mutual Inc.  in 2002.  
 NAB argued that the alleged misstatements and omissions all
were made in Australia by the parent company.  
 The case is Morrison v. National Australia Bank, 08-1191,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Oddo Loses Bid to Get $37 Million Back in Madoff Case  
 French money manager Oddo & Cie lost a bid to get 30
million euros ($37 million) from a Luxembourg fund that had lost
millions investing with Bernard Madoff.  
 Luxembourg’s Cour de Cassation, the nation’s highest court,
dismissed Oddo’s appeal in the case at a hearing yesterday. A
UBS AG unit had turned the money over to the liquidators for the
 LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection  fund last year.  
 The country’s Court of Appeal in July 2009 reversed a ruling
that had forced UBS to pay the money to Oddo. The appeals court
doubted whether Oddo Asset Management had the right to the
money, ordering it to give the funds back to UBS, which in turn
handed it to LuxAlpha.  
 Oddo was the first to file a case in Luxembourg seeking
redemptions from funds or banks after Madoff’s 2008 arrest. UBS
and its local unit, which had served as custodian for LuxAlpha,
have been sued in more than 100 Luxembourg cases by investors.  
 This decision is part of “a provisional procedure,”
Gregoire Charbit, manager at Oddo, said in an e-mail. “There’s
still a case on the substance in which the Group Oddo & Cie
started a case against LuxAlpha over reimbursement and one
against UBS over fault.”  
 UBS spokeswoman Tatiana Togni said by telephone the Zurich-
based bank “welcomed” the ruling.  
 Bernard Madoff pleaded guilty in March 2009 to
orchestrating the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He was
sentenced to 150 years in a federal prison in North Carolina.  
 Nemazee Sentence of Up to 19 1/2 Years Urged by U.S.  
 Hassan Nemazee, a former political fundraiser for U.S.
President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton,
should be sentenced to as much as 19 years and seven months in
prison for his bank fraud conviction, prosecutors said.  
 Nemazee pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan in
March to defrauding  Citigroup Inc.,   HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Bank
of America Corp.  out of millions of dollars. After he was
arrested in August, prosecutors said he cheated the banks out of
$292 million. He’s to be sentenced June 30.  
 Nemazee deserves from 15 years and eight months to 19 years
and seven months, prosecutors said June 23 in court papers.  
 “The defendant was, in essence, running a Ponzi scheme --
using the proceeds of one fraud to pay off another fraud
victim,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel W. Levy wrote in a
memorandum to U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein.  
 In court during his guilty plea, Nemazee said his fraud
began in the mid-1990s as he faced financial difficulties. He
admitted that he used forged documents to borrow from banks and
said he intended to repay the lenders. He said he was unable to
do so as his investments went bad.  
 Nemazee’s lawyer, Paul Shechtman, didn’t reply to a voice-
mail message left at his office seeking comment.  
 The case is U.S. v. Nemazee, 09-mj-1927, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Lehman Pays Its Bankruptcy Advisers $830.6 Million  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , the investment bank that has
been in bankruptcy since September 2008, paid its lawyers and
managers $830.6 million for 20 months of work, according to a
regulatory filing.  
 The restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which provided
Lehman with its current chief executive officer, Bryan Marsal,
led the payments with $296 million in fees for “interim
management” through May, according to the June 23  filing  with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Jenner & Block LLP , the law firm headed by Lehman examiner
Anton Valukas, earned $54 million for more than a year’s work
producing a 2,200-page report on the bankruptcy. Duff & Phelps
LLC, a financial advisory firm that worked with Valukas, made
$39.3 million.  
 Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP  of New York collected $190.7
million for acting as the investment bank’s lead bankruptcy law
firm.  Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP  got $52.8 million for
advising Lehman’s creditors’ committee.  
 Lehman and its affiliates had cash holdings of $18.4
billion on May 31, up from $17.4 billion at the start of the
month. Lehman filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy in September
2008 with assets of $639 billion.  
 The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Lawyers Group Says Nominee Kagan Is Well Qualified for Court  
 The  American Bar Association , the nation’s largest legal
professional association, said U.S. Solicitor General Elena
Kagan is well qualified to be on the Supreme Court.  
 The ABA “has returned its highest rating of unanimously
well qualified,” said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
Patrick Leahy in a statement. The rating “is further evidence
of Elena Kagan’s qualifications to serve as an independent
justice,” the Vermont Democrat said.  
 The ABA, a group of 400,000 legal professionals, regularly
provides ratings for nominees to the federal bench.  
 President Barack Obama on May 10 nominated Kagan, 50, to
replace retiring Justice John Paul Stevens. A former dean of
 Harvard Law School , Kagan is currently the administration’s
chief courtroom lawyer. Her confirmation hearings before the
Senate Judiciary Committee begin June 28.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        