-- Ecuador Suffers From `Growth Problem,' Won't Meet GDP Forecast, Borja Says
-- Nathan Gill
-- 2010-06-25T22:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/ecuador-suffers-from-growth-problem-won-t-meet-gdp-forecast-borja-says.html

          
          
             Ecuador faces a “growth problem”
and economic expansion won’t meet the government’s 6.8 percent
estimate this year because of lower-than-forecast public
spending, central bank President  Diego Borja  said.  
 Almost six months into the year, the government has spent
only about 25 percent of the $21.3 billion budget, Borja said
yesterday in an interview in Quito. He said there is no need for
Ecuador to quit using the U.S. dollar as its official currency.  
 Officials will probably lower the estimate for gross
domestic product growth at the end of the month after first-
quarter  data  are published, Borja said. President  Rafael Correa ,
who replaced his finance, economic policy and oil ministers in
April,  said  then that government inefficiency was jeopardizing
his “citizens’ revolution.”  
 “To meet the official growth forecast of 6.8 percent this
year, we needed to meet a series of conditions, basically a
sufficient level of public investment,” Borja, 46, said from
his offices in the capital’s colonial center. “This creates a
growth problem because it means that we don’t have the necessary
dynamism to reach forecasts.”  
 Since taking office in 2007, Correa’s ruling party rewrote
the constitution to give the state greater control over the
economy and strip the central bank of its autonomy.  
 The Finance Ministry’s press office declined to comment and
said Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  wasn’t available. Correa’s
communications secretary, Fernando Alvarado, couldn’t be reached
for comment.  
 Extra Yield  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 0.03 percentage point
to 9.74 percentage points as of 6:15 p.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. Ecuador’s spread has
widened 2.05 percentage points this year, compared with 0.51
percentage point for the index. Ecuadorean sovereign debt is the
second-riskiest after Venezuela’s among 15 emerging markets
tracked by JPMorgan.  
 The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015
has risen 91 basis points, or 0.91 percentage point, this year
to 11.92 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The price
has declined to 90 cents on the dollar.  
 Borja said the government has no plans to stop payments on
the bonds, the only foreign debt Ecuador has left after
defaulting on $3.2 billion of “illegal” debt in 2008.  
 “The 2015s are considered legitimate and they will continue
being honored,” Borja said.  
 2009 Growth  
 Ecuador’s economy grew 0.36 percent last year after the
price of oil, the nation’s biggest export, slumped and a drought
cut electricity production, leading to outages.  
 The International Monetary Fund forecasts Ecuador’s GDP
will expand 2.5 percent this year, compared with 5.5 percent in
Brazil, 6.3 percent in Peru and 4 percent for Latin America and
the Caribbean as a whole.  
 The value of Ecuador’s oil exports, which contribute about
a quarter of the nation’s revenue, has more than doubled this
year through April from the same period a year earlier because
of higher prices. Output has declined 1.7 percent through April,
according to central bank data.  
 Falling production and reduced investment by private oil
companies will damp growth this year, said  Kathryn Rooney Vera ,
a strategist with Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami.  
 “Growth is going to be depressed by lack of investment and
lack of openness and government intrusion,” Rooney Vera said in
a June 23 interview. “Institutional credibility is lacking and
investors don’t know if their money is good in that country.”  
 Oil Rules  
 Correa, a 47-year-old former economics professor, has
threatened to seize assets from oil companies that don’t sign
new contracts giving the state greater control over production.  
 Borja has a master’s degree in economics from the Catholic
University of Louvain in Belgium. He served as Correa’s economic
policy minister before being named interim bank president in
December and then permanent bank chief in April. He’s a former
head of the nation’s  Flower Producers and Exporters Association .  
 The U.S. Treasury requested a meeting with Borja in April
over concerns about a deal between Ecuador’s and Iran’s central
banks to boost bilateral trade. Iran agreed to extend Ecuador a
$40 million credit line for small and medium-sized businesses,
according to a March 2009 statement on Correa’s website. Borja
said Iran never deposited any funds with the Ecuadorean bank.  
 “The government has decided that the central bank won’t
accept deposits from foreign banks,” Borja said. “We will
comply with UN resolutions, but Ecuador has full sovereignty to
maintain commercial relations with any country in the world,
including Iran.”  
 Money Laundering  
 Ecuador is also seeking to strengthen money laundering and
anti-terrorism funding laws after being placed on a black list
in February by the  Financial Action Task Force , a watchdog.  
 The country was removed from the list today after an
Ecuadorean delegation traveled to Europe this week to meet with
members of the group, according to a statement on the
president’s  website . Domestic banks’ financial transaction costs
have risen since Ecuador was placed on the list because of
increased foreign scrutiny, Borja said.  
 New central bank regulations increasing the amount of
deposits that financial institutions must keep in the country
have shored up dollarization, Borja said. Ecuador adopted the
dollar as its currency in 2000.  
 “It’s a system that’s working,” Borja said. “A rigid
monetary structure like the dollar obviously limits monetary
policy tools, but one has to make a tradeoff.”  
 Weak regulatory and financial institutions inherited from
previous governments would make it hard to switch currencies,
Borja said.  
 “Its difficult to say if in the future we would or
wouldn’t” get rid of the dollar, he said. “Any country that
wants its own currency needs to have strong monetary
institutions. This hasn’t happened yet.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rafael Correa, Ecuador's president, looks on during a news conference in Brasilia, Brazil. Photographer: Adriano Machado/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
