-- Legg Mason's ClearBridge Unit Lists Biggest Closed-End Fund in Three Years
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-06-25T16:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/legg-mason-s-clearbridge-unit-lists-biggest-closed-end-fund-in-three-years.html

          
          
             Legg Mason Inc .’s ClearBridge
Advisors unit completed a $1.27 billion initial public offering
for a closed-end fund, the largest in almost three years.  
 The  ClearBridge Energy MLP Fund  began trading today on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CEM, the Baltimore-
based money manager said today in a statement. The fund  invests 
in master limited partnerships in the energy market.  
 “It’s very encouraging to see retail shareholders looking
again at closed-end fund offerings in such a serious way,” said
 Cecilia Gondor , a closed-end fund analyst at Thomas J. Herzfeld
Advisors in Miami. “We’re seeing a real pick-up of offerings
now.”  
 The IPO is the largest for a closed-end fund since Boston’s
 Eaton Vance Corp . raised $1.3 billion for its  Risk-Managed
Diversified Equity Income Fund  in July 2007, Gondor said.
Closed-end offerings dried up after the February 2008 collapse
of the auction-rate securities market, a source of leverage
finance for many funds. Nuveen Investments, a unit of Chicago-
based private-equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, raised
$540 million in April for its  Build America Bond Term Fund .  
 The new fund will seek to add 20 percent to 25 percent to
its total assets through bank loans, Legg Mason spokeswoman  Mary Athridge  said in a telephone interview.  
 Closed-end funds issue a fixed number of shares and trade
on an exchange like stocks. The funds can raise additional money
by issuing preferred shares or debt.  
 Master limited partnerships combine the tax benefits of a
limited partnership with the liquidity of publicly traded
securities, Legg Mason said in its statement today. Gondor said
individuals often choose to invest in MLPs via closed-end funds
because they simplify tax accounting requirements.  
 Legg Mason had about $658 billion in assets under
management as of May 31.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        