-- Legg Mason's Miller Expects S&P Gain After Europe's Stress Test
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-06-25T18:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/legg-mason-s-miller-expects-u-s-stocks-to-gain-after-europe-s-stress-test.html

          
          
             Legg Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller  said
the U.S. stock market, which has dropped 12 percent from its
April high on concerns Europe’s debt crisis may spread, will
rise after the region’s banks complete so-called stress tests.  
 “I think the stress test in Europe will do the same thing
that the U.S. stress tests did last year,” Miller said in an
interview in Chicago, where he attended the Morningstar
Investment Conference. A double-dip recession prompted by the
debt crisis is “not probable,” he said.  
 European Union leaders sought to calm investors by agreeing
last week to publish the evaluations of banks’ ability to
withstand financial shocks. The U.S. last year released the
results of tests on 19 financial companies to determine whether
they needed more capital following the subprime mortgage crisis.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  could rise as much as 15
percent this year, said Miller, chairman and chief investment
officer of Baltimore-based Legg Mason Capital Management, which
oversees about $18 billion. His views are at odds with bond-fund
managers  Mohamed El-Erian , who runs Pacific Investment
Management Co., and  Jeffrey Gundlach , head of Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine Capital LP, who said this week he expects a double-
dip recession.  
 “The long-term view is not very encouraging,” Gundlach
said, speaking at the same conference. “Something is going to
have to give.”  
 ‘Very Bullish’  
 Miller, speaking at a panel discussion today, said he was
“very bullish.”  
 His forecast was echoed by  Richard Freeman , a portfolio
manager at Legg Mason’s ClearBridge Advisors stock-fund unit,
and  Staley Cates , manager of the  Longleaf Partners Fund  and
president of Southeastern Asset Management Inc. in Memphis,
Tennessee.  
 “I am optimistic,” Cates said during the discussion.  
 The S&P 500 rose 0.8 percent at 2:13 p.m. in New York,
after declining as much as 0.5 percent. Stocks fell during the
first four days of the week as the Federal Reserve signaled that
European indebtedness may harm American growth and sales of new
U.S. homes fell to the lowest level on record.  
 Miller, famed for beating the  S&P 500  for a record 15
straight years through 2005, trailed the U.S. market benchmark
for the next three years as bets on financial and real-estate
companies backfired. His optimism paid off as the stock market
surged in 2009, helping his Value Trust fund beat competitors.  
 Fund Declines  
 Miller’s  Value Trust  fund was down 7.1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 2.8 percent decline for the
S&P 500 in that period. His Opportunity Trust fund declined 2.1
percent.  
 Miller said he likes technology and health-care companies,
especially those with high levels of cash. He said  International
Business Machines Corp. , the largest computer-services provider,
and  Genzyme Corp. , the world’s biggest maker of drugs for rare
genetic diseases, are among his top stock picks.  
 He also favors banks such as  Citigroup Inc. , Bank of
America Corp.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Wells Fargo & Co.,
because they have emerged stronger after the global financial
crisis, he said. The  S&P 500 Financials Index  of 79 companies
rose as much as 2.7 percent today after congressional
negotiators agreed on a financial-reform bill that permits banks
to invest in hedge funds and private equity.  
 Growth Outlook  
 Miller said in January the U.S. economy could grow as much
as 10 percent this year, assuming companies have profit
increases of 25 percent to 30 percent. He has rejected a
scenario proposed by El-Erian, head of Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, who said the U.S. economy is poised for
a “new normal” of below-average growth.  
 The U.S. economy grew at an annual rate of 2.7 percent in
the first quarter, less than previously calculated, according to
figures released today by the Commerce Department. Corporate
earnings were up 34 percent from the same time last year, the
biggest year-over-year gain since 1984.  
 Miller’s Value Trust fund  fell  55 percent in 2008, while
his Opportunity Trust fund  dropped  65 percent.  
 Performance at both funds rebounded last year as Miller’s
bet on an improving economy paid off. The  Opportunity Trust  fund
soared 83 percent in 2009, while  Value Trust  climbed 41 percent,
beating the 26 percent gain in the S&P 500, including dividends.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     William (Bill) Miller III, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer of Legg Mason Funds. Source: Legg Mason via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
