-- HeidelbergCement, Renault Bonds Tumble in First Days of Trading in Economy
-- Caroline Hyde
-- 2010-06-25T15:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/heidelbergcement-renault-bonds-tumble-in-first-days-of-trading-in-economy.html

          
          
             Bonds sold by companies including
 HeidelbergCement AG , the world’s third-largest cement
manufacturer, and No. 2 French carmaker  Renault SA  fell on
renewed concern Europe’s economic recovery is in peril.  
 The extra yield over the benchmark swap rate of  Renault ’s
400 million euros ($490 million) of five-year notes issued
yesterday rose 14 basis points to 384, according to Rabobank
Nederland NV prices on Bloomberg. The yield on
 HeidelbergCement ’s 650 million euros of speculative-grade notes
due December 2015 climbed to 7.05 percent, after pricing at
6.875 percent on June 22, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show.  
 “The market turned the day we priced as uncertainty over
European sovereign debt levels” and the economy “rattled
investors,” said  Henner Boettcher , treasurer of
HeidelbergCement. “The bonds haven’t been able to hold above
par. But when compared to our peers, the notes are holding
relatively well.”  
 HeidelbergCement is rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
three levels below investment grade, and an equivalent BB- by
Standard & Poor’s. Renault is rated Ba1 by Moody’s, one step
below investment-grade, and BB at S&P.  
 High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and BBB- by S&P and Fitch Ratings.  
 Spreads Widen  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold European
investment-grade corporate bonds rather than government debt
rose 2 basis points to 201, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Bond sales climbed 8 percent this week to 11.2
billion euros, though issuance was skewed to the first half,
showing the fragility of the region’s debt market after sales
plunged 64 percent in May to 15 billion euros, the slowest ever,
Bloomberg data show.  
 “Judging by the performance of the last few deals, it’s
time to shut up shop in primary for the summer,”  Suki Mann ,
head of credit strategy at Societe Generale SA in London,
referring to the market for new bond issues.  
 The cost of insuring corporate bonds using credit-default
swaps rose on concern about the ability of the region’s most
indebted nations to curb spiralling budget deficits.  
 Swaps Reverse  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 mostly
high-yield companies fell 7 basis points to 549.50, reversing an
earlier jump to a two-week high of 566.5, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Credit-default swaps tied to Greek government debt
dropped 25 basis points to 1,102 after earlier touching a record
1,140, according to CMA DataVision.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company or country fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point on a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt
for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 “The new issue market opened this week blazing, but
sentiment is very fragile and has turned quickly,” said  Norval Loftus , chief investment officer of London-based Allegra Asset
Management. “There needs to remain enough premium on the table
to justify the deals” to investors, he said.  
 PSA Peugeot Citroen , France’s biggest carmaker, raised 500
million euros from an issue of five-year notes on June 21 that
yield 5.70 percent after being sold at 5.625 percent, according
to ING Groep NV prices on Bloomberg. Paris-based Renault reduced
its bond sale by 20 percent, citing “more difficult” market
conditions.  
 The decline in new-issue bond prices may put companies off
selling bonds, according to Allegra’s Loftus.  
 “The good-quality borrowers lining up could find the
issuance window slammed shut,” he said, “Which is not in
anyone’s interest, least of all us investors.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        