-- Tesla Motors Increases Electric Car IPO Size by 20%
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-06-28T17:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/elon-musk-bets-on-178-million-tesla-motors-ipo-to-fund-battery-car-gambit.html

          
          
             Tesla Motors Inc. , the electric
sports-car company that’s attempting the first initial public
offering by a U.S. automaker in a half-century, increased the
size of its  IPO  by 20 percent.  
 The maker of the $109,000 electric Roadster bought by  Brad Pitt  and  George Clooney  will now offer 13.3 million shares at
$14 to $16 each, up from an earlier plan to sell 11.1 million, a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed.
Existing shareholders including Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  will offer 1.42 million instead of 1.1 million.  
 Tesla, which has lost money every year since its founding
in 2003, is seeking to raise as much as $213 million to pay for
factories and possible acquisitions, according to the Palo Alto,
California-based company’s filings with the SEC. The IPO
scheduled for today will be the first by an American car company
since  Ford Motor Co.  went public in 1956.  
 “If the market is giving them the message that they’re
willing to give them a little more cash, then it’s a prudent
thing to take more cash,” said  Philippe de Weck , who manages
$700 million in clean-energy investments in Geneva at Pictet &
Cie. “This company is going to be not making a profit for a few
years, therefore it would need more cash to get it through.”  
 Tesla spokesman  Ricardo Reyes  declined to comment on the
increase in the share offering.  
 PayPal  
 Musk, who has staked his personal fortune to Tesla after
making almost $300 million selling  PayPal Inc.  and Zip2 Corp.,
is counting on investors to fund a startup that expects to  lose
more money  in the next two years as it tries to build a battery-
powered sedan.  
 While the IPO may benefit from Tesla’s standing as the only
producer of highway-legal electric cars sold in the U.S.,
cheaper alternatives from established automakers may keep Tesla
from turning a profit, Rochdale Investment Management LLC said
last week.  
 Electric-car technology has been supported by U.S. policy
makers including President  Barack Obama  as a way to reduce the
nation’s oil use and dependence on foreign energy sources. Obama
set a goal of getting 1 million plug-in hybrids and electric
cars on U.S. roads by 2015 and subsidized Tesla with a $465
million loan from the Department of Energy to develop its cars.  
 Biggest Shareholder  
 Musk, Tesla’s biggest shareholder, co-founded PayPal, the
online payment company now owned by San Jose, California-based
 EBay Inc. , and is CEO of Space Exploration Technologies Inc., a
Hawthorne, California-based company that builds spacecraft.  
 He has spent more than $70 million of his own money on
Tesla while selling about 1,000 Roadsters to film stars,
 musicians  and battery-car advocates.  
 While the automaker has burned through $230.5 million in
 cash  and posted losses in every quarter since it was founded in
July 2003, Tesla attracted Toyota City, Japan-based  Toyota Motor
Corp. , the world’s largest automaker, which plans to buy $50
million of shares alongside the IPO.  
 Tesla and  Toyota  said they may cooperate on electric-
vehicle development, though they haven’t signed agreements to do
so, filings show. Mountain View, California-based Google Inc.’s
founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin , the government of Abu Dhabi
and  Daimler AG  of Stuttgart, Germany, are also investors.  
 ‘More Confidence’  
 “It gives investors more confidence in the company that
major automakers are willing to do business or looking to do
more business with Tesla,” said  Matt Therian , a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based analyst at Renaissance Capital LLC, which has
specialized in IPO research since 1991.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan Stanley  and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. of New York, along with Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG,
are leading Tesla’s sale.  
 Tesla’s net loss in the first quarter almost doubled to
$29.5 million from a year earlier. The deficit is more than half
the $55.7 million the carmaker lost in all of 2009.  
 At the midpoint price of $15, Tesla is valued at 5.5 times
its net tangible assets, a measure of shareholder equity that
excludes assets that can’t be sold in liquidation. That’s triple
the median 1.82 times for automotive companies globally, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Tesla will use the IPO and the federal loan to develop its
lithium-ion battery-powered Model S, a $57,400 electric sedan
intended to travel 160 miles (257 kilometers) per charge, by
2012. The company plans to produce at least 20,000 units of the
Model S each year.  
 Federal Loan, Divorce  
 Under terms of the federal loan, Musk and certain
affiliates must retain 65 percent of their stock in  Tesla  for a
year after completing the Model S project. Musk’s divorce
proceedings won’t result in the combined stake falling below 65
percent or have a material impact on his ability to serve as
CEO, according to filings.  
 As Tesla focuses on creating a niche for premium-priced
electric vehicles, Yokohama, Japan-based  Nissan Motor Co.  and
General Motors Co. are developing battery-powered vehicles to
appeal to mainstream buyers.  
 Nissan’s  electric Leaf hatchback, which has a range of 100
miles, goes on sale in the U.S. later this year with a base
price of $32,780, or a third that of Tesla’s Roadster.  
 GM, Nissan  
 GM plans to introduce the Chevrolet Volt electric car in
November. The Detroit-based automaker is preparing for an IPO
that may sell 20 percent of the Treasury’s stake in the company
and reduce the U.S. to a minority owner, two people familiar
with the plan said last week.  
 Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said the
automaker has received more than 20,000 orders for the Leaf
globally, and is prepared to build as many as 500,000 electric
cars annually by 2012. Japan’s third-largest automaker reported
 revenue  of $81.1 billion in its fiscal year ended March 31.  
 Tesla had revenue of $112 million last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elon Musk, chairman and chief executive officer of Tesla Motors Inc., speaks during the January Auto Show in Detroit. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Tesla Motors Inc., the electric sports-car company that’s attempting the first initial public offering by a U.S. automaker in a half-century, increased the number of shares that it will sell in its IPO by 20 percent. The IPO is scheduled for today. Bloomberg's Suzanne O'Halloran and Betty Liu report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- David Abella, a portfolio manager at Rochdale Investment Management, talks with Bloomberg’s Julie Hyman about prospects for the initial public offering of electric sports-car company Tesla Motors Inc. and his investment strategy for Target Corp. and Kraft Foods Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
