-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline for Fourth Day on Earnings, Growth Concern
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-25T12:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-fourth-day-on-earnings-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks  fell, with
the benchmark index heading for the longest losing streak in
seven weeks, and currencies weakened after a U.S. report showed
the world’s largest economy grew less than earlier estimated.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  retreated for a fourth day,
dropping 0.7 percent to 945.16 at 8:38 a.m. in New York.
Romania’s  BET Index  sank 5.7 percent, the most in a month, after
the nation’s Constitutional Court ruled some of the government’s
austerity measures are illegal. South Korea’s won weakened 2.2
percent and the South African rand dropped 1 percent to lead
declines in developing-nation currencies.  
 The 21-country MSCI index extended its weekly drop to 0.9
percent after the Commerce Department said the economy grew 2.7
percent in the first quarter, less than the 3 percent estimate
reported last month. U.S. companies from Dell Inc. to Nike Inc.
and  Research In Motion Ltd.  gave forecasts or reported results
that disappointed some investors. Speculation that the Group of
20 summit this weekend will fail to agree on ways to tackle
Europe’s debt crisis contributed to the declines.  
 “All this will stunt global growth,” said  Lye Thim Loong ,
who helps manage $500 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “The chances are earnings forecasts for companies will
be reduced.”  
 The meeting of G-20 leaders tomorrow in Canada may
underline a transatlantic rift over measures to deal with record
deficits without stifling economic growth. A government report
today may show the U.S. economy expanded 3 percent in the first
quarter. The euro region, by contrast, grew 0.6 percent year-on-
year in the same period.  
 Romania Shares Tumble  
 Romanian stocks fell the most in the world and the leu
declined 0.9 percent to its weakest against the euro in almost
six weeks after the court said some planned spending cuts,
designed to meet the terms of the nation’s International
Monetary Fund-led bailout loan, contradicted local laws.  
 The European Union’s second-poorest member is relying on a
20 billion-euro ($24.6 billion) loan to support its economy. The
next IMF installment would be 850 million euros, with 1.2
billion euros scheduled to come from the European Commission.
The IMF board is expected to meet on June 28 to decide on the
next disbursement.  
 The rand slumped against the dollar for a fourth day on
concern that workers at South Africa’s state power utility may
strike, hurting industrial output across the country.  
 Yuan Strength  
 A mediator gave workers at Eskom Holdings Ltd., which
supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity, a
certificate to strike after the two sides failed to reach
agreement on wage increases, according to the National Union of
Mineworkers. Eskom says the document from the mediator
recommends arbitration, and doesn’t grant walkout approval.  
 The yuan had its biggest weekly gain against the dollar
since December 2008 after China set the currency’s daily
reference rate at a record high, allowing appreciation before
the G-20 meeting. The yuan rose 0.5 percent this week to 6.79
per dollar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        