-- Emerging Currencies May Gain as U.S., Europe Raise Rates, Ulyukayev Says
-- Artyom Danielyan
-- 2010-06-25T15:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/emerging-currencies-may-gain-as-u-s-europe-raise-rates-ulyukayev-says.html

          
          
             Emerging markets will face currency
appreciation pressures and greater volatility of capital flows
as central banks in the U.S. and European Union push interest
rate increases further into 2011, said  Alexei Ulyukayev , first
deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank.  
 “Continued easing of monetary policies carries problems
for emerging markets, including Russia,” Ulyukayev said today
in an interview in Moscow. Developing nations may also be forced
to raise interest rates to control inflation and maintain the
differential between external and domestic rates, he said.  
 Russia’s central bank may reach a “modified free float”
of the ruble by 2012, Ulyukayev said.  
 While the bank will continue to intervene on currency
markets to “smooth out the volatility” of the ruble, “we will
not set a target for the ruble’s nominal or real exchange
rate,” he said.  
 The narrow floating corridor for the ruble is currently in
33.40 to 36.40 against the central bank’s basket of currencies
and hasn’t changed since April, Ulyukayev said. The bank pledged
on Jan. 22, 2009, to defend the ruble within the wider 26 to 41
fixed band.  
 “We aren’t pursuing a strategy to reduce our investments
in U.S. securities,” Ulyukayev said. Russia “always” keeps
more than one-third of its international  reserves , the world’s
third-largest stockpile, in U.S. Treasuries even though the
allocation may fluctuate, he said.  
 Russia’s reserves are currently made up of 47 percent
dollars 41 percent euros, 10 percent pounds, 2 percent yen and a
small amount in Swiss francs. The foreign-currency structure of
the reserves hasn’t changed, Ulyukayev said.  
 Russia may consider investing in the currencies of other
BRIC countries -- Brazil, India and China -- if they
“liberalize” their currency regimes, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net 
 Artyom Danielyan  in Moscow at 
 adanielyan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        