-- Merck Loses $8 Million Verdict in Trial Over Fosamax
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-06-25T21:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/merck-loses-8-million-verdict-in-trial-over-claim-fosamax-harms-jawbone.html

          
          
             Merck & Co.  lost the second trial to
reach a verdict over claims its osteoporosis drug Fosamax causes
so-called jaw death. The jury set damages at $8 million.  
 A jury in New York ruled against Merck today in the case of
Shirley Boles, 72, of Fort Walton Beach, Florida, awarding $3
million more than the $5 million her lawyers had asked for.
Boles claimed she developed osteonecrosis of the jaw, or ONJ,
from taking Fosamax. The first Fosamax case resulted in a Merck
victory in May.  
 Boles “took on a giant and won,” said Timothy O’Brien,
one of her lawyers.  
 U.S. District Judge  John Keenan , who is overseeing federal
Fosamax litigation, scheduled three so-called bellwether trials
that may point the way to out-of-court settlements and show each
side the other’s strategy. The third case is to be tried in
November.  
 “We believe the jury verdict was a result of plaintiff’s
counsel’s inflammatory and prejudicial remarks,”  Paul F. Strain , a lawyer for Merck, said in a statement.  
 Merck unsuccessfully moved for a mistrial, claiming another
lawyer for Boles, Gary Douglas, improperly used his closing
statement to encourage the seven-person jury to punish Merck
with its verdict.  
 ‘Outrageous Summation’  
 “I have never heard a more outrageous summation in my life
than the one I heard yesterday,” Keenan, 80, told lawyers today
outside the jury’s presence.  
 Strain said in a phone interview that the jury’s findings
and the amount awarded aren’t consistent with the evidence
introduced in the trial. Merck will ask Keenan to throw out the
verdict and, if necessary, will appeal, he said.  
 Boles was the plaintiff in the first to go to trial,
beginning last August. On Sept. 11, Keenan declared a mistrial
after the jury said it couldn’t reach a verdict.  
 In May, Merck won the first Fosamax case to reach a verdict
when the jury ruled that Louise Maley of Muncie, Indiana, didn’t
have ONJ.  
 Fosamax plaintiffs claim Merck misrepresented the drug’s
safety and failed to warn doctors and patients that it might
hamper blood flow to the jaw, causing jawbone-tissue death.  
 Fosamax, available in pill or liquid form, is part of a
group of medicines known as bisphosphonates.  
 Jury Findings  
 Jurors today found that Fosamax is defectively designed and
unreasonably dangerous and that the drug was negligently
designed, according to O’Brien.  
 Boles’s second trial began June 7 with jury selection. She
is a retired deputy from the Okaloosa County Sheriff’s Office
whose doctor prescribed Fosamax because of a stress fracture in
her foot, she testified. She eventually developed problems in
her mouth and then ONJ, she said.  
 Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, as of Dec.
31 faced about 978 Fosamax cases, including suits with multiple
patients, the company  said  in a March 30 regulatory filing.
About 771 lawsuits have been consolidated before Keenan for
evidence gathering.  
 The company had  Fosamax sales  of $1.1 billion in 2009,
compared with $1.55 billion in 2008, the first year the drug
faced U.S. generic competition. Sales in 2007 were $3.05
billion.  
 As of Dec. 31, Merck had reserved $38 million for defending
the litigation, according to the regulatory filing. It hasn’t
earmarked any money for damages.  
 Merck  rose 32 cents to $35.93 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4:15 p.m.  
 The case is Boles v. Merck & Co., 06-cv-09455, and the
lawsuits are combined in In Re Fosamax Products Liability
Litigation, MDL 1789, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Thom Weidlich  in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        