-- Eskom Workers to Study Strike After June 29 Pay-Offer Deadline, Union Says
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-06-25T13:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/eskom-workers-not-planning-immediate-strike-action-seek-to-protect-rights.html

          
          
             Workers at Eskom Holdings Ltd.,
South Africa’s biggest electricity supplier, said they may
strike if the state-owned company doesn’t raise its 8 percent
pay offer by June 29.  
 “If members decide on Tuesday to strike, they will,”
Paris Mashego, a negotiator with the National Union of
Mineworkers, told reporters in Johannesburg today. NUM,
demanding a 9 percent increase, represents 16,000 of Eskom’s
37,000 employees.  
 Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s
electricity, this week refused to raise its offer, saying it’s
under “financial strain.” Eskom faces a funding shortfall for
a 460 billion-rand ($60 billion) expansion it said is necessary
to avoid a repeat of national rolling blackouts in 2008. South
Africa’s inflation rate was 4.6 percent in May.  
 Eskom’s head of human resources, Bhabhalazi Bulunga, said
yesterday the dispute will now go to arbitration, as recommended
by the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.
South Africa’s Public Enterprises Minister  Barbara Hogan  called
for arbitration to be held as soon as possible.  
 “We’re not interested in going into arbitration,” Mashego
said at a press briefing held by NUM, the National Union of
Metalworkers of South Africa and Solidarity. Eskom can afford a
9 percent increase given its “huge profit,” he said. The
utility posted net income of 3.6 billion rand for the year
through March.  
 Right to Strike  
 Eskom is an “essential services” organization in terms of
South African law, preventing workers from striking legally,
Bulunga said yesterday. NUM obtained a legal opinion and
believes it has the right to strike, Mashego said.  
 The three unions didn’t rule out a strike during the Soccer
World Cup, which is being held in South Africa until July 11.
“We’re also interested in the World Cup, but our rights should
not be trampled on,” Mashego said.  
 Bulunga didn’t immediately respond to a message left on his
mobile phone today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        