-- Estonia's Overdue Loans Climbed to Highest Since at Least 2008 Last Month
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-06-25T09:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/estonia-s-overdue-loans-climbed-to-highest-since-at-least-2008-last-month.html

          
          
             Estonian overdue loans rose in May
to the highest level since at least 2008 as troubles in the
commercial property industry outweighed improvements in mortgage
asset quality.  
 The share of loans overdue for more than 60 days rose to 7
percent of total credit issued to companies and individuals,
compared with 6.7 percent in April, the Tallinn-based  Eesti Pank 
said in an e-mail today.  
 The Baltic nations of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are
facing a sluggish recovery from last year’s recessions, the
deepest in the 27-member European Union, as unemployment remains
at record levels following austerity measures. That’s capping
profits at Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB  and  SEB AB , the two
biggest lenders in the region.  
 Latvian loans overdue by more than 90 days rose in May to
19 percent of total bank lending from 18.3 percent in April, the
Riga-based Financial and Capital Markets Commission said June 22.  
 A delayed recovery in the corporate sector, especially in
commercial property, added 821 million krooni ($64.4 million) to
total overdue loans. The ratio of overdue mortgage loans
declined to 4.5 percent from 4.6 percent in April, the bank said.  
 The central bank said on June 16 that the proportion of
loans overdue for more than 60 days will remain at 6 percent
this year and start declining neat year. The banking industry
will return to profit this year due to “much lower” provisions
for bad loans, it added then.  
 New loans in May reached the highest level this year,
although lending “hasn’t increased significantly yet,” the
bank said. Companies borrowed and took leases of more than 3.3
billion krooni, with one loan accounting for almost a quarter of
the total. Mortgage loans totaled 578 million krooni, the first
annual increase this year, the central bank said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        