-- EU Said to Discuss Including Regional Spanish, German Banks in Stress Test
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-06-25T12:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/eu-said-to-discuss-whether-to-include-spanish-savings-banks-in-stress-test.html

          
          
             European Union officials are meeting
today in Brussels to discuss whether Spanish savings banks and
Germany’s state-owned regional Landesbanken should be included
in the current round of stress tests, according to two people
familiar with the discussions.  
 The talks will examine whether to include the chance of a
sovereign-debt default in the stress-test scenario and on which
day to release the results of the tests, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  
 “Commissioner Barnier has stated he believes the principle
of transparency is essential,”  Chantal Hughes , spokeswoman for
financial services commissioner  Michel Barnier , said in an
interview today.  
 EU leaders agreed last week to disclose how banks perform
in stress tests, seeking to show investors that the financial
system can withstand shocks. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government won’t compel banks to agree to the publication of the
tests, relying on market pressure for transparency to achieve
the same result.  
 The discussions, which will continue through tomorrow,
include officials from the European Central Bank, national
governments in the 27-member bloc, the European Commission and
the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors . The conclusions
will be discussed by European finance ministers at a meeting in
Brussels next month, the people said.  
 ‘Not Individual Lenders’  
 The  Association of German Public Sector Banks , VOEB, said
it has “no problem” with stress tests as long as only
aggregate results are published and not individual lenders,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  
 The association, which represents 62 lenders including the
Landesbanken, last week said publishing the stress tests may be
“counterproductive” and lead to “misinterpretation” on the
market.  
 “It makes sense” to include the Landesbanken in the
stress tests,  Michel Petite , former head of legal services at
the commission and now a regulatory lawyer at Clifford Chance,
said in a telephone interview today. “The real background is
that almost all of them are under scrutiny from the commission
anyway for state aid.”  
 Stem Losses  
 Landesbanken including Bayerische Landesbank, Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg and  WestLB AG  needed state aid to stem losses
and dump toxic assets during the financial crisis. LBBW in
Stuttgart, the country’s biggest state-owned lender, received a
5 billion-euro ($6.2 billion) capital injection, while
Dusseldorf-based WestLB tapped the state for 3 billion euros to
set up a bad bank.  
 The banks have submitted business plans to the European
Commission, which checks whether state aid in the EU distorts
competition.  
 European authorities have come under pressure to widen the
scope of the stress tests, which so far only include large
European cross-border banks.  
 Billionaire investor  George Soros  said it would be
impossible to judge the state of the European banking industry
without including “the smaller banks, notably the cajas in
Spain and the Landesbanken in Germany,” in the stress-testing
exercise, during a speech in Berlin on June 23.  
 Germany’s Landesbanken and savings banks will probably
write down $143 billion for the years 2007 to 2010, the
International Monetary Fund said in April.  
 Spanish savings banks may borrow around 10 billion euros
from the country’s bank-rescue fund, known as the FROB, Bank of
Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  told lawmakers in
Madrid on June 22.  
 Domestic Tests  
 Most EU governments are performing their own domestic
stress tests in tandem with the EU-wide exams.  
 The Spanish government has said it is already performing
stress tests on its 45 savings banks, also known as cajas. The
Bank of Portugal said today it would make its stress test
results public if lenders agree.  
 The Austrian Central Bank said today its country’s lenders
need to raise more capital to protect themselves against future
disruptions, after conducting stress tests.  
 Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.  Financial Services
Authority , said he’s confident that U.K. banks will pass EU 
stress tests in a speech in London yesterday because the
domestic tests are “more severe.”  
 Cross-Border Lenders  
 The Committee of European Banking Supervisors is conducting
EU stress tests in cooperation with the ECB on several cross-
border lenders, which together represent more than “60 percent
of the EU banking sector in terms of total assets,” CEBS said
in a statement on its website last week.  
 London-based CEBS’s role is to coordinate national banking
authorities and make policy recommendations to the European
Union on regulation.  
 The U.S. last year released the results of evaluations it
carried out on 19 financial institutions to determine whether
they needed more capital following the subprime mortgage crisis.  
 Congressional negotiators today approved the most sweeping
overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great
Depression, reshaping oversight of Wall Street.  
 Lawmakers from the House and Senate worked through the
night in a 20-hour session to reach deals on a ban on
proprietary trading by banks and oversight of the derivatives
market.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Soros, billionaire investor, speaks at Humboldt University in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
