-- European Stocks Fall for Fourth Day; BP Slumps on Tropical Storm Concern
-- Adria Cimino
-- 2010-06-25T16:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/european-stock-index-futures-advance-stagecoach-bhp-billiton-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  declined for a
fourth straight day, extending a weekly drop for the benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as BP Plc led energy companies lower and
automakers retreated.  
 BP tumbled to a 14-year low on concern tropical storms may
hamper efforts to clean up its leaking oil well off the coast of
Louisiana. Daimler AG and  Volkswagen AG  dropped more than 2.5
percent as UBS AG downgraded the German carmakers. Iberdrola SA
led Spanish utilities lower for a second day after the
government yesterday said it will suspend an increase in
electricity prices.  
 The  Stoxx 600  fell 0.6 percent to 248.33, the lowest close
in more than two weeks. The gauge has declined 2.8 percent this
 week  after four straight weeks of gains and has retreated 8.8
percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid concern that
Europe’s debt crisis may derail the economic recovery.  
 “The outlook for a bad hurricane season will make the
cleanup difficult,” said  Bruno Ducros , a Paris-based fund
manager at CamGestion, which oversees about $4.3 billion in
equities. “The market is increasing the risk premium on oil
stocks. Investors want this risk taken into account in
valuations.”  
 National benchmark indexes fell in all 16 western European
markets that were open today, except Italy. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 
dropped 1.1 percent, France’s CAC 40 slid 1 percent and
Germany’s DAX declined 0.7 percent. Markets in Stockholm and
Helsinki were closed for a holiday.  
 U.S. Economy  
 Stocks extended losses today after a report showed the U.S.
economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter,
less than previously calculated. The revised figures showed an
economy that was more dependent on inventory restocking and less
driven by demand from consumers and businesses before the
European debt crisis intensified.  
 “The summer may be a bit morose with the increase of the
dollar against the euro and the austerity plans,” said  Kilian de Kertanguy , a fund manager at Cholet-Dupont Gestion SA in
Paris, which oversees about $3.1 billion. “We’re in a phase in
which the market is taking a pause. We can expect volatility.”  
 BP plunged 6.4 percent to 304.6 pence, the lowest close
since August 1996. The first tropical storm of the Atlantic
hurricane season has a 60 percent chance of forming this
weekend, with one computer model indicating it could head into
the Gulf of Mexico where BP has a flotilla of vessels trying to
clean up its oil spill.  
 Hurricane Season  
 Government forecasters say the hurricane season that
started June 1 may be the worst since 2005. Storms will hamper
what President  Barack Obama  has called the biggest environmental
cleanup in U.S. history.  
 Transocean Ltd., the company that leased the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico to BP, retreated 2.9
percent to 54.55 Swiss francs.  
 Seadrill Ltd., an oil-rig operator controlled by
billionaire  John Fredriksen , dropped 3.3 percent to 124.7
kroner. Total SA, Europe’s biggest oil refiner, slipped 1.4
percent to 37.88 euros.  
 Automakers sank 2.6 percent for the biggest decline among
the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600. Daimler, the world’s
second-biggest luxury carmaker, dropped 3.3 percent to 42.02
euros and  Volkswagen , Europe’s largest automaker, slipped 2.8
percent to 75.07 euros. Shares of both companies were cut to
“neutral” from “buy” at UBS.  
 Spanish Utilities  
 Iberdrola, Spain’s biggest utility, slid 3.3 percent to
4.94 euros as Caja Madrid Bolsa cut its rating on the shares to
 “hold”  from “buy.” Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  yesterday
said Spain will suspend an increase in the price consumers pay
for electricity due to take effect in July.  
 Enagas, the operator of Spain’s natural-gas grid, retreated
4.3 percent to 13.15 euros, while Red Electrica Corp. SA, the
manager of Spain’s power grid, sank 6 percent to 30.68 euros.  
 Spain’s decision “has come as a complete surprise to us,
and represents negative news for the sector,” JB Capital
Markets SV SA wrote in a report today.  
 Suedzucker AG surged 3.4 percent to 15 euros. The world’s
largest sugar refiner confirmed its full-year forecast after an
increase in first-quarter operating  profit  to 149 million euros
($184 million).  
 Stagecoach Group Plc  rose 2.1 percent to 194.3 pence after
Deutsche Bank AG upgraded the operator of the U.K.’s busiest
commuter-rail service to “buy” from “hold.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adria Cimino  in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Feinberg, the government-appointed administrator of a $20 billion fund to compensate victims of the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, says he will work to minimize the risk of fraudulant claims. Bloomberg's Al Hunt reports on Feinberg, legislation to overhaul the U.S. financial regulatory system and the outlook for this weekend's meetings of the Group of 20 nations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
