-- Euro Gains Against Dollar, Erasing Loss as U.S. Stocks, Commodities Rise
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-25T20:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/euro-trims-drop-versus-yen-gains-versus-dollar-on-stock-commodity-rise.html

          
          
             The euro rose versus the dollar,
erasing earlier losses as advances by U.S. stocks and
commodities whetted investors’ appetite for riskier assets.  
 The currencies of Norway, New Zealand and Australia,
countries that export commodities, strengthened even as the
Swiss franc, a haven currency, gained versus 13 of its 16 major
counterparts. The yen rose against the dollar after data showed
the U.S. economy grew less in the first quarter than previously
calculated and amid speculation the Group of 20 will fail to
agree this weekend on how to tackle Europe’s debt crisis.  
 “What you’re seeing is investors thinking longer term and
realizing with the poor data, and following up with the Fed and
their dovish comments and the poor housing numbers, it slows
interest rates going forward -- and that will weaken the dollar
versus the euro,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in Washington
at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.  
 The euro gained 0.4 percent to $1.2383 at 4:19 p.m. in New
York, erasing a decline for the week. Earlier it fell 0.6
percent. The yen was little changed at 110.56 per euro after
weakening as much as 0.3 percent and gaining as much as 0.8
percent. The Japanese currency rose against the dollar 0.4
percent today and 1.6 percent this week, to 89.29 yen.  
 The revised increase in U.S. gross domestic product was
smaller than the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and compared with a 3 percent estimate issued
last month, Commerce Department data showed.  
 “Less Supportive’  
 The Federal Reserve said in a policy statement on June 23
that the pace of the economic recovery is “likely to be
moderate for a time.” Financial conditions have become “less
supportive of economic growth,” it said.  
 The central bank held the target  interest rate  for
overnight lending between banks at a record low zero to 0.25
percent, where it has been since December 2008 to help spur the
economy.  
 Reports this week showed U.S. new-home sales dropped to a
record low annual pace of 300,000 in May and sales of existing
homes unexpectedly declined, falling 2.2 percent.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose as much as 0.9 percent
before paring gains to 0.3 percent. Crude oil futures increased
the most in two weeks, gaining as much as 3.4 percent to $79.13
a barrel in New York before trading at $79.02. The
 Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of raw materials rose 1.5 percent.  
 Japan’s currency gained this week against 15 of its 16
most-traded peers as investor appetite for riskier assets ebbed.
The yen may rise further against the dollar as Japanese
investors slow foreign bond purchases, Deutsche Bank AG said.  
 “While the heavy purchases continued last week, in the
most recent week they have slowed significantly,” strategists
led by  Bilal Hafeez  in London wrote in a research report today.
“This slowdown in outflows should allow the yen to
strengthen.”  
 G-20 Leaders  
 G-20 leaders meet in Toronto tomorrow through June 27 to
discuss policies aimed at addressing Europe’s crisis, spurring
global growth and overhauling financial regulation. Germany and
the U.S. have been at odds on whether debt reduction or stimulus
should take precedence, with Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week
saying Europe’s debt levels have to be lowered because they are
one of the main causes of the crisis.  
 The meeting is also expected to discuss proposals for a
global bank levy and a tax on securities transactions to clamp
down on financial speculation.  
 “There’ll probably be some sort of agreement on the bank
tax,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “That could be poor
for equity markets, so that would be good for safe-haven
currencies like the dollar and the yen.”  
 Yuan Climbs  
 The yuan had its biggest weekly gain since December 2008,
rising 0.5 percent to 6.7921 per dollar, after the People’s Bank
of China said June 19 it would end a two-year peg to the dollar.  
 President  Barack Obama  said it’s too soon to say whether
China’s move will be sufficient to rebalance the world economy.
He and Chinese President  Hu Jintao  are scheduled to meet
tomorrow at the G-20 summit.  
 “This week we started with a little jubilation over the
Chinese announcement,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in
assets under administration. “The market was very quick to
catch on what the real meaning was the behind the move, which
was to deflect criticism and refocus attention away from them.”  
 Swiss Franc  
 The  Swiss franc  gained to the strongest against the euro
since the single currency’s debut after the central bank said
the risk of deflation has largely disappeared. The franc touched
1.3457 per euro before trading at 1.3539, up 0.4 percent.  
 Sterling rose against most of its counterparts amid
optimism an emergency budget announced June 22 by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  would cut the nation’s deficit and
enable Britain to keep its top credit rating. The pound rose 0.8
percent to $1.5060 and gained 1.6 percent for the week.  
 South Korea’s won fell for a fourth day, the longest run in
three months, as overseas investors cut holdings of the nation’s
stocks. The won slid 2.1 percent to 1,215.19 per dollar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        