-- European Stocks End Four-Week Rally on U.S. Home-Sale Drop, Greek Concerns
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-06-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/european-stocks-end-four-week-rally-on-u-s-home-sales-drop-greek-concern.html

          
          
             European  stocks posted their first
weekly drop in more than a month, after disappointing U.S.
housing data and a surge in the cost to protect from a Greek
default reignited concern about the global economic recovery.  
 BP Plc led energy companies lower, tumbling 15 percent to a
14-year low. Piraeus Bank SA and Alpha Bank AE paced a retreat
by bank stocks, both dropping 10 percent in Athens.  BHP Billiton
Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group lost more than 3 percent after the
appointment of a new Australian Prime Minister failed to allay
concerns about the government’s proposed mining tax.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  dropped 2.8 percent to 248.33,
snapping four straight weeks of gains, as all 19 industry groups
fell. The gauge has fallen 8.8 percent from this year’s high on
April 15 amid concern about the impact of Europe’s debt crisis.  
 “It is possible that the market situation will worsen as
the sovereign debt crisis spreads to other asset classes,” said
 Franck Dixmier , chief investment officer for Allianz Global
Investors Investments Europe, which oversees about 110 billion
euros ($136 billion). “In our view, there is every
justification for the maintenance of high risk premiums in all
asset classes at least until the end of the year.”  
 The Federal Reserve this week repeated its pledge to keep
interest rates near zero for an “extended period,” while
signaling that European indebtedness may harm U.S. growth.  
 Relax Yuan  
 Stocks rallied at the start of the week after China
indicated that it will relax the yuan’s fixed rate to the
dollar. The gains were erased after reports in the U.S. raised
concern about growth in the world’s largest economy.  
 Sales of U.S. previously-owned homes unexpectedly fell in
May, a sign demand was probably pulled into prior months before
a June tax-credit deadline. Separate figures showed purchases of
new homes declined to a record low.  
 Data from the Commerce Department in Washington showed the
U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than previously calculated, reflecting a smaller
gain in consumer spending and a bigger trade gap.  
 “The last few weeks have seen a preponderance of
unsettling reports,” London-based  Jeremy Batstone-Carr , head of
research at Charles Stanley & Co., wrote in a report. “Given
this background, investors have sought to avoid risk.”  
 National benchmark indexes declined in all 18 western
European markets this week except Iceland. Germany’s  DAX  dropped
2.4 percent and France’s CAC 40 retreated 4.5 percent.  
 Bank Levy  
 The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  retreated 3.9 percent as Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  unveiled a levy on banks and an
increase in sales tax in an emergency budget that seeks to guard
the country’s top credit rating without strangling the economic
recovery.  
  BP , which said the cost of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill has
reached about $2.35 billion to date, tumbled 15 percent to the
lowest level since August 1996 amid concern tropical storms may
hamper efforts to clean up the coast of Louisiana.  
 Government forecasters say the hurricane season that
started June 1 may be the worst since 2005. Storms will hamper
what President  Barack Obama  has called the biggest environmental
cleanup in U.S. history.  
 The Sunday Times also reported this week that  BP  is seeking
to raise $50 billion to cover the cost of the oil spill and may
first raise $10 billion from a bond sale. The newspaper also
said it was talking to banks to get a $20 billion loan.  
 Greek Banks  
      Piraeus Bank  sank 10 percent, pacing a retreat in European
bank stocks as credit-default swaps on Greek government debt
rose to a record. Alpha Bank, Greece’s third-largest lender,
tumbled 10 percent and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, the second-
largest, dropped 9.2 percent.  
 Congressional negotiators this week also approved the most
sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great
Depression, reaching deals on proprietary trading by banks and
oversight of the derivatives market.  
 Rio Tinto  lost 4.1 percent and BHP declined 3.8 percent
amid concern Australia’s new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will
still pursue a new mining tax, even after she pledged to consult
companies on the plan.  
 The shares initially rallied after Gillard ousted  Kevin Rudd  as leader of Australia, raising optimism she will amend the
government’s proposed 40 percent tax. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  was
also appointed as deputy prime minister, signaling the new
administration will avoid any immediate shift in fiscal policy.  
 CRH Plc  led companies most tied to economic growth lower.
The world’s second-largest maker of building materials lost 9.6
percent and HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest
cement manufacturer, tumbled 9.1 percent. Vinci SA, the biggest
construction company, lost 7.5 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        