-- European Banks Urge Hungary's Government to Modify Finance Industry Levy
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-25T10:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/european-bank-federation-urges-hungary-to-modify-financial-industry-tax.html

          
          
             The European Banking Federation
called for “profound modification” of a planned Hungarian tax
on financial institutions, saying the “discriminative” levy
would push some lenders into the red and hamper economic growth.  
 The Hungarian government aims to raise 187 billion forint
($813 million) from the tax on banks, insurers and leasing
companies this year as it seeks to hit a budget  deficit  target
approved by the  International Monetary Fund , the European Union
and the World Bank.  
 The tax, which equates to about $88 for every Hungarian,
may end up being the most punitive for bankers in central
Europe, relative to the size of the country.  
 The cabinet of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  still needs to
reach agreement with commercial banks on the details of the tax,
announced on June 8, a person close to the government said
today. The parties are likely to agree soon, the person said.  
 The scope and discriminatory nature of the tax, combined
with corporate tax and the existing solidarity tax, could push
several Hungarian banks into losses as lenders’ effective tax
rate would exceed 60 percent, the banking federation said in a
letter signed by  Alessandro Profumo , its president, and obtained
by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Impede Lending’  
 The tax will impede lending, depress economic expectations
and deprive the budget of “a far greater” source of income,
according to the letter.  
 The letter has been sent to Orban and Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy , federation spokeswoman Florence Ranson said.  
 European Union leaders decided on June 17 to push for
global taxes on banks and financial transactions, to clamp down
on speculation. The Group of 20 nations will discuss banking
regulation today. France, Germany and the U.K. may vary the
terms of new taxes on banks depending on their economic
situation, the governments said this week.  
 Hungary’s banking industry is dominated by European lenders
such as Intesa SanPaolo SpA, Erste Group Bank AG, Raiffeisen
International Bank Holding AG and UniCredit SpA.  
 The government’s proposed levy will be based on banks’
total assets on Dec. 31, 2009, and will be between 0.4 and 0.5
percent, news website Index.hu reported today, without saying
how it obtained the information. The tax, originally planned for
three years, will be in effect for two, Economy Ministry State
Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay told Hirszerzo today.  
 Worst Recession  
 Hungary’s  economy  recovered from its worst recession in 19
years in the last quarter of 2009. Output was hurt by a decline
in export orders from the euro region, which buys 60 percent of
Hungary’s products, and a slump in domestic demand, sapped by
five consecutive years of fiscal austerity.  
 The country cut spending and raised taxes to meet the terms
of a bailout led by the IMF.  
 OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s most profitable bank, may be
saddled with 25 percent of the tax burden should the levy be
based on assets, or as much as 63 percent if it’s related to
pretax profit, Merrill Lynch’s  Cristina Marzea  and  Ivan Bokhmat 
wrote in a research note on June 14.  
 Budapest-based OTP was downgraded by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc.
because of the tax.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        