-- Ex-Goldman, Barclays Derivatives Traders Plan Asian Volatility Hedge Fund
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-06-25T04:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/ex-goldman-barclays-derivatives-traders-plan-asian-volatility-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             A group of derivatives traders from
firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Capital are
starting an Asia-focused hedge fund to profit from price swings.  
 Singapore-based RSR Capital Pte plans to raise about $500
million in the next three years for its Caerus Arbitrage Asia
Fund, named after the ancient Greek god of opportunity, said
partner  Christophe Delorme , formerly the head of Japanese over-
the-counter derivatives at Newedge Group. The fund, which is
planning to start trading with $15 million to $20 million in
August, will trade instruments that thrive on volatility, such
as options, Delorme said in an interview yesterday.  
 “The thing which could go against us, like any volatility
fund, is a very, very quiet market for the next three years,”
Delorme said. “We really don’t think it’s going to happen; the
world is so on edge, the market is not ready to get quiet.”  
 Funds such as the one planned by RSR Capital tend to
outperform when markets are falling because they trade on
volatility, which increases when prices decline. Volatility, as
measured by the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index ,
was at a 14-month high in late May as the sovereign debt crisis
swept through Europe.  
 RSR is targeting annualized returns of 15 percent to 25
percent this year, he said. The manager produced a return of
about 35 percent from March till May trading with $4 million of
the partners’ money, he said.  
 Barracuda Fund  
 Singapore-based Artradis Fund Management Pte, whose
volatility funds posted the best returns among Asian hedge funds
during the global financial crisis in 2008, posted a 7 percent
return last month for its  Barracuda  volatility fund. In contrast,
the  Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index  fell 2.6 percent, the
industry’s worst performance since October 2008.  
 The other partners at RSR are  Remi Colinmaire , formerly
head of index volatility trading in London and Tokyo at Goldman
Sachs;  Serge Handjian , previously head of equity derivatives at
Barclays Capital in Tokyo; and  Robert Webb , who previously ran
index option trading in Asia at Morgan Stanley.  
 RSR, which bets on rising and falling volatility, plans to
use computer algorithms to make investment decisions starting
next year, Delorme said. Such strategies will account for as
much as 15 percent of the fund’s trades, he said.  
 The fund will focus on arbitraging strategies to profit
from disparities in the relative value of one option against
another, mainly in the listed markets of Japan, Hong Kong, India,
Korea, Australia and Taiwan, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        