-- Ex-U.S. Prosecutor Daddario to Head New York City Police Terrorism Units
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-06-25T15:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/ex-u-s-prosecutor-daddario-to-head-new-york-city-police-terrorism-units.html

          
          
             Richard C. Daddario , a federal
prosecutor in New York for 13 years, was named head of the New
York Police Department’s anti-terrorism units.  
 Daddario, 59, was appointed deputy commissioner of
counterterrorism, the NYPD said yesterday in a statement. He
succeeds  Richard Falkenrath , who left in April to join the
Chertoff Group, a security advisory firm led by former U.S.
Homeland Security Secretary  Michael Chertoff .  
 Daddario, as an assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern
District of New York since 1996, led the general crime,
narcotics and organized-crime divisions and served as deputy
chief of the unit that oversaw organized crime and terrorism,
the police department said. He has been the U.S. Justice
Department’s attaché in Moscow since September 2009 and will
assume his new duties in August, said  Paul Browne , a police
spokesman.  
 Daddario’s appointment to head the largest U.S. police
department’s battle against terrorism came the week that  Faisal Shahzad , a naturalized U.S. citizen from Pakistan, pleaded
guilty to driving a bomb-laden car into New York’s Times Square
to avenge the deaths of Muslims overseas.  
 “The threat from radical Islam shows no sign of
receding,” Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  said June 23 at a
breakfast event in Manhattan. Shahzad’s statement “served as a
chilling reminder of what this city is up against.”  
 Before joining the Justice Department, Daddario was first
deputy commissioner for the city  Department of Investigation , a
corruption-watchdog agency, and chief counsel for the state
Commission of Investigation.  
 Task Force Detectives  
 Daddario will be responsible for detectives assigned to the
 Joint Terrorism Task Force , a partnership with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, as well as police counterterrorism
training and programs.  
 Initiatives in Lower and Midtown Manhattan call for
installing networks of cameras, license plate readers and
weapons sensors.  
 Daddario will also lead the Homeland Security Department-
funded Securing the Cities initiative, which aims to deploy
radiation sensors at all points of entry into the city.  
 He earned law and undergraduate degrees from Georgetown
University.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        