-- Extract Seeks to Develop Second-Biggest Uranium Mine, Moves Base to London
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-25T07:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/extract-seeks-to-develop-second-biggest-uranium-mine-moves-base-to-london.html

          
          
             Extract Resources Ltd. , an explorer
seeking to develop the world’s second-largest uranium mine, said
its Namibian venture is expected to begin production in 2014 and
is “well timed” to meet a projected increase in demand.  
 Supply is expected to fall short of demand by 2015, driving
up prices, Chief Executive Officer  Jonathan Leslie  said. Nations
may rely increasingly on nuclear power after the  BP Plc  disaster
in the Gulf of Mexico prompts stricter regulation and calls for
alternatives to oil, he said in an interview in Sydney today.
“Nothing makes an impact to the extent that nuclear would.”  
 Extract, about 15 percent owned by Rio Tinto Group, seeks
to gain from a nuclear power revival as countries turn to the
technology to meet energy demand and curb carbon emissions. The
company expects its Rossing South mine to produce more than 15
million pounds of uranium oxide a year and become the second
biggest after Cameco Corp.’s McArthur River mine in Canada.  
 Leslie, who served as a  Rio Tinto  board member for nine
years through 2003, said talks with potential partners to
develop the Namibia project continue. Extract is working with
adviser Rothschild to assess opportunities, the company said
this month. It’s not inviting further companies into those
discussions, Leslie said. “We’re not bringing new people in.”  
 Korea Electric Power Corp., South Korea’s biggest
electricity provider, said in March that it and Korea Resources
Corp. may make a joint bid for a stake in Extract.  
 ‘Big Deficit’  
 The Australian explorer has estimated the uranium resource,
located about 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) from Rio Tinto’s Rossing
mine, may reach 500 million pounds. Extract will consider
cooperating with the neighboring Rio mine, Leslie said in
Toronto on June 10. London-based  Kalahari Minerals Plc  owns
about 40 percent of Extract.  
 “A big deficit is forecast around the time we’re coming
into production,” said Leslie, who was named Extract Resources
chief in March. “This project is well timed.”  
 Extract moved its headquarters to London from Perth,
Australia, after appointing Leslie and Chief Financial Officer
 Peter Sydney-Smith . The London base puts Extract in the middle
of “one of the biggest capital markets in the world” and makes
travel to its African mine easier, said Leslie.  
 The company, whose shares are listed in Australia and
Toronto, is keeping its office in the Western Australia capital.  
 Extract has  declined  18 percent this year to A$6.83 in
Sydney trading through yesterday, compared with a drop of about
8 percent for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. The shares fell
2.2 percent to A$6.68 today, valuing the company at about A$1.6
billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        