-- Fabrinet Raises $85 Million After Reducing Initial Offering Price by 29%
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/fabrinet-raises-85-million-after-reducing-initial-offering-price-by-29-.html

          
          
             Fabrinet , a maker of optical
telecommunications equipment, raised $85 million after reducing
its initial public offering price by as much as 29 percent.  
 The manufacturer of laser components and sensors sold 8.5
million shares at $10 each after offering them for $12 to $14,
according to Bloomberg data and a  filing  with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The George Town, Cayman Islands-based
company will use the proceeds to build a factory in Thailand and
fund potential acquisitions.  
 The price cut came after six of seven U.S. companies sold
initial offerings within their forecast range during the past
two weeks to help raise $1.5 billion. More than 30 IPOs
worldwide were postponed or withdrawn since the start of May as
the European debt crisis sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down as much as 14 percent from its 2010 high.  
 “You’re going to have some rebirth of this market but it’s
not going to be near anywhere near the numbers people have
expected,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1
billion as chief investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors in
Walnut Creek, California. “It’s going to be pretty selective in
terms of the deals that do well.”  
 Fabrinet will start trading today on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker FN. New York-based  Morgan Stanley  and
Deutsche Bank AG of Frankfurt led the offering.  
 JDS Uniphase  
 Private-equity firm H&Q Asia Pacific sold 2.17 million
shares to trim its stake in Fabrinet to 47 percent from 58
percent, according to the SEC filing.  JDS Uniphase Corp. , the
Milpitas, California-based maker of phone equipment, reduced its
stake to 1.2 percent from 6.5 percent, and Shea Ventures LLC,
the venture-capital unit of Walnut, California-based J.F. Shea
Co., cut its holding to 5.2 percent from 6.5 percent.  
 “There’s a huge cash-out from the insiders,”  Tom Samuels , who helps oversee about $120 million at Palantir
Capital Management in Houston, said before the pricing of
Fabrinet’s IPO. “It raises questions in people’s minds. If they
think it’s a fair price for their stock, why should I be willing
to buy it from them at that price?”  
 The U.S. IPO market showed signs of recovering last week as
companies from  CBOE Holdings Inc.  of Chicago to Houston-based
Oasis Petroleum Inc. raised $1.15 billion. Hudson Pacific
Properties Inc., a Los Angeles-based real estate investment
trust that invests in office properties, climbed  2.4 percent 
yesterday after selling $218 million of shares.  
 Tesla Motors Inc. , the Palo Alto, California-based maker of
electric sports cars, plans to raise $178 million in an IPO
scheduled for June 28. Two people familiar with the plan said
this week that General Motors Co. of Detroit is preparing for an
initial offering that may sell 20 percent of the Treasury’s
stake in the automaker and reduce the U.S. to a minority owner.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        