-- End of Extended Benefits to Reduce U.S. Growth, Nomura Says
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-06-25T18:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/failure-to-extended-jobless-benefits-will-reduce-u-s-growth-nomura-says.html

          
          
             The Senate’s failure to pass
legislation extending unemployment benefits will slow the pace
of the U.S. recovery, said economist  David Resler .  
 The bill’s demise will trim economic growth by 0.2
percentage point this quarter and by 0.4 point in the period
from July through September, estimated Resler, chief economist
at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York.  
 “This will have an immediate impact on the economy in the
next few months,” Resler said in a telephone interview today.
While “the economy doesn’t have quite as much steam as we
previously thought,” he said, “we’ll be able to endure the
consequences.”  
 The economy expanded at a 2.7 percent annual pace in the
first quarter, down from a prior estimate of 3 percent, revised
Commerce Department figures showed today. The projected effect
on growth is a “rough and ready” estimate based on the
duration of benefits, which would have been extended through
November had the bill passed, and the termination of a $25-a-
week federal supplement, Resler said.  
 Senate Republicans yesterday killed the bill to extend
benefits, provide aid to state governments and raise taxes on
buyout fund managers, saying the measure would add too much to
the federal deficit. The legislation included about $35 billion
in spending on  jobless  aid over the next five quarters, Resler
said.  
 The failure of the bill will subtract about $6.5 billion
from the economy in the quarter ending June 30 and another $19
billion in the following three months, he projected.  
 Emergency Program  
 Department of Labor estimates show 2 million workers, or 20
percent of all recipients of jobless aid, will fall out of the
Emergency Unemployment Compensation program by the second week
of July.  
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, estimates that the end of emergency benefits
will subtract about 0.1 percent from personal incomes in June.
If the program isn’t renewed, incomes will fall by 2 percent at
an annual rate in the third quarter, Feroli said in a note to
clients.  
 Given that workers are more likely to consume rather than
save the benefits, the direct effect on consumer spending would
be similar to the impact on income, he said.  
 The number of Americans who have used up their regular
jobless benefits and are receiving extended or emergency
benefits under federal programs increased by about 45,000 to 5.3
million in the week ended June 5, Labor Department figures
showed yesterday.  
 Jobless Rate  
 Resler estimated that the  unemployment rate , 9.7 percent in
May, may decline by as much as one percentage point as some
workers drop out of the labor force and others accept jobs they
might have rejected earlier.  
 The Senate’s 57-41 vote yesterday in favor of the measure
fell short of the 60 votes needed to advance it. Democrats
repeatedly cut the bill in an effort to win backing from those
who objected to its cost.  
 The latest version would have added $33 billion to the
budget shortfall, a fraction of previous proposals. Republicans
said the cost-cutting didn’t go far enough. The House of
Representatives approved its own version of the bill earlier.  
 The Senate vote “is a sign there’s a growing recognition
in Washington, and around the world, that maybe it’s time to see
if we can wean ourselves off the stimulus,” Resler said. “It
signifies a shift in the mood from whatever-it-takes to let’s-
be-careful.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        