-- Federer Regains His Wimbledon Winning Form Against Clement in Third Round
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/federer-regains-his-wimbledon-winning-form-against-clement-in-third-round.html

          
          
             Six-time Wimbledon champion  Roger
Federer  finally looked like himself on Centre Court, dropping
only eight games in a straight-set defeat of  Arnaud Clement  to
reach the fourth round.  
 Federer, who struggled to win his two previous matches this
week at the All England Club, won 6-2, 6-4, 6-2 against Clement
yesterday and advanced to a match against No. 16  Jurgen Melzer .  
 “I’d rather be here doing an interview then sitting at
home on the couch watching Wimbledon,” Federer told the British
Broadcasting Corp. after he beat Clement. “It’s been a tough
week.”  
 Andy Murray  today will continue his quest to become the
first man from the British Isles since 1936 to lift the
Wimbledon trophy. Murray faces  Gilles Simon  of France. Defending
women’s champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. plays Dominika
Cibulkova of Slovakia, while 2008 men’s champion  Rafael Nadal  of
Spain meets Germany’s  Philipp Petzschner .  
 Federer, a 28-year-old Swiss who is seeking to equal  Pete Sampras ’s Open-era record of seven Wimbledon titles, needed five
sets in the opening round to overcome  Alejandro Falla , a
Colombian ranked 60th on the ATP World Tour. Falla won the first
two sets and served for the match in the fourth.  
 Federer, who said his game was “in disarray” for the most
part of the Falla match, also struggled in the second round. He
needed four sets to beat Ilija Bozoljac, a 152nd-ranked Serbian.
That marked the first time Federer had dropped so many sets in
reaching the third round of a major.  
 Serve and Volley  
 Things improved in the third round. Federer broke the
Frenchman’s serve in the first game and forced a double break at
4-1. Unlike his two previous rounds, the top-seeded Federer also
played serve and volley on several occasions. He made only one
unforced error in the first set and wrapped it up when Clement
missed a return.  
 Federer again broke in the opening game of the second set.
Clement, the oldest man in the singles draw at 32, had no answer
to Federer’s ground strokes and serves. The Swiss closed the
second set with a service winner.  
 Up a double break for 5-2 in the third set, Federer set up
his first match point with an ace. He won the match as Clement
dumped a forehand into the net.  
 “This felt much better,” Federer said in a news
conference. “Right off the bat I got the early break. Same
thing in the second set. From then on, it was a race to the
finish line.”  
 Federer produced 29  winners , including seven aces, while
Clement had five aces among 17 winners. The Swiss made 11
unforced errors, while the Frenchman made 20.  
 ‘I’m Very Happy’  
 “It was a good and solid match for me, clean, hardly any
errors, good on the offensive,” Federer told reporters. “So
I’m very happy with my game right now.”  
 Clement, one of an Open era-record seven Frenchmen in the
third round, has lost seven matches in a row to Federer. The
86th-ranked player won two previous meetings in a major -- at
the Australian Open in 2000 and 2001.  
 Federer, who last year beat  Andy Roddick  in a five-set
Wimbledon final to win his record 15th men’s major title, hasn’t
won a tournament since he beat Murray in the final of this
year’s Australian Open for his 16th Grand Slam championship.  
 As defending champion, Federer was upset by Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  at the French Open, ending his record streak of 23
straight Grand Slam semifinals. He lost to  Lleyton Hewitt  in the
final at Halle, Germany, a week before the start of Wimbledon --
his second loss on grass in seven years, and his first defeat by
the Australian in 16 meetings.  
 Federer-Melzer Next  
 Melzer, from Austria, made his first major semifinal this
month at the French Open, where he lost to eventual champion
 Nadal .  
 “We know each other very well, back from the juniors,”
Federer said of his next opponent. “It’s funny because I’ve
practiced with him, chat with him every day in the locker rooms.
But it’s one of the guys I never faced. And he’s my age, so it’s
an interesting matchup.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Roger Federer of Switzerland celebrates winning his match against Arnaud Clement of France on Day Five of the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Championships at the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club on June 25, 2010 in London. Photographer: Hamish Blair/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
