-- Foxconn Technology Hires Outside Managers for Its Dormitories in China
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-06-25T14:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/foxconn-technology-hires-outside-managers-for-its-dormitories-in-china.html

          
          
             Foxconn Technology Group agreed to
hire outside managers to take over the running of employee
dormitories in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, where at
least 10 of its workers committed suicide this year.  
 The contract maker of  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone signed a
memorandum of understanding with two China-based property
management firms to run 153 dormitories housing the Taiwanese
manufacturer’s employees in Shenzhen, according to an e-mailed
statement from the company today.  
 Foxconn said it will hire counselors and double pay in
Shenzhen, where it employs almost 450,000 people, after the
suicides prompted Apple and other clients including  Dell Inc. 
to probe work conditions at the world’s biggest contract
electronics maker. The hiring of the property firms marks a
shift to a “more open” style of management, the Taiwanese
company said.  
 “Providing employees with basic necessities including a
safe and convenient place to live at the work-site might have
been sufficient in the past, but this arrangement no longer
satisfies the needs of the young migrant workers of today,”
Foxconn Vice President Terry Cheng said in the statement.  
 Flagship unit  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. ’s shares  fell 
1.6 percent to NT$120.5 in Taipei today, extending the decline
this year to 20 percent. That compares with the 8.7 percent
drop in the city’s benchmark Taiex index in the same period.  
 Salary Increase  
 Foxconn signed agreements with Shenzhen CPM Property
Management Co. and Kaiyuan Property Management to hand over
running of the employee residences, in a ceremony today
attended by officials including Li Yi Kang, deputy secretary at
the Shenzhen municipal government, it said in the statement.  
 Of the 153 dormitories, 33 were built by Foxconn and the
others are leased by the company.  
 Base salaries at Hon Hai’s Shenzhen factories will rise to
2,000 yuan ($294) a month in October from 900 yuan in May, the
company said this month. The increase prompted analysts at
brokerages such as Macquarie Group Ltd. and Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. to cut their investment ratings on  Hon Hai .  
 The deaths at  Foxconn  have prompted New York-based China
Labor Watch to say the Taiwanese company is a “sweatshop”
that doesn’t pay employees enough, so they have to work
overtime.  
 Apple  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said this month
the suicides were “very troubling” and that his company was
“all over” Hon Hai to resolve the issue. Both Jobs and
Foxconn Chairman  Terry Gou  have said  Foxconn  isn’t a
“sweatshop.”  
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Dell , the two biggest U.S.
computer makers, have said they’ve begun examining Foxconn’s
working conditions.  
 The suicides were probably caused by personal problems and
exacerbated by compensation packages offered to the families of
victims, Gou said this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        