-- France Seeks to Trim Deficit by $49 Billion, Prime Minister Fillon Says
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-25T11:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/france-seeks-to-trim-deficit-by-49-billion-prime-minister-fillon-says.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said
France will trim its budget deficit by 40 billion euros ($49
billion) next year while aiming to avoid the deeper spending
cuts and tax increases announced by Britain this week.  
 “There are countries that are cutting civil-service pay,
firing public workers, raising the value-added tax,” Fillon
told reporters today in Paris, without referring specifically to
the U.K. “For the moment, we are trying to avoid austerity.”  
 France, the euro region’s second-largest economy, will next
week detail plans to lower spending on schools, defense,
housing, and ministries’ budgets to meet deficit targets. The
government is seeking to reduce the shortfall to 6 percent of
gross domestic product next year from 8 percent of  GDP  and to
the European Union limit of 3 percent in 2013.  
 European policy makers are trying to patch up public
finances after they were forced to bail out Greece last month.
U.S. President  Barack Obama  says deficit reduction could hurt
economic growth and employment, setting up a clash at a summit
of global leaders that starts today in Canada.  
 Fillon, who restated the position that he doesn’t plan to
raise taxes, said the government is sticking to its 1.4 percent
 economic growth  target for this year and “if growth is less
dynamic than planned, we should not recoil from additional
efforts.” Curbing tax breaks will yield up to 8.5 billion euros
to help the government meet its plans, Fillon said.  
 Referring to demonstrations yesterday to protest a planned
overhaul of the pension system, Fillon said he  won’t bow  to
protesters’ demands to scale back the plan to raise the
retirement age to 62 from 60.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        