-- French World Cup Players Say Strike Was Unanimous After Anelka Sent Home
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-06-25T21:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/french-player-strike-at-world-cup-was-unanimous-team-members-say.html

          
          
             French soccer players returning from
their early exit from the World Cup said the team agreed
unanimously to strike in support of  Nicolas Anelka , who was sent
home for fighting with the coach.  
 They disagreed about the atmosphere on the team in
televised comments today.  
 Thierry Henry , France’s top international goal scorer, said
there were divisions between older and younger players.  
 “When I first joined the team, I’d wait to see where the
elders sat at dinner before I’d sit down myself,” Henry, 32,
said in an interview with Canal-Plus television. “It’s not like
that anymore. There is no respect.”  
 His Barcelona FC teammate  Eric Abidal  said the “ambience
was good” on the team.  
 “I didn’t feel any tension in the group,” Abidal, 30,
said in an interview on TF1 from Barcelona.  
 Henry, who has scored 51 goals in 122 appearances for
France, yesterday went straight from the airplane that carried
the team back from South Africa to a private meeting with
President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Henry would only say “it went well”
when asked today about the meeting.  
 Winless Campaign   
 The French, champions in 1998 and losing finalists at the
last World Cup four years ago in Germany, were eliminated in the
first round this time after a 2-1 defeat to hosts South Africa,
2-0 loss to Mexico and tying 0-0 with Uruguay.  
 The sporting disaster has become a political matter because
of the behavior of the French players, who refused to train
before their final game after  Anelka  was sent home for insulting
coach  Raymond Domenech  at halftime of the defeat to Mexico.  
 Anelka’s alleged obscenity-laden outburst ended up on the
front page of L’Equipe sports newspaper.  
 Henry said he didn’t hear exactly what Anelka said. “It
wasn’t directed at anyone; he was just talking to himself,”
Henry said. “I could barely hear him.”  
 The scene of the players staying on the team bus while
captain  Patrice Evra  went to tell Domenech of their decision not
to train, and then almost coming to blows with the team’s
physical trainer, was carried live on several French television
stations.  
 ’Tight Group’  
 “The message it sent wasn’t good,” Abidal said. “But
when are living in such a tight group, you aren’t always aware
of what impact your actions have on the outside world.”  
 French newspapers such as Le Parisien have reported that
the rebellion was led by Manchester United defender Evra,
Abidal, and Bayern Munich winger  Franck Ribery , who intimidated
younger players into going along.  
 “It was a clumsy thing to do, but I want to be clear that
we decided as a group,” Evra said in an interview on TF1
earlier today. “No one wanted to get off the bus and I hope
that everyone is honest about that.”  
 Abidal agreed the players were all in agreement about the
refusal to train.  
 “No one was forced to stay on the bus,” said Abidal.
“Everyone had a chance to talk. It was about solidarity with
Anelka. We were not in agreement about what had been done.”  
 Evra, 29, was demoted to the substitutes’ bench for the
final game against South Africa.  
 “It was not a choice of mine,” he said today. “That made
it doubly painful.”  
 Abidal also didn’t play the last match. Domenech said at
the post-match press conference that Abidal had asked not to
play. He wasn’t asked about that today.  
 Henry said he didn’t feel he could play any role in calming
things down on the team because younger players didn’t listen to
him.  
 “I could have been the big brother but I felt pushed
aside,” he said. “When you have no credibility, there’s not
much you can do.”  
 Evra promised that all the players will work with  Laurent Blanc , who is replacing Domenech as national team coach.  
 “The future manager will have a united, determined group
of players who want to restore honor to the national team,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        