-- French Gas-Price Audit May Delay Future Rate Moves, Finance Minister Says
-- Mark Deen
-- 2010-06-25T11:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/french-gas-price-audit-may-delay-future-rate-moves-finance-minister-says.html

          
          
             An audit of regulated French natural
gas prices charged by the former monopoly  GDF Suez SA  may delay
further rate changes after a price increase that’s set to start
on July 1, Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  
 “I would like to determine if the tariff formula is a good
one,” Lagarde said today on France Inter radio. Rates should be
frozen until Jan. 1 until the study is finished, she said.  
 GDF Suez fell as much as 3.1 percent in Paris today and was
trading down 53 cents to 24.47 euros at 1 p.m. local time. The
 shares  have declined 19 percent this year.  
 The regulator, the Commission de Regulation de l’Energie,
asked GDF Suez to give it the average price of imports on a
monthly basis, CRE said yesterday, adding that the audit would
be complete by September. France’s regulated natural gas prices
are reviewed quarterly so the next change would be Oct. 1.  
 GDF Suez can raise the regulated rate for households heated
by natural gas by an average of 4.7 percent from July 1 while
industries will have to pay increases of as much as 7.4 percent,
the CRE said.  
 The utility had a shortfall of 177 million euros ($217
million) last year on French gas sales because regulated prices
didn’t cover costs. It has more than 90 percent of the French
household market by volume.  
 France’s energy regulator also said yesterday that the
first indications of the audit suggest the formula used to
calculate regulated gas prices should reflect spot-market prices
as well as GDF Suez’s long-term contracts on which they are
currently based.  
 Awash With Supply  
 Natural gas prices on the spot market, awash with supply,
have dropped below those of so-called take-or-pay long-term
contracts utilities have with suppliers such as OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s gas export monopoly.  
 Currently the formula, which has been published by the
regulator, is based on the price of heating oil, oil and the
euro-dollar exchange rates.  
 The decoupling between spot market prices and long-term
contract prices may increase competition in the French market,
the regulator said. Alternative suppliers’ prices to households
are 12 percent lower than regulated prices, it said.  
 GDF Suez has been in talks with OAO Gazprom and its other
suppliers of the fuel on revising contracts after spot market
prices fell.  
 GDF Suez wants to adjust gas prices and volumes to reflect
the “current market situation,” Vice Chairman  Jean-Francois Cirelli  said last month, referring to wholesale supplies of the
energy.  
 Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, this year agreed
to adjust long-term supply contracts, which are linked to oil
prices, for some customers, including Germany’s E.ON AG, during
the economic crisis.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        