-- Isner Wins Longest Match on Fuel From Roddick's Pizza, Chicken Deliveries
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-25T01:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/fueled-by-andy-roddick-s-pizza-delivery-isner-wins-longest-tennis-match.html

          
          
             John Isner , exhausted after being
forced off court for the second day with no end in sight to the
longest tennis match ever played, used  Andy Roddick ’s fast-food
delivery to help get him through.  
 “Andy just brought me all sorts of stuff,” Isner said in
a news conference yesterday. “There was three boxes of pizza,
all sorts of chicken and mashed potatoes, anything. I would have
eaten 12 Big Macs.”  
 After the fast-food feast and four hours sleep at his
Wimbledon rental home, Isner returned to Court 18 at the All
England Club yesterday with the fifth set of his first-round
match against  Nicolas Mahut  of France tied at 59-59. An hour
later, the American collapsed on the grass when his backhand
passing shot secured a record-packed 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (7-9), 7-6
(7-3), 70-68 victory that took 11 hours, 5 minutes.  
 “I was completely delirious,” Isner said.  
 With the 25-year-old due on Court 5 at noon London time
today, the gap until his second-round match against Thiemo de
Bakker of the Netherlands is shorter than the time it took Isner
to oust Mahut.  
 Former top-ranked  Justine Henin  starts on Centre Court
against Russia’s  Nadia Petrova , where defending men’s champion
 Roger Federer  plays France’s  Arnaud Clement  in the last match of
the day. Five-time champion  Venus Williams  meets  Alisa Kleybanova  of Russia on  Court 1. Roddick, Isner’s friend and
last year’s Wimbledon runner-up, will play Germany’s  Philipp Kohlschreiber  in the last match scheduled on Court 1.  
 Florida Heat  
 Isner thanked his trainer for getting him through the
longest match ever played, both in duration and games. After
losing in the third round of the French Open, the 23rd-seeded
American worked on his fitness in the heat and humidity of
Florida.  
 “My coach actually, believe it or not, said jokingly
before the tournament started that I’ll be able to play 10
hours,” Isner said. “That’s the truth. After practicing at
Saddlebrook in Tampa in that heat, he was right.”  
 The 138-game fifth set lasted 8:11, longer than the
previous longest match. Started on June 22, the contest lasted
more than 4 1/2 hours longer than the previous record, a 6:33
first-round contest at the 2004 French Open between Frenchmen
 Fabrice Santoro  and  Arnaud Clement .  
 Isner, who played college tennis at the University of
Georgia, said his mental toughness also helped.  
 College Days  
 “I always find myself very, very calm and controlled,” he
said. “I learned that in my time in college, playing a lot of
pressure-filled matches.”  
 Isner’s 112 aces and Mahut’s 103, according to the
tournament’s website, both broke  Ivo Karlovic ’s record of 78 in
a Davis Cup match for Croatia against the Czech Republic in
2009.  
 “An amazing match,” 2008 champion  Rafael Nadal  said in a
news conference after he advanced to the third round with a
five-set win over Robin Haase of the Netherlands. “To focus for
around 10 hours, that’s amazing, to not lose the serve in all
that time.”  
 Isner, a 6-foot-9 right-hander from Greensboro, North
Carolina, spent four years at Georgia, where he was the school’s
all-time leader in singles and doubles wins, according to his
profile on the ATP World Tour website. He turned pro when he was
22.  
 “Obviously it’s not the magnitude that this is,” said
Isner, who wore a University of Georgia T-shirt at the press
conference. “That’s something that Coach (Manny) Diaz at
Georgia was really good at, was able to really make me a lot
mentally stronger. That’s one of the reasons I’m here today.”  
 Improved Fitness  
 Former U.S. Open champion  Tracy Austin , who sat next to
Isner’s mother, Karen, during some parts of the match against
Mahut, said earlier that he’s come a long way since leaving
school.  
 “Isner wasn’t a particularly outstanding player, but he
always had the big serve,” Austin said in an interview at the
French Open. “He got in better shape and started to move a
little better. And he started to play tennis, he started to
construct points. He learned about the game at a later age.”  
 The marathon against Mahut will only be a footnote in his
career, Isner said.  
 “Hopefully, this won’t be the thing that I’m most
remembered about,” he said. “I have what it takes to do some
really big things in this game.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London newsroom at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       John Isner celebrates winning  
                       
                         
                           Julian Finney/Getty Images 
                         
                         John Isner of USA celebrates winning on the third day of his first round match against Nicolas Mahut of France on Day Four of the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Championships in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John Isner of USA celebrates winning on the third day of his first round match against Nicolas Mahut of France on Day Four of the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Championships in London. Photographer: Julian Finney/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
