-- Gazprom Dismisses Lukashenko Threat, Says `Gas War' With Belarus Has Ended
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2010-06-25T16:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/gazprom-dismisses-lukashenko-threat-says-gas-war-with-belarus-has-ended.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom , Russia’s gas export
monopoly, said a “gas war” with Belarus has ended after mutual
debts were paid, dismissing a threat from Belarus President
 Aleksandr Lukashenko  to halt oil and gas shipments to Europe.  
 Gazprom has paid for past transit fees in full under its
existing contract, Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  told
reporters in Moscow today. Belarus and Gazprom are having a
“constructive dialog,” he said, and are likely to sign addenda
that will allow Belarus to claim higher fees in the near future.  
 “No one argues with the referee,” Miller said, comparing
the contract between Gazprom and Belarus to a soccer referee.
“The referee can show a yellow or red card. The referee is the
czar and God. But in our concrete case, friendship has won.”  
 The dispute over the debts lowered gas shipments to
Lithuania, a European Union member, as Gazprom cut deliveries
for Belarus 60 percent by yesterday and accused the neighboring
country of siphoning off 20 percent of EU exports. Gazprom
supplies a quarter of Europe’s gas, sending about 20 percent via
Belarus and the rest across Ukraine.  
 Lukashenko today threatened to halt oil and gas transit if
Gazprom doesn’t pay the remainder of the $260 million  his
country  claimed for transit fees in one day. Gazprom paid
Belarus $228 million.  
 Gazprom will pay Belarus the remaining $32 million only
after the addenda are signed, spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov  said
by phone today. The company accepted a $187 million payment for
past supplies to Belarus based on higher transit fees, rather
than the $192 million it demanded under the base supply and
transit contract.  
 ‘Be More Cautious’  
 Gazprom cut as much as 60 percent of deliveries to the
country this week.  
 ‘It’s great the conflict is resolved,” Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev  said today in a video conference with Miller
from Toronto. “It’s good that the Belarusian side paid though
it should have been done earlier without creating problems and
without increasing their debts. I hope they will be more
cautious and they will fulfill their obligations.”  
 Russia’s oil-pipeline operator OAO Transneft hasn’t
received any notification from Belarus that transit shipments
may be halted, the state-run RIA Novosti new service said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        