-- German Stocks Fall, Extending Weekly Decline; Daimler, VW Lead Retreat
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-25T15:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/german-stocks-gain-trimming-weekly-decline-beiersdorf-rises-banks-rally.html

          
          
             German stocks  retreated for a fourth
day, extending the biggest weekly loss in more than a month, as
carmakers and steel producers led declines.  
 Daimler AG and Volkswagen AG fell more than 2 percent as
UBS AG downgraded the shares. ThyssenKrupp AG and Salzgitter AG
followed European basic-resource shares lower.  Beiersdorf AG 
advanced as Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended the shares.
 Suedzucker AG  surged 3.4 percent after confirming its full-year
forecast.  
 The benchmark  DAX Index  fell 0.7 percent to 6,070.6,
bringing this week’s decline to 2.4 percent. The gauge has lost
4.1 percent from this year’s high on April 26 on concern about
the impact of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. The broader  HDAX
Index  also dropped 0.7 percent today.  
 “This weekend at the G-20 Summit we will be facing the
problem of different approaches between the U.S. and Europe,”
said  Michael Koehler , head of strategy at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Mainz. “The U.S. doesn’t want to cut as much on
budget spending.”  
 Group of 20 leaders will meet in Toronto on June 26-27 to
discuss policies aimed at addressing Europe’s crisis, spurring
global growth and overhauling financial regulation. Germany and
the U.S. have been at odds on whether to prioritize debt
reduction or stimulus, with Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week
saying Europe’s debt levels have to be reduced because they are
one of the main causes of the crisis.  
 Daimler, VW  
 Daimler, the world’s  second-biggest maker  of luxury cars,
and Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, lost 3.3 percent to
42.02 euros and 2.8 percent to 75.07 euros, respectively. UBS
downgraded both stocks to “neutral” from “buy.”  
 ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s  largest steelmaker , dropped 1.6
percent to 21.30 euros, while Salzgitter lost 2 percent to 50.4
euros. European basic-resource shares dropped 2.3 percent today,
among the worst performers in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  
 E.ON AG, the country’s biggest utility, fell 1.5 percent to
22.91 euros, its lowest close since June 2009. German
electricity for delivery next year declined to its lowest level
in three weeks, tracking weaker natural-gas prices.  
 Beiersdorf climbed 1.4 percent to 45.61 euros, ending two
days of declines. The German maker of adhesives and Nivea skin
creams was rated “buy” in new coverage at Nomura, which said
“the sales growth slowdown is the direct consequence of the
shift in strategy, prioritizing margin expansion and free cash
flow without compromising market share momentum.”  
 Suedzucker Surges  
 Suedzucker jumped 3.4 percent to 15 euros as the world’s
largest sugar refiner confirmed its full-year forecast after an
increase in first-quarter operating  profit  to 149 million euros
($184 million).  
 Commerzbank AG increased 2 percent to 5.95 euros. European
banking shares rebounded as much as 1.8 percent today, after
posting the worst performance among 19 industry groups in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  yesterday.  
 Proposals by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision for
lenders to increase capital and liquidity to address future
crises may be watered down, the Financial Times reported, citing
officials close to the drafting process.  
 Roth & Rau AG  climbed 2.7 percent to 23.2 euros as WestLB
AG raised its recommendation to “neutral” from “sell” on the
maker of equipment used to coat solar panels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        