-- Germ-Killing Hospitals May Boost Kimberly-Clark, Clorox Sales
-- Mark Clothier
-- 2010-06-25T12:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/germ-killing-push-in-hospitals-may-boost-sales-for-clorox-kimberly-clark.html

          
          
             Kimberly-Clark Corp.  and  Clorox Co. ,
the makers of household cleaning products, are turning to
hospitals to spur sales as new health-care laws reward
cleanliness.  
 Clorox  plans to expand its line of hospital disinfectants
after acquiring Caltech Industries Inc. in January. Next month,
Kimberly-Clark will introduce a one-step germicidal wipe for the
health-care industry that kills a type of bacteria responsible
for about 30,000 deaths in the U.S. each year.  
 “This is going to be a big successful product for
Kimberly-Clark and for the health-care industry,” Richard
Thorne, vice president of sales and marketing for Kimberly-Clark
Professional in North America, said in an interview. “It’s
starting to meet a need not being fulfilled at the moment.”  
 Kimberly-Clark, Clorox and  Procter & Gamble Co.  are seeking
to boost sales from U.S. hospitals following incentives created
in the federal health-care overhaul. Starting in 2012, hospitals
that meet or exceed sanitation measures from the  Department of
Health and Human Services  will receive additional Medicare
payments. At the same time, a hospital with high readmission
rates for patients who acquire infections at the facility will
have Medicare payments cut.  
 Competition  
 Specialized disinfectants for the health-care market are
more profitable than household and industrial bleach, said Mike
Richardson, an analyst at researcher  Freedonia Group.  The U.S.
market for cleaning and disinfectant chemicals for surface areas
at health-care facilities expanded about 6 percent last year to
$1 billion, Mayfield Village, Ohio-based Freedonia Group
estimates.  
 “In that environment, the importance of using highly
efficient disinfectants is going to justify a higher price
tag,” Richardson said in an interview.  
 Hospitals are the source of 1.7 million infections each
year, leading to about 100,000 deaths in the U.S., according to
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  
 The consumer products companies are going up against Ecolab
Inc., based in St. Paul, Minnesota, and Diversey Inc., based in
Sturtevant, Wisconsin, which combined have more than 40 percent
of the U.S. market for disinfectants used in health-care
facilities, Freedonia’s Richardson estimates.  
 Established relationships with hospitals will make it tough
to displace either company as a market-share leader, he said.  
 “Ecolab has been the clear No. 1 in this market for a long
time,” he said. “And they still make acquisitions and they’re
still looking to grow.”  
 Training Videos  
 P&G, which has been focused on selling commercial versions
of its Tide, Comet and Mr. Clean products to building
maintenance, restaurants and hotels, is planning new products
for the health-care market, said Mike Weber, a research
scientist at P&G Professional. He declined to provide details.  
 “It’s a growth opportunity for us,” Weber said in an
interview.  
 P&G, based in Cincinnati, is producing training videos
about cleaning and disinfecting procedures that will be
available on its  PG Pro  website in the next six months, Weber
said.  
 P&G is working to offset a 7.5 percent  sales drop  in North
America in fiscal 2009 after consumers curbed spending. Bleach,
household cleaners and paper towels were among the products most
vulnerable to less expensive store brands that gained favor
during the recession, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in
January. More than a third of consumers surveyed said they were
more likely to buy less expensive versions of their favorite
bleach or household cleaner, Bernstein said.  
 ‘Growth Engine’  
 Clorox  bought disinfectant maker Caltech for $23 million to
enter 1,500 hospitals. Of the $1 billion spent by hospitals on
disinfectants last year, only $30 million was spent on bleach-
based products,  Don Knauss , Clorox’s chief executive officer,
said at a conference this month. Health care currently
represents just 2 percent of Clorox’s business, he said.  
 “This is a huge growth engine for the company that really
has not been touched yet,” Knauss told investors on June 16.  
 Knauss and other executives at Oakland, California-based
Clorox weren’t available to comment.  
 Of the $3 billion in revenue Kimberly-Clark’s professional
unit generated last year, 20 percent came from the health-care
industry, Thorne said. The Dallas-based company’s Kimtech
germicidal wipes to fight the bacterium Clostridium difficile
were approved by the  Environmental Protection Agency  last month.  
 “This is a big deal,” Thorne said. “Some acquired
infections you’re just going to get, but about a third are
preventable. That’s why there’s such a focus on the health-care
environment.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Germ-Killing Hospitals May Boost Kimberly-Clark, Clorox Sa  
                       
                         
                           Christopher Furlong/Getty Images 
                         
                         Clorox plans to expand its line of hospital disinfectants after acquiring Caltech Industries Inc. in January. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Clorox plans to expand its line of hospital disinfectants after acquiring Caltech Industries Inc. in January. Photographer: Christopher Furlong/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
