-- Gillard Elevation Gives Australian Labor Election-Winning Lead
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-06-26T03:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/gillard-as-leader-gives-australian-labor-election-winning-lead-age-says.html

          
          
             Julia Gillard ’s elevation to prime
minister of Australia has led to a spike in opinion polls,
boosting the ruling Labor party into a potentially election-
winning lead.  
 Labor’s electoral support rose 8 percentage points to 55
percent, while the opposition Liberal-National party fell the
same amount to 45 percent,  the Age  newspaper reported, citing a
Nielsen poll taken after Gillard replaced  Kevin Rudd  on June 24.
The government leads 52 percent to the opposition’s 48 percent,
according to a separate Galaxy poll in the  Herald Sun  newspaper.  
 After winning a party-room ballot unopposed, Gillard moved
to fix two of Rudd’s most unpopular decisions by revisiting the
carbon-trading system he shelved in April and agreeing to talks
with the mining industry on a proposed tax increase. The 48-
year-old Wales-born lawyer had been deputy prime minister since
Rudd defeated  John Howard ’s coalition government in 2007.  
 “It will take a while for the Liberal party to work out
how to handle Julia Gillard,”  Alexander Downer , who served as
Australia’s foreign minister in Howard’s government, said in an
interview on Sky News. “I think she will have an election in
August.”  
 Gillard, who can decide on the timing of the election,
this week said a poll would be held before the end of 2010. She
met yesterday with Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister
 Martin Ferguson  to discuss tactics to negotiate with mining
companies over the tax, after suspending government advertising
promoting the levy.  
 Major Parties  
 Electoral support in the opinion polls is on a two-party
preferred basis, under which votes from smaller parties are
distributed to the two major parties under the nation’s
preferential voting system.  
 Gillard also leads opposition leader  Tony Abbott  as the
preferred prime minister, with 55 percent of respondents
supporting her against 34 percent for Abbot, according to
Nielsen, which polled 993 voters on June 24 and 25. The poll’s
margin of error was 2.6 percent.  
 The 52-year-old Abbott, a former Rhodes scholar and priest
trainee, also trails in the Galaxy poll of 800 electors, with
32 percent preferring him as the country’s leader compared to
58 percent for Gillard.  
 Abbott, who became opposition leader on Dec. 1, had
managed to win back support from the government by opposing the
emissions-trading plan and Rudd’s proposal for a so-called
“super profits” tax on mining earnings.  
 Abbott’s Pledges  
 He today addressed the Liberal party’s national conference
in Canberra, announcing promises to voters as he seeks to win
election.  
 Abbott’s pledges include enforcement of border security,
the provision of paid parental leave and changes to welfare
rules. He also matched a Labor promise to restore the budget to
surplus within three years, offering spending cuts rather than
the government proposed tax increases.  
 “People are not disillusioned with this government
because of Kevin Rudd, they are disillusioned with this
government because it hasn’t delivered,” Abbott told the
conference today. “Our promises will be prudent, they will be
possible, they will be desirable measures.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        