-- Greece Debt Swaps Surge to Record, Signaling 68.5% Probability of Default
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-06-25T11:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/greece-debt-swaps-surge-to-record-signaling-68-5-probability-of-default.html

          
          
             The cost of protecting Greek
government debt from default surged to a record, signaling a
68.5 percent chance the nation will default within five years,
according to CMA DataVision.  
 The cost of insuring $10 million of Greece’s government
debt using credit-default swaps jumped as much as 13 basis
points to 1,140, according to CMA. The premium investors demand
to hold Greek 10-year government bonds over benchmark German
bunds rose 15 basis points to 795 basis points, the widest since
May 7.  
 Greek bond risk increased on renewed investor concerns that
slowing economic growth means Europe’s most indebted nations
will struggle to tame budget deficits that triggered a sovereign
debt crisis. Default swaps on Europe’s neediest countries also
rose before a European Central Bank government bond purchase
program set up to boost lending ends next month.  
 “Sovereign debt worries again weighed on risk markets,”
 Gary Jenkins , head of credit strategy at Evolutions Securities
in London Ltd. wrote in a note. “All this and concerns about
the direction of economic growth make these very frightening
times.”  
 Greece’s probability of default rose from 48.5 percent on
June 15 when its debt was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited the risk to economic growth from austerity
measures tied to a 110 billion-euro ($164.7 billion) rescue
package. European Union data this week showed the pace of
industrial orders and expansion in the region’s services and
manufacturing industries slowed in recent months.  
 CMA estimates that holders of Greek bonds could end up with
only 50 cents on the dollar if the country defaults on its debt.  
 ECB Program  
 The cost of insuring Portuguese, Spanish and Italian
government bonds also rose amid speculation banks are seeking to
sell the securities to pay back money borrowed in the ECB’s
long-term refinancing program that expires July 1. The one-year
funding operation will be replaced with a three-month program,
prompting banks to seek alternative funding, according to
Barclays Capital.  
 Contracts on Spain climbed 5.5 basis points to 271,
Portugal jumped 7 basis points to 337 and Italy increased 2
basis points to 186, CMA said.  
 The  Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index  of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments increased 2 basis points to
157.4, according to CMA.  
 Credit-default swaps are financial instruments based on
bonds and loans that are used to speculate on a company’s
ability to repay debt. A basis point on a credit-default swap
contract protecting 10 million euros ($12.3 million) of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        