-- Greece Sends Pension Overhaul to Parliament as Unions Prepare Fifth Strike
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-06-25T15:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/greece-sends-pension-overhaul-to-parliament-as-unions-prepare-fifth-strike.html

          
          
             Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  got Cabinet approval for changes to the country’s
pension system that will reduce benefits and state spending as
unions prepare their fifth general strike next week.  
 Pension changes “must happen now, and fast,” Papandreou
told his Cabinet ministers today, according to an e-mailed
transcript of his comments. He said the changes would have been
decided on even without the insistence of the European Union and
International Monetary Fund.  
 The changes, required by the EU and IMF in return for 110
billion euros ($135 billion) of emergency loans, will underpin
medium-term budgetary consolidation, EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said June 11. Passage of
overhauls of the pension system and labor laws is key to Greece
receiving the funds, part of a three-year plan to help the
country narrow the European Union’s second-biggest budget
deficit.  
 Greece’s  General Confederation of Labor, or GSEE , the
largest private-sector umbrella union group, and ADEDY, the
union federation for civil servants, have called a strike on
June 29 to oppose the plans. Polls have shown changes to the
retirement age and other benefits are unpopular among Greeks.  
 Greek pensioners on average get 96 percent of the salary
they had when they worked, more than twice as much as Germans,
according to the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development , which has called the system a “fiscal time bomb.”
Without change, Greek pension spending will rise to 24 percent
of gross domestic product in 2060, double the proportion of
2007, the European Commission estimated last year.  
 Retirement Age  
 The government intends to increase the retirement age to 65
from 60 for women in the public sector, curtail early retirement
and calculate payments over a longer period of employment. It’ll
also introduce a basic minimum pension for all as of 2015,
according to the document, e-mailed from the  Labor Ministry 
today. The bill will be the first enacted by Papandreou’s
government since the May 6 package that pledged 30 billion euros
of wage and pension cuts and tax increases over the next three
years.  
 Unions next week will also protest plans to allow companies
to fire more people in each month, cut severance pay and
introduce lower wages for young workers to curb high
unemployment in that age group. GSEE argues those changes and
the abolition of terms of collective-bargaining agreements are
an “assault” on workers.  
 Papandreou said today that the labor law bill will be voted
on “well before” September and would incorporate changes, if
these can be agreed on employer groups and unions in talks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        