-- Gucci Sues Founder's Granddaughter Over Branded Hotel in Dubai
-- Zainab Fattah
-- 2010-06-25T12:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/gucci-sues-founder-s-granddaughter-elisabetta-over-branded-hotel-in-dubai.html

          
          
             Elisabetta Gucci’s plan to open a
global chain of hotels under her name may be blocked by the
luxury goods company founded by her great-grandfather.  
 Gucci Group NV,  owned by France’s  PPR SA , filed a lawsuit
this week in Florence, Italy, against Elisabetta Gucci and her
partners “seeking injunctive relief in order to protect its
rights,” Gucci Group said in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg News.  
 The daughter of late fashion mogul Paolo Gucci, who
designed the Italian brand’s trademark stirrup, plans to open an
87-suite property in Dubai’s Media World district by the end of
the year, according to Lorens Ziller, managing director of her
EG Hotels company.  Branded EG Hotels by Elisabetta Gucci , it
will showcase furniture designed by her and built by Formitalia.  
 “Elisabetta Gucci is doing her job,” Ziller said in a
June 23 interview. “She cannot cancel her name or her
background. If she has a famous name or a famous background,
that’s not her fault and we are not trying to use it as much.”  
 The Dubai hotel will be the first of 40 to open across the
world in the next 15 years, according to Ziller. Gucci’s partner
is Baitek International Investment, owned by Saudi Arabian
investor Abdulla Al Sayegh. The  website  of Elisabetta Gucci,
born in 1952, states that she has no connection with the fashion
house.  
 ‘No Relationship’  
 “Gucci wants to make clear that it has no relationship to
Elisabetta Gucci Hotels and that it is not involved in any
project whatsoever with Elisabetta Gucci Hotels,” the company
said in the e-mail. “If necessary, Gucci will take any needful
step to protect its rights.”  
 Ziller, contacted by Bloomberg today, said he spoke with
Elisabetta Gucci the night before and she has no comment to make
on the lawsuit at this time.  
 Italian fashion houses are opening branded accommodation in
Dubai at a time when hotels have been hurt by a glut of rooms.
 Armani Group  in April opened Armani Hotel Dubai in Burj Khalifa,
the world’s tallest building. Palazzo Versace, a 213-room
property incorporating the designer  Gianni Versace SpA’s  brand,
is 60 percent complete, Arabian Business reported in March,
citing developer Emirates Sunland Group.  
 EB Hotels is counting on drastically lower hotel rates than
those charged at Armani Hotel, Ziller said. Daily rates at the
Elisabetta Gucci’s hotel would start at 1,500 dirhams ($408)
compared with 4,000 dirhams per night at Armani. A night’s stay
at one of Armani’s 160-room hotel can cost as much as 40,000
dirhams.  
 PPR, then called Pinault-Printemps-Redoute SA, completed
its $9 billion purchase of Gucci in 2004.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Dubai hotel will be the first of 40 to open  
                       
                         
                           Terry Fincher/Getty Images 
                         
                         The late Italian designer and former Gucci chief Paolo Gucci. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The late Italian designer and former Gucci chief Paolo Gucci. Photographer: Terry Fincher/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Heidi Couch reports on Elisabetta Gucci's plans to open a hotel in Dubai, the first of a chain of 40, and the legal action taken by PPR SA's Gucci fashion house to protect its label. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
