-- Guinea Election May Draw Mining Investors as Civilian Rule Is Restored
-- Alpha Camara
-- 2010-06-25T14:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/guinea-presidential-polls-may-draw-investors-as-civilian-rule-is-restored.html

          
          
             Guinea, the world’s biggest bauxite
exporter, holds presidential elections on June 27 aimed at
a restoration of civilian rule that may encourage more
investment in the mineral-rich West African nation.  
 The Guinean military seized power in December 2008 after
the death of former President  Lansana Conte , who had ruled the
country for two decades. Guinea hasn’t had a democratic transfer
of power since it gained independence from France in 1958.  
 Companies including  Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, and  Chinalco , China’s biggest producer of the metal,
committed $6.9 billion to the country in the first quarter after
the junta took steps to stabilize the country ahead of the vote,
according to  Rob Edwards , an analyst at Moscow-based investment
bank Renaissance Capital. Guinea needs more investment in its
mining industry to help lift what the African Development Bank
estimates is 53 percent of its 10.3 million population out of
poverty.  
 “The election is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to
open up the country properly, or otherwise remain an
underdeveloped African country,”  Peter Davey , head of mining
research at Ambrian Capital in London, said in a phone interview
on June 15. “It has huge implications for companies like Vale
that want to operate in that country.”  
 Vale spokesman  Cory McPhee  couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment. Chinalco didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment sent outside normal business hours.  
 ‘Predictable and Stable’  
 Per capita income in Guinea is less than half the sub-
Saharan African average of $861, according to the World Bank,
and the country ranks 170th out of 182 countries on the UN’s
 Human Development Index , which measures life expectancy,
literacy and gross domestic product per capita.  
 Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion tons of
“high-grade” iron ore, “significant” diamond and gold
deposits, and uranium, according to the U.S. State Department’s
 website .  
 Rio de Janeiro-based Vale in April agreed to pay $2.5
billion for the assets of BSG Resources Ltd., while Beijing-
based Chinalco is spending $1.35 billion for a stake in  Rio
Tinto Group ’s Simandou iron-ore project in southeast Guinea. In
addition, Hong Kong-based China International Fund will spend $3
billion building the infrastructure for Jersey, Channel Islands-
based  Bellzone Mining Plc ’s Kalia project in the center of the
country.  
 Mining Accords  
 “In the lead up to these elections, things have been a lot
more predictable and stable,” said  Alan Fine , a spokesman for
Johannesburg-based AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., which operates the
Siguiri gold mine in northeastern Guinea. “A successful general
election can only enhance that.”  
 Still 40 people were injured in a clash between rival
political groups close to the capital, Conakry, according to the
police.  
 Twenty-four candidates are competing for the presidency.
The three leading contenders are  Alpha Conde  of the Rally of the
Guinean People,  Cellou Dalein Diallo  of the Union of Democratic
Forces of Guinea and  Sidya Toure  of the Union of Republican
Forces, according to  Kissy Agyeman-Togobo , West Africa analyst
with Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Global Insight.  
 All three last month pledged to review mining accords to
establish whether they are favorable to the country.  
 While the candidates haven’t specified how they may review
contracts, revisions may include “increasing mining royalty
rates or corporate taxes,” Agyeman-Togobo said. “The
government should be mindful of vexing the mining companies to
the extent they would be forced to look elsewhere.”  
 Captain  Moussa Dadis Camara  led a coup in December 2008
following Conte’s death. Camara was deposed after being shot by
an aide in December. General  Sekouba Konate  then took over the
leadership of the junta and pledged to hold elections within six
months.  
 Konate has ordered the army to help ensure the elections
are peaceful, deploying 16,000 soldiers across the country to
prevent disruptions, he said last month. Troops will mainly be
stationed on the country’s borders and in the Forestiere region
of southern Guinea, Camara’s home region.  
 Voting on June 27 begins at 8 a.m. and ends at 6 p.m. Final
results are expected next month.  
 The junta has already revised some mining contracts. In
December 2008, the Guinean government told London-based Rio
Tinto to hand over part of Simandou to Guernsey-based BSG
Resources Ltd. Rio maintains it owns the rights to the entire
concession and is now in a further dispute with the government
over the areas it retains.  
 Last year, Moscow-based  United Co. Rusal , the world’s
largest aluminum producer, was ordered by the government to
return a bauxite and aluminum complex at Friguia, in central
Guinea, after a court ruled that its purchase was invalid.  
 “The rhetoric is that mining contracts will be revised in
the national interest,” Agyeman-Togobo said. “I definitely
think it is populist rhetoric, but there could be something to
it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        