-- Caribbean Storms Strengthen, May Head for Oil Spill
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-25T22:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/gulf-of-mexico-begins-storm-watch-as-weather-system-lingers-off-honduras.html

          
          
             Residents and businesses along the
Gulf of Mexico face a weekend of watching and planning as the
season’s first tropical depression formed off the Yucatan
Peninsula and threatens to become a tropical storm.  
 The depression is about 355 miles (570 kilometers)
southeast of Cozumel, Mexico and is moving west-northwest at 10
mph, according to a  U.S. National Hurricane Center  bulletin
issued at about 6 p.m. The storm has maximum sustained winds of
35 mph, just shy of the 39 mph needed to be classified a
tropical storm.  
 “The depression is very close to tropical storm strength
and conditions appear favorable for some intensification before
it reaches the Yucatan Peninsula in a day or two,” the
Hurricane Center said in the bulletin.  
 The Mexican government has issued a tropical storm warning
for the east coast of the Yucatan Peninsula from Chetumal
northward to Cancun, the hurricane center said. Official
hurricane center tracks take the storm into the southern Gulf of
Mexico by next week.  
 A storm in the Gulf of Mexico may become a threat to
cleanup efforts for the worst oil spill in U.S. history, as well
as to the offshore rigs that produce 30 percent of the country’s
oil and 10 percent of its natural gas.  
 The Gulf is also home to seven of the 10 busiest U.S.
ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers. The storm is
expected to drop as much as 8 inches of rain in the Yucatan and
as much as 15 inches in the mountainous areas of Honduras,
according to the hurricane center.  
 Spill Impact  
 “We will have our first real threat to operations and I am
still worried about the oil slick,”  Jim Rouiller , a senior
energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. “We cannot rule out
impact on this spill from Alex.”  
 Rouiller said a tropical storm or hurricane in the spill
area would force all the oil recovery ships to flee, which would
mean free-flowing crude from the rig leased by  BP Plc . The well
may be gushing as many as 60,000 barrels of oil a day.  
 Rig crews would need to begin preparing to evacuate three
to seven days ahead of the storm, U.S. Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the government’s national incident commander, said
earlier this week.  
 Rouiller said the storm will most likely be moving through
the Gulf starting the night of June 28 through July 1.  
 BP’s Value  
 BP has  lost  more than half of its market value since the
April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig, which killed 11
crew members and triggered the spill. The company, while being
investigated by U.S. authorities, has agreed with President
 Barack Obama  to deposit $20 billion in an independently managed
account to cover cleanup costs and compensation claims.  
 “To me, it was sort of unthinkable that not only are they
dealing with the nation’s largest oil spill, now you are dealing
with a hurricane,” Rouiller said.  
 Rouiller predicted the storm may hit anywhere from
Brownsville, Texas, to the mouth of the Mississippi. A weather
front that is forecast to bring cooler air to the northern U.S.
may pull the storm on a more northerly track into Louisiana, he
said.  
 “Any part of the Gulf of Mexico right now is at equal risk
of seeing tropical storm conditions,” said Rick Knabb, the
Weather Channel Interactive Inc.’s hurricane expert. “We still
have several days before something could get into the northern
Gulf. As the weekend goes on, the window of opportunity to
prepare is going to shorten.”  
 The storm may also take a more southerly track and become a
threat to Mexico, said  Joe Bastardi , chief hurricane forecaster
at  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  
 Danger Remains  
 If the storm does miss the spill area, no one should
breathe a sigh of relief, Bastardi said.  
 “This is a real warning shot that this season isn’t going
to monkey around,” Bastardi said by telephone. “It is a sign
that the pot is bubbling and if it doesn’t boil over in July it
will in August.”  
 The storm’s potential track across the Yucatan may keep it
from become a hurricane because it will lose strength over land,
said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground Inc .  
 Masters said he believes at its most intense, Alex will be
a tropical storm, which has winds from 39 mph to 73 mph.  
 The trip over the Yucatan may also destroy the storm and
eliminate the threat to the Gulf, Knabb said.  
 Dissipation Possible  
 “There are a couple of reliable models that show it almost
dissipating,” Knabb said by telephone from Atlanta.  
 Academic, commercial and government forecasters are
predicting the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season will be one of the
most active on record.  
 In May, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration predicted an above-average season with 14 to 23
named storms forming by Nov. 30. The most active season on
record was 2005, when 28 storms formed, including Hurricane
Katrina, which caused  New Orleans levees to fail , flooding the
city and killing more than 1,800 people.  
 In June,  Colorado State University  researchers boosted
their forecast, calling for 18 named storms, 10 of them becoming
hurricanes. AccuWeather increased its outlook to 18 to 21
storms, from 16 to 18.  
 “There is going to be an orgy of naming at the height of
the season,” Bastardi said.  
 A system receives a name when sustained winds reach 39 mph
(63 kph), and becomes a hurricane when those winds hit 74 mph.
The Atlantic season runs from June 1 through Nov. 30.  
 “At this time in 2005, we only had one named storm, and we
ended up with 28,” Knabb said. “The fact that we haven’t had a
storm yet doesn’t mean anything because hurricane season usually
starts slow.”  
 Trailing the storm system now edging toward the Gulf is
another area of disturbed weather east of the Lesser Antilles
islands that the hurricane center gives a 10 percent chance of
becoming a storm in the next two days.  
 Bastardi said that storm, if it develops, will probably
take a more northerly track away from the Gulf. However, he said
he believes yet another system may develop to become a threat to
the Gulf within the next 10 days.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander Admiral Thad Allen. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
