-- IBoxx Index Changes May Be Contributing to Greece's Bond Plunge, HSBC Says
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-25T12:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/iboxx-index-changes-may-be-contributing-to-greece-s-bond-plunge-hsbc-says.html

          
          
             Greek government bonds may have
declined the past two weeks because of their removal from a key
euro-region debt index, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 Greek bonds, which the bank estimates are worth 200 billion
euros ($246 billion), will be removed from the Markit iBoxx Euro
Sovereign Index by the end of the month after the country’s
securities were lowered to junk by Moody’s Investors Service.
This means so-called passive managers, who track an index by
buying the bonds that make up the benchmark, may now have to
adjust their holdings, HSBC said.  
 “This might be partly responsible for a sell-off in Greek
debt and the credit-default swaps that we’ve seen recently,”
 Andre de Silva , deputy head of global fixed income at the bank
in London, said in a telephone interview. “It has a profound
effect because this is not just a duration adjustment, but one
sovereign falling out of the basket.”  
 Moody’s cut Greece’s credit rating four-steps to Ba1 from
A3 on June 14, citing “substantial” risks to economic growth
from the austerity measures tied to the rescue package from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund. The  yield  on
10-year Greek bonds has risen more than 200 basis points since
Moody’s decision.  
 The cost of protecting Greek government debt from default
surged to a record today, signaling a 68.5 percent chance the
nation will default within five years, according to CMA
DataVision.  
 Duration Adjustment  
 The Greek 10-year yield slid seven basis points to 10.56
percent as of 12:50 p.m. in London.  
 Greek bonds will also be taken out of other key benchmark
indexes including Citigroup’s World Government Bond index and
Barclays Capital’s Global Aggregate, Global Treasury, Euro
Aggregate and Euro Treasury indexes from the end of this month.  
 The removal of Greek bonds from the iBoxx Index will help
to extend its so-called duration by 0.08 years, according to de
Silva. Duration measures the sensitivity of a bond’s price to
changes in interest rates.  
 “This may increase demand for long-dated bonds at the end
of the month as investors seek to match the extension” in the
duration of the index, he said.  
 Bond investors use duration to forecast whether the value
of securities they hold may rise or fall in value, depending on
their interest-rate expectations.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        