-- Implenia Open to Being Acquired if the Price is Right, Affentranger Says
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2010-06-25T13:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/implenia-chief-open-to-takeover-bids-from-rivals-hochtief-strabag-vinci.html

          
          
             Implenia AG , Switzerland’s biggest
builder, is open to a takeover by a European rival as long as
the price is high enough, Chief Executive Officer  Anton Affentranger  said.  
 “If Strabag or Hochtief or Vinci wants to buy us, they’re
welcome,” Affentranger said in an interview at company
headquarters near Zurich. France’s  Vinci SA  is the world’s
largest builder, while  Hochtief AG  is the biggest in Germany and
Strabag SE is the Austrian leader.  
 A buyer from abroad would need to price in the fact that
Swiss law would require the disposal of Implenia’s real-estate
development business, which generates about 20 percent to 25
percent of the company’s  operating profit , after a deal, said
Affentranger, who’s also the company’s chairman.  
 Implenia has avoided partial foreign ownership, claiming it
would be barred from acquiring Swiss properties if non-Swiss
shareholders gained more than 20 percent of voting rights. The
company fought Laxey Partners Ltd. in court over voting rights
after rejecting a full takeover bid in 2007, a dispute that the
Isle of Man-based hedge fund resolved by selling the 52 percent
stake it had accumulated to Swiss buyers in November.  
 Affentranger said he’s never ruled out an acquisition of
Implenia. The company “could be acquired any time, also by a
foreign investor, if the right price is offered,” he said.  
 No Offer  
 Strabag said in November that it was interested in buying
Implenia, but the Austrian company “never made an offer,”
Affentranger, 53, said in the June 21 interview. Implenia said
at the time that it was willing to discuss cooperation, but not
a “strategic alliance.”  
 “If there is a serious intent to sell we would gladly look
at it,” Strabag spokeswoman  Diana Klein  said in a phone
interview from Vienna. “Of course it always depends on the
price. But nothing has changed with the facts.”  
 “I continue to believe there is no industrial logic” in a
merger with Strabag, Affentranger said, “but that’s their call,
not ours.” If the Vienna-based company made an “attractive”
offer, it would be presented to Implenia shareholders, he said.  
 Implenia  rose 1.7 percent to 29.8 francs as of 3:46 p.m. in
Zurich trading, giving the company a market value of 550 million
Swiss francs ($501 million). Strabag gained as much as 2.3
percent in Vienna.  
 Hochtief spokesman  Christian Gerhardus  said the company
doesn’t comment on “speculation.” A spokesperson at Vinci
wasn’t immediately available for comment.  
 Swiss Housing  
 “The Swiss housing market is still one of the best in
Europe,” Zuercher Kantonalbank analyst  Martin Huesler  said in
an interview, adding that the real-estate development business
presents some constraints. “A foreigner has to consider what he
wants in Switzerland. It’s certainly not a growth market, but
it’s one that generates a constant cash flow.”  
 Affentranger said he wants to expand abroad to offset
limited growth prospects in Switzerland. Implenia generates less
than 5 percent of sales  outside its home market . That should
grow to close to 10 percent by 2013, the CEO said, driven mainly
by construction projects in Qatar and Abu Dhabi, where Implenia
is bidding for contracts linked to water infrastructure.  
 In its home market, Implenia aims to expand in higher-
margin businesses such as pre-construction project development
and post-construction facility management, possibly through
acquisitions, Affentranger said.  
 Revenue won’t change “dramatically” over the next three
years, Affentranger said. Implenia, which generated net income
of 46 million francs on  sales  of 2.28 billion francs in 2009,
will post revenue of 2.3 billion francs to 2.5 billion francs by
2013, he said.  
 The company is also targeting earnings before interest and
taxes of 4 percent to 4.5 percent of sales by 2013, the CEO
said, compared with the current Ebit margin of about 3 percent,
by increasing the share of construction projects it controls
from start to finish.  
 Implenia also aims to continue its  dividend  payout ratio of
about one-third of profit by reducing the nominal value of the
stock, Affentranger said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        