-- Gain in Income Points to Sustained U.S. Economic Recovery
-- Carlos Torres
-- 2010-06-25T16:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/income-gains-in-first-quarter-point-to-sustained-u-s-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             American companies and households
earned more in the first quarter than previously estimated,
exceeding the gain in economic growth and indicating the
recovery will be sustained, economists said.  
 Corporate  profits  increased by 8 percent from January
through March to a $1.58 trillion annual rate, $35.5 billion
more than calculated last month, revised figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  Personal income 
climbed to a $12.2 trillion pace, $7.6 billion more than the
prior estimate.  
 The income data were in contrast to figures on gross
domestic product which showed a smaller increase in economic
growth than calculated in May. Because earnings are based on
surveys that cover a larger part of the economy, the numbers
indicate growth is stronger than implied by gross domestic
product, said economist  Joe Carson .  
 “There may be a little more momentum there in the first
quarter of the year than is being captured in GDP,” said
Carson, director of economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in
New York. “The income side still seems to be doing OK.”  
 Gross domestic income, or the money earned by the people,
businesses and government agencies whose purchases go into
calculating growth, rose at a 5.3 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, up from the 4 percent gain estimated last month,
the revised figures showed. GDP expanded 3.9 percent in the
first three months of the year before adjusting for inflation,
less than the 4.1 percent gain previously calculated.  
 Boost Spending  
 The gains in profits and earnings “should support consumer
and business spending,”  Peter Newland , an economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York, said in a note to clients. It’s
“supporting our view that the recovery continues to build
momentum and that GDP growth will be stronger” this quarter
than last, he said.  
 Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the first
quarter, less than the 3.5 percent gain reported last month,
today’s revisions showed. The reduction reflected smaller gains
in spending on services, the Commerce Department said.  
 An April  paper  by Federal Reserve economist  Jeremy J. Nalewaik  at the Brookings Institution in Washington showed
earnings data may provide a more accurate picture of the
economy. After multiple revisions over time, the government’s
growth estimates tend to align more closely with the income
figures, rather than the other way around, he said.  
 Diverging Data  
 While the income and GDP should theoretically match, the
different methods used in calculating the numbers cause them to
sometimes diverge.  
 The profit figures are “harder” than the growth estimates
because they are tabulated using 10K reports, the summary of a
company’s performance filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said AllianceBernstein’s Carson. Income revisions
are based on tax data that cover almost the entire working
population, he said.  
 By contrast, growth estimates are based on smaller surveys
of companies until more comprehensive data is available, said
Carson.  
 The disparity between income and growth may take a long
time to be resolved, if ever. The Commerce Department will issue
its annual benchmark revisions in July, which will update GDP
figures as far back as 2007.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 Ctorres2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        