-- India's Fuel Price Increase May Spur Inflation, Pressure to Boost Rates
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-06-28T13:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/india-s-fuel-price-increase-may-spur-inflation-pressure-to-boost-rates.html

          
          
             India’s decision to allow fuel
prices to rise may spur the inflation rate by almost a
percentage point, the finance ministry said, adding pressure on
the central bank to increase borrowing costs.  
 The government on June 25 permitted gasoline prices to be
market-determined for the first time since December 2003.
Political parties had previously avoided loosening controls to
win support from India’s 828 million people who live on less
than $2 a day. Diesel costs are regulated and will eventually be
freed, the government said.  
 India’s move to pare its $5.5 billion oil subsidy,
accounting for about 2.5 percent of its budget, comes as global
investors heighten scrutiny of government finances in the
aftermath of the European sovereign-debt crisis. The action
threatens to stoke  inflation  from 10.16 percent in May.  
 “India will move toward a better fiscal situation over a
period of time, people will view it positively,” said Jitendra
Sriram, who helps manage $800 million as head of equities at
HSBC Asset Management (India) Pvt. in Mumbai. “There will be
some rate action by the Reserve Bank of India, but it will come
in the July policy announcement.”  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh’s  government allowed state
refiners to set prices of gasoline higher by about 3.5 rupees
(7.5 cents) a liter and that of diesel by 2 rupees, as it sought
to cut subsidies and trim the budget deficit from a 16-year
high.  
 ‘Much-Needed Reform’  
 “Though the immediate impact of this policy will be to
increase inflation, in six to nine months we will have lower
prices than would have happened in the absence of this much-
needed reform,”  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser at the
finance ministry, said in a statement in New Delhi.  
 For the moment, the fuel-price rise may push the inflation
rate up by 0.9 percentage point, Basu said.  
 Reserve Bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who has raised
interest rates twice since mid-March, said June 18 he would
tighten monetary policy in a “calibrated” manner, given the
cash squeeze in the economy and risks to growth posed by
Europe’s debt woes.  
 Indian lenders are short of cash after telecommunication
companies including  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  paid $14.6 billion of
license fees for wireless phone services and businesses withdrew
money to pay taxes.  
 ‘No-Brainer’  
 Even so, investors including Manish Sonthalia, who helps
manage the equivalent of $200 million in equities at Motilal
Oswal Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, said it’s a “no-brainer” that
Subbarao will boost borrowing costs before the next rate
decision scheduled for July 27 as price pressures mount.  
 Reserve Bank Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said today
the possibility of the central bank raising rates is “always
there” and that it could happen “anytime.”  
 India’s 10-year government bonds rose today in Mumbai after
falling the most in a month on June 25 following the fuel-price
announcement. The yield on the securities fell 6 basis points to
7.59 percent.  
 The  Sensitive Index  gained 1.1 percent to 17,774.26 on the
Bombay Stock Exchange at close of trade, while the rupee climbed
0.2 percent to 46.21 against the U.S. dollar.  
 Singh’s move to cut subsidies will improve the country’s
credit profile, said economists including Singapore-based  Rahul Bajoria  at Barclays Plc.  
 Credit Rating  
 Moody’s Investors Service has a Ba2 rating, two levels
below investment grade, for India’s local currency debt.
Standard & Poor’s places the nation’s rating at BBB-, its lowest
investment level.  
 Singh is aiming to narrow the budget deficit to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product in the year ending March 31, from 6.9
percent in the previous year.  
 “The fiscal situation could look far more sanguine and the
rating outlook could become positive after the fuel price
decision,” Barclays’ Bajoria said.  
 Companies including  Tata Motors Ltd.  and Hero Honda Motors
Ltd., the country’s biggest truck and motorcycle makers
respectively, backed the decision on fuel.  
 Prakash M. Telang , Tata Motors’ managing director of India
operations, said freeing prices of gasoline and diesel is a
“good concept” the country needs to lower government
borrowings, while  Ravi Sud , chief financial officer at  Hero
Honda , said the move won’t hurt sales of two-wheelers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Duvvuri Subbarao speaks during a news conference in Mumbai. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
