-- India's Rupee Strengthens, Paring Weekly Loss, as Growth Lures Investors
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-25T12:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/indian-rupee-set-for-weekly-decline-as-europe-debt-crisis-clouds-recovery.html

          
          
             India’s rupee strengthened, paring a
weekly loss, on speculation the nation’s  economic growth  will
lure investors.  
 The currency advanced as exchange data showed foreigners’
stock purchases exceeded sales for an 11th straight day on June
24, the longest stretch since April. A June 11 government report
showed  factory output  grew 17.6 percent in April, near the most
in at least 16 years, fueling a 3.7 percent rally in the Bombay
Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  this month. A slide in the
rupee’s implied volatility, a gauge of expected swings, signaled
investors are more optimistic about the currency’s prospects.  
 “Sentiment has turned more positive for the rupee as long-
end implied volatility has fallen precipitously from extreme
levels at the end of May,”  Andy Ji , a strategist in Singapore
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a research note. “This
reflects growing confidence in the longer-term prospects of the
Indian economy.”  
 The rupee climbed 0.5 percent today to 46.2875 per dollar
as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, paring the week’s loss to 0.2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached
46.605 earlier, the weakest level since June 17.  
 Offshore forward contracts indicated the rupee will trade
at 46.90 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations for a rate of 46.67 at the end of last week.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 RBS, the world’s fifth-biggest foreign-exchange trader,
predicts the rupee will rise within this year to 44 per dollar,
a level last seen before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt in September 2008. It recommended three-month non-
deliverable rupee forwards this week, according to the report.  
 Economic Growth  
 India’s economy expanded  8.6 percent  last quarter from a
year earlier, the second-fastest pace among major economies,
according to a government report. Foreigners have added $6.6
billion to holdings of Indian shares in June, based on data from
the  Securities and Exchange Board  of India.  
 The rupee still had a weekly loss on concern Europe’s debt
crisis will undermine the global economic recovery, countering
the positive effect on exports from a strengthening Chinese yuan.
The yuan led gains among Asian currencies this week as the
central bank ended a two-year peg to the dollar.  
 The Indian currency headed for a second monthly loss after
a June 23 report showed new U.S. home sales tumbled 33 percent
to a record low in May. The Federal Reserve said the same day
that “financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth,” adding to concern European indebtedness may
harm the global economy.  
 “The rupee is in the same camp as the Korean won in that
when risk appetite diminishes, it is among the most affected in
Asia,” said  Tim Condon , Singapore-based chief Asia economist
for ING Groep NV. “Europe’s debt crisis, a slowdown in the U.S.
and China’s tightening policy won’t be going away anytime soon.
Except for the yuan, most other Asian currencies will risk
depreciating in the second half.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        