-- India Frees Gasoline, Diesel Prices to Help Cut Spending on Fuel Subsidies
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-26T00:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/india-drops-gasoline-diesel-price-controls-to-cut-spending-help-refiners.html

          
          
             India decided to free prices of
gasoline and diesel, saying they would be market driven in line
with a panel’s recommendations, to cut fuel subsidies and limit
losses of state-run refiners including  Indian Oil Corp.   
 A panel led by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  also
agreed to increase prices of cooking gas and kerosene, which
will continue to be under government control, Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan  told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. Diesel prices
are being raised by two rupees a liter for now and the fuel will
eventually be freed from state control, he said.  
 Gasoline has been freed fully and prices will be increased
by “about 3 1/2 rupees” a liter, Oil Minister  Murli Deora 
said.  
 Prospects of improved profitability from free pricing and
expanded fuel retailing by private refiners boosted their
shares. A lower fuel subsidy bill may help Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  reduce the fiscal deficit to 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product this financial year from an estimated 6.9
percent last year.  
 “This is a game-changer for the sector,” said  Saeed Jaffery , a Mumbai-based analyst with Ambit Capital Pvt. “This
should also help Reliance Industries and Essar Oil to roll out
their retail networks again.”  
 Non-state companies including  Reliance Industries Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest refiner, and Essar Oil Ltd. mothballed their
gasoline outlets nationwide after they were unable to match
prices offered by state-run rivals as crude soared to a record
in 2008.  
 Shares Surge  
 State-run refiners had their biggest gain in more than a
year.  Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s biggest state-owned
refiner, soared 11 percent, the most since May 21, 2009, to
377.95 rupees in Mumbai yesterday.  Bharat Petroleum Corp.  gained
13 percent and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  surged 14 percent, both
rising the most since May 18, 2009. The benchmark  Sensitive
Index  fell 0.9 percent.  
 “Oil and gas companies, which have been pretty
undervalued, are now poised to make a comeback,” said  Mahesh Patil , who manages about $3 billion in equities at Birla Sun
Life Asset Management Co. in Mumbai. “We will see their true
potential now. The market will start to reward them.”  
 State-owned refiners can start considering selling shares
as their stocks may be fully valued, Sundareshan said. The
decision may also help non-state refiners to open their retail
outlets, he said.  
 Private Refiners  
 Essar Oil, which owns 1,300 retail fuel stations in India,
said the consumer will benefit through competitive pricing and
better services offered at outlets.  
 “We already have in place plans to increase significantly
the number of retail fuel outlets that we have,”  Naresh Nayyar ,
chief executive officer of Essar Oil’s parent company Essar
Energy Ltd., said in a statement. “This decision creates a
level playing field between government-owned and private-sector
fuel retailers.”  
 Reliance Industries gained 1 percent to 1,062.95 rupees and
Essar Oil climbed 6.4 percent to 137.65 rupees yesterday.  
 The increase in gasoline and diesel prices is the third
this year. The government raised auto fuel prices for the first
time on Feb. 27 after Mukherjee imposed import duty and excise
tax on crude oil and refined products. State refiners were then
allowed to increase rates on April 1 after they started selling
Euro IV-compliant motor fuels.  
 The current price of gasoline in Delhi is 47.93 rupees a
liter, according to Indian Oil’s  website . Diesel costs 38.10
rupees a liter.  
 Panel Recommendations  
 A government-appointed panel headed by  Kirit Parikh , a
former member of the nation’s Planning Commission, recommended
in February that India free gasoline and diesel prices from
state control and increase kerosene and cooking gas rates. India
more than doubled prices of natural gas sold by state-run  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  and  Oil India Ltd.  last month.  
 Deora wrote to state chief ministers seeking a reduction
and rationalization of local taxes on gasoline and diesel, the
oil ministry said in an e-mailed statement June 21. The
government is committed to supplying affordable oil products,
Deora said.  
 Crude for August delivery increased $2.35 to settle at
$78.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday.
It was the biggest gain since June 9. The contract increased 0.8
percent this week.  
 Inflation, Harvest  
 The increase in fuel prices may spur inflation by 130 basis
points, JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist  Jahangir Aziz  said in a
phone interview.  
 India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation unexpectedly
accelerated 10.16 percent in May from a year earlier.  
 The country’s inflation rate may halve to about 5 percent
by March as better harvests this year are expected to cut farm
prices, Mukherjee said at the Institute of International Finance
in Washington June 21. The government expects agriculture output
to rise after the weather office predicted the June-September
monsoon rains would be normal.  
 The government’s decision may also benefit  Oil & Natural
Gas Corp.  and other state-run explorers, which partly
compensated Indian state refiners for selling fuels at fixed
prices by selling crude to them at a discount. ONGC shares rose
6.2 percent to 1,263.40 rupees, the highest level since Jan. 15,
2008.  
 Fuel Subsidies  
 The government hasn’t decided how frequently gasoline
prices may be changed. State refiners won’t revise rates at
fixed intervals to prevent hoarding, Sundareshan said.  
 Bharat Petroleum may change gasoline prices every 15 days
or monthly, Chairman  Ashok Sinha  told reporters in New Delhi.  
 Fuel subsidies given by the government to state refiners
fell to 260 billion rupees ($5.5 billion) in the year ended
March 31 as oil declined from a record in July 2008. The
refiners received 713 billion rupees in bonds as  compensation  a
year earlier, according to the government.  
 India last freed prices of oil products from government
control in April 2002, giving state-owned refiners freedom to
set retail prices twice a month. That stopped in December 2003
after the then  Bharatiya Janata Party -led government barred them
from raising rates before the May 2004 elections.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        