-- India State Utility Invites Bids to Build 250-Megawatt Solar Hybrid Plants
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-06-25T03:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/india-state-utility-invites-bids-to-build-250-megawatt-solar-hybrid-plants.html

          
          
             Uttar Pradesh Power Corp. , an Indian
state utility, has invited bids for plants that use both solar
energy and fossil fuels to generate electricity.  
 Proposals are being sought for plants that would use solar
combined with coal, natural gas or biomass fuel to promote
renewable energy in the northern state, said R.K. Johar, chief
engineer overseeing the tender.  
 “Each plant must generate a minimum of 250 megawatts,”
Johar said by telephone from Lucknow, the state capital,
declining to say how many units would be set up. The tender is
open to both domestic and foreign companies and bids must be
submitted by 5 p.m. local time on July 15, he said.  
 Hybrid power plants under construction in the U.S., Africa,
Middle East and Australia seek to draw on the environmental
benefits of solar energy by reducing fossil fuel consumption and
emissions. They have the advantage of conventional units that
ensure a steady supply of power through nights and cloud cover.  
 India is potentially one of the largest markets in the
world for hybrid technology, according to  Anil Srivastava , head
of the renewable-energy division of  Areva SA , which operates a
pilot 3-megawatt solar-coal hybrid plant in Liddell, Australia.  
 Asia’s third-largest energy consumer could save 500,000
metric tons of coal and 250,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions
yearly by converting half of its current power capacity to run
on solar and coal, Srivastava said on April 24 in Mumbai.  
 India’s power generation capacity was 161,352 megawatts as
of May 31, according to the  website  of the Central Electricity
Authority. Coal is used to fire more than half of the country’s
capacity.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        