-- India Delays Decision on White-Sugar Import Tax, Citing High Local Prices
-- Prabhudatta Mishra
-- 2010-06-25T09:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/india-delays-decision-on-white-sugar-import-tax-citing-high-local-prices.html

          
          
             India, the biggest sugar buyer,
deferred a decision to levy a duty on imports of the refined
variety, citing high domestic prices.  
 A group of ministers, headed by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , met in New Delhi to consider the tax and delayed a
decision, a government official told reporters today.  
 The South Asian nation allowed duty-free imports as prices
doubled last year after a dry spell reduced domestic production
and excess rain damaged the crop in Brazil, the biggest grower.
Purchases by the world’s largest consumer at zero tax may help
stem this year’s 34 percent slump in prices of refined sugar.  
 White, or refined, sugar for October delivery rose as much
as 2.6 percent to $480.40 a metric ton in London. Raw-sugar for
delivery in October advanced 2.4 percent to 16.19 cents a pound
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Sugar prices at Vashi in Mumbai,
the biggest wholesale market for the sweetener, jumped as much
as 3.5 percent to 2,649.45 rupees per 100 kilograms today.  
 India has allowed duty-free imports of white and raw sugar
until Dec. 31 to bolster supplies and cool food-price inflation.
The Indian Sugar Mills Association, a millers’ group, has been
seeking a tax to encourage purchases of domestic supplies that
are forecast to increase enough to meet demand.  
 Sugar stockpiles will jump 53 percent in the year ending
Sept. 30, according to the association. The nation will end the
season with 4.9 million tons of the sweetener compared with 3.2
million tons a year ago, the producers’ group  said  on June 14.  
 India may not need to import as output may increase as much
as 30 percent to 24 million tons in the year starting Oct. 1,
 Vivek Saraogi , managing director at  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. ,
said last month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in Mumbai at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        