-- India's Stocks to Draw More Foreign Funds in Second Half, State Bank Says
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-06-25T03:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/india-s-stocks-to-draw-more-foreign-funds-in-second-half-state-bank-says.html

          
          
             Indian stocks, Asia’s most expensive
after Japan, may draw more foreign funds in the second half as
the nation’s economic growth makes it one of “few places” to
invest, a fund manager at the country’s biggest bank said.  
 Foreign inflows in the next six months may beat the $6.3
billion of net investments in the first half, said  Navneet Munot , chief investment officer in Mumbai at SBI Funds
Management Pvt, who beat all but two of the 1,363 Indian equity
funds tracked by Bloomberg in the past three years. SBI is a
unit of the State Bank of India.  
 “There are few places where investors can bet on higher
growth,” Mumbai-based Munot, who oversees about $8.2 billion of
assets, said in an interview yesterday. “Due to the structural
growth story, India will continue to attract  flows  in the
foreseeable future.”  
 India’s $1.2 trillion economy expanded 8.6 percent in the
three months through March from a year earlier, the fastest pace
after China and Brazil among major economies. Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  said this week the nation’s annual economic
growth may exceed 10 percent in the next five years.  
 The performance of Indian stocks is closely tied to foreign
fund flows. Record inflows last year helped drive the benchmark
Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index or Sensex to its biggest
 rally  in 18 years, while the largest outflow in 2008 triggered
the biggest annual slump.  
 ‘Growth Premium’  
 The Sensex is  trading  at 17.1 times estimated profit, the
highest in Asia excluding Japan and the most expensive among the
BRIC markets, which also include China, Brazil and Russia. The
economic outlook may help Indian stocks maintain their valuation
lead in Asia for the next two to three years as India “commands
a growth premium,” said Munot, 39.  
 Ved Prakash Chaturvedi , chief executive officer at Tata
Asset Management Co., said at a Mumbai conference this week that
India’s stock valuations may be “somewhat stretched,” while
UTI Asset Management Co., which runs the nation’s best-
performing equity fund in the past year, said shares are
“fairly valued.”  
 A worsening crisis in Europe, India’s biggest export
market, led investors to withdraw funds from riskier assets last
month. Outflows from Indian stocks reached $2 billion in May,
the worst since October 2008, following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Profit Outlook  
 About $1.7 billion of net buying this month erased most of
the losses, leading to a 22 percent gain in first-half inflows
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Munot declined to comment whether share purchases by foreigners
in the second half will exceeded the same period last year, when
they bought $12.6 billion, the most in a six-month period since
Bloomberg tracked the data monthly three years ago.  
 India’s corporate profits, expected to climb 20 percent in
the year ending March, will drive gains in stocks, he said. That
would be the best profit growth in three years, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg News. He likes shares of
infrastructure and health-care companies.  
 “Over the next several quarters, investors would look at
India differently than the way they have looked so far,” he
said. “A point will come that even within the emerging markets
space, the Indian story will be far more compelling than some of
the other markets, so India should get higher fund flows.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        