-- China to Create More Channels for Use of Yuan, Central Bank Officials Say
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T16:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/internationalization-of-yuan-is-inevitable-trend-central-bank-s-li-says.html

          
          
             China must create more channels for
investors and companies to use the yuan if it wants to
internationalize the currency and put it on a par with the yen
and the euro, central bank officials and economists told a forum
in Shanghai yesterday.  
 The world’s biggest holder of foreign-exchange  reserves 
also needs to loosen controls on the use of the yuan for
investment and trade outside China, Xie Duo, director of the
financial market department of the People’s Bank of China, and
 Li Daokui , an adviser to the central bank, said.  
 China, the world’s third-largest economy, is seeking to
reduce its reliance on the U.S. dollar and promote the yuan as a
global currency. The central bank this week expanded the use of
the yuan for cross-border trade settlement to 18 more provinces,
allowing companies based in areas including Beijing and the
export hubs of Jiangsu and Zhejiang to use the currency to pay
for goods and services.  
 “It will take a very long time to realize the
internationalization of the renminbi,” said Xie, referring to
the other name for the yuan. “It won’t be easy, but China can
boost the use of the yuan due to rising demand from foreign
trade companies. We will also offer channels for companies and
financial institutions abroad, especially in Hong Kong to invest
the yuan within China.”  
 Allowing more trade to be settled in yuan isn’t enough,
said Li Daokui, one of three academics who sit on the central
bank’s monetary policy committee.  
 Investment Channels  
 “After foreigners get hold of the yuan what are they going
to do with it?” Li told the forum. “The government needs to
gradually open investment channels for foreign investors so that
the yuan can be used in more transactions outside China and flow
back to China.”  
 Li and Xie said Hong Kong would play an important part in
boosting the yuan’s international role, becoming the main
offshore market for the currency.  
 “We are encouraging the Hong Kong monetary authority and
financial institutions to develop such instruments” to satisfy
demand for investment channels for the Chinese currency, Xie Duo
said.  
 “Over 10 to 15 years, we may see the yuan gradually
becoming a global currency that has similar influence with the
yen, US dollar, pound and the euro in international markets,”
said Li, who is also director of the Center for China in the
World Economy at Tsinghua University in Beijing.  
 Global Currency  
 Still, unless the yuan is fully convertible on the capital
account, it cannot become a global currency,  Andy Xie , former
Morgan Stanley chief economist for Asia-Pacific and now a
private economist based in Shanghai, told the same conference.  
 China allowed money to flow freely in and out of the
country for trade in goods and services in 1996 although it
still restricts the flow of capital for investment purposes.
Central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in November that the
global financial crisis had paused efforts to make the yuan more
convertible on the capital account.  
 “The minimum condition for a global currency is to have it
fully convertible,” Andy Xie said. “But all the decisions that
China has done show that they have no intention to do so.”  
 The government has put limits on most of the measures it
has announced to try and internationalize the yuan, such as the
qualified foreign institutional investor, or QFII, program, Xie
said, referring to arrangements for some foreign institutions to
invest in China.  
 Market-Based System  
 The government’s ownership of the financial system through
its control over the nation’s banks is another obstacle to
achieving internationalization of the currency, the economist
said.  
 China’s financial markets are not strong enough to cope
with the large capital flows that convertibility involves, Xie
said. The financial system needs to be privately owned and more
market based, he said.  
 “Before this, any talk about the internationalization of
the renminbi and its replacing the dollar would be premature,”
Xie said.  
 -- Li Yanping  in Shanghai. Editor:  Nerys Avery   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        