-- Investment Bank Credit Risk Declines Amid Congressional Financial Overhaul
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-06-25T16:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/investment-bank-credit-risk-declines-amid-congressional-financial-overhaul.html

          
          
             The cost to protect against losses
on bank bonds fell for the first time in a week as U.S. Congress
conferees tempered limits on investment banking in financial
regulation legislation.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. decreased after members of a House and
Senate panel agreed to back away from provisions that would have
largely halted federally insured banks’ derivatives trading and
participation in hedge funds or private equity funds.  
 “The fact that these investment banking activities were
restricted and not prohibited was healthy for the banks,” said
 Scott MacDonald , head of credit and economics research at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Aladdin Capital Holdings LLC, which
oversees $12.5 billion. “Investment banking is fee income that
plays an important role for these institutions.”  
 Credit swaps protecting the debt of Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit for five years fell 10 basis points to 195
basis points, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.
Contracts on Goldman Sachs declined 7 basis points to 193, those
on Citigroup Inc. decreased 7 basis points to 188. Swaps on
Morgan Stanley fell 5 basis points to 260, and those on JPMorgan
Chase & Co. dropped 5 basis points to 113.  
 Profits Climb  
 Swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined for the first
time in four days after corporate profits climbed more than
previously projected.  
 The Markit index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, fell 3.6 basis
points to a mid-price of 116 basis points at 12:14 p.m. in New
York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 Corporate profits  increased 8 percent in the first quarter,
the same as in the previous three months, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington. Earnings were up
34 percent from the same time last year, the biggest year-over-
year gain since 1984.  
 The financial regulation legislation agreed to today places
limits on potentially risky activities such as proprietary
trading or over-the-counter derivatives and gives regulators new
powers to seize and wind down large, complex institutions if
needed. The overhaul still requires approval from the full
Congress.  
 Lenders including  JPMorgan  and  Citigroup Inc.  will be
required to move less than 10 percent of the derivatives in
their deposit-taking banks to a broker-dealer division during
the next two years, which may require additional capital.  
 ‘Relief for Financials’  
 Goldman Sachs  and  Morgan Stanley , which were the two
biggest U.S. securities firms before converting to banks in
September 2008, won’t be as affected because they kept most of
their derivatives in their broker-dealer units.  
 “We expect the finalization of the legislation will
provide short-term relief for financials; however, we remain
cautious about this legislation’s longer-term implications,”
FBR Capital Markets analyst  Paul Miller  wrote in a report.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        