-- Iranian Gaza Aid Shipment Canceled Over Israeli Vow to Maintain Blockade
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-25T13:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/iranian-gaza-aid-shipment-canceled-over-israeli-vow-to-maintain-blockade.html

          
          
             Iran said the June 27 departure of a
ship carrying aid to the Gaza Strip has been canceled because of
Israel’s vow to prevent Iranian and Lebanese vessels from
breaching its blockade of the Palestinian enclave.  
 “The Zionist regime has made sending aid to Gaza a
political issue,”  Hossein Sheikholeslam , head of the Iranian
agency to support Palestinians, was cited as saying by the
state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency  late yesterday.  
 He referred to Israel’s warning to the United Nations that
it may take military action to prevent ships from reaching Gaza.
“In order not to give the Zionist regime an excuse, we will
send the aid through other routes and without Iran’s name,”
said Sheikholeslam, a former lawmaker and diplomat.  
 The shipment was planned after nine pro-Palestinian Turkish
activists, including one who also held U.S. nationality, were
shot dead May 31 when Israeli commandos raided their Gaza-bound
boat in international waters. The Turkish vessel was one of six
in a flotilla attempting to breach Israel’s three-year blockade
of Gaza, the coastal strip ruled by the militant group Hamas.  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the flotilla to
change course and unload its cargo of aid at the Israeli port of
Ashdod, before it seized the vessels.  
 Costs Increase  
 “The costs of sending aid to Gaza has increased,”
Sheikholeslam said. “As Israel has said it will confiscate
ships, no company is prepared to rent their vessels.”  
 Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor  declined to
comment on the cancellation of the Iranian voyage when reached
by telephone today.  
 Israeli officials say they must prevent shipments from
entering Gaza that may contain weapons for use against the
country’s southern towns and cities, which have come under
attack from rockets. Israel says more than 400 rockets have been
fired from Gaza into its territory since the end of Israel’s
Gaza offensive, killing one foreign worker.  
 Israel said in letters to the UN June 18 that it may use
its military to block ships from Lebanon that plan to sail to
Gaza with aid. The organizers of the Lebanese effort may be
linked to Hezbollah and some have said they wish to become
“martyrs,” according to the letters from Israeli UN Ambassador
 Gabriela Shalev .  
 ‘A Provocation’  
 Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said on June 23 that
plans to send ships from Iran and Lebanon were an attempt to
“create a provocation.” He said on June 2 that there were no
shortages of food or medicine in Gaza.  
 Israel agreed on June 20 to allow all food items and a
wider range of building supplies into Gaza by road, while
banning materials that might be used for attacks.  
 The  Red Crescent Society ’s chartered vessel was scheduled
to leave the southern Iranian port of Bandar Abbas with 1,100
tons of medicine, food and hygiene goods donated by Iranians,
the organization said. Five Red Crescent representatives and
five journalists were going to be on board, it said.  
 In January 2009, Israel prevented an Iranian Red Crescent
vessel from reaching Gaza after a three-week Israeli offensive.
More than 1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in the
conflict and many Gaza homes and government buildings leveled.  
 Iran’s Red Crescent said its latest cargo was based on an
 International Committee of the Red Cross  list of items needed in
Gaza. The Iranian group belongs to the  International Federation
of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies .  
 ‘Collective Punishment’  
 The International Committee of the Red Cross, in a June 14
 report , called on Israel to end the blockade, saying it
subjected Gaza’s civilians to “collective punishment imposed in
clear violation of Israel’s obligations under international
humanitarian law.” It also urged those with “an influence on
the situation, including Hamas, to do their utmost to help
Gaza’s civilian population.”  
 The Hamas government’s economy minister, Ziad Zaza,
dismissed Israel’s relaxing of the blockade as “nonsense,”
saying Israel was trying to reduce international pressure on it.  
 Hamas, which won Palestinian parliamentary elections in
2006, ousted forces loyal to President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah
group and seized full control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, leaving
Abbas in charge of the West Bank. Hamas is considered a
terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        