-- Mizuho Financial Said to Sell Up to 6 Billion New Shares to Boost Capital
-- Finbarr Flynn
-- 2010-06-25T06:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/mizuho-financial-said-to-sell-up-to-6-billion-new-shares-to-boost-capital.html

          
          
             Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest publicly traded bank by assets, plans to sell up
to 6 billion new shares to boost capital, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  
 The sale would be worth 930 billion yen ($10.4 billion),
based on yesterday’s closing price. The Tokyo-based bank will
likely announce the deal today, said the person, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  
 The sale adds to 3.8 trillion yen in new equity raised by
Mizuho and its two largest rivals since December 2008. The bank
will still trail  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.  and
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  in capital after the sale,
and may not have enough to meet tougher global capital
requirements, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd.  
 “Mizuho is clearly under some pressure to get up to the
level of its immediate peers in capital,” said  Jason Rogers , a
credit analyst with Barclays Plc in Singapore. “If you’re
operating in the international arena the perception is that you
do need to be well capitalized.”  
 Mizuho registered to raise up to 800 billion yen in new
capital on May 14.  Katsunori Tomita , a spokesman for Mizuho in
Tokyo, declined to comment.  
 Reuters reported the planned sale earlier today, citing
people it didn’t identify. Mizuho fell 1.3 percent to 153 yen,
the lowest since Nov. 27, at the 3 p.m. close of Tokyo trading.  
 Profit Forecast  
 The bank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, was 4.2 percent at the end of March, compared
with 7.8 percent at Mitsubishi UFJ and 7 percent for Sumitomo
Mitsui, according to Fitch data. These compare with 9.7 percent
for HSBC Holdings Plc, the London-based bank that made the
majority of its profit in Asia last year.  
 Mizuho reported a return to a annual  profit  and forecast an
80 percent increase in net income this fiscal year to 430
billion yen, the most of any Japanese bank.  
 Takashi Tsukamoto , Mizuho’s Chief Executive Officer, said
June 22 he and two bank unit presidents will take a 30 percent
pay cut for three months, as the lender cuts dividends.  Terunobu Maeda , Mizuho’s former CEO, retired as group chairman on June 22.  
 Six Mizuho executives including Tsukamoto and Maeda
received more than 100 million yen in compensation in the year
ended March 31, the largest reported number at any Japanese bank
to date.  
 Basel Committee  
 The bank is  targeting  net income of 500 billion yen in the
12 months ending March 2013, and will seek to cut shareholdings
by 1 trillion yen during the same period from 2.6 trillion yen
at the end of March, the bank said in May.  
 Banks should increase the quality of capital they hold by
the end of 2012, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
in a report published Dec. 17. The group won’t make final
decisions until the end of this year on how much capital lenders
must hold.  
 Mizuho is the most vulnerable of Japan’s big banks to
stricter global capital rules after losing more than $8 billion
on U.S. mortgage-related investments.  
 Mizuho raised 529 billion yen in a stock sale in July last
year and Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui each tapped
investors since December, selling a combined 2 trillion yen in
shares.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Takashi Tsukamoto, president and chief executive officer of Mizuho Financial Group Inc., speaks during a news conference in Tokyo.  Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
