-- Mizuho Plans $9.6 Billion Share Sale to Lift Capital After Investment Loss
-- Finbarr Flynn
-- 2010-06-25T10:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/mizuho-aims-to-raise-up-to-9-6-billion-in-share-sale-to-boost-capital.html

          
          
             Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest publicly traded bank by assets, may raise as much
as 857.6 billion yen ($9.6 billion) to meet new capital rules
after booking investment losses during the financial crisis.  
 Mizuho will price the shares between July 13 and July 15,
the Tokyo-based lender said in a statement today. The bank may
sell up to 6 billion new shares, half in Japan and the remainder
overseas, according to the statement.  
 The offering adds to 3.8 trillion yen in new equity raised
by the bank and its two largest rivals since December 2008.
Mizuho is the most vulnerable of Japan’s largest banks to
stricter capital rules after losing more than $8 billion on U.S.
mortgage-related investments.  
 “Mizuho is clearly under some pressure to get up to the
level of its immediate peers in capital,”  Jason Rogers , a
credit analyst at Barclays Plc in Singapore, said before today’s
announcement. “If you’re operating in the international arena,
the perception is that you do need to be well capitalized.”  
 After the sale, the bank will still lag behind  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc.  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
in capital.  
 Mizuho fell 1.3 percent to 153 yen, the lowest since Nov.
27, at the close of Tokyo trading. The net proceeds of 857.6
billion yen from the sale is based on the closing price of 154
yen on June 18, the bank said.  
 Underwriters  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
& Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will manage the overseas part
of the deal, while Nomura Holdings Inc., Daiwa Securities Group
Inc., and Okasan Securities Co. will be underwriters on the
domestic sale. Mizuho’s own securities units will underwrite the
deal at home and abroad.  
 The bank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, was 4.2 percent at the end of March, compared
with 7.8 percent at Mitsubishi UFJ and 7 percent for Sumitomo
Mitsui, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd. data. These compare with
9.7 percent for HSBC Holdings Plc, the London-based bank that
made the majority of its profit in Asia last year.  
 Mizuho reported a return to an annual  profit  and forecast
an 80 percent increase in net income this fiscal year to 430
billion yen, the most of any Japanese bank.  
 Takashi Tsukamoto , Mizuho’s chief executive officer, said
June 22 he and two bank unit presidents will take a 30 percent
pay cut for three months as the lender cuts dividends.  Terunobu Maeda , Mizuho’s former CEO, retired as group chairman on June 22.  
 Six Mizuho executives including Tsukamoto and Maeda
received more than 100 million yen in compensation in the year
ended March 31, the largest reported number at any Japanese bank
to date.  
 Basel Committee  
 The bank is  targeting  net income of 500 billion yen in the
12 months ending March 2013, and will seek to cut shareholdings
by 1 trillion yen during the period from 2.6 trillion yen at the
end of March, it said in May. Mizuho plans to pay an annual
dividend of 6 yen a share this year, down 2 yen from last year,
it said May 14.  
 Banks should increase the quality of capital they hold by
the end of 2012, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
in a report published Dec. 17. The committee may soften
originally planned capital and liquidity rules to avoid putting
too much pressure on European lenders amid the region’s current
sovereign debt crisis, Japan’s Nikkei newspaper reported today.  
 The group won’t make final decisions until the end of this
year on how much capital lenders must hold.  
 Today’s capital sale may mark the end of equity issues by
Japan’s largest banks for a “considerable period of time” in
light of what is being reported about the committee, said  David Threadgold , a Tokyo-based analyst for Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.  
 Mizuho raised 529 billion yen in a stock sale in July last
year and Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui each tapped
investors since December, selling a combined 2 trillion yen in
shares.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        