-- Japan, India to Start Talks to Pave Way for Hitachi, Toshiba Reactor Sales
-- Yuji Okada
-- 2010-06-25T08:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/japan-india-to-start-talks-to-pave-way-for-hitachi-toshiba-reactor-sales.html

          
          
             Japan, the only country ever
attacked with atomic weapons, will start talks with India for a
nuclear treaty, paving the way for  Toshiba Corp.  and Hitachi Ltd.
to sell reactors in the world’s second-biggest market.  
 The first round of talks will be held on June 28-29 in
Tokyo, Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement
today. A treaty would allow Japanese companies to sell nuclear
technology to India.  
 Japan, which lost out to South Korea in December on a $20
billion atomic contract with the United Arab Emirates, is
competing to sell plants to India, where 35 new reactors are
planned in the next decade, making it second only to China,
according to the World Nuclear Association website. This would
be the first agreement between Japan and a country that isn’t a
signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  
 “This is a turning point for Japan’s nuclear diplomacy,”
said Takehiko Yamamoto, a professor of international relations
at Waseda University in Tokyo. “Japan needs to keep its
commercial interest and national security well in balance.”  
 The 46-member  Nuclear Suppliers Group  lifted a three-decade
ban on providing atomic technology and fuel to India in 2008
after the South Asian nation agreed to a moratorium on testing
atomic bombs. The governments of the U.S., Russia, the U.S. and
France have since signed civilian nuclear agreements with India.  
 Jordan Talks  
 Canada, the world’s  biggest  uranium supplier after
Kazakhstan in 2009, is due to sign an agreement with India this
weekend. South Korean and Indian foreign ministers agreed to
start negotiations for an accord when they met in Seoul this
month.  
 Japan has nuclear treaties with the U.S., U.K., France,
Canada, Australia and China, according to the foreign ministry
website. Japan also has an accord with the European Union
through the European Atomic Energy Community, known as Euratom.  
 The country held a first round of talks with Jordan for a
treaty this month as it seeks to build a nuclear plant in the
Middle Eastern nation through a joint venture, Atmea, between
France’s Areva SA and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. Informal
talks about a possible treaty with Vietnam were held in Hanoi
June 9, the foreign ministry said in a statement the following
day.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        