-- Japan Hedge Fund Funnex Plans Asian Expansion With New Chinese President
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-06-25T03:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/japan-hedge-fund-funnex-plans-asia-expansion-with-chinese-born-president.html

          
          
             Funnex Asset Management Co. , a
Japanese hedge fund with about $2 billion in assets, plans to
expand into Asia and has replaced its founding president with a
Chinese native to further that transition.  
 Xiao Minjie , a former senior economist at Daiwa Institute
of Research based in Shanghai and Hong Kong, became president of
the Tokyo-based firm on June 16, taking over from the founder
 Masaru Nishizawa , who became chairman and remains as chief
investment officer, according to the executives. Funnex plans to
appoint a Chinese native as a board member as early as August as
part of its effort to branch into China’s market, Nishizawa said.  
 “The biggest opportunities and changes are taking place in
Asia, especially China, and how we position ourselves to
leverage that big chance will be the key to survival,”
Nishizawa, 60, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “In
doing so, it makes very little sense for a Japanese like me, who
speaks not a word of Chinese, to be heading the firm.”  
 The changes mark a departure from Funnex’s traditional
focus on Japanese equities since Nishizawa founded the firm in
2000, after its assets under management shrunk to about a third
from its peak in January 2006. Funnex currently offers more than
a dozen funds which all focus on the Japanese market, including
the 15 billion yen ($167 million)  Nikko Evolution fund .  
 Alliances Possible  
 Funnex aims to begin offering funds that will invest in
Asian markets beyond Japan within two to three years, Xiao said,
declining to elaborate on the details. An alliance with a
Chinese firm is also a possibility, he said.  
 “We want the Asian investors to better understand Japan
and by doing so, we want to capture their assets,” Xiao, 45,
said.  
 Japanese clients account for about half of Funnex’s current
assets, while the rest are mostly in Europe, according to the
firm.  
 Japan’s economy will probably grow 2.6 percent for the year
through March 2011, according to the government, after a 5.2
percent drop in calendar year 2009, the biggest decline since
comparable data were made available in 1955.  
 The fiscal 2010 target is less than a third of the 8
percent expansion forecast for China, which is set to overtake
Japan as the world’s second-biggest economy this year.  
 “In five to 10 years, it will become a norm for foreigners
to be heading Japanese firms,” Nishizawa said. “Those who can
adjust to the changing landscape will be able to survive and we
want to be the first in taking a lead in making those shifts.”  
 Nishizawa started his career as an analyst at Nikko
Securities Co. in 1974 after graduating from Waseda University
with a bachelor’s degree in commercial science. From 1986 to
1999, he managed Japanese equity funds for Warburg Investment
Management in Tokyo, later to become Merrill Lynch Investment
Management Co.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        