-- Judge Denies Bail for Three Men Charged With New York Synagogue Bomb Plot
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-25T21:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/judge-denies-bail-for-three-men-charged-with-new-york-synagogue-bomb-plot.html

          
          
             Bail was denied for three of four
men accused of plotting to blow up New York synagogues and
attack aircraft at a military base with heat-seeking missiles.
The fourth wasn’t eligible for pretrial release because of his
immigration status.  
 U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in White Plains, New
York, ruled on bail for James Cromitie, 44, David Williams, 28,
and Onta Williams, 32.  
 “The court is also aware that the Government’s case may
not be as ironclad as it appeared in the hours and days
immediately after the defendants were arrested,” McMahon said
in a ruling issued today. “Nonetheless, the court concludes
that defendants Cromitie, Onta William and David Williams have
failed to rebut the presumption and so they will remain on
remand status.”  
 The three men and Laguerre Payen, 27, were arrested in May
2009 after planting the bombs in cars outside two synagogues in
the Riverdale section of the Bronx, authorities said. Payen is
Haitian and if released from jail would be turned over to
immigration authorities.  
 Guided Missiles  
 The four men were indicted on charges that include
conspiracy and attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in
the U.S., conspiracy to use surface-to-air guided missiles to
destroy and kill officers and employees at the New York Air
National Guard Base located at Stewart International Airport in
upstate New York. They face as much as life in prison.  
 McMahon earlier this month halted the trial and dismissed
prospective jurors after a dispute erupted about evidence in the
case. Opening arguments in the case were set to begin June 16.
The judge later agreed to hear bail arguments from defense
attorneys, who said the suspects are the victims of entrapment
by a paid Federal Bureau of Investigation informant.  
 The judge said prosecutors had to give the defense a memo
from the lead FBI agent on the case to the airport’s manager.  
 The memo said that the main suspect in the case, Cromitie,
would be conducting surveillance of an adjoining Air National
Guard Base and posed no danger because he was working with a
government agent.  
 Prosecutors said if that memo must be turned over, the
defense may be entitled to see other documents, some of them
classified and requiring security clearances that could take
months to procure.  
 Met at Mosque  
 In her ruling today, McMahon didn’t schedule a new court
date in the case and said she will contact lawyers for both
sides next week. She told prosecutors that their time to start
the trial will run out by Sept. 3.  
 The plot began in June 2008 when the informant, who the
four men believed was associated with a Pakistan-based terrorist
group, met with Cromitie at a mosque in Newburgh, New York,
about 60 miles north of Manhattan on the Hudson River, according
to the complaint.  
 According to the informant, Cromitie said he was upset that
people were being killed by the U.S. military in Pakistan and
Afghanistan, where his parents lived before he was born, and
expressed a desire to do something in the U.S., the complaint
said.  
 In December 2008, Cromitie allegedly asked the informant to
obtain explosives and rockets for an operation. Cromitie and two
other suspects are accused of traveling in May 2009 to a
Stamford, Connecticut, warehouse with the informant, where they
collected a surface-to-air missile system and three improvised
explosive devices -- all of which had been disabled.  
 The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (White Plains).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        