-- Judge Who Lifted Drill Ban Sold Exxon Shares at Probable Loss
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-25T22:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/judge-who-lifted-u-s-oil-drilling-ban-sold-exxon-shares-at-probable-loss.html

          
          
             The New Orleans judge who lifted the
U.S. ban on deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico probably
lost money selling shares of  Exxon Mobil Corp.  the same day he
issued his ruling, according to records released today.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  released his financial
information at the request of environmentalists, who’ve
questioned whether Feldman is violating a judicial conduct code
that requires judges to step aside from cases in which they have
a financial interest.  
 On June 22, Feldman lifted a six-month moratorium President
 Barack Obama  issued May 27 as a reaction to the worst oil spill
in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig off the Louisiana coast in April.  
 Feldman said he didn’t recall owning Exxon shares until
“9:45 p.m. Monday the 21st,” according to a statement released
today by the judge’s office. “Because he remembered that Exxon,
who was not a party litigant in the moratorium case,
nevertheless had one of the 33 rigs in the Gulf, the judge
instructed his broker to sell Exxon and XTO as soon as the
market opened the next morning,” according to the statement.
Feldman said he “doesn’t know whether there was a profit or a
loss on the sale.”  
 XTO refers to XTO Energy Inc., a Fort Worth, Texas--based
energy company.  
 Offshore Safety  
 Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was needed to give
a presidential commission time to study improvements in the
safety of offshore drilling. The government urged Feldman to
uphold the moratorium at a June 21 hearing in a lawsuit  Hornbeck
Offshore Services Inc.  and a dozen other offshore service firms
brought against Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  and other
regulators, seeking overthrow of the ban.  
 Feldman sold the less than $15,000 worth of Exxon Mobil he
purchased in December, recording an undisclosed loss, on a trade
the judge said was made “at the opening of the stock market on
June 22,” according to a letter he sent the U.S. Courts’
Administrative Office. This places the trade several hours prior
to his ruling lifting the ban, which was released just after
noon New Orleans time.  
 Exxon Mobil  traded as high as $63.20 on June 22,
before closing at $61.94 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The lowest price Exxon sold for in December was $67.64
on Dec. 18, meaning the judge probably lost at least 6.6 percent
on his investment.  
 Exxon shelved plans to drill one deep-water exploratory
well and one deep-water production well because of the
moratorium, company spokeswoman Cynthia Bergman said in a
telephone interview.  
 Disclosure Statements  
 According to his 2008 financial disclosure statements,
Feldman owned interests in 16 oil and gas-related companies,
including Halliburton Co. and Transocean Ltd., which are both
involved in the Deepwater Horizon disaster. Feldman has since
sold the Halliburton and Transocean positions, along with most
of his other offshore-related holdings, according to his latest
filing.  
 Feldman still holds other energy-related investments,
including Ocean Energy, El Paso Corp. and Valero Energy Corp.  
 On June 23, the U.S. said it will appeal Feldman’s ruling,
and Salazar said the government may consider imposing a second
drilling moratorium that would keep 33 floating rigs inactive in
the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Feldman refused to stay his order lifting the moratorium
while the government seeks its appeal at U.S. Fifth Circuit,
also located in New Orleans.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans), and the appeal is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;  Bill McQuillen  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        