-- Kagan Will Prove `Supremely Qualified,' Official Says
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-06-25T20:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/kagan-will-prove-herself-supremely-qualified-before-senate-bauer-says.html

          
          
             White House officials say they have
no doubt  Elena Kagan  will leave her audience impressed when she
testifies before a Senate committee next week on her nomination
to the  U.S. Supreme Court .  
 Kagan, President  Barack Obama ’s second Supreme Court
nominee, would become the fourth woman in its 221-year history
and for the first time give the court three sitting female
members. She will make an opening statement after the 12
Democrats and seven Republicans on the  Senate Judiciary
Committee  have an opportunity to speak.  
 “I simply marvel at what she is going to bring to this
hearing,” said  Robert Bauer , the White House counsel. “I think
it will be evident very quickly to people as they listen to her
how supremely qualified she is for the court.”  
 Bauer, speaking on a conference call with reporters, later
said, “There hasn’t been a stronger nominee for the Supreme
Court in certainly many years.”  
 Republicans say they will focus on Kagan’s lack of judicial
experience and seek to portray her as a partisan activist with a
liberal agenda. They say Kagan, 50, can expect tough questions
about recently released  documents  from her years in President
 Bill Clinton ’s White House, where she worked on issues including
abortion, gun control and campaign finance.  
 Military Recruitment  
 Republicans led by Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama also
have challenged Kagan’s opposition to military recruitment on
the Harvard Law School campus as a protest to the Pentagon’s ban
on openly gay troops.  
 Sessions today released a letter to the Senate Judiciary
Committee from a group called  Military Families United  that
described Kagan’s position on the recruitment issue as
“troubling and appalling.”  
 “We are hopeful that the Senate Judiciary Committee will
fairly and vigorously question her motivation and reasoning on
this matter,” wrote Robert Jackson, the group’s top lobbyist.
“Thousands of military families, if not all Americans, deserve
to hear an explanation of her actions.”  
 Jackson said the group isn’t taking a position on her
confirmation.  
 White House adviser  David Axelrod , speaking on the
conference call with Bauer, said Kagan will show she is “very
much in the mainstream of thought about what the role of the
court is.”  
 Practice Sessions  
 Axelrod said Kagan has been spending several hours a day
fielding questions in practice sessions, plus additional time
preparing on her own. She will have met one-on-one with 62
senators by the time the hearings start on June 28, Bauer said.  
 Democrats and Republicans completed their witness lists for
the hearings. Democratic witnesses include  Greg Garre , a former
solicitor general; Massachusetts appellate court Judge Fernande
“Nan” Duffly, who is representing the National Association of
Women Judges; and Lilly Ledbetter, a plaintiff in a pay
discrimination lawsuit whose $360,000 award was rejected by the
Supreme Court in 2007.  
 Kurt White, the president of the Harvard Law Armed Forces
Association, also will testify for Kagan. In a preview this
morning, he told reporters that as dean she honored veterans on
the law school campus in various ways, including hosting a small
annual dinner for military veterans and their spouses.  
 Military Officials  
 Republican witnesses include several current or retired
military officials, including Army National Guard Captain Pete
Hegseth, executive director of the conservative Vets for
Freedom. Also listed are Robert Alt, director of the Center for
Legal and Judicial Studies at the Heritage Foundation; and  David Norcross , chairman of the National Republican Lawyers
Association.  
 The first day of hearings will coincide with the release of
the Supreme Court’s final opinions of its nine-month term. In
one ruling, the court will decide whether the Constitution’s
Second Amendment, which protects gun rights, restricts state and
local weapons-control efforts in addition to those at the
federal level.  
 Kagan would replace Justice  John Paul Stevens , who is
retiring.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        