-- Kellogg Recalls 28 Million Boxes of Breakfast Cereals
-- Niveditha Ravi
-- 2010-06-25T20:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/kellogg-recalls-28-million-boxes-of-cereal-over-wax-like-taste-from-liner.html

          
          
             Kellogg Co. , the  largest  U.S.
breakfast cereal maker, voluntarily  recalled  about 28 million
boxes of cereal including Froot Loops and Honey Smacks, citing
unusual taste and odor coming from the liner of packages.  
 The recall also involves batches of Apple Jacks and Corn
Pops, Kellogg said today in a statement. While the potential for
serious health problems is low, a few customers have experienced
temporary symptoms including nausea and diarrhea, Kellogg said.  
 “We have identified a substance in the package liner that
can produce an uncharacteristic wax-like off taste and smell,”
J. Adaire Putnam, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“Our chemistry team is working to isolate the exact
substance.”  
 The Battle Creek, Michigan-based company relied on cereal
for 51 percent of total  sales  in 2009, according to  Bloomberg
data . Putnam said it is premature to comment on whether earnings
may be affected as Kellogg is assessing the situation.  
 Kellogg  fell  44 cents to $52.42 at 4:20 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 1.5
percent this year.  
 The recalled boxes were made at an Omaha, Nebraska,
facility, Putnam said, declining to provide its production
capacity. She also declined to disclose how many packages of
cereal the company produces every year.  
 The company said it is working on the recall in
consultation with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  
 In January, Kellogg was ordered by the FDA to improve
sanitation controls at an Atlanta plant. The FDA letter, made
public on the regulator’s website the following month, came
after Eggo buttermilk waffles were found to be contaminated with
Listeria bacteria.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niveditha Ravi  in New York at 
 nravi1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        