-- Korean Won Falls Most in 2 Weeks as Europe Debt Crisis Deters Risk-Taking
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-25T07:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/korean-won-falls-most-in-2-weeks-as-europe-debt-crisis-deters-risk-taking.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won weakened for a
fourth day, the longest losing streak in three months, as
mounting concern about Europe’s debt crisis deterred investment
in emerging-market assets. Bonds rose.  
 The currency dropped the most in two weeks as overseas
investors  sold  more Korean shares than they bought after the
cost of protecting Greece’s debt from default rose to a record.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares dropped 1.5 percent, the
biggest loss in almost three weeks, following a 1.7 percent
slide in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares.  
 “The won is reacting to the risk aversion we saw
overnight,” said  Moh Siong Sim , a Singapore-based foreign-
exchange strategist for Bank of Singapore Ltd. “Still, Korea’s
domestic demand is resilient, the Bank of Korea is poised to
raise interest rates in the second half of this year and this
should support the won.”  
 The won fell 2.2 percent to 1,215.19 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched a one-month high of 1,169.25 on June 21, when China
ended the yuan’s two-year peg to the dollar.  
 The government yesterday raised its economic growth
forecast for this year to 5.8 percent, from a December
projection of 5 percent, saying a faster-than-expected global
economic recovery has spurred exports and domestic demand. Still,
Europe’s debt woes may curb expansion, Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece rose 197 basis points to an
all-time high of 1,125 basis points, meaning it costs $1.125
million a year to protect $10 million of the nation’s bonds from
non-payment, according to CMA DataVision. Contracts on
government securities for Portugal and Spain also climbed.  
 Bonds Rise  
 South Korea’s government bonds gained for a second day. The
yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 slipped one basis
point to 3.91 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. Ten-
year yields on U.S. treasuries fell toward a five-week low.  
 “The degree to how much yields will rise is narrowing as
we see a trend of falling yields overseas,” said Park Hyung Min,
fixed-income analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc., wrote in a
report today. “We don’t see an interest rate increase
negatively affecting domestic liquidity that much despite
monetary belt-tightening.”  
 The Bank of Korea will raise its benchmark rate by 50 basis
points to 2.5 percent by the end of this year, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        