-- Natural-Gas Futures Rise on Concern Tropical Storm to Slow U.S. Production
-- Asjylyn Loder
-- 2010-06-25T16:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/natural-gas-futures-rise-on-concern-tropical-storm-to-slow-u-s-production.html

          
          
             Natural gas futures advanced in New
York on concern that the first tropical storm of the Atlantic
hurricane season may form this weekend, threatening producing
platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 A collection of thunderstorms intensifying in the Caribbean
has a 70 percent chance of forming into a tropical storm, the
U.S. National Hurricane Center said. Some forecasts show the
storm may head into the Gulf, where about 10 percent of U.S. gas
is produced, according to Energy Department estimates.  
 “There’s a wide variance as to where the storm would
hit,” said  Ed Kennedy , a senior vice president of energy
trading at Hencorp Becstone Futures in Miami. “One thing they
agree on is in the next 24 to 48 hours there will be a named
tropical storm. At the very least it will put natural gas
sellers on the sidelines.”  
 Natural gas for July delivery rose 7.9 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $4.827 per million British thermal units at 12:02
p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gas has fallen 3.4
percent this week.  
 The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
predicted an active hurricane season with 14 to 23 named storms.
Eight to 14 of those storms are expected to become hurricanes
and three to seven are likely to become major systems with winds
of 111 miles (178 kilometers) per hour.  
 Tropical storm forecasts as the weekend approaches make it
more risky for traders to sell gas, Kennedy said.  
 “Everybody’s frozen in the headlights,” Kennedy said.
“God puts his position in and there’s nothing you can do,
especially on a Friday. Why add risk to a riskier venture to
start with?”  
 Production Estimate  
 Storms this year may cut gas output by 166 billion cubic
feet, the Energy Department estimated in a monthly report on
June 8. That’s equal to about three days of overall gas
production from wells in the lower 48 states.  
 The impact of any storm will be muted by onshore natural
gas production and high inventories, said  Kyle Cooper , a
managing director at energy consultant IAF Advisors in Houston.  
 U.S. gas stockpiles rose 81 billion cubic feet in the week
ended June 18 to 2.624 trillion cubic feet. Storage was 13
percent higher than the five-year average. Gas inventories at
the end of October 2010 will reach 3.805 trillion cubic feet,
the Energy Department estimated in its monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook on June 8. Stockpiles rose to a record 3.84 trillion
cubic feet in November 2009.  
 Short Response  
 The market response to the storm will likely be short-
lived, Cooper said. Any impact on offshore production will be
offset by the storm’s effect on cooling demand.  
 “What does a storm do to hot weather? It drops
temperatures and knocks out air-conditioning demand,” Cooper
said. “It’s just the fear of ‘What if?’ Being short ahead of
that ‘what if’ is a risk a lot of people don’t want to take.”  
 Gas fell this week as forecasts predicted cooler air will
curb power demand for air conditioners. About 22 percent of
electricity is generated using natural gas, according to the
Energy Department.  
 Cooling demand will fall below normal in the Northeast and
north central U.S. next week, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist
with Weather Derivatives of Belton, Missouri.  
 New York City cooling demand will fall from 62 percent
above normal tomorrow, with temperatures forecast to reach 89
degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius), to 50 percent below
normal by July 2, Salmon said in his report. Demand in
Washington will fall to 56 percent below normal by July 2.  
 “The American weather models turned slightly cooler for
the six-to-10-day forecast period, once again chipping away at
the earlier picture calling for extreme heat,” said  Teri Viswanath , director of commodities research for Credit Suisse
Securities USA in Houston. “However, the tropical activity in
the Gulf will probably offset any inclination to push this
market to far lower on the week.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        