-- Nestle, Cisco, Dor Yeshorim: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/nestle-cisco-harman-dor-yeshorim-gene-patent-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Ethical Coffee Co. said French
authorities seized 50 coffee capsules at two factories after a
complaint by  Nestle SA , which is battling to defend its
Nespresso coffee unit from increased competition.  
 Bailiffs visited plants operated by subcontractors based in
the French towns of Chambery and Tarbes, Ethical Coffee Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard said by phone.  
 “I’m surprised by Nestle’s angle of attack,” Gaillard
said. “They’re basing it on two patents that don’t have
anything to do with our capsules. Nestle told the judge that
we’re infringing the patents on their machines, but we don’t
make machines.”  
 Nespresso faces a challenge in its main market, France,
where Ethical Coffee and Sara Lee Corp. began selling compatible
capsules this year. The brand provided about a fifth of Nestle’s
sales growth last year, excluding acquisitions and currency
swings, David Hayes, an analyst at Nomura, has estimated.  
 Sara Lee started selling L’OR Espresso capsules that are
compatible with Nespresso single-serving coffee machines in
French stores in April. Ethical Coffee followed in May with
capsules it says are biodegradable. Consumers who bought a
Nespresso machine previously were committed to using Nestle’s 16
“Grand Cru” and limited-edition varieties, sold only in
boutiques and online.  
 Nestle is revamping Nespresso products ahead of patent
expirations in 2012, Richard Withagen, an analyst at SNS
Securities, wrote in a note to investors June 23. Nestle will
face more competition in that year, according to Hayes.  
 The Swiss company has started collecting evidence related
to patent infringement of the Nespresso system, Ferhat Soygenis,
a spokesman for the Vevey, Switzerland-based company said in an
e-mail. He said it’s “premature” to name the parties involved
and declined to comment further.  
 Ethical Coffee’s capsules are sold by  Casino Guichard-
Perrachon SA , which runs Casino and Monoprix supermarkets.  
 Nestle said June 15 it sued Sara Lee in France for alleged
patent violations.  
 Cisco Counsel Accused of Inappropriate Speech at Commil Trial  
 Cisco Systems Inc.’s lawyers’ alleged anti-Semitic remarks
are at the root of a motion Commil U.S.A. filed seeking a new
trial in a patent case.  
 Commil, of The Woodlands, Texas, sued Cisco in federal
court in Marshall, Texas, in August 2007, accusing the San Jose,
California-based company of infringing a patent covering short-
range communications technology.  
 A jury agreed and on May 17 awarded Commil $3.7 million in
damages, well below the amount the Texas company had sought.  
 In the June 21 motion for a new trial, Commil said Cisco’s
lawyers “made numerous overt and veiled sidebar comments”
aimed at creating prejudice against the patent owner and
inventors.  
 These comments “pervaded the trial, playing into known
stereotypes of Jews, foreigners and plaintiffs’ personal injury
lawyers,” Commil said in court filings. The remarks affected
the jurors ability “to deliver a fair and impartial verdict,”
according to the filing.  
 One of the remarks to which the company objected was a
comment to the jury when Cisco’s counsel was cross-examining
Commil’s Israeli owner. Commil claimed the lawyer asked about
the owner’s dinner at a barbeque restaurant, and said “I bet
not pork” was eaten.  
 Although the court admonished Cisco’s lawyer about this
remark, Commil claims the damage was done and made worse by the
lawyers’ subsequent references to the trial of Jesus by Pontius
Pilate as “a Bible story we all read as kids.” Other
objectionable remarks, Commil said, included references to
“bottom-feeders,” and a big verdict that would give the
company owner “a pretty good day at the track.”  
 Commil said it should receive a new trial as the trial
tactics of Cisco’s counsel “constituted plain error,” and the
small size of the damage award was “evidence of manifest
injustice.”  
 Otis W. Carroll Jr. , a lawyer who represented Cisco in the
case from the firm  Ireland, Carroll & Kelly PC  of Tyler, Texas,
didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  
 Commil is represented by  Richard Alan Sayles ,  Christopher
Warren Hogue ,  Eve L. Henson ,  Mark Daniel Strachan  and  Mark. S.
Werbner  of Dallas-based  Sayles Werbner .  
 The case is Commil U.S.A. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 2:07-cv-
00341-CE, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  
 Nobel Laureate Says Gene Patenting Can Inhibit Research  
 The leader of the U.K.’s team in the Human Genome Project
said gene patents can inhibit research, the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper  reported  yesterday.  
 John Edward Sulston , a Nobel laureate biologist, said gene
patents are “going to get into the way of treatment unless you
have a lot of money” and will hamper research, according to the
Guardian.  
 Speaking at an event at London’s Science Museum to mark the
10th anniversary of the first draft of the human genome, Sulston
said some researchers are attempting “to monopolize through the
patent system essentially all the tools for genetic
manipulation,” the Guardian reported.  
 These tools should be in the public domain, he said,
because “monopolist control of this kind would be bad for
science, bad for consumers and bad for business because it
removed the element of competition,” according to the
newspaper.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Skyway Sues Landor & Hawa, Says ‘Zero Gravity’ Mark Infringed  
 Skyway Luggage Co., the largest closely held maker of
luggage in the U.S., sued an Indiana-based company for trademark
infringement.  
 Skyway, which was founded 100 years ago, objects to Landor
& Hawa International Ltd.’s use of “Sub Zero G” for a line of
lightweight luggage. Skyway claims Landor & Hawa is infringing
the “Zero Gravity” mark the Seattle-based company has used
since 1999. It was registered as a U.S. trademark in November
2000, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  
 Skyway discussed a settlement with Landor & Hawa’s Landor &
Hawa U.S.A. unit in 2009 and sent the company a proposed
settlement agreement in January, without receiving a response,
according to the complaint filed June 24 in federal court in
Seattle.  
 Landor & Hawa’s use of “Sub Zero G” mark has damaged
Skyway’s market, goodwill and reputation and causes confusion in
the marketplace, according to court papers.  
 Landor & Hawa didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  
 The Seattle company asked the court to halt Landor & Hawa’s
use of the “Sub Zero G” mark or any other than is
“confusingly similar” to “Zero Gravity.” It also seeks money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs, and an award of
profits attributable to the alleged infringement.  
 Skyway is represented by  Nathaniel Eli Durrance  of the  Seed
IP Law Group PLLC  of Seattle.  
 The case is Skyway Luggage Co. v. Landor & Hawa U.S.A.
Ltd., 2:10-cv-01042, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  
 Boris Becker’s Ex-Wife Wins Harman Trademark Fight  
 Barbara Becker, the former wife of three-time Wimbledon
champion Boris Becker, won a European Union court challenge to
audio-systems maker  Harman International Industries Inc. ’s
trademark rights to the name Becker.  
 The  European Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled yesterday
that how well-known a person is should be among the
considerations when checking whether a surname should qualify
for EU trademark protection. It rejected a lower court’s
assessment that her full name would be too similar to Harman’s
trademarks “Becker” and “Becker Online Pro.”  
 The ruling helps clarify how much protection famous people
can get under EU trademark law for names that are already being
used as brands by a company. Barbara Becker applied for an EU
trademark on her name in 2002, two years after Harman, which
makes sound systems for homes and vehicles, filed for its
trademarks.  
 The lower EU court “erred in law in basing its assessment
on the conceptual similarity of the marks,” the EU’s Court of
Justice said. The 2008 decision failed to take “account of
factors specific to the case,” including Barbara Becker’s
status as a well-known person.  
 Calls to Harman, based in Stamford, Connecticut, outside
regular office hours weren’t answered.  
 Yesterday’s decision means that the General Court, the EU’s
second-highest court, will have to re-examine the case. The
lower EU court had ruled that the two trademarks were similar
“visually, phonetically and conceptually.”  
 “Although it is possible that, in a part of the European
Union, surnames have, as a general rule, a more distinctive
character than forenames, it is appropriate, however, to take
account of factors specific to the case,” the court said in its
nine-page judgment. This includes checking whether the name
Becker is unusual or very common.  
 “Account must also be taken of whether the person who
requests that his first name and surname, taken together, be
registered as a trademark is well known, since that factor may
obviously influence the perception of the mark by the relevant
public,” said a five-judge panel of the court in the judgment.  
 According to a  website  that tracks German surnames,
“Becker” is the ninth-most common. Formerly an occupational
surname, “Becker” means “baker.”  
 Boris Becker became one of Germany’s most popular
personalities after winning his first Wimbledon title in 1985.
He took the title at the age of 17, making him the youngest
Wimbledon champion in history. He retired from competitive
tennis in 1999 after winning six Grand Slam tournaments,
including two Australian Opens and the 1989 U.S. Open.  
 Boris Becker and his wife separated in 2000 after seven
years of marriage.  
 The case is C-51/09 P Becker v Harman International
Industries.  
 Dor Yeshorim Sued Fertility Clinic for Infringing Trade Name  
 An organization that tests Orthodox Ashkenazi Jews for
genetic disorders sued a Brooklyn, New York-based fertility
counseling group for trademark infringement.  
 Dor Yeshorim Inc. , also of Brooklyn, claims  A Torah
Infertility Medium of Exchange  infringes its trade name,
according to the complaint filed June 21 in Central Islip, New
York.  
 The Hebrew phrase “dor yeshorim” means “upright
generation,” the genetic-counseling agency said in its
pleadings. According to court papers, Dor Yeshorim objects to
Torah Infertility’s use of the Hebrew phrase “doros yeshorim”
in its logo, which is the plural of the same phrase.  
 The two agencies, both aimed at Orthodox Ashkenazi Jews,
offer services “in very closely related, if not identical,
channels of trade,” Dor Yeshorim said in its complaint. The
genetic-testing group said the name similarity has caused
confusion in the relevant community.  
 After being contacted by counsel for the genetic-testing
group, Torah Infertility initially said it would change its
marketing materials, mailers and website. The use of “doros
yeshorim” by the fertility clinic has continued, the genetic-
counseling agency claimed.  
 Briefly Torah Infertility used “dor mevorochim” --
“blessed generations” -- before returning to “doros
yeshorim,” the genetic-testing group said.  
 Dor Yeshorim said it took this dispute to the rabbinical
court known as a “beis din.” Three times the fertility clinic
ignored a request to appear before the beis din, which, under
Jewish law, then gave Dor Yeshorim the right to take the matter
to a civil court, according to court papers.  
 The suit was filed after the beis din gave Dor Yeshorim
permission in May 2010 to seek the secular court’s assistance in
settling this dispute.  
 Dor Yeshorim asked the court to bar Torah Infertility’s use
of “dor yeshorim” or “doros yeshorim” in English or Hebrew.
It also seeks money damages and asked that they be tripled, plus
an order for a destruction of all allegedly offending materials
in the infertility group’s possession.  
 Additionally, Dor Yeshorim asked for an award of Torah
Infertility’s profits attributable to the infringement and for
attorney fees and money damages.  
 The genetic counseling group is represented by  Peter I.
Bernstein  of  Scull Scott Murphy & Presser PC  of Garden City, New
York.  
 The case is Dor Yeshorim Inc. v. A Torah Infertility Medium
of Exchange, 2:10-cv-02837-JFB-WDA, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Central Islip).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 New Zealand Films Losing Ground to Infringers, Industry Claims  
 The New Zealand film industry is losing NZ$70 million ($50
million) a year to piracy, the New Zealand Federation Against
Copyright Theft  told the New Zealand Herald .  
 The organization’s director said the infringement affects
theater operators, DVD stores and “mum and dad business
owners” in addition to the film industry, according to the
Herald.  
 Pirated copies of “ Boy ,” a New Zealand film, are
circulating on the Internet and may negatively affect DVD sales
and its international release, the Herald reported.  
 The New Zealand government is considering anti-piracy
amendments to the nation’s copyright law that may result in a
NZ$15,000 fine or termination of Internet access for illegal
downloaders, according to the newspaper.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        