-- NYC's Bloomberg, Council Agree on $63 Billion Budget Saving Fire Companies
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-06-25T04:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/new-york-city-63-billion-budget-reduces-school-spending-maintains-police.html

          
          
             New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and
the City Council agreed on a $63 billion  budget  with reduced
spending for schools, libraries, cultural institutions and
social programs to make up for declining revenue and the loss of
$1.3 billion in state aid.  
 The spending plan for the most-populous U.S. city contained
no new taxes, kept the police department’s uniformed headcount
at 35,000, and saved 20 fire companies targeted for closing. The
city may need to cut more from the budget should the U.S.
Congress reject a Medicaid funding bill the city relied upon for
$600 million over the next two years, Bloomberg said.  
 “Pain yes, serious damage no,” Bloomberg said as he stood
in the City Hall rotunda, moments before sealing the agreement
with Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  with a handshake and a kiss
at about 11 p.m. last night. “While others were ignoring the
economic storm warnings, we did not. Back in 2007, we started
directing city agencies to tighten their belts.”  
 Rising pension and health-benefit costs complicated the
task of balancing a budget made more difficult by the state’s
proposed $1.3 billion cut in revenue-sharing and school aid, and
the failure of Governor  David Paterson  and the Legislature to
agree on a state spending plan.  
 Budget analysts haven’t determined how many jobs will be
terminated, though the number may reach into the hundreds, nor
how many positions will be reduced through attrition among the
city’s more than 300,000 employees, Bloomberg said.  
 Stimulus Payments  
 Future budgets will be even tougher to balance should the
federal government not renew billions of dollars in economic-
stimulus payments, Bloomberg said. City budget analysts predict
 gaps  of about $3.8 billion next year, $4.6 billion in 2013 and
$5.4 billion in 2014.  
 “The big problem is next year, which you have to start
thinking about right now,” Bloomberg said June 18 on WOR radio.
“The  Department of Education  starts with an $800 million hole
in it right away because we have stimulus money for education,
which I would assume is not coming back.”  
 State law and the  City Charter  require the mayor and
Council to adopt a balanced budget by June 30. Fiscal 2011
begins July 1. The plan anticipates spending about 1 percent
less than the $63.5 billion budget officials estimate city
expenditures will total in 2010.  
 Spending Cuts  
 The budget contains $1 billion in gap-closing cuts to
agency spending. It also assumes a $1.9 billion revenue increase
in 2010 and an $824 million boost for 2011 because of an
improved economic outlook, and $3.3 billion in surplus funds
accrued in past years and carried over to balance revenue with
expenses.  
 To make up for the loss in state aid, including $493
million in reduced school funding, and to save 4,400 teachers’
jobs targeted for termination, Bloomberg removed more than $900
million reserved in a January spending plan for salary raises of
4 percent.  
 Any future pay boosts for teachers and other city employees
would have to be paid for through productivity increases or
contributions to pension and health plans, Bloomberg said last
month. The city’s contract with its teachers expired in October.  
 More savings will come from reduced spending that will cut
library service to five days a week from six; closing some of
the city’s 339 day care placements, and shutting some programs
for seniors, AIDS patients, the homeless and the mentally ill. A
scholarship program to the City University of New York, summer
jobs for youth and support for legal services for the poor saw
funding trimmed.  
 ‘Difficult Year’  
 “We know that we are facing a long and difficult year,”
Quinn said.  
 Fitch Ratings, in a report this month on the city’s
intention to sell $800 million in debt, assigned an AA credit
rating, its third-highest.  
 “Advanced, effective budget monitoring and management and
conservative revenue forecasting have allowed the city to react
quickly to changing conditions,” the report stated. It added
that officials had “continued sound action to address budget
gaps in a time of uncertainty, particularly regarding the
outlook for state funding.”  
 The city’s reliance upon Wall Street for more than 12
percent of its jobs and 30 percent of total earnings remains a
risk to future revenue should the financial industry falter,
Fitch said.  
 Moody’s Investors Service, in a report rating the city’s
debt Aa2, its third-highest, said that while New York has taken
“proactive measures that have provided near-term benefits,
mounting costs for debt service, pensions and retiree health
care will continue to pressure the city.”  
 The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Speaker of New York City Council Christine Quinn. Photographer: Astrid Stawiarz/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
