-- New York Lawmakers Face Showdown With Paterson as Budget Deadline Looms
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-25T17:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/new-york-state-lawmakers-face-paterson-showdown-as-budget-deadline-looms.html

          
          
             New York  lawmakers face a budget
showdown with Governor  David Paterson , who says they must agree
on a spending plan in three days or choose between a government
shutdown and his package of taxes and spending cuts.  
 Legislators still haven’t closed a $9.2 billion budget gap
for the year that started April 1. Paterson’s proposed $135.2
billion budget is the most-delayed since 2004.  
 Weekly emergency bills have kept the nation’s third-most
populous state running while the governor has shuffled funds
between accounts and delayed payments to schools and contractors
as cash dwindled.  
 “If they do not bring me a balanced budget by Monday, I’m
going to put the rest of the savings in the emergency
appropriations and they will have to vote on them,” Paterson
said yesterday in a radio interview. Lawmakers cannot modify the
emergency spending bills, only pass or reject them.  
 Paterson has asked legislators for proposals about coping
with a larger deficit if the state doesn’t receive all of the $1
billion in additional federal money expected this year for the
Medicaid health-care program. Legislation for the payments to
New York and 30 other states failed to move forward in the U.S.
Senate yesterday.  
 Leaders of the New York Senate and Assembly have discussed
raising fees or taxes for additional revenue, including applying
the state’s 4 percent sales tax to clothing purchases of less
than $110, Paterson said this week.  
 Managing Expectations  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver  of Manhattan, a Democrat,
and Senate Democratic leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn have
declined to describe specific details of their budget talks in
order “to manage the expectations of the special-interest
groups,” Sampson told reporters at a meeting in Albany, the
state capital. Democrats control both houses of the Legislature.  
 Selling bonds won’t be part of any plan, because that would
avoid spending cuts and result in a larger deficit for his
successor, the governor said yesterday. Previously he has called
borrowing “a last resort.” On June 14 he said it was an option
“we have to seriously think about” if the state doesn’t
receive the additional Medicaid funding it has been counting on
since February.  
 Paterson, a 56-year-old Democrat, isn’t running for
election in November.  
 The Assembly has proposed selling $2 billion of debt backed
by personal income-tax receipts. The Senate wants to raise as
much as $1 billion by selling bonds backed by payments from
tobacco companies, which wouldn’t affect the budget because they
rely on revenue from cigarette makers, said Budget Director
 Robert Megna .  
 Planning for Shutdown  
 The emergency spending measures set for the June 28 vote
include authority to issue paychecks to state workers. If the
bills don’t pass, Paterson has ordered state agencies to plan
for a shutdown, with only state police and other essential
workers remaining on the job.  Payments  on the state’s $55
billion of debt won’t be affected because they were authorized
in March.  
 The impact of a shutdown on New York-backed debt “would be
minimal, as most of the state budget has already been
appropriated,” said  Emily Raimes , a New York-based analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service. The state’s bond rating was affirmed
with a stable outlook of Aa2, the third-highest investment
grade, Moody’s said on June 18.  
 Government shutdowns are “usually the result of a
political stalemate,” and by the time they occur are already
reflected in bond ratings, she said. Pennsylvania, Minnesota and
New Jersey all had closures in recent years, the report said.  
 ‘Abdicated Its Role’  
 Schools and other local governments in New York may
increase short-term borrowing in coming months, the Moody’s
report said.  
 Forcing a budget agreement through emergency spending bills
is unprecedented in New York, though Paterson has said it would
be legal, since the Legislature “abdicated its role” by
failing to present a budget plan. The state government has never
shut down, according to Moody’s.  
 “He’d really be twisting arms and making impressive and
decisive use of his executive budget power” if lawmakers are in
fact forced to choose between a government shutdown or approving
deeper cuts in education, said  E.J. McMahon , an Albany-based
fiscal analyst with the Manhattan Institute, a business-funded
policy research group.  
 So far, lawmakers have approved about 70 percent of the
budget by passing pieces of an annual spending plan in the
weekly budget bills, said Silver.  
 Beverage Tax  
 Paterson said he hasn’t included the most contentious parts
of his budget in emergency spending bills -- a 1 cent-per-ounce
tax on sweetened beverages and larger cuts in aid to school
districts -- because he didn’t want to “abuse” his power.  
 Republican Senate Leader  Dean Skelos  of Long Island’s
Rockville Centre has said that after months of delay, Democrats
will try to push through a budget that borrows and raises both
spending and taxes.  
 Senate Democrats, who once promised not to raise any taxes,
earlier this week used their 32-30 majority in the upper chamber
to approve $440 million of additional tobacco taxes that will
add $1.60 to $4.35 already assessed per pack of cigarettes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor David Paterson, a New York Democrat, speaks during an editorial board meeting in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
