-- Kagan's Diverse, 'Decrepit' Manhattan Helped Shape Her Outlook
-- Kristin Jensen
-- 2010-06-25T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/nominee-kagan-s-diverse-decrepit-manhattan-helped-shape-her-development.html

          
          
             In the Manhattan neighborhood of
 Elena Kagan ’s youth in the 1960s and 1970s, drug addicts and
prostitutes conducted their business minutes from the doormen
and marbled lobby of her childhood home.  
 The future U.S. Supreme Court nominee’s mother, a
schoolteacher, and father, an attorney, were typical residents
of the Upper West Side’s grand boulevards. Three blocks away in
Sherman Square, a scrap of greenery where Broadway crosses
Amsterdam Avenue, heroin was being sold in the open, a scene
memorialized in Jerry Schatzberg’s  1971 movie  “The Panic in
Needle Park” starring  Al Pacino .  
 “One of the advantages of growing up in New York in those
days was that you saw a broad swath of life just walking down
the street,” said  Margaret Raymond , 50, a high school friend of
Kagan’s who worked as a law clerk for Justice  Thurgood Marshall 
a year before Kagan did. “Her worldview includes a wide range
of experience just because of what she saw and where she
lived.”  
 Kagan, 50, who is President  Barack Obama ’s solicitor
general, hasn’t spoken much about her childhood and isn’t
granting interviews as she awaits Senate confirmation hearings.  
 According to Raymond, Kagan and their peers at Hunter
College High School had high aspirations and expectations.  
 The school was a “place full of people who might be
Supreme Court justices,” Raymond said. “This was really a
place that was full of smart, serious young women who were going
places in life.”  
 Princeton Article  
 In a  November 1980 article  in Princeton University’s school
newspaper as  Ronald Reagan  won the presidency, Kagan said she
absorbed her liberal principles early in life and bemoaned
Democratic losses at the polls.  
 “Where I grew up -- on Manhattan’s Upper West Side --
nobody ever admitted to voting Republican,” she  wrote .  
 In the late 1960s, residents of the Upper West Side, which
stretches from the west side of Central Park to the Hudson
River, marched down Broadway, Manhattan’s longest thoroughfare,
carrying candles and their children, to call for an end to the
Vietnam War. The Village Voice dubbed the neighborhood the Upper
Left Side for its liberal political views.  
 “It wasn’t the expensive place to live that it is now,”
said Lawrence Block, the novelist whose character Bernie
Rhodenbarr, a gentleman thief and used bookseller, lives in a
fictional apartment at 71st Street and West End Avenue, four
blocks from where Kagan lived as a young girl.  
 As hard drugs reached Manhattan, chunks of the Upper West
Side near Kagan’s home turned “really nasty,” Block said in a
telephone interview.  
 Neighborhood Junkies  
 Schatzberg used junkies who hung out a block from Kagan’s
home as extras in his film. “They pointed out which buildings
they go into to buy drugs and where they’d shoot up half a block
away,” he said in a telephone interview from his own Upper West
Side home.  
 The Upper West Side was “decrepit and getting worse,”
said architectural historian Christopher Gray, who also lived
there.  
 “Very, very gritty,” is how Olga Statz, 45, described the
area when she was growing up. She remembers abandoned buildings,
slums, street crime and rent strikes, announced with red
lettering on white sheets hanging from windows.  
 Statz, the daughter of Haitian immigrants, bought plantains
at local bodegas, knew the proprietors of the corner stores and
saw Caribbean natives and Latinos living alongside Jews from
Central Europe and Chinese immigrants.  
 Wandering the Streets  
 “It was the world in a few blocks,” said Statz, who lived
at 101st Street and Broadway and later at 94th and Amsterdam.
“That is something I’ve never seen again, anywhere.”  
 Raymond recalls wandering the city with Kagan as a girl,
holding long conversations in the coffee shops that then dotted
the neighborhood. Long before Starbucks arrived, she saw her
first cappuccino at  Café La Fortuna  on West 71st Street, and
tasted cakes at the Éclair pastry shop, where New York magazine
said in 1971, “Mitteleuropa gathers at 4 p.m. to revive the
afternoon with coffee and pastries.”  
 “We were New York kids,” said Raymond, who was a year
ahead of Kagan at  Hunter College High School , where Kagan’s
mother, Gloria, taught for many years in the elementary school.  
 As Kagan prepared for college, the Upper West Side joined
the broader revitalization of New York City, said Gray, an
architectural history columnist for the New York Times and owner
of the Office for Metropolitan History, an archive research
firm.  
 Regulated Rents  
 Regulated rents forced many landlords to sell their
buildings to tenant cooperatives, a move that spurred the
revitalization and gentrification of side streets filled with
decaying townhouses and once-elegant buildings that had become
flophouses and residential hotels.  
 Rowhouses that in 1970 would have cost $30,000 had climbed
to $1 million by 1987, the New York Times reported that year.
Now they routinely sell for  $7 million  and more, according to
broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  
 Needle Park has been landscaped, and mothers now sit on its
benches playing with their toddlers.  Barney’s Co-Op  sells blue
jeans for $265 a pair a block away. The once rundown Beacon
Hotel at 76th and Broadway now rents rooms for $225 a night, and
the disused rail yards five blocks south became condos developed
by the celebrity real estate tycoon  Donald Trump .  
 Today, the average family income in Kagan’s old
neighborhood is $156,000, or double the national average; 75
percent of the residents are white and 53 percent have college
degrees, according to  U.S. Census Bureau  data for the
congressional district encompassing her former home.  
 Family Homestead  
 Her family’s two-bedroom, three-bath 1,700 square-foot
 apartment  with a maid’s room in the 1924 building sold for
 $1.325 million  in 2009, a sign of the neighborhood’s climb to
upper-middle-class status from its mixed roots a half-century
earlier.  
 “She was very much a product of that place,” said  Michael Dorf , who lived in the Trump development from 1995 to 2008 while
a law professor at Columbia University in New York. While the
Upper West Side remains liberal, it has become more well-to-do
and the intellectual fervor of Kagan’s youth has dissipated and
she may be edging to the center as well, Dorf said in an
interview.  
 “The entire political spectrum has moved to the right,”
Dorf said from Cornell University in Ithaca, New York where he
now teaches.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. solicitor general and Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan smiles during a meeting a in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
