-- Nomura Holdings Paid Shibata, Architect of Lehman Purchase, $2.8 Million
-- Takahiko Hyuga
-- 2010-06-25T07:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/nomura-holdings-said-to-have-paid-three-executives-more-than-1-1-million.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc.  paid Chief
Operating Officer  Takumi Shibata , who guided the takeover of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s operations, 252 million yen
($2.8 million) last fiscal year, President  Kenichi Watanabe  said
at the company’s annual shareholder meeting today.  
 Including stock options, Japan’s largest brokerage paid
Watanabe 299 million yen in the year ended March 31, and
Chairman  Junichi Ujiie  194 million yen, Masatoshi Tanaka,
Tsutomu Kimura, Naoji Nishio and other individual investors who
attended the meeting said, citing Watanabe.  
 Nomura more than tripled pay for top  managers  last year as
it returned to profit from a  record  loss, according to a
financial report sent to shareholders earlier this month. Nomura
shares rose 35 percent in the 12 months to March as it recovered
from losses partly caused by the 2008 acquisition of Lehman
Brothers’ Asian and European businesses.  
 “It sounds a bit low globally,” said James Hawrylak, head
of Asian operations for U.S. proxy adviser Glass Lewis & Co.
“The question is how has Nomura done in growing shareholder
value and what was this individual’s role in that.”  
 Nomura returned to a full-year profit of 67.8 billion yen,
compared with a loss of 708.2 billion yen a year earlier. The
company has also raised almost $8 billion in public  share  sales
since March 2009. Shibata led the task of integrating 8,000
Lehman employees and operations, flying to London and Hong Kong
to oversee the process.  
 Financial Disclosure  
 Keiko Sugai , a spokeswoman at Nomura, declined to comment
on the executives’ compensation. The shareholders’ meeting was
closed to press.  
 The Financial Services Agency  this year began forcing
listed companies to disclose compensation exceeding 100 million
yen for board members or executives in filings to the Ministry
of Finance. Companies now must provide a breakdown of
compensation packages, including stock options, bonuses and
retirement payouts under new corporate disclosure rules.  
 Among Japan’s listed companies, 1.4 percent of executives
and 8.3 percent of presidents were paid more than 100 million
yen, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in an April report.
Companies have been reporting executive compensation on a
voluntary basis, often providing average salaries.  
 Nomura will officially announce individual compensation
details next week, Watanabe said at the meeting.  
 Nissan Motor Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  is
the best paid leader of Japanese companies to have so far
declared compensation, having received 891 million yen in salary
and stock options last fiscal year. He’s followed by Sony Corp.
Chairman  Howard Stringer , who earned about 810 million yen in
salary, bonus and stock options.  
 Watanabe and his executive team received average
compensation of 145 million yen for the last fiscal year, up
from 41.5 million yen from a year earlier, according to the
Tokyo-based company’s website.  
 “I don’t think the pay figures are beyond common sense,”
said Tanaka, 75, who owns 1,000 shares in Nomura. “What I want
Nomura to do is boost its revenue. Nomura should expand its
overseas business as it isn’t likely to have a future if it
sticks to Japan.”  
 In comparison, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CEO  Lloyd Blankfein 
had his compensation slashed to $862,657 last year from $40.95
million in the previous 12 months. Citigroup Inc.’s  Vikram Pandit  agreed to take $1 in salary last year and no bonus, while
 Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEO, was paid a total of
$1.32 million, a 96 percent drop.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        