-- Novo's Degludec Insulin as Effective as Sanofi's Lantus With Fewer Doses
-- Frances Schwartzkopff
-- 2010-06-25T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/novo-s-insulin-drug-found-as-effective-as-sanofi-s-with-less-frequent-dose.html

          
          
             Novo Nordisk A/S’s  experimental
insulin degludec, taken three times a week to treat diabetes,
was as effective as  Sanofi-Aventis SA’s  once-daily Lantus in a
mid-stage clinical trial.  
 Degludec lowered blood sugar levels as much as Lantus,
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo said in a statement today at the
 American Diabetes Association  meeting in Orlando, Florida. About
one in four patients, or 23 percent, reported episodes of too
low blood sugar, similar to Lantus, Novo said, citing the study
by researchers including Bernard Zinman of Mount Sinai Hospital
in Toronto. That condition, called hypoglycemia, can cause
confusion, fainting and death.  
 The convenience of taking degludec three times a week will
win over diabetics, said  Alan Moses , Novo’s chief medical
officer. Sanofi’s product leads the market, with sales last year
of 3.08 billion euros ($3.8 billion). The combined revenue from
Novo’s engineered insulins, Levemir, NovoRapid and NovoMix, was
21.5 billion kroner ($3.55 billion) in 2009.  
 “What we hear from patients is that they’re craving
anything that will lower the frequency of their injections,”
Moses said in a telephone interview.  
 Taken daily, degludec was less effective than Lantus, Novo
said. Fewer than one in 10 had confirmed hypoglycemic episodes.  
 In patients taking degludec three times a week in the 16-
week trial, the percentage of red blood cells to which sugar had
attached, a measure of the illness’ severity, fell by 1.5
points, Novo Nordisk said. The same decline was reported for
patients on Lantus, the Danish drugmaker said. Taken daily,
degludec reduced blood sugar levels by 1.3 percentage points.  
 Daily Shots  
 Some diabetics must take as many as four shots a day: a so-
called basal insulin, which maintains a steady level of the
hormone throughout the day, and three shots to coincide with
mealtimes. Diabetics don’t produce enough insulin to absorb the
sugar into which food is broken down. It collects in the blood
and may cause kidney failure, heart problems and blindness.  
 Novo Nordisk last year began the final phase of  testing 
degludec and a second experimental insulin, degludec plus, after
initial results were positive. The trials, in which about 10,000
people are participating, are the largest ever for the Danish
drugmaker, whose growth has been driven by engineered insulins.  
 Another experimental insulin, which combines degludec with
a mealtime insulin, lowered the majority of diabetics’ blood
sugar to recommended levels as effectively as Lantus without
major episodes of hypoglycemia, Novo said. One-hundred and
nineteen people participated in the 16-week, early-phase trial.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        