-- Obama's Legislative Victories Not Translating to Voter Approval
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-06-25T19:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/obama-s-legislative-victories-fail-to-translate-into-u-s-voter-approval.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  is close to
winning the top three priorities on his legislative checklist,
even as recession-weary Americans give him some of the lowest
approval ratings of his presidency.  
 His latest victory arrived today as congressional
negotiators approved the most sweeping overhaul of U.S.
financial regulation since the Great Depression, just three
months after passage of landmark health-care legislation. Less
than a month after taking office, Obama signed into law one of
the biggest economic-rescue efforts in U.S. history.  
 Still, with unemployment at 9.7 percent, the president has
been unable to convert those three accomplishments during the
first year and a half of his first term into public goodwill.
His job-approval rating is 45 percent in the latest  Gallup Poll ,
with 45 percent disapproving of his performance. That’s near his
presidential low of 44 percent reached June 7-11.  
 “You have a very nervous public that wants change, but
they want change in their lives right now, and nothing has
changed,” said  Wayne Fields , an American culture studies
professor at  Washington University  in St. Louis. “People don’t
feel better off.”  
 The president’s legislative victories -- which may also
include an energy bill this year -- also are countered by
crises, including the largest U.S. oil spill, continued tension
in the Middle East and potential fallout from the dismissal of
Obama’s top general in Afghanistan.  
 ‘Ahead of the Curve’  
 White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said the deal
reached on financial regulation by House and Senate negotiators
will help provide stability to the U.S. and other nations.  
 “The president was ahead of the curve and has been calling
for the kind of bold, aggressive action we saw last night in the
House and Senate for three years now,” Emanuel said in an e-
mail. “The Recovery Act, health-insurance reform, education
reform -- all of these tough actions will help us restore growth
and strength to the economy.”  
 As Obama traveled today from Washington to Canada for an
economic summit with world leaders, White House Press Secretary
 Robert Gibbs  was asked on Air Force One why the president’s
legislative scores aren’t resonating with Americans.  
 “There will be a significant time and place to have a
debate about the actions of the last 17 months,” Gibbs said.
“The president will be a forceful voice in that debate.”  
 ‘Three Big Hits’  
 With this year’s congressional elections 18 weeks away,
that debate is certain to get hotter, with two-thirds of
Americans saying the U.S. is headed in the wrong direction and
an anti-incumbent sentiment in the air.  
 A spokesman for Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell 
dismissed Obama’s latest achievement, describing the financial-
regulatory measure as one of “three big hits” to the economy.  
 “The stimulus didn’t keep unemployment under 8 percent as
promised, the health-care bill is a job killer, and nobody
believes the Wall Street bill will create jobs,” said  Don Stewart , the spokesman for McConnell of Kentucky.  
 Democrats hailed the financial regulatory agreement and
shared credit with the president.  
 “This would not have happened if  George Bush  was
president,” House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts said in an interview. “I hope it helps
deal with some of the cynicism about the system, first of all
the notion that big money wins everything.”  
 Following Through  
 Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, chairman of
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said the
legislation shows Obama has “followed through clearly on his
promise to end business as usual and rein in some of the big
corporate special interests that had been running the show.”  
 Public sentiment on the health-care legislation passed
earlier this year remains divided. In a  USA Today/Gallup Poll 
taken June 11-13 of 1,014 adults, 49 percent said it was a good
thing that Congress passed the measure, while 46 percent said it
was a bad thing and 5 percent were unsure.  
 Throughout his presidency, Obama and his aides have
telegraphed their willingness to take political risks to push
their agenda quickly.  
 “I’d rather be a really good one-term president than a
mediocre two-term president,” Obama  told  ABC News in January.  
 At the same time, he has sometimes forgotten to show enough
empathy for voters and the problems they face, hurting his
standing with them, Fields said.  
 Focusing on Voters  
 “The way you get things done is to get legislation through
Congress, and so they have focused a lot of their efforts
there,” he said. “For all of Obama’s rhetorical skills, he has
not been focused on the general public.”  
 Whatever accomplishments Obama may point to before
November’s elections, Fields said he is skeptical they will help
Democrats, because what is most remembered is the partisan
hostility involved with passing such measures as health care.  
 “More than anything else, people remember how cloudy the
process was,” he said. “It’s a frustration with how they went
about their business.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Olivier Douliery/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
