-- Obama's Deficit-Cutting Commission Has Tight-Fisted Budget to Do Its Work
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/obama-s-deficit-cutting-commission-has-tight-fisted-budget-to-do-its-work.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  sought $15
million to run his oil spill commission and a panel on the Wall
Street meltdown got $8 million. The budget for his commission on
reducing the federal deficit: $500,000.  
 That’s less money than the government spent last year on a
study of expanding a congressional underground garage. The
Senate’s second-ranking Democrat,  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, said
the small budget is making an already tough job even more
difficult.  
 “We’re having substantive, thoughtful hearings, but you
look around the room and there are two or three people on staff
and you think to yourself: this is a big assignment,” said
Durbin of Illinois. “They’re doing the best they can but it is
really a struggle.”  
 The commission is charged with presenting a plan by
December on how to reduce deficits projected to average $1
trillion a year for the next decade, an amount economists view
as dangerously large. Moody’s Investors Service has warned it
will cut the government’s bond rating if the deficit outlook
doesn’t improve. Three-fourths of the panel’s 18 members must
agree on its recommendations, and Congress would vote on them.  
 “We have all the money we need,” Bruce Reed, commission
executive director, said in an interview, “We’re a deficit
commission, so we’re tight-fisted by nature.”  
 Panel member  Kent Conrad , the Senate Budget Committee
chairman, said it doesn’t have enough resources.  
 “These are extremely complex issues,” said Conrad, a
North Dakota Democrat. “What are you going to do with Social
Security, Medicare, the revenue system of our country?”  
 ‘Daunting Challenge’  
 “Without professional staffing that puts an enormous
weight on the commission,” Conrad said. “It adds to what is
already a daunting challenge.”  
 Commission co-chairman  Alan Simpson , a Republican former
senator from Wyoming, said in April that members considered
holding hearings around the U.S. to draw attention to their work
before concluding “we don’t have the scratch.”  
 Representative  Frank Wolf , a Virginia Republican who pushed
for years to create a debt commission, said holding such
hearings is “mandatory” to help the panel build public support
for its proposals.  
 “If you don’t have buy-in from the American people, how
can you be successful?” said Wolf, who isn’t a member of the
commission.  
 Wolf noted that the report from the Wall Street meltdown
panel, which got an $8 million budget from Congress, is due in
December, months after lawmakers are likely to complete work on
financial overhaul legislation.  
 Executive Order  
 Obama created the debt commission in February by executive
order after the Senate refused to do so through legislation. Its
budget came from money the White House reserves for
unanticipated expenses, Reed said.  
 The $500,000 has been used to hire Reed and an assistant,
rent equipment and an office of about 1,500 square feet, and
fund travel to Washington for Simpson and co-chairman  Erskine Bowles , White House chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton .
Bowles lives in North Carolina.  
 Honeywell International Inc. Chairman  David Cote  and  Ann Fudge , former chief executive officer of Young & Rubicam Inc.,
pay their own way to the meetings, Reed said. All 18 members are
unpaid.  
 The panel supplemented its staff by borrowing aides from
the Treasury Department, White House budget office and
Department of Health and Human Services.  
 “You have to persuade their boss or persuade their agency
that they can part with them,” Reed said. “On the other hand,
the talent you can get that way is hard to beat, so if you can
borrow the best people that’s the best of all worlds.”  
 Nonprofit Volunteers  
 Lawmakers on the commission are having aides informally
work for it, and the panel is using volunteers from nonprofit
groups such as the Washington-based Committee for a Responsible
Federal Budget.  
 “It took a while to build this army but we’re in good
shape now,” said Reed, estimating he can tap between 15 and 20
aides. In contrast, the House Ways and Means Committee has a
staff of about 75 and a $10.5 million budget.  
 Reed said the panel doesn’t need the resources of other
presidential commissions because those “are doing an awful lot
of fact-finding, which is labor intensive.”  
 He said the debt panel’s “biggest challenge is getting
both sides to agree -- and that’s not a manpower question.”  
 Former Congressional Budget Office Director  Robert Reischauer  called the commission’s budget “quite
parsimonious,” though he said it would be difficult politically
to have a deficit commission with a large budget.  
 “It would appear unseemly” to some people “to have a
deficit-reduction commission with a budget in the millions,”
Reischauer said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Frank Wolf, a Virginia Republican, speaks at a news conference in the Capitol in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Linda Yueh, an economist at Oxford University, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the outlook for this weekend's Group of 20 summit in Toronto and proposals for a global bank levy and a tax on securities transactions to clamp down on financial speculation.
     Yueh, speaking in London, also discusses the debate over austerity measures aimed at cutting budget deficits and stimulating global economic growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
