-- MobiTV to Offer Service on Android Devices After IPhone Success
-- Ian King
-- 2010-06-25T18:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/mobitv-to-offer-service-on-android-devices-after-iphone-success.html

          
          
             MobiTV Inc. , maker of a top-grossing
application on Apple Inc.’s iPhone, said it will offer its
mobile television service on devices running  Google Inc. ’s
Android system this year.  
 “Our pipeline is extraordinarily Android heavy,” MobiTV
Chief Executive Officer  Charlie Nooney  said in an interview
yesterday. “We are very much in the acceleration phase.”  
 MobiTV’s program is the second-highest revenue generating
iPhone application in Apple’s store, gaining in popularity since
the World Cup began two weeks ago. MobiTV is now targeting
Android phones, which jumped to 9.6 percent of the global
smartphone market in the first quarter, from 1.6 percent a year
earlier, according to research firm Gartner Inc. The iPhone’s
share rose to 15.4 percent from 10.5 percent.  
 The Android operating system is used on phones sold by
manufacturers including  Motorola Inc. ,  HTC Corp.  and  Samsung
Electronics Co.   
 Subscribers to MobiTV’s iPhone service, offered exclusively
by  AT&T Inc.  in the U.S., pay $10 a month for live news and
sports coverage, as well as access to more than 200 shows on
demand. The company shares revenue from each download with
Cupertino, California-based Apple. MobiTV has more than 10
million subscribers total, including those who use other devices
offered by different carriers, Nooney said.  
 MobiTV faces competition from Flo TV, a unit of Qualcomm
Inc., the world largest phone-chip maker. That service has
struggled to attract subscribers partly because there aren’t
enough phones that offer it,  Bill Stone , who runs the business,
said in an interview earlier this month.  
 MobiTV was founded in 1999 in Emeryville, California, near
San Francisco. The closely held company has raised more than
$100 million from investors including  Redpoint Ventures ,  Menlo
Ventures ,  Oak Investment Partners  and  Sorrento Ventures . The
company has all the private capital it needs, Nooney said.  
 “We’re 10 years old; we should be looking at the next
phase,” he said. “We have plenty of runway and plenty of cash
left.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        