-- Hogs, Cattle Rise; Meat Supply May Fall When Russia Resumes Poultry Buying
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-25T19:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/hogs-cattle-rise-meat-supply-may-fall-when-russia-resumes-poultry-buying.html

          
          
             Hog prices rose for the first time
in three days and cattle gained on speculation that meat
supplies will decline as Russia resumes imports of U.S. chicken.  
 Russia, once the largest buyer of U.S. chicken, agreed to
lift a five-month-old ban on the meat, President Barack Obama
said yesterday after meeting with Russian President Dmitry
Medvedev in Washington. On May 31, U.S. chicken  inventories  were
up 9 percent from a year earlier, leaving more meat to compete
with pork and beef.  
 “The primary factor is Russia,” said  Rich Nelson , the
director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry, Illinois.
“Less poultry in the U.S. will mean less pressure on pork here
at home. It might provide marginal support to cattle as well.”  
 Hog futures for August settlement rose 0.675 cent, or 0.8
percent, to 83.925 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. This week, the most-active contract climbed 1.5
percent, the third straight gain.  
 Cattle futures for August delivery advanced 0.225 cent, or
0.3 percent, to 89.375 cents a pound. This week, the price
climbed 1.3 percent, the second consecutive increase.  
 Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement rose 0.525
cent, or 0.5 percent, to $1.132 a pound. Earlier, the price
touched $1.135, the highest level since May 14.  
 Russia essentially barred U.S. chicken in January by
slashing the allowable amount of chlorine producers can use to
disinfect the meat. U.S. processors have agreed to replace
chlorine with different treatments, and exports to Russia may
resume “within a matter of days,”  Jim Sumner , the president of
the USA Poultry and Egg Export Council, said yesterday.  
 Hog Inventories  
 Hogs also rose on speculation that a U.S. Department of
Agriculture report would show shrinking domestic herds. About
5.788 million hogs were being held back for breeding as of June
1, down 3 percent from a year earlier, the USDA said after
markets closed in Chicago. Eleven analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey expected a 3.5 percent cut.  
 Hog futures have jumped 43 percent in the past year as
farmers slashed herds after financial losses in 2008 and 2009.  
 China agreed to resume imports of beef from Canada,
boosting cattle futures. China, the world’s fourth-largest
consumer of the meat, banned shipments from Canada and the U.S.
in 2003 on mad cow disease concerns.  
 “China has agreed to accept Canadian beef, and now the
U.S. may be next in line to push back into China,” Nelson said.  
 Canada is the sixth-largest beef exporter and the top
foreign supplier of live cattle to the U.S., according to the
USDA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        