-- Oil Firms of South Africa Leader Nephew to Start Congo Exploration in 2012
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-06-25T12:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/oil-firms-of-south-africa-leader-nephew-to-start-congo-exploration-in-2012.html

          
          
             Two companies owned by South African
President  Jacob Zuma ’s nephew will in 2012 begin exploring two
oil blocks in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo that were
previously contracted to  Tullow Oil Plc , a company advisor said.  
 Congo awarded blocks 1 and 2 in Lake Albert to Caprikat
Ltd. and Foxwhelp Ltd., registered in the British Virgin Islands
and owned by Khulubuse Zuma, according to a presidential decree
published in Congo’s Journal Officiel June 22. Zuma is also
chairman of Aurora Empowerment Systems Ltd., which is in the
process of buying two gold mines in South Africa from  Pamodzi
Gold Ltd.   
 The companies will begin exploration in 19 months, Giuseppe
Ciccarelli, executive director of Switzerland-based Medea
Development SA and Zuma’s technical advisor, said by phone from
Brussels. The companies are looking for partners to help develop
the project. “There will be a number of companies with public
and private capital that may be interested in working on the
project,” he said, which will “develop economic and strategic
cooperation between Congo and South Africa.”  
 Congo has signed contracts with three different companies
to develop the blocks. Tullow, the U.K. explorer with the most
licenses in Africa, signed a contract for the blocks in 2006. It
never received a presidential decree to begin exploration.
Divine Inspiration Group Ltd., a South African company, signed a
competing contract for block 1 in 2008.  
 The oil blocks are located in the Albertine Graben in the
Western Rift Valley of East Africa on the border with Uganda,
where an estimated 2 billion barrels of reserves have already
been discovered. Congo, which is recovering from four decades of
war and dictatorship, wants to begin exploration soon.  
 Development  
 “We are geared up to partner with the DRC government in
order to fast-track the development of these highly prospective
gas and oil concessions,” Zuma said in an e-mailed statement
sent by Caprikat yesterday.  
 Caprikat was incorporated on March 24, according to
registration documents from the British Virgin Islands, or BVI.  
 “No legitimate company will farm into blocks with an
unknown BVI company so we fail to see how these blocks are going
to be developed for the benefit of the people of DRC,” Tullow
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 “Without transparency and the sanctity of contracts it is
very difficult to attract legitimate investment that will
benefit the general population rather than the few,” London-
based  Tullow  said. “We are reviewing our options but have no
doubt about the legal validity of our claims to these blocks.”  
 Congo on June 18 also issued two other presidential decrees
awarding  Soco International Plc  and  Dominion Petroleum Ltd. 
block 5 along Lake Edward and  SacOil Holding Ltd.  of South
Africa block 3, according to the Journal Officiel.  
 Divine Inspiration Group co-founded  SacOil  with businessman
 Tiego Moseneke ’s Encha Group Ltd. in 2008. Moseneke is the
brother of South African Deputy Chief Justice  Dikgang Moseneke .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        