-- Hong Kong Legislature Passes Electoral Law As Deal Struck With Democrats
-- Marco Lui
-- 2010-06-25T09:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/hong-kong-legislature-passes-electoral-law-as-deal-struck-with-democrats.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s  Legislative Council 
approved a package that sets the pace for expanding the city’s
democracy, overcoming concerns from opponents that the plan
won’t move it down the path of universal suffrage.  
 LegCo members voted 46-12 today on Chief Executive  Donald Tsang ’s proposal for expanding the size of the lawmaking body by
10 seats to 70, a day after approving a plan for selecting his
successor in 2012.  
 “This is the most major adjustment to the constitution
since 1997,” said  Christine Loh , chief executive of think tank
 Civic Exchange . Since Britain returned Hong Kong to China that
year, it’s been governed by the Basic Law, which enshrines the
“One Country, Two Systems” principle that guided the handover.  
 The democracy package passed after the government agreed to
changes proposed by the opposition Democratic Party. The
compromise represented all that “Beijing is prepared to
accept,” said Loh, a former lawmaker.  
 “History will prove the reform today is a decisive step in
a right direction,” Tsang told reporters today. “This is the
victory of rationality.”  
 LegCo had voted 46-13 yesterday on a measure that will see
the number of people who choose the chief executive increased
from 800 to 1,200. The members of the Election Committee are
appointees sanctioned by China.  
 Protests  
 Among those fighting the package were lawmaker  Leung Kwok- hung , who was ejected from the LegCo chamber minutes before the
vote as he shouted “this is fake universal suffrage.” The
three-day debate was carried live on local television.  
 A statement issued on the website of the Hong Kong and
Macao Affairs Office of the State Council after the vote said
“The central government stands firm on promoting the democratic
development of Hong Kong’s political system in line with the
Basic Law and the decision by the Standing Committee of the
National People’s Congress.”  
 LegCo  now has 60 lawmakers, 30 chosen by business groups
and associations representing so-called functional
constituencies.  
 “I don’t think directly elected members are superior to FC
members,” lawmaker  Sophie Leung , who holds a functional
constituency seat representing the textile and garment industry,
said before the vote.  
 The package stipulates that the 10 new lawmakers on the
council are to be chosen by Hong Kong’s 3.2 million eligible
voters. Originally five were to be directly elected and five
were to be chosen by 405 directly elected district councilors.  
 ‘People’s Victory’  
 “This is a victory for democracy and Hong Kong’s people,”
Hong Kong’s Chief Secretary for Administration  Henry Tang  told
supporters outside the legislature after the vote. The chief
secretary is appointed by the chief executive and endorsed by
the Central Peoples Government of China.  
 The pro-democracy Civic Party’s five lawmakers were
calling for universal suffrage in 2012, five years earlier than
China plans to let the public vote for the chief executive and
eight years before planned direct elections of all LegCo members.
They also seek the abolition of all functional-constituency
seats.  
 “This is the darkest day and functional constituencies will
last forever,” said League of Social Democrats lawmaker Wong
Yuk-man as he walked out of LegCo immediately after the vote was
tallied.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     LegCo members voted 46-12 on Chief Executive Donald Tsang’s proposal for expanding the size of the body by 10 seats to 70. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
