-- Monsanto Claims of Improved Soybean Yields Investigated in West Virginia
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-06-25T20:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/monsanto-claims-of-improved-soybean-yields-investigated-in-west-virginia.html

          
          
             Monsanto Co. , the world’s biggest
seed company, is being investigated by West Virginia over
possibly misleading growers who were promised improved yields
from its new Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybean seeds.  
 “My office is concerned that West Virginia farmers are
paying much higher prices for soybeans with the Roundup Ready 2
trait when the yields do not live up to the claims and do not
justify the increased prices,” West Virginia Attorney General
 Darrell V. McGraw  wrote in a  letter  dated June 24 and posted on
his website.  
 Monsanto last year began shifting growers to the new seeds
by promising a 7 percent to 11 percent bigger harvest compared
with the original Roundup Ready soybean seeds, which lose patent
protection in 2014. Iowa State University, Pennsylvania State
University, a farmer group and investment researcher OTR Global
found the latest seeds failed to boost yields as promised,
McGraw said in the letter.  
 The St. Louis-based company may have engaged in unfair or
deceptive acts under West Virginia law and be subject to
penalties, McGraw wrote. He invited the company to meet before
the state possibly begins litigation.  
 Monsanto has data demonstrating the improved performance,
it said in an e-mailed statement. Roundup Ready 2 soybeans
increase yields on average by 3.6 bushels, more than 7 percent,
according to 40,000 comparisons the company conducted between
2007 and 2009, it said.  
 Purchase Decisions  
 The attorney general’s letter “is based on a
misunderstanding of our national marketing materials,” Monsanto
said. “Growers measure the performance of these products on
their farm and make their purchase decisions based on what’s
right for them.”  
 Monsanto fell 74 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $48.27 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares fell 41 percent this year.  
 Roundup Ready 2 soybeans were planted on 1.5 million acres
last year and cost growers $74 an acre, 42 percent more than the
older product. West Virginia growers bought enough of the new
seeds to plant fewer than 50 acres in 2009, Monsanto spokesman
 Lee Quarles  said. Sales this year aren’t yet available, he said.  
 West Virginia grew about  18,000 acres  of the nation’s 77.5
million acres of soybeans last year, making it the smallest
soybean-growing state tracked by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        