-- Monsoon Rains to be More Than Predicted as La Nina Develops, Aiding Crops
-- Prabhudatta Mishra
-- 2010-06-25T11:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/monsoon-rainfall-to-be-102-of-50-year-average-india-weather-office-says.html

          
          
             India’s monsoon rainfall, the main
source of irrigation for the nation’s 235 million farmers, will
be more than previously forecast, helped by the La Nina weather
condition, the weather office said today.  
 Rains in the June-September season may be 102 percent of
the 50-year average, the  India Meteorological Department  said in
a statement on its website. Showers would be 98 percent of the
long-period average, the weather office said on April 23.  
 Adequate rainfall may help Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
efforts to tame food inflation rate that has remained over 15
percent since November and lower the need to buy sugar, pulses
and edible oils from abroad. India overtook China as the world’s
biggest buyer of palm oil and became the largest sugar importer
after the weakest  monsoon  in more than three decades last year.  
 “We have seen high food inflation and that will be taken
care of by good monsoon rains,” said  Utpal Choudhury , head of
research at Dalmia Securities Pvt., by telephone from Mumbai
yesterday. “This is good for economic growth as agriculture
will be able to contribute to the economy the way it should.”  
 The weather office said there’s a very high probability for
the La Nina conditions to develop during the four-month season,
echoing a  forecast  by the U.S. Climate Prediction Center. La
Nina, caused by colder-than-normal sea-surface temperatures in
the Pacific Ocean, can bring wetter-than-usual weather in Asia
and below-average rains in parts of the U.S., Argentina and
South of Brazil, the biggest suppliers of soybeans.  
 Wettest Month  
 Rainfall in July, the wettest month of the monsoon season,
may be 98 percent of the long-period average. Showers in August
are forecast at 101 percent, the weather office said.  
 Precipitation over  northwest India , the nation’s main cane,
cotton and rice- growing region, may be 102 percent of the 50-
year average, the forecaster said. The region was the worst
affected by last year’s drought. Central India, which includes
the top soybean-producing areas, may receive normal rainfall,
while showers over the southern peninsula will be 102 percent,
the weather office said. Showers over northeastern states, the
top tea-growing region, may be 103 percent of the average.  
 The department, which failed to predict last year’s drought,
categorizes normal rain to be between 96 percent and 104 percent
of the long-term average. Rainfall from June 1 to June 24 is 11
percent less than average at 103.2 millimeters, the bureau said.  
 Economic Output  
 Monsoon rains are the main source of irrigation for farms,
which make up about a fifth of the nation’s economic output. A
deficit can pare harvests in the world’s second-biggest producer
of rice, wheat and sugar, and lower incomes of 742 million
people living in villages.  
 India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
10.16 percent in May, near the fastest pace in 17 months. Prices
of staples, including  wheat ,  lentils  and  sugar , have increased
by between 10 percent and 33 percent in the past year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, adding pressure on the government
to sell more rice and wheat from state reserves.  
 The government said today it will sell 5 million tons of
wheat over nine months starting July to damp prices. Warehouses
held 35.16 million tons of wheat and 25.3 million tons of rice
on June 1, according to the food ministry.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        