-- Orexigen Diabetes Drug Helps Diabetes Patients Lose Weight, Cut Glucose
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-06-25T21:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/orexigen-obesity-drug-helps-diabetes-patients-lose-weight-control-glucose.html

          
          
             Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. ’s
experimental weight-loss pill helped obese patients with
diabetes slim down and control their blood sugar, according to a
company-sponsored study.  
 Twice as many patients taking the drug, Contrave, lost at
least 5 percent of their weight in the 56-week study as those
who got a placebo. Sixty-nine percent more patients on Contrave
achieved desirable blood-glucose levels compared with the
placebo group, researchers said today at a meeting of the
American Diabetes Association in Orlando, Florida.  
 More than 700 million adults worldwide will be obese by
2015, according to World Health Organization projections, and
being significantly overweight is the greatest risk factor for
 Type 2 diabetes , the most common form. Orexigen, of San Diego,
is racing  Vivus Inc.  and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.  to bring new
obesity treatments to market, with U.S. regulatory decisions
expected in October on the competing drugs’ approvability.  
 The findings show “the potential utility of Contrave for
obese patients with diabetes, where weight loss and weight
management, coupled with a clinically meaningful improvement in
glycemic control, improves overall health,”  Priscilla
Hollander , the study’s lead investigator and an endocrinologist
at  Baylor Medical Center  in Dallas, said in a statement.  
 The study involved 505 patients with Type 2 diabetes, at 52
sites across the U.S., who were given either Contrave or a
placebo. In the Contrave group, 44.5 percent of patients lost
more than 5 percent of their body weight, compared with 18.9
percent of those in the placebo group.  
 Blood Protein  
 The researchers also monitored patients’  A1C , a blood
protein that is used to measure average blood-glucose levels
over time. The diabetes association defines good glycemic
control as having an A1C below 7 percent, a threshold reached by
44 percent of patients in the Contrave group and 26 percent of
plabeco patients.  
 Those patients who began the study with the worst glucose
control showed the most improvement while taking Contrave, with
a 1.1 percent average reduction in A1C.  
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has scheduled an
advisory-committee meeting for Dec. 7 to review Orexigen’s
application for Contrave, with a decision expected to follow on
Jan. 31, according to the company.  
 Arena Pharmaceuticals, of San Diego, said June 2 that it
expected the FDA’s Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory
Committee to review the company’s obesity drug, lorcaserin, on
Sept. 16. Vivus, of Mountain View, California, will present data
on its weight-loss medicine, Qnexa, at a July 15 meeting of the
advisory panel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        