-- Toyota President Paid Least Among Japan's Biggest Carmakers
-- Takako Iwatani
-- 2010-06-25T07:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/toyota-plans-to-restart-chinese-factory-as-denso-employees-return-to-work.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s
largest carmaker, aims to restart a plant in China on June 28
after a parts supplier there resumed operations at a factory
that had been shut by a strike.  
 Toyota plans to reopen its plant in Guangzhou, which has
been closed since June 22, Hideto Yukawa, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for the automaker, said today.  Denso Corp. , Japan’s
biggest auto parts maker, said employees agreed to return to
work at a factory in the city that makes components for Toyota.  
 At least eight strikes in the past month have forced
suppliers to Toyota,  Honda Motor Co.  and Nissan Motor Co. to
raise wages in China, increasing the carmakers’ costs in the
world’s largest automobile market. Pressure for higher pay is
rising as workers demand a greater share of the benefits of
economic development, said  Bill Russo , a Beijing-based senior
adviser at Booz & Co.  
 The workforce “has not been benefiting or participating in
that development through the ability to consume the goods they
are producing,” Russo said. “That imbalance has to be
corrected.”  
 Sadayoshi Yokoyama, a spokesman for Aichi, Japan-based
Denso, said talks over wages continue with the workers who
struck at its Denso Guangzhou Nansha Co. joint-venture plant,
even as they have returned to the production lines.  
 Camry, Highlander  
 The factory resumed normal operations today, he said. The
plant halted output on June 21 as employees walked out demanding
higher wages and improved benefits, according to the company.  
 Toyota  fell  1.9 percent to close at 3,135 yen in Tokyo
trading, while Denso declined 1.1 percent.  
 Denso’s Guangzhou plant makes fuel-injection systems and
employs about 1,100 people, according to a company report. Denso
is about 23 percent  owned  by Toyota, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 The shutdown at Toyota’s Guangzhou factory marks at least
the second time the recent labor unrest has disrupted the
carmaker’s output. The plant builds Camry sedans, Highlander
sport-utility vehicles and Yaris compact cars.  
 Strikes have spread since  Honda  agreed last month to raise
wages 24 percent at a parts plant in Foshan, Guangdong, to end a
walkout that shut down all four of its China car factories.  
 Honda’s production in China dropped 37 percent last month
as a result of the action, according to J.D. Power & Associates,
a research company based in Westlake Village, California.  
 Raising Efficiency  
 Satoshi Ozawa , an executive vice president at Toyota, said
the carmaker plans to improve efficiency to make up for the wage
increases.  
 Toyota had anticipated rising labor costs in China because
of the nation’s rapid economic growth, Ozawa said yesterday at
the company’s annual shareholder meeting in Toyota City, Japan,
where the automaker is based.  
 Higher investment and improved wages in western China are
deterring workers from migrating, pushing up pay in more
industrialized regions like Guangdong in the south, said David
Abrahamson, project manager at the China Center for Labor and
Environment.  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities, including the
manufacturing hub Shenzhen, raised minimum wages this year to
help companies recruit workers and to boost domestic consumption,
the city’s government said this month.  
 Workers say the pay increases are necessary to help keep
pace with the rising cost of living in China.  Inflation 
accelerated to an annual pace of 3.1 percent in May, the biggest
increase in 19 months. Property prices in May jumped 12.4
percent across 70 cities from a year earlier, the government
said on June 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nobuaki Kato, president and chief executive officer of Denso Corp., speaking in Chiba City, Japan. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
