-- Toyota President Paid Least Among Japan's Biggest Carmakers
-- Makiko Kitamura
-- 2010-06-25T07:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/toyota-s-president-is-paid-least-among-heads-of-japan-s-biggest-carmakers.html

          
          
             The combined compensation of the
heads of Japan’s three largest carmakers was less than that of
Ford Motor Co.’s  Alan Mulally , the world’s top-paid auto chief.  
 Akio Toyoda , president of  Toyota Motor Corp. , wasn’t named
in a company filing to Japan’s finance ministry today, indicating 
his compensation last fiscal year was less than 100 million yen
($1.1 million). Nissan Motor Co.’s  Carlos Ghosn  earned 891 
million yen and Honda Motor Co.’s  Takanobu Ito  was paid 115 
million yen, the companies have said.  
 Toyoda and Ito are dwarfed by their global peers, who on
average earn about $12 million, according to  Towers Watson &
Co. , a U.S. benefits consultant. Mulally led the pack with $17.9
million in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Because of globalization, competition is intensifying,
and there is a greater importance placed on strong and decisive
management,” said  Katsuyuki Kubo , an associate professor of
economics at Waseda University in Tokyo who specializes in
compensation and corporate governance. “Without the pay
incentive, Japan could lose out on competitiveness.”  
 Toyota’s top executives, including Toyoda, took pay cuts
and gave up bonuses as the carmaker  recalled more than 8 million
vehicles  worldwide to fix defects linked to unintended
acceleration. Toyoda worried he would have to step down as
president ahead of U.S. Congressional hearings on the recalls in
February, he said yesterday.  
 “I was feeling enormous pressure and was full of anxiety
as I went in to bring up the rear of this losing battle,” he
told  shareholders  at the company’s annual meeting in Toyota
City, where it is based.  
 Toyota’s top 38 executives received an average of 53.1
million yen each in salary and stock options for the year ended
in March, the company said yesterday. That’s a 30 percent
decline from the previous year.  
 $162 Million in Shares  
 Four executives were named in the filing: Chairman  Fujio Cho , earning 132 million yen in salary and stock options; Vice
Chairman  Katsuaki Watanabe , paid 114 million; Vice Chairman
 Kazuo Okamoto  with 108 million yen; and North American president
 Yoshimi Inaba  with 124 million yen.  
 New regulations require publicly traded Japanese companies
to disclose the compensation of individuals who earn more than
100 million yen.  
 Toyoda, the grandson of Toyota’s founder, owns 4.564
million shares in the carmaker, valued at about $162 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
Ito’s $362,000 of Honda shares and Ghosn’s $31 million in Nissan
and Renault SA shares, according to the data.  
 ‘Felt Like Criminals’  
 In the fiscal year ended in March, Honda was Japan’s most
profitable carmaker, earning 268 billion yen in  net income ,
beating Toyota’s 209 billion yen and Nissan’s 42 billion yen.  
 Toyoda described in detail the days he spent preparing for
his testimony before a Congressional committee on Feb. 24. He
spent four days at a Toyota dealer’s home near Washington D.C.
with Inaba and U.S. sales chief  Jim Lentz , he said.  
 “We were confined there and felt like criminals,” he
said. “We crammed from morning to late at night, and I thought
I might become ill.”  
 A shareholder admonished Toyoda for shedding tears in
public after the hearing and encouraged him to do his best in
leading the company.  
 “Please understand those were tears of joy,” Toyoda said.
“I received such warm words of encouragement from our suppliers
and customers. I realized I was protected by the very people I
was trying to protect.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Toyota Motor President Akio Toyoda  
                       
                         
                           Tony Avelar/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Toyota Motor President Akio Toyoda at a news conference in Palo Alto, California. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Toyota Motor President Akio Toyoda at a news conference in Palo Alto, California. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
