-- Palestinians' Erakat Says Israel `Will Sweat' If Talks Yield No Progress
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-25T22:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/palestinians-erakat-says-israel-will-sweat-if-talks-yield-no-progress.html

          
          
             Palestinian Chief Negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said visible progress has to be made soon on Mideast
peace talks because of growing frustration among Palestinians.  
 “If by the end of this year we have no two-state
solution, you will sweat,” Erakat told Israel’s Deputy Prime
Minister  Daniel Meridor  today.  
 Erakat shared a stage with Meridor today at the
 International Peace Institute  in New York where they discussed
the situation in Gaza, the decline of attacks on Israel out of
the West Bank and the prospects for progress in peace talks.  
 “If there’s going to be an explosion, it will be because
of the wall,” Erakat said, referring to an Israeli security
barrier built to physically separate much of the Palestinian
Authority-controlled West Bank from Israel.  
 Meridor said the decrease in terrorist attacks in Israel
was largely due to the barrier. “The fact that we have no
terror has a lot of reasons; the wall is one of them,” he said.  
 Meridor said he fears that U.S-brokered indirect peace
talks can’t succeed and that Palestinians and Israelis must
engage more directly.  
 “I hope they will succeed,” Meridor said of the
negotiations led by U.S. special envoy to the Middle East  George Mitchell . “I’m afraid they in themselves cannot succeed, cannot
substitute decisions that need to be taken on both sides,”
Meridor said.  
 Erakat said Palestinians were ready for direct talks
whenever Israel met certain conditions. “We have never said
‘no’ to direct negotiations,” Erakat said. “The minute”
Israel agrees to stop settlement activities and other conditions
for talks, “we will resume” them, Erakat said.  
 Indirect Talks  
 Israel and the Palestinians began U.S.-mediated indirect
peace talks last month for the first time since December 2008,
when Israel launched a military operation in the Hamas-
controlled Gaza Strip that the Israelis said was intended to
stop cross-border rocket attacks against its southern towns and
cities.  
 Since the operation ended, more than 400 rockets and
mortars have been fired from Gaza into Israel, killing one
foreign worker, according to the Israeli army.  
 “We kicked all the Jews out” of Gaza, Israel’s Meridor
said, referring to the Jewish state’s withdrawal from Gaza in
2005. “What was the result? We had rockets launched at us.”  
 Israel reacted by instituting a naval blockade of the Gaza
territory in 2007 designed to prevent arms from reaching the
militant Islamic group Hamas. Israel’s May 31 naval raid on a
flotilla of aid ships trying to break the blockade left nine
Turkish citizens dead. The subsequent international outcry
prompted Israel to announce an easing of the blockade on June
21, allowing in all materials except military items and those
that could aid Hamas’s military machine.  
 A majority of Israelis supported the raid.  
 Wrong Policy  
 Meridor said he approved of the decision. “I think it was
the wrong policy,” he said. “I think we did good that we
changed it.”  
 Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  rejected a
June 22 call by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to begin
direct peace talks. Abbas said Israel should first entirely lift
its blockade on the Gaza Strip and enact a complete freeze on
settlement building.  
 Hamas, which won Palestinian parliamentary elections in
2006, ousted forces loyal to Abbas’s Fatah group and seized full
control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, leaving Abbas in charge of
the West Bank. Hamas is considered a terrorist group by Israel,
the U.S. and the European Union.  
 Settlement Freeze  
 Israel instituted a freeze this year on settlement
construction in the West Bank that doesn’t include public
buildings or some 3,000 housing units that are already being
built. It is scheduled to end in September.  
 The Israeli newspaper Ha’aretz reported yesterday that
Netanyahu declined to clarify when visiting Austrian Chancellor
 Werner Faymann  asked whether Israel would continue settlement
construction in September.  
 Instead, Netanyahu said the government had to see how the
political process progressed, Ha’aretz said. In an earlier
meeting, Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  told Faymann
that he did not see any other option apart from resuming
construction when the building freeze ends, Ha’aretz said.  
 Israel captured east Jerusalem from Jordan during the 1967
Middle East War and later annexed it in a move that isn’t
internationally recognized.  
 This week, the municipality of Jerusalem announced plans to
raze 22 homes in an Arab neighborhood in east Jerusalem. The
city, which plans to turn the area into a tourist park, says the
homes were built illegally.  
 Jordan’s  King Abdullah  and Syria’s President  Bashar al- Assad  condemned the plans.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        