-- Palm Oil Prices May Drop as Production Expands in Malaysia, KL Kepong Says
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-06-25T02:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/palm-oil-prices-may-decline-as-malaysia-production-expands-kl-kepong-says.html

          
          
             Palm oil prices may extend declines
as production in Malaysia picks up, the country’s third-largest
listed plantation company said.  
 “We are moving gradually into higher production in
Peninsular Malaysia,” with output in Borneo’s Sabah state
expected to increase from August,  Roy Lim , a director  Kuala
Lumpur Kepong Bhd. , said in an e-mail interview. “We expect
yields to rise up till October or November,” Lim said.  
 Rising production may extend a drop in palm oil futures,
which have lost 10 percent this year amid a record global crop
of rival oilseeds. Palm oil for September delivery on the
Malaysia Derivatives exchange closed at 2,390 ringgit ($738) a
metric ton in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  
 About 90 percent of palm oil, the world’s cheapest edible
oil, is produced in Indonesia and Malaysia. Dry weather late
last year and early this year caused by the El Nino weather
phenomenon stressed oil palms, helping drive a 57 percent rally
in prices in 2009.  
 So far there is “not much supply pressure yet as stocks
are low, but they will gradually increase,” Lim said. While
prices must fall to stimulate demand, “low stocks and festive
demand will ensure they do not crash,” Lim said. Oil palms
usually produce about 55 percent of their annual output in the
second half.  
 Palm oil stockpiles  in Malaysia shrank for a fifth month in
May from April as exports gained. Inventory fell 3.7 percent to
1.56 million tons, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board said on June 10.
 Output  rose 6.1 percent to 1.39 million tons while exports
expanded 6 percent to 1.36 million tons.  
 Palm oil demand typically picks up in the third quarter
with major festivities in China, India, Pakistan and Indonesia,
the most populous Asian countries.  
 Young Plantations  
 KL Kepong’s oil palms are younger than some of its rivals,
giving it “scope for significant fresh-fruit bunch yield
accretion in the coming years” and lifting the company’s growth
prospects, said plantation analyst Tan Chi Wei of Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd. in a report on June 23.  
 Tan raised his  recommendation  to ‘buy’ from ‘hold,’ and
lifted his 12-month price target to 18 ringgit from 15 ringgit.
The shares have gained 36 percent in the past year and closed at
16.36 ringgit yesterday.  
 Only 40 percent of KL Kepong’s oil palms are of prime age,
compared with 75 percent for  IOI Corp ., the second-largest
listed rival, Tan said. Oil palms take about four years to
mature and reach peak production in their seventh or eighth year,
then continue to produce up to 25 years of age.  
 Price Pressure  
 Malaysia palm olein  has risen to a premium over  degummed
Argentina soybean oil , driven mostly by concerns over adverse
weather, said  Ben Santoso , a plantation analyst at DBS Vickers
Securities (Singapore) Pte.  
 Malaysia palm olein traded at $803.50 a ton on June 22,
while Argentina soybean oil was at $791.23 a ton on June 23,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Palm olein is “at a premium lately,” Santoso said. “The
pressure is on crude palm oil to fall” in the second half, he
said.  
 “Currently the weather is not an issue,” Lim said of KL
Kepong’s plantations, when asked if recent heavy rainfall in
Southeast Asia has affected output.  
 Conditions are “favorable” for the La Nina weather event,
which can bring above-average rainfall to Australia and parts of
Asia, to develop during June to August, the U.S. Climate
Prediction Center said in a weekly report on June 21.  
 La Nina is caused by a cooling of sea surface temperatures
in the eastern Pacific Ocean and can also cause below-average
rains in southern Brazil during the September-to-November
soybean planting season.  
 Soybean planting in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
producer, may be delayed by dry weather, Paulo Etchichury, head
of Sao Paulo-based forecaster Somar Meteorologia, said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        