-- Petrobras Bonds Sinking as Share Sale Flip-Flop Signals More Debt Finance
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-06-25T22:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/petrobras-bonds-sinking-as-share-sale-flip-flop-signals-more-debt-finance.html

          
          
             Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s  benchmark
dollar bonds posted the biggest weekly decline in almost two
months on speculation the Brazilian state-run oil producer will
be forced to increase debt financing after delaying a planned
share sale.  
 Yields on Petrobras’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
rose 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 5.74 percent,
the biggest weekly increase in seven weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to own
the notes rather than Brazilian government debt jumped to 150
yesterday, the highest since the securities were issued in
October, from 94 at the end of last week.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  postponed
plans this week to raise as much as $25 billion through a stock
 offering  to minority holders pending an assessment of oil
reserves that the government intends to swap for equity as part
of the deal. The company is aiming to raise $58 billion through
debt and equity sales over five years as it seeks to develop the
largest discovery of crude in the Americas since 1976.  
 “The key factor is how much money they are going to raise
from the equity markets,”  Jose Luis Villanueva , a director at
Fitch Ratings Ltd., said in a telephone interview from New York.
Share sales will determine “the incremental debt that Petrobras
has to issue, and that could impact its credit metrics over the
medium-term and long-term,” he said.  
 Investment Plan  
 A surge in bond issuance by the Rio de Janeiro-based
company, whose five-year, $224 billion investment plan is the
biggest in the oil industry, could increase the risk of Fitch
cutting its  BBB credit rating , according to Villanueva.  
 Gabrielli, 60, said in a May 3 interview in Sao Paulo that
the company doesn’t plan to sell bonds this year because it’s
reaching the “upper limits” of  debt ratios  before putting
credit ratings at risk.  
 The company said today that it has an option to sell shares
before firms hired to assess the value of oil reserves in a
related deal finish their reports.  
 “To carry out the capitalization, it isn’t mandatory for
the certifiers to finish the work, but the company believes that
the definition of the value of the share swap will give
investors and shareholders more information on whether to
participate or not,” Petrobras said in the regulatory filing.  
 ‘More Concerned’  
 Officials in Petrobras’s public relations department
declined to comment on the company’s financing.  
 “The share sale is an important thing so that they can
proceed with further debt sales without risking the ratings,”
said  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin American debt strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in Toronto, before today’s announcement by the
company. “We’re more concerned now.”  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Petrobras one level to BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, a year ago on concern the investment
program was too big.  
 Villanueva told investors in New York last week that the
probability of a rating cut is higher than an upgrade. He said
yesterday that he’s also concerned by regulations passed this
month by legislators that increase government intervention in
the company. Analysts at S&P and Moody’s were unavailable to
comment.  
 Default Swaps  
 While Petrobras is rated higher than the government by
Moody’s and Fitch, the cost to protect its debt from default is
more expensive. It costs 164 basis points annually to protect
Petrobras debt against non-payment for five years using credit
default swaps, compared with 131 for Brazilian government debt,
which is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by Fitch, the lowest
investment-grade, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.  
 The difference between the two widened to 41 basis points
last week, the biggest since March 2009. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Petrobras  shares jumped 1.5 percent in Sao Paulo trading to
27.91 reais. The stock slid 5.4 percent this week, compared with
a 0.6 percent gain in the benchmark  Bovespa stock index .  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds to Treasuries narrowed one basis point
to 235 at 6:33 p.m. in New York. The spread has increased from
196 at the end of April.  
 ‘Lack of Coordination’  
 The real gained 0.2 percent at 1.7802 per dollar today at
6:34 p.m. The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract
due in January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading, rose one
basis point to 11.3 percent.  
 Petrobras, which delayed the share sale to September from
July, is seeking to increase capital by as much as 150 billion
reais ($84 billion) in part by buying rights to as much as 5
billion barrels of oil from the government with stock. Petrobras
said in a June 22 statement that industry regulators will assess
the value of the reserves by the end of August. Elections to
choose a new congress and replace President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da
Silva are set for October.  
 “Qualitatively, it’s bad because it’s showing a lack of
coordination and exposes Petrobras to more political risk,”
said  Fabio Spinola , who helps oversee $1 billion as equity
strategist at Sao Paulo-based Quest Investimentos Ltda., the
hedge fund run by former Communications Minister  Luiz Carlos Mendonca de Barros .  
 Debt Ratios  
 By increasing equity, Petrobras is in part aiming to
maintain its leverage ratios and protect its investment-grade
rating as it develops offshore reserves in the so-called pre-
salt region off Brazil’s coast, home to discoveries including
Tupi, the largest find since Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976,
according to RBC’s Suarez. Petrobras is seeking to more than
double output to 5.38 million barrels a day by 2020.  
 On June 23, a day after Petrobras delayed the share sale, the
company said it obtained a $1 billion line of credit from the
Agency of Credit and Exportation of Norway, known as GIEK.
Petrobras will use the loan to buy equipment and services from
Norwegian companies, Petrobras said in a statement.  
 The company had a net  debt-to-earnings  ratio of  1.2 ,
compared an industry average of 1.4 at the end of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Petrobras last sold bonds in October, issuing $4 billion of
10- and 30-year debt in its largest dollar-denominated offering.
The sale was split between $2.5 billion of 5.75 percent 10-year
notes that priced to yield 239 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, and $1.5 billion of 30-year bonds that paid
a 271 basis-point spread.  
 While Petrobras will likely wait until after it completes
the stock sales to sell debt, it may issue bonds first should
the opportunity arise, according to Fitch’s Villanueva.  
 “It looks more likely that they may have to raise some
debt,”  Nick Robinson , who helps manage $25 billion in emerging-
market assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Inc., said in a
telephone interview in Sao Paulo. Traders may be pushing up
Petrobras yields in “anticipation” of the issuance, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Petroleo Brasileiro SA chief executive officer Jose Sergio Gabrelli. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
