-- Pimco's Kiesel Favors Bank Debt as Finance Overhaul Calls for More Capital
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-06-25T18:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/pimco-s-kiesel-favors-bank-debt-as-finance-overhaul-calls-for-more-capital.html

          
          
             Mark Kiesel  of Pacific Investment
Management Co. comments on why he thinkss bank bonds are
attractive after congressional negotiators approved the most
sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great
Depression.  
 Kiesel oversees $300 billion of credit investments as
global head of corporate bond portfolio management at Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, the world’s largest bond-fund
manager.  
 On prospects compared with global competitors:  
 “At the end of the day, the U.S. banks look very
compelling on a global basis relative to other banks.”  
 “The money center banks stand out in the U.S. because of
the deposit bases, because of the near-term liquidity and
because of the improving balance sheets and credit profiles.”  
 “That’s unique on a global basis, relative to other
regions where you don’t have the credit fundamental was
strong.”  
 “Europe looks like the sick patient. If you look around
the globe, and you say, where do I want to be in banks? You want
to be in the U.S., you want to be in Australia.”  
 On valuation:  
 “We still have the highest degree of conviction in these
U.S. money center banks. This is a sector to not only own but to
add to.”  
 “The earnings power of the banking system is robust.
You’re seeing asset quality improve.”  
 On regulation:  
 “It’s a long-term trade, it doesn’t happen overnight, but
U.S. banks, particularly JPMorgan, Bank of America and others
are going to be very good investments for bondholders as the
economy recovers and as regulations require more equity capital
at the bottom of the capital structure. There will be
volatility, but this is a longer-term trade.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        