-- Pink Baseball Uniforms Show Minor League Team Seeking Major League Revenue
-- Paul Wachter
-- 2010-06-25T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/pink-baseball-uniforms-show-minor-league-team-seeking-major-league-revenue.html

          
          
             From behind home plate, Jason Klein
and Casey White observe  Reading Phillies  pitcher Phillippe
Aumont. It’s not his arm they’re admiring, it’s what he’s
wearing.  
 “They’re the only team with pink on their uniforms,”
White says.  
 Klein and White, who are each 30 years old, are the owners
of Plan B. Branding, a San Diego-based consulting company that
has helped more than 30 minor-league teams, including the
Double-A Reading Phillies, rebrand themselves, creating new
uniforms, logos, and in some cases even names. It’s a thriving
business, largely because minor-league teams, unlike some in the
majors, haven’t suffered much in the recession,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its June 28 edition.  
 Merchandise sales account for about $50 million of Minor
League Baseball’s $750 million in annual revenue.  
 “The merchandise drives awareness, which translates into
ticket sales,” says Ken Schnacke, president of the Columbus
Clippers and chairman of Minor League Baseball’s licensing
committee. On average, 13 of the 160 teams rebrand themselves
each year.  
 Perhaps the main reason there are more cosmetic changes in
the minors is because the owners and their staff are, in
essence, theater producers -- and costumes are a big part of the
show. “We don’t control a single thing that happens on the
field, not the players that are sent to us or the coaches,”
says Reading Phillies General Manager Scott Hunsicker. “What we
control is what happens off the field and making it a great
experience for the fans.”  
 Fired From Padres  
 That’s where Plan B. Branding comes in. The two owners,
best friends since kindergarten, got off to an inauspicious
start in baseball. They were fired from summer jobs with their
hometown San Diego Padres after pulling a stunt in the stands
involving a piñata of an opposing player stuffed with fake
money. In 2002, while White attended New York’s Pratt School of
Art & Design and Klein the University of Alabama, aided by a
mascot scholarship, they sent letters to every minor league team
offering their design services. Only the West Tennessee Diamond
Jaxx wrote back. For the Jaxx, now a Seattle Mariners Double-A
affiliate, Klein and White designed the team’s new logo, “Jim
Dandy,” a miner wielding a baseball bat modified into a pickax.
Merchandise sales spiked, word spread, and other clubs came
calling.  
 Phillies to Threshers  
 Two years later they reinvented the Clearwater Phillies.
Like many minor-league teams, particularly those in the lower
rungs, the Phillies were named after their parent club, which
had nothing in the way of local identification. To come up with
something that had greater resonance, White and Klein spent time
on the Florida docks, where fishermen recounted their harrowing
brushes with sharks that use their tails to attack. They were
called threshers, and soon enough, so was the team. With a new
logo, the  Clearwater Threshers  sold eight times more gear in
2004 than in 2003.  
 By comparison, the rebranding of the Reading Phillies was
a more modest affair. Team owners considered their association
with Philadelphia to be an important asset, so the range of
possibilities was more circumscribed. “We created a candy
version of the Philadelphia Phillies uniform,” Klein says. In
place of the Liberty Bell, which the Philadelphia team uses on
its patches, Plan B. substituted a pagoda, alluding to a quirky
Reading landmark.  
 Local History  
 Klein and White take pride in the time they spend with an
organization and the research they do into local history before
embarking on design work. “It’s typically about a four-month
process,” Klein says. The fees start at $10,000 for a team and
run as high as $80,000. After their research, they return to the
studio and make dozens of pencil sketches of logos and get
feedback from the team. “Next we work on colors,” Klein says.
“If it’s a brick-heavy city, maybe we look at reds.” Or if the
team is on the coast, they’re aware that “Pacific Ocean blues
are different than Gulf Coast blues.” Finally, they turn to
uniforms. “We’ve developed a special in-house program that
spits out every cap, jersey, and pant option known to man,”
Klein says.  
 Despite Plan B.’s success, minor-league teams generally
don’t turn to outside talent for their logos. “Consultants are
a bad word in our industry,” says Hunsicker, who is wearing
shorts and a funky collared shirt on game night in the
Pennsylvania city. “But Jason and Casey don’t come off like
consultants. They do this Jedi mind trick where you think their
ideas are your own. And they spend time with everyone,
empowering the lowest guys on our staff. That alone is something
worth paying for.”  
 Swimming Pool  
 Successful minor-league teams pull out all the stops in
entertaining their fans. Beyond the right field fence at
Reading’s FirstEnergy Stadium, in lieu of bleachers, is a
swimming pool where kids splash about under their parents’
watchful eyes. On this night, a carrot mascot beat out other
vegetables in a dash to a finish line near third base. And the
postgame fireworks received a bigger ovation than a three-run
homer in the ninth inning by Reading’s top prospect.  
 One of Plan B.’s core concepts is “Shout your story”--
so why have one mascot when you can have a whole rock band made
of mascots (as the Reading Phillies do)? Plan B. also promotes
different aspects of the “ballpark experience.” For Reading,
they helped develop the label “Deck Heads” for the
rambunctious, beer-swilling fans who populate the left field
stands, and the team sells a shirt targeted to them. They also
suggested that the team adopt the hipper team moniker current in
the local vernacular, the R-Phils, another name that can be
sold.  
 “Fifteen years ago, a minor-league team had a home
jersey and road jersey,” says Chuck Domino, the former
president of the Reading Phillies, who now runs the Richmond
Flying Squirrels and the Lehigh Valley IronPigs. “Now, teams
also have Sunday uniforms and batting practice uniforms, and
they’re all for sale.”  
 Mr. Redlegs  
 As Plan B. grows, Klein and White have begun working with
teams outside the minors. They tweaked Mr. Redlegs, the brand
character who appears on the sleeve emblem of the Cincinnati
Reds and have consulted for WNBA and Arena Football League teams
as well as the clothier for USA Gymnastics. They also run a
website called the Clink Room, where amateur designers dream up
their own teams and logos and compete to get them made into caps
and T-shirts.  
 While they say they would welcome a call from the
Steinbrenner family, Plan B.’s owners insist they’ll always feel
more at home in the minor leagues. “In the minors, you can come
up with an idea, and the team can run with it in 48 hours,”
White says. “That’s not how it works with the Cincinnati
Reds.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Wachter in New York at   
          
          


  


        