-- Pope Is Indignant Over Belgian Police Raid of Bishops' Tombs, Vatican Says
-- Flavia Krause-Jackson
-- 2010-06-25T14:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/pope-is-indignant-over-belgian-police-raid-of-bishops-tombs-vatican-says.html

          
          
             The  Vatican  said it was indignant
about a Belgian police raid of the graves of two archbishops in
an investigation of suspected pedophiles among the clergy.  
 The Vatican voiced “astonishment over how the searches
were carried out yesterday by Belgian judicial authorities and
its indignation over the violation of the graves,” said a
statement today by the office of the Secretary of State.  
 Belgian police raided the principal seat of the Roman
Catholic Church in Belgium, the residence of the Archbishop of
Malines in Mechelen, according to a  statement released  by the
Belgian Bishops’ Conference. The police search lasted from 10:30
a.m. until 7:30 p.m., the statement said.  
 “No explanation was given, but all documents and mobile
phones were confiscated and it was referred that nobody could
leave the building,” the bishops’ statement said. “It was not
a pleasant experience.”  
 Belgian’s longest-serving bishop, Roger Vangheluwe,
resigned in April after admitting to sexually molesting a boy
about two decades ago. He was the first senior Catholic official
in Belgium to resign in a scandal that has implicated priests in
nations including the U.S., Germany, Ireland and Italy. The
graves of Cardinals Jozef-Ernest Van Roey and Leon-Joseph
Suenens were searched yesterday by Belgian authorities.  
 Pope Benedict XVI, 83, on June 11 publicly asked for
“forgiveness” from victims of sex-abuse crimes committed by
Catholic priests and promised to do “everything possible” to
shield children from pedophile clerics.  
 Jean-Marc Meilleur, spokesman for the Brussels prosecutor’s
office, didn’t return a voice message left on his mobile phone
seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        