-- Porsche, Vivendi Say Supreme Court Ruling Helps Fight U.S. Investor Suits
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-06-25T13:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/porsche-vivendi-say-supreme-court-ruling-helps-fight-u-s-investor-suits.html

          
          
             Porsche SE  and  Vivendi SA  said a
ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court limiting foreign investors’
ability to sue companies based abroad in American courts will
help as they fight suits filed in New York.  
 The U.S. Supreme Court yesterday ruled that U.S. securities
laws don’t protect foreign investors who buy stocks of non-
American companies on overseas exchanges, throwing out a
shareholder lawsuit against  National Australia Bank Ltd.   
 Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche, maker of the 911 sport
car, was sued in a U.S. court in January by short sellers in
 Volkswagen AG stock , who claimed Porsche secretly cornered the
market in Volkswagen shares and later caused them more than $1
billion in losses.  
 The case “effectively undermines the U.S. hedge fund law
suit against Porsche,”  Brian Johnson , a Barclays Capital
analyst who has an “equal weight/neutral” rating on the
shares, wrote in a note. “This decision should lift a cloud
over the Porsche preferred shares.”  
 The decision may also help Vivendi limit its damages in a
lawsuit filed by a group of shareholders, who are mostly French,
which seeks more than $9 billion.  
 ‘Clear Statement’  
 The court made a “very clear statement,” Vivendi said
today. Porsche has always said that the case against it was
unfounded and that U.S. courts don’t have jurisdiction over it,
company spokesman  Albrecht Bamler  said in a telephone interview.  
 A jury in January found that Paris-based Vivendi misled
investors 57 times from 2000 to 2002. Americans at the time held
only 25 percent of Vivendi’s ordinary shares, according to the
company.  
 The ruling is “terrific,”  Herve Pisani , a lawyer for
Vivendi in Paris, said yesterday. “It has an enormous impact on
our case.”  
 The suit against Porsche was filed in Manhattan federal
court by Elliott Associates LP, Glenhill Capital LP, Glenview
Capital Partners LP and other short sellers. It follows the
failed effort by former Porsche Chief Executive Officer  Wendelin Wiedeking  to take over Volkswagen, which makes more cars in a
week than Porsche does in a year.  Volkswagen , Europe’s largest
carmaker, is now acquiring Porsche’s sports-car business.  
 The short sellers claim that Porsche misled investors by
denying through much of 2008 that it intended to acquire
Volkswagen and by using manipulative trades to hide its stock
positions. Porsche said on Oct. 26, 2008, that it controlled
most of Volkswagen’s common stock, causing the shares to surge
as short sellers raced to cover their positions.  
 NAB Shares  
 The Supreme Court justices in yesterday’s case unanimously
said the main federal securities fraud law, known as section
10(b), doesn’t cover allegations by three Australians who bought
shares of Melbourne-based NAB in that country. The Australians
argued that U.S. courts may consider the case because it
centered on alleged wrongdoing by a former U.S. subsidiary.  
 The court said “that the Exchange Act was never meant to
apply to foreign stocks traded on foreign exchanges, even if
they have some U.S. impact, or if part of the alleged fraudulent
conduct occurred in the U.S,” wrote Johnson.  
 The plaintiffs suing Porsche are unlikely to recover on
trades of Volkswagen stock outside the U.S., potentially leaving
them only with causes of action based on low-volume American
depositary receipts, Johnson said. While risks remain from suits
in Germany and U.S. common law fraud claims, the ruling on U.S.
securities suits materially improves the attractiveness of
Porsche shares, he wrote.  
 Vivendi,  Infineon Technologies AG ,  Alstom SA  and  European
Aeronautic Defense & Space Co.  all told the justices that the
NAB case might affect lawsuits they are facing. Such cases are
known as foreign-cubed lawsuits because they involve non-U.S.
issuers, shareholders and transactions.  
 Infineon spokeswoman Monika Sonntag declined to comment.  
 The Supreme Court case is Morrison v. National Australia
Bank, 08-1191.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        