-- Spain, Portugal to Meet at World Cup; Fifth African Team Exits
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-06-25T22:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/portugal-joins-brazil-in-advancing-from-their-group-at-soccer-world-cup.html

          
          
             European champion Spain beat 10-man
Chile 2-1 at the World Cup to set up a round-of-16 game against
Portugal. The Chileans also advanced and will face Brazil for a
place in the quarterfinals.  
 David Villa  and  Andres Iniesta  scored for Spain in Pretoria,
South Africa last night. Substitute Rodrigo Millar’s deflected
shot went in for Chile, which had Marco Estrada red-carded after
37 minutes. Portugal joined Brazil in advancing after tying 0-0
in their final group match.  
 Spain, which opened the tournament with a shock 1-0 loss to
Switzerland, avoided playing record five-time champion Brazil by
finishing atop Group H and will face Portugal on June 29.  
 “Now we are on the road to our dream, there’s a long way
to go but we showed our quality,” Iniesta told reporters.  
 Switzerland and Honduras were eliminated yesterday after a
0-0 draw in Bloemfontein. The Ivory Coast was knocked out even
after beating North Korea 3-0, meaning that Ghana is the only
one of six African teams to progress at the first World Cup the
continent has held. All five South American teams advanced.  
 Today, Uruguay plays South Korea in Port Elizabeth in the
first match of the knockout round, before the U.S. faces Ghana
in Rustenburg.  
 In Pretoria last night, Villa made it 1-0 after 27 minutes,
shooting into an empty net from 40 yards after Chile goalkeeper
Claudio Bravo came out of his goal to tackle  Fernando Torres ,
pushing the ball right to the forward. Ten minutes later,
Iniesta hit a side-footed shot in from 15 yards.  
 Trip on Torres  
 Chile had Estrada ejected after the goal for tripping
Torres, his second yellow-card offense. Television replays
showed the trip may have been accidental.  
 Chile dominated early on and Jean Beausejour hit into the
side netting from five yards out. Two minutes after halftime,
Chile substitute Millar’s 20-yard shot looped into the net after
deflecting off defender  Gerard Pique .  
 “We need to step it up” against Portugal, Spain coach
 Vicente del Bosque  said in a televised interview. “It won’t be
easy.”  
 In Durban, some fans in the crowd jeered after the game
between Brazil and Portugal. Seven yellow cards were shown in
the first half for violent play, arguing and other infractions,
while the teams combined for eight shots on target.  
 “It was a tough match,” Portugal’s former world player of
the year  Cristiano Ronaldo  told reporters. “We are ready for
the next round.”  
 Portugal’s Brazil-born defender Pepe and Felipe Melo were
cautioned on separate occasions for fouling each other. Brazil
coach  Carlos Dunga  took Melo off before halftime. There were no
further yellow cards in the second half.  
 ‘Every Centimeter’  
 “It has been an extremely hard World Cup,” Portugal coach
 Carlos Queiroz  said. “The players dispute every centimeter of
the field.”  
 Brazil had 63 percent of possession and 12 shots in the
first half, double Portugal’s tally. Brazil came closest to
scoring when Portugal goalkeeper Eduardo pushed Nilmar’s five-
yard shot onto the post after 30 minutes.  
 Ronaldo helped Portugal improve in the second half. He ran
down the left wing and his cross was intercepted by Brazil
captain Lucio after 48 minutes.  
 After another Ronaldo-led attack, midfielder  Raul Meireles 
had his shot deflected into the side-netting by goalkeeper  Julio Cesar  after 60 minutes.  
 Brazil almost snatched the victory in stoppage time.
Goalkeeper Eduardo palmed away a 15-yard deflected shot by
Brazil substitute Ramires to keep the game scoreless.  
 “Portugal defended from the midfield backwards which made
it difficult for us to penetrate their defense,” Brazil coach
Dunga told reporters.  
 Ivory Coast Out  
 In Nelspruit, the Ivory Coast needed a 9-goal swing and a
Portuguese loss to move on. They scored twice in the first 20
minutes, and had many first-half chances before the North
Koreans tightened their defense after the break.  
 The Africans got goals from Romaric,  Yaya Toure  and  Salomon Kalou . Toure scored in the 14th minute and 6 minutes later the
team got another one when Romaric headed in a rebound from
captain  Didier Drogba , who had hit the crossbar. Kalou scored in
the 82nd minute, flicking the ball past the goalkeeper.  
 North Korea ends its first World Cup since 1966 without a
point and having allowed 12 goals in three games.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        