-- Pound Heads for Third Weekly Gain on Optimism Budget Will Reduce Deficit
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-25T16:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/pound-declines-versus-dollar-as-stock-falls-dent-demand-for-riskier-assets.html

          
          
             The pound rose, heading for a third
weekly gain, amid optimism that government cuts announced this
week will reduce the budget deficit and sustain the country’s
top credit rating.  
 The pound rose against 14 of 16 of its most active
counterparts in the week as Morgan Stanley raised its forecasts
for the currency, citing the budget and the outlook that
inflation may accelerate. Bank of England’s minutes published
June 23 showed policy makers were split on whether to raise
interest rates this month.  
 “The pound is being rewarded after the government said the
right thing about the budget and fiscal consolidation,” said
 Paul Robson , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London. “The fiscal outlook is a major theme
going forward. The economy is still weak, but there are some
bright spots and that suggest we might be able to avoid a double
dip. That should support the pound.”  
 The pound rose 0.4 percent at $1.4993 as of 5:25 p.m. in
London for a gain of 1.1 percent this week. Against the euro,
the pound strengthened 1.5 percent during the week to 82.32
pence.  
 The 10-year gilt  yield  fell one basis point today to 3.38
percent, leaving it 16 basis points lower from June 18. That’s
the biggest drop in yield since the week ended May 21. The two-
year yield was at 0.72 percent, a decline of 16 basis points in
the week.  
 Osborne’s Budget  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , unveiling his
first budget, imposed a bank levy and raised sales taxes while
reducing spending, in a bid to keep the sovereign-debt crisis
from spreading to the U.K.  
 Osborne said the government will cut the deficit to 20
billion pounds ($30 billion) by 2015-2016 and will reduce
spending by 30 billion pounds annually. The government is on
track to eliminate the structural budget deficit by 2015, he
said.  
 “The fiscal consolidation adopted by this government which
led to a cut in gilt issuance is positive for gilts,” said  Sean Maloney , a fixed-income strategist at Nomura International Plc
in London. “There’s a perception in the market that with the
fiscal policy being tightened, the Bank of England will have to
keep interest rates low for a prolonged period to support the
economy.”  
 The Debt Management Office this week reduced to 165 billion
pounds from 185.2 billion pounds the amount of bonds to be sold
in the fiscal year, matching analyst estimates.  
 Gilt Returns  
 U.K. bonds have returned 5.7 percent this year compared
with a 6.7 percent gain for German bunds, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, driven by investors seeking the  
 The pound will rise relative to the other group of four
currencies, the dollar, euro and yen, as the U.K. government
takes a tough stance in improving the nation’s finances,
Barclays Plc said.  
 “Prospects appear brightest for the pound,” from a fiscal
perspective,  Paul Robinson , a currency strategist at Barclays
Capital in London, wrote in an e-mailed report titled Global
Outlook: Rebound, But No Raging Bull Market. “The U.K. appears
to be tackling the problem fairly aggressively and does not have
the political complications that exist in the euro area.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        