-- Private Lenders to Keep 5 Percent of Risk Under New U.S. Rules
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-06-25T00:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/private-lenders-to-keep-at-least-5-of-risk-under-new-u-s-financial-rules.html

          
          
             Private lenders will be required to
keep at least a 5 percent stake in loans they package and sell
under an agreement reached by House and Senate lawmakers who are
negotiating the financial-regulatory bill.  
 Lawmakers said the goal of the risk retention rule, also
known as the skin-in-the-game provision, is to raise the quality
of loans by keeping companies tied to the loans they make. Lax
underwriting on subprime mortgages helped fuel the mortgage
market collapse in 2007.  
 The measure would affect credit-card debt, auto loans,
mortgages and other securitized debt. Issuers of asset-backed
debt and the originators who supply them with pools of loans
would be forced to retain at least 5 percent of the credit risk.  
 Lawmakers exempted many mortgages from the rules after
lobbying by brokers and community banks, who said forcing
lenders to keep loans on their books would tie up capital and
lead to higher interest rates.  
 Originators of long-term, fixed-interest-rate mortgages
would be among those that would not be required to retain risk.
The exemption would not apply to mortgages with risky features
such as negative amortization, interest-only payments and
balloon payments.  
 In addition, loans guaranteed by the Federal Housing
Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture and U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs would not be required to retain
risk. Combined, the agencies last year guaranteed more than
30 percent of new U.S. mortgages as private lenders fled the
market after the collapse of the housing bubble.  
 Fannie and Freddie  
 Loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
mortgage companies taken over by the government, are not
specifically exempted in the legislation. The two companies,
which own or guarantee more than half of U.S. home loans, have
tightened underwriting standards in the past year and many of
the loans they guarantee are likely to fall under the qualified
mortgage exemption.  
 The goal is to allow government agencies to promote lending
in the absence of private capital, FHA Commissioner  David Stevens  said.  
 “The reason why you ultimately exempt the government
programs is that we serve this countercyclical role in the
market,” Stevens said in an interview. “The capital has got to
be there when the market needs it most.”  
 The rule will curtail lending to consumers, said  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the American Securitization
Forum, a New York trade group that represents issuers, investors
and other participants in the market.  
 “Some credit will become more expensive because of these
rules,” Deutsch said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration David Stevens speaks during an interview in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
