-- G-20 Protesters Expand Rallies as Toronto Braces for Summit
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-06-25T22:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/protesters-intensify-demonstrations-as-toronto-braces-for-the-g-20-summit.html

          
          
             Thousands of protesters took to
Toronto’s streets calling for the abolishment of the Group of 20
summit and rallying over issues from poverty to women’s rights a
day ahead of the leaders’ gathering in Canada’s largest city.  
 Activists, community groups, students and union members
marched toward Toronto’s financial district after spending the
afternoon gathered at Allan Gardens, a park about 3 kilometers
(1.9 miles) from the venue where the G-20 leaders meet starting
tomorrow. One demonstrator was arrested, CTV News reported.  
 “We will be loud, we will be angry, we will be militant,”
Gaetan Heroux of the Ontario Coalition Against Poverty shouted
into a microphone to address the crowds. “We will make sure
that the politicians of the city, of this province, of this
country, and that the world hears that in Toronto the poor
people of Toronto organized to say we will not suffer in
silence.”  
 Among the diverse groups protesting, 30 activists dressed
all in black with faces covered by cloth masks wrapped
themselves in a black banner with white writing that said
“Borders are Prison Walls” as hundreds of police surrounded
the streets.  
 “All of this is being brought together because of the G-
20,” said Fariah Choudhury of No One is Illegal - Toronto. “We
got bigger, we got better and we got stronger and we are coming
out of the G-20 ready to fight.”  
 Downtown Quiet  
 Toronto’s center has shut down ahead of the arrival of
world leaders, with at least 36 branches of lenders including
Toronto-Dominion Bank closed. Schools and liquor stores downtown
are shut, while law firms such as  Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP 
are closed for the day.  
 A 12-block section of downtown is surrounded by concrete
barriers and three-meter (10-foot) high metal fencing, part of
Canada’s largest-ever security operation with 20,000 police and
security guards. Starting at 8 p.m. tonight, only people who
work in the  security zone  or are accredited for the summit at
the Metro Toronto Convention Centre will be allowed past the
gates.  
 Toronto police Chief Bill Blair told reporters today that
his officers have the power to remove people near the security
perimeter if they don’t properly identify themselves. He said
that a Toronto judge approved the use by police of long-range
acoustical devices at demonstrations, with some restrictions.  
 Businesses Boarded Up  
 Toronto businesses are boarding up their storefronts in
anticipation of rowdy demonstrations. Il Fornello, an Italian
restaurant a block north of the security zone, barricaded its
windows, joining other businesses. Bronze statues and other
features outside the Brookfield Place office complex and First
Canadian Place, Canada’s tallest skyscraper, have also been
encased in plywood, and the ground floor of a King Street office
building is boarded up.  
 “Downtown is dead, it’s quiet,” said  Paul Reynolds , the
Vancouver-based chief executive officer of Canaccord Financial
Inc. “It’s actually quite nice: it’s easy to get to work and
get back to the hotel in the evenings.”  
 Canaccord, Canada’s largest independent brokerage, held its
annual investors meeting today in record time of 12 minutes at
Le Meridien King Edward Hotel, with 18 people in attendance.
Canaccord employees were advised to stay away in case the
meeting was disrupted.  
 In Huntsville, Ontario, the lakeside resort about 230
kilometers (143 miles) north of Toronto that’s host to the G-8
summit today and tomorrow, business has been slow.  
 ‘A Little Quieter’  
 “It’s a little quieter” than normal, said Bill Jarvis,
manager of a Tim Horton’s coffee shop. “The locals decided to
take the week off.”  
 Huntsville businesses, hoping to boost sales from an influx
of protesters, have been disappointed.  
 “It’s funny to see all the security preparations and all
for naught,” said John Niedzwiecki, owner of a chip truck
stationed in a strip-mall parking lot. “We’re all kind of
bored.”  
 Food courts in office complexes in downtown Toronto are
virtually empty, with most of fast-food outlets shut down. One
food court in a complex across from the Metro Toronto Convention
Centre, where the G-20 leaders meet starting tomorrow, had three
diners sitting amid rows of empty seats during the lunch hour.  
 ‘Business Is Bad’  
 “Business is bad,” said Najib Ashor, owner of Mr.
Souvlaki, one of five of the 14 outlets that stayed open. He
usually makes C$1,000 during the lunch rush, but expects little
today.  
 “Hopefully the G-20 leaders come out with something good
for the world,” he said. “So what if it costs me C$1,000?”  
 Police said they have arrested at least eight people in
Toronto ahead of the G-20.  
 Protest organizers say the biggest march may be the
“People First” rally planned for tomorrow at Queen’s Park,
site of the Ontario provincial legislature, north of the
downtown security zone.  
 Nongovernmental organizations including Oxfam and  World
Vision  are also planning events in Huntsville and Toronto. World
Vision is using mimes and stilt-walkers dressed as pregnant
world leaders at their demonstrations.  
 “We’re using this idea that they’re pregnant with promise,
and we want them to deliver,” World Vision Canada President
 Dave Toycen  said in an interview. “Our message to the leaders
of the G-8 is simply, Make promises that are going to help
children and families around the world, and then keep that
promise.”  
 Canada is spending as much as C$1.2 billion ($1.16 billion)
for the meetings to host world leaders, including C$930 million
on security.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Protesters light a police car on fire in Toronto's financial district during the Group of 20 SUmmit. Photographer: Sean B. Pasternak/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Protesters demonstrate in Toronto during the Group of 20 Summit in Toronto. Photographer: Joe Schneider/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Protestors dressed up as a pregnant Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, left, and U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Doug Alexander/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Protestors carry a yellow banner as they march for indigenous rights down Queen Street in Toronto. Photographer: Doug Alexander/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
