-- Traders Trim Central Bank Rate-Rise Bets on Soft-Patch Data: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-25T13:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/traders-trim-central-bank-rate-rise-bets-on-soft-patch-data-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Derivatives trading suggests the
Bank of Canada is the least likely in a month to raise its
target overnight rate at each of this year’s four remaining
policy meetings as economic data signals a slower recovery.  
 Yields on December 2010 bankers’ acceptances, the most-
active contract, dropped as much as 3 basis points to 1.36
percent today, the lowest since May 25 and down from 2.05
percent in April. Chances the central bank will raise borrowing
costs by 25 basis points at a July 20 meeting fell to 67 percent
yesterday, from 80 percent at the start of the week, according
to Bank of Nova Scotia data.  
 Retail sales fell in April five times more than forecast,
while inflation slowed last month on moderating prices for
gasoline and clothing, Statistics Canada said in separate
reports this week. Sales of existing homes in the U.S.
unexpectedly declined. Financial conditions have become “less
supportive of economic growth,” the U.S. Federal Reserve said
in a June 23 statement.  
 “The data are starting to suggest that Canada’s recovery
might be hitting a soft patch,”  Robert Kavcic , a Bank of
Montreal economist in Toronto, said in an e-mail. “It probably
means the rate-hike cycle won’t be a continuous one. The bank
could hike at their next meeting, then pause to assess the
situation.”  
 Signs this week of a faltering North American recovery
combined with renewed concern that deficits in some euro-area
countries may spiral out of control sapped investor confidence,
prompting a flight from higher-yielding assets to the perceived
safety of the traditional haven currencies such as the greenback
and the yen. The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate
in the first quarter, less than previously calculated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington.  
 Canadian Corporates  
 Yields on Canada’s government bonds fell 13 basis points
this week as demand rose for the safest and most liquid of
assets, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Canadian corporate rather than federal government
debt held steady at 150 basis points yesterday, from as narrow
as 114 basis points in March, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. Overall yields dropped to 4.072 percent,
from 4.102 percent the day before.  
 Corporate bonds are poised to return 1.37 percent this
quarter and 3.63 percent this half, including reinvested
interest, the Merrill data show. Government bonds are headed for
returns of 2.99 percent and 3.88 percent, respectively, compared
with returns of 1.99 percent and 3.27 percent for the Merrill
Lynch Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index.  
 Rate Forecasts  
 Economists reduced forecasts for the Bank of Canada
overnight rate to 1.25 percent by year-end and 2 percent by mid-
2011, from forecasts last month of 1.5 percent and 2.5 percent,
respectively, according to the weighted average of 12 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey. The bank raised the rate on June 1 to 0.5
percent from a record low 0.25 percent.  
 “It’s more to do with the North American figures of late,
and perhaps a reluctance amongst the investing community to put
on aggressive bets in the current environment,”  Mark Chandler ,
head of Canadian fixed-income and currency strategy in Toronto
at Royal Bank of Canada, said in an e-mail.  
 RBC predicts the Bank of Canada overnight  target rate  will
be 1.5 percent by year-end, though Chandler said that could be
revised pending clarity on the scope and timing of fiscal
packages.  
 Yields on the September 2010 bankers’ acceptances contract
fell today to as low as 1.085 percent, from 1.21 percent on a
closing basis last week and as high as 1.56 percent in April.  
 So-called Bax contracts have settled an  average  of about 20
basis points above the central bank’s overnight target since
1992, Bloomberg data show. Hedge funds and money managers use
the contracts to hedge against interest-rate exposure and make
bets. The yield falls as the price rises.  
 The drop in yields “absolutely” means investors are
speculating the Bank of Canada won’t raise interest rates as
aggressively,  David Love , an interest-rate derivatives trader in
Montreal at brokerage Le Groupe Jitney Inc., said in an e-mail.
“The market has been rallying as funds have been buyers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The bank raised the rate on June 1 to 0.5%  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Governor of the Bank of Canada Mark Carne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Governor of the Bank of Canada Mark Carne. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
