-- Texas Rangers Sale Back on Track After Buyer's Opposition to Delay
-- Thomas Korosec
-- 2010-06-25T17:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/rangers-sale-back-on-track-after-buyer-opposed-delay-in-bankruptcy-court.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers bankruptcy judge
reversed a decision to postpone consideration of the team’s
proposed sale, agreeing to the original timeline after the buyer
opposed the delay.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  in Fort Worth, Texas,
said today he would grant a request from a group led by  Chuck Greenberg  and team president  Nolan Ryan  to consider approving
the sale at a July 9 hearing.  
 The decision came one day after the judge postponed the
hearing to July 22 and ordered further mediation involving the
Rangers, Major League Baseball and the team’s lenders, which
oppose the sale.  
 Lynn warned that there is a “real risk” he won’t approve
the Rangers’ bankruptcy plan, which is based on the sale.  
 “If you don’t get it confirmed, you guys -- not me, you
guys -- decided to push for a decision on July 9, and you’re
going to live with whatever decision I reach,” he said.  
 In an interview after the hearing, Greenberg said he was
pleased with the decision to move the confirmation hearing to
July 9.  
 Greenberg and Ryan’s company, Rangers Baseball Express LLC,
asked Lynn to reconsider the later date, arguing the delay would
hurt the team, particularly with Major League Baseball’s July 31
deadline to make player trades.  
 Prepared for Outcome  
 “We’re prepared for the plan to stand or fall on its
merits,” he said.  
 The lenders, a group that includes hedge funds, oppose the
$575 million deal and have called for the Rangers to run a
competitive sale process as part of its bankruptcy case.  
 Greenberg, an attorney and minor-league club owner,
criticized the lenders for delaying the sale, saying it hurt the
team’s creditors.  
 “Right now, there are a lot of mom-and-pop businesses
whose finances are in jeopardy because a bunch of guys on Wall
Street are serving their own narrow interests,” Greenberg said.  
 Adam McGill, a spokesman for a lender group that includes
Monarch Alternative Capital, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. Rangers spokesman  Mark Semer  declined to comment on the
judge’s decision.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Korosec  in Fort Worth, Texas,
at   tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  
          
          


  


        