-- Treasuries Rise, Head for Second Weekly Advance, on Global Slowdown Signs
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-06-25T10:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/treasuries-head-for-second-weekly-gain-on-slowdown-interest-rate-outlook.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose, heading for a
second weekly advance, as stock-market declines amid concern the
global recovery is slowing prompted investors to seek the
perceived safety of government debt.  
 Ten-year  yields  fell toward a four-week low on speculation
Group of 20 leaders meeting this weekend will agree on proposals
to tighten regulations for the financial sector, threatening
bank profits. Reports next week will probably show economic and
consumer confidence in Europe and the U.S. is waning, according
to Bloomberg surveys. That may encourage the Federal Reserve to
keep interest rates near zero to safeguard the recovery.  
 “Market sentiment is still fragile and risk aversion is
driving bond markets,” said  Luca Cazzulani , senior fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan, Italy’s biggest bank. “In
the short term, we remain bond positive.”  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note fell two basis
points to 3.12 percent as of 6:17 a.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 3.5 percent security due May 2020
gained 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 103 7/32. The
yield, which has dropped 10 basis points this week, touched 3.06
percent yesterday, the lowest since May 25.  
 The two-year yield fell four basis points to 0.65 percent,
after dropping yesterday to 0.63 percent, the least since
November.  
 G-20 leaders meeting in Toronto on June 26-27 will discuss
policies aimed at addressing the European debt crisis, spurring
global growth and overhauling regulation of the financial
system. Leaders may also discuss proposals for a global bank
levy and a tax on securities transactions to clamp down on
financial speculation.  
 Fiscal Prospects  
 “Fiscal prospects are not going to change much, if at
all,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , a fixed-income strategist at Societe
Generale SA in Paris, wrote in a client note today. “So we can
look forward to the prospect of yet further turbulence, inspired
by more sovereign indebtedness.”  
 Treasuries also rose as credit-default swaps showed the
cost of insuring against losses on European corporate bonds
increased and stock markets declined across the region.  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed 12 basis
points to 568.5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices at 11
a.m. in London.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 2.75 basis points to 131.4,
JPMorgan prices show.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece rose 13 basis points to a
record 1,140 basis points, according to CMA DataVision.  
 Underlying Securities  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined for a fourth day, set
for its longest run of losses since May 7. It was down 0.6
percent today, leaving it 2.8 percent weaker since June 18. U.S.
stock-index futures fell.  
 Investor  Jim Rogers , chairman of Rogers Holdings, said the
world is in a bear market for financial assets.  
 “The world has an on-going economic problem, which has not
been resolved yet,” he said today in an interview on Bloomberg
UTV in India.  
 Treasuries were boosted this week as the Fed kept its
benchmark rate in a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent on
June 23 and reiterated its commitment to keep borrowing costs
lows for an “extended period.”  
 ‘Less Supportive’  
 “Financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments
abroad,” policy makers said in their statement.  
 An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16 euro
nations slipped to 98.3 this month from 98.4 in May, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. Conference Board’s consumer
 confidence  index declined to 62.5 in June from 63.3 the prior
month, a separate survey showed. Both reports are due June 29.  
 Traders cut bets the Fed will raise rates this year, with
futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showing a 21 percent
likelihood of an increase by the December meeting, down from 30
percent odds a month earlier.  
 The difference in yield between five-year Treasuries and
similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
indicates investors anticipate an annual  inflation  rate of 1.59
percent over the term of the securities, down from 1.95 percent
at the end of last year.  
 Increased Demand  
 Demand increased as the Treasury sold a combined $108
billion of two-, five- and seven-year notes this week.  
 Investors submitted bids for 3.01 times the amount of
seven-year debt on offer yesterday, the highest bid-to-cover
ratio since the notes were reintroduced in February 2009. The
securities were sold at a yield of 2.575 percent, compared with
the average forecast of 2.586 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The $40 billion in two-year notes sold on June 22 produced
a record low yield of 0.738 percent.  
 U.S. securities are poised for their best first half in a
decade. Treasuries have returned 5 percent since Dec. 31, the
largest gain in the first six months of a year since 2000,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Treasuries were boosted this week  
                       
                         
                           Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Rogers Holdings chairman Jim Rogers. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Rogers Holdings chairman Jim Rogers. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
