-- Treasuries Rise on Revised GDP, Extending Second Straight Weekly Advance
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-06-25T20:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/treasury-10-year-notes-head-for-second-weekly-advance-on-stalled-economy.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose, adding to their
second straight weekly gain, after a report showed the U.S.
economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter,
less than previously calculated.  
 Yields  on two-year notes fell to almost the lowest level
since November as evidence global growth is slowing encouraged
investors to seek the relative safety of government debt. The
recovery pace is “likely to be moderate for a time,” the
Federal Reserve said this week in its statement.  
 “There is continuous nervousness as the economy is still
weak, the Fed is increasingly dovish and inflation remains
nonexistent,” said  Jason Rogan , director of U.S. government
trading in New York at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for
institutional investors.  
 The  yield  on the 10-year note dropped four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.11 percent at 4:22 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.5
percent security maturing in May 2020 increased 9/32, or $2.81
per $1,000 face amount, to 103 10/32.  
 The 10-year note  yield  fell 11 basis points this week after
touching 3.0610 percent yesterday, the lowest level since
reaching 3.0606 percent on May 25. The two-year note yield slid
today three basis points to 0.66 percent, extending its weekly
 drop  to six basis points. It fell yesterday to 0.63 percent, the
lowest level since Nov. 27.  
 Revised GDP  
 The revised increase in gross domestic product was smaller
than the median forecast of 79 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey and compares with a 3 percent estimate issued last month,
the Commerce Department reported today.  
 The new figures showed an economy that was more dependent
on inventory restocking and less driven by demand from consumers
and businesses before the European sovereign-debt crisis
intensified.  
 “We’ve been seeing a weaker economic story both
domestically and abroad, which is adding headwinds to a recovery
and supporting Treasuries,” said  Larry Milstein , managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “The GDP number is in line with
everything we’ve been seeing lately.”  
 Group of 20 leaders meeting in Toronto will discuss
policies aimed at addressing European turmoil, spurring global
growth and overhauling regulation of the financial system.
Leaders may also discuss proposals for a global bank levy and a
tax on securities transactions to clamp down on financial
speculation.  
 ‘Extended Period’  
 Treasuries were poised for a weekly  gain  after the Fed
reiterated on June 23 its commitment to an “extended period”
of low borrowing costs.  
 “Financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments
abroad,” the central bank said.  
 Policy makers held the target rate for overnight lending
between banks at a record low zero to 0.25 percent, a decision
forecast by all of the 98 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Traders cut bets the Fed will raise rates this year, with
futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showing a 21 percent
likelihood of an increase by the December meeting, down from 30
percent odds a month earlier.  
 The difference in yield between five-year Treasuries and
similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
indicates investors anticipate an annual inflation rate of 1.59
percent over the term of the securities, down from 1.95 percent
at the end of last year.  
 U.S. Auctions  
 Demand increased as the Treasury sold a combined $108
billion of two-, five- and seven-year notes this week.  
 Investors submitted bids for 3.01 times the amount of
seven-year debt on offer yesterday, the highest bid-to-cover
ratio since the notes were reintroduced in February 2009. The
securities were sold at a yield of 2.575 percent, compared with
the average forecast of 2.586 percent in a Bloomberg survey. The
$40 billion in two-year notes sold on June 22 produced a record
low yield of 0.738 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Ajay Rajadhyaksha, managing director of Barclays Capital Inc., talks about the outlook for the U.S. Treasury market.
     Rajadhyaksha, speaking with Margaret Brennan  on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness," also discusses European fiscal crises and the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
