-- Three U.S. Banks Collapse as Bond Street Holdings Acquires Another Lender
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-06-26T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/three-u-s-banks-collapse-as-bond-street-holdings-acquires-another-lender.html

          
          
             Regulators  closed banks  in Florida,
Georgia and New Mexico, awarding a third financial institution
to Bond Street Holdings LLC, an investment firm that first
bought banks in January.  
 Bond Street’s Premier American Bank purchased Englewood,
Florida-based Peninsula Bank, according to a statement on the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s  website . Yesterday’s three
failures cost the agency’s deposit-insurance fund $284.6
million.  
 “The FDIC’s preference is for an orderly resolution of
institutions that are in trouble,” said  Walter J. Mix III , a
managing director at Emeryville, California-based LECG LLC, a
financial services advisory company, and a former commissioner
of the California Department of Financial Institutions. “With
the emerging commercial real estate problems and the continuing
home loan problems there will be many more banks that fail.”  
 The FDIC has now closed 86 banks this year and is on pace
to exceed last year’s total of 140, which was the  most  bank
closings since 1992 as lenders across the country buckle under
the weight of soured real-estate loans. The failures will drain
$60 billion over the next three-and-a-half years from the FDIC’s
fund, the agency said June 22. The fund dipped into deficit in
the third quarter.  
 The Peninsula acquisition is the third this year for Bond
Street, a Naples, Florida-based investment firm that was the
first to use a regulatory shelf charter, which gave it advance
approval to purchase failed lenders. Bond Street bought two
banks in January.  
 Premier American  
 Premier American picked up $580.1 million in deposits, and
added 13 branches to its existing network of 15 offices. The
FDIC shared losses on $437.6 million of the failed bank’s
assets.  
 Regulators also closed  First National Bank  of Savannah,
Georgia, and sold its deposits and some of the assets to
Savannah Bank, the FDIC said. The lender paid the agency a 0.11
percent premium to acquire $231.9 million in deposits.  
 High Desert State Bank of Albuquerque, New Mexico, was also
closed by regulators and sold to Artesia, New Mexico-based First
American Bank.  
 There were 775 banks with $431 billion in assets on the
FDIC’s confidential list of problem lenders at the end of the
first quarter, an increase from 702 banks with $402.8 billion at
the end of last year, the agency said in its  quarterly banking
report .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        