-- Republican Senator Snowe Calls for Extending Unemployment Aid
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-25T21:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/republican-senator-snowe-calls-for-extending-unemployment-aid-in-new-bill.html

          
          
             A Republican senator who helped kill
jobs legislation that would have extended U.S. unemployment
benefits called today for approving the aid in a separate bill.  
 Senator  Olympia Snowe , a Maine Republican, said in a letter
to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  that “the hundreds of
thousands of  unemployed  Americans who are losing jobless
benefits every week deserve our attention.”  
 Democrats wooed Snowe for weeks as they sought Republican
support to approve the jobs bill, which also would have provided
aid to state governments, raised taxes on buyout firm managers,
extended municipal bond subsidies and revived a group of expired
business tax cuts.  
 The bill was derailed yesterday on a procedural  vote . With
60 needed to advance the measure, 57 senators voted to proceed,
41 opposed the effort. Democrats control the Senate with 59
votes. No Republican senators backed the measure; Senator Ben
Nelson of Nebraska was the lone Democrat to vote against it.  
 Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said lawmakers would move on to
other matters after the bill was blocked.  
 Snowe, in voting against the measure, said she opposed
provisions intended to make it harder for lawyers and other
professions to avoid Social Security and Medicare taxes by
organizing what are known as S corporations. She said the
provision was poorly drawn and would have hit too many
unintended targets, including some of her constituents.  
 So far more than 1 million unemployed Americans have lost
their jobless benefits during the dispute over the legislation,
according to the U.S. Labor Department.  
 ‘The Wrong Party’  
 “We appreciate her concerns, but the fact is that she is
sending the letter to the wrong person and to the wrong party,”
said  Jim Manley , a Reid spokesman. “It was her party that
killed an extension of the benefits yesterday and nothing in the
letter can change that fact.”  
 The union AFSCME, along with the advocacy group Americans
United for Change, said today they would begin running
television ads next week in Maine criticizing Snowe on the
issue.  
 The Senate plans next week to take up legislation
overhauling the nation’s financial regulation system, Reid said
today. Lawmakers also will consider a small-business tax bill
before leaving Washington for a week-long July 4 recess.  
 The House gave final approval yesterday to a bill
postponing a cut in Medicare payments to doctors, a provision
that also was part of the defeated jobs bill. Snowe pointed to
that bill, signed into law today by President  Barack Obama , in
her letter to Reid.  
 “It is clear that there are no insurmountable hurdles in
trying to ease the challenge of prolonged unemployment for our
fellow citizens,” Snowe said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        