-- Rio Tinto's Walsh `Hopeful' Mining Tax Can Be Resolved Before Election
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-06-25T04:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/rio-s-walsh-hopeful-mining-tax-issue-can-be-resolved-before-election.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, is “hopeful” the dispute over
Australia’s proposed mining tax will be resolved before the next
federal election.  
 “I’m very hopeful that with the recent changes in the
structure of the government we can actually get in and engage
and negotiate an arrangement,”  Sam Walsh , the head of Rio’s
iron-ore operations, told reporters today in Perth. “We will
support a proper tax reform.”  
 The ruling Labor party yesterday dumped  Kevin Rudd , the
architect of the tax, for new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who
opened the door to talks on the proposed 40 percent tax.
Gillard, who said she will call an election “within months,”
yesterday offered an olive branch to mining companies including
Rio, which has had its Australian expansion program on hold
since May 2.  
 “We recognize tax regimes will be modified over time,”
Walsh said. “We’re willing to take part in that process. What
we will see is something that will enable projects to go
ahead.”  
 Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson 
will lead “genuine” talks with mining companies, Gillard said.
Morgan Stanley estimates the tax, proposed to be levied all
profits above a 6 percent return on investment on mining
projects in Australia, would have taken A$85 billion ($74
billion) from the industry in the next decade.  
 Rio  fell as much as 2.8 percent to A$69.71 and traded at
that price on the Australian stock exchange as of 1:53 p.m. in
Sydney today.  
 Proposal ‘Dead’  
 Rio has yet to engage with or organize a meeting with the
federal government under Gillard’s leadership, Walsh said. Rio
believes the original tax proposal is “dead,” he said.  
 “The super tax was something that was clearly concerning
the industry,” Walsh said. “We were very frustrated, we
couldn’t engage with the government. There was talk about
consultation but when we physically sat down and met with people
we found that the process was dysfunctional.”  
 Walsh was speaking at the opening of Rio’s operations
center in Perth, where more than 400 employees operate the
company’s network of 12 mines, three ports, rail and power
infrastructure in the Pilbara, about 1,200 kilometers (746 miles)
to the north.  
 Western Australia Premier  Colin Barnett , speaking at the
same event, said the new federal government team under Gillard
needs to go back to “square one” over its proposed resource
super profit tax and is hopeful the proposal will be abandoned.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        