-- Romanian Court Rules Against IMF-Mandated Government Pension Reductions
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-25T11:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/romanian-court-rules-against-some-austerity-measures-stocks-leu-decline.html

          
          
             Romania’s  Constitutional Court  ruled
against some government austerity measures aimed at narrowing
the budget deficit, risking a delay in the next handout of funds
from an international loan. The leu weakened and stocks plunged.  
 The nine judges said the plan to cut pensions by 15 percent
was illegal, while a proposed 25 percent reduction in wages
didn’t breach the Constitution. Parliament must now amend the
law to comply with the ruling. The opposition said it is mulling
a motion to oust the government.  
 Opposition lawmakers had challenged the changes needed to
meet an International Monetary Fund-mandated deficit of 6.8
percent of gross domestic product and may put forward a no-
confidence motion against the government next week. The
austerity program has provoked a storm of popular protest.
Dozens of Romanians tried to storm the presidential palace in
the capital earlier today.  
 “The government will have to find alternative savings
options, though we do not see this impacting the lending
program,” said  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market
research at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna. “We remain
underweight Romanian equities due to the consumer backdrop and
the noise on the fiscal front,” though “we don’t see the
latest events as something that justifies a leu” sell-off.  
 Plan B  
 Romanian Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu  said before
the ruling that the government has a back-up plan if the court
deems the measures illegal, without giving details. President
Traian Basescu said on May 6 the government had considered an
option to raise the main value-added tax to 24 percent from 19
percent and the flat tax to 20 percent from 16 percent to meet
the deficit goal before choosing to cut wages and pensions.  
 The opposition is considering a vote of no confidence “as
state employees will be severely affected by the decision to cut
wages,” Social Democrat leader Victor Ponta said today in a
speech on Realitatea television station.  
 The leu weakened 1 percent to 4.2763 per euro, the lowest
in six weeks, as of 2:21 p.m. in Bucharest. It was the second-
biggest decliner among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after South Korea’s won. The  BET  equity index tumbled
4.2 percent, the most among the 93 the indexes tracked by
Bloomberg.  
 Relying on Loan  
 The EU’s second-poorest member is relying on 20 billion
euros ($24.6 billion) of loans to resurrect its economy after
the worst recession in 60 years. The next IMF installment would
be 850 million euros, with 1.2 billion euros scheduled to come
from the European Commission. The IMF board is expected to meet
on June 28 to decide on the next disbursement.  
 Prime Minister  Emil Boc  survived a no-confidence vote last
week after opposition parties opposed his plan to reduce the
wages of public employees by 25 percent and pensions and jobless
benefits by 15 percent. The opposition challenged the austerity
measures, saying the wage and pension cuts are “a new income
tax” for state workers and breach the constitution.  
 The government on June 23 extended the 16 percent flat tax
to meal tickets, copyrights, interest on bank deposits and
capital gains from July 1 to boost dwindling revenue. The
measures will generate revenue equal to 0.3 percent of GDP,
according to Vladescu.  
 In addition, state-controlled companies, including publicly
traded utilities  Transelectrica SA  and  Transgaz SA , will
transfer 90 percent of their annual profit to the state budget,
up from 50 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        