-- Romania Seeks to Ensure IMF, EU Funding After Court Rejects Pension Cuts
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-25T13:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/romania-seeks-to-ensure-imf-eu-funding-after-court-rejects-pension-cuts.html

          
          
             Romania is in talks with the
International Monetary Fund and European Union to avert a second
freeze on payments from its bailout loan after a court threw out
measures designed to help meet an IMF-mandated deficit target.  
 The  Constitutional Court  ruled today that a proposed 15
percent cut in pensions was illegal, leaving a hole in the
government’s plans for meeting the IMF’s deficit target of 6.8
percent of gross domestic product. A proposed 25 percent
reduction in wages doesn’t breach the Constitution, it said.  
 “Our main goal is to keep the IMF and EU agreement on
track and meet the targets,” Prime Minister  Emil Boc  told
reporters today in Bucharest. “We’re doing the best we can and
I hope the IMF board will make a decision next week.”  
 The Washington-based lender was expected to meet on June 28
to review Romania’s progress toward consolidating its budget and
decide on about 850 million euros ($1 billion) in payments. The
20 billion-euro loan package was first frozen on Nov. 6 after
political infighting toppled the previous government. The IMF
resumed payments in February after Boc’s Cabinet passed a budget
for this year.  
 The next payment will probably be delayed, according to
 Kenneth Orchard , an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  
 “Moody’s perceives this as temporary issue and not a
fundamental break in the program,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The most likely course of events is
that the government takes remedial action, probably raising some
taxes, and the IMF/EU program will continue.”  
 Romania’s rating may come under pressure if the government
is unable to meet deficit target, Orchard said.  
 Plan B  
 The leu weakened 1 percent to 4.2785 per euro, the lowest
in seven months, as of 4 p.m. in Bucharest. It was the
second-biggest decliner among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after South Korea’s won. The  BET  equity
index tumbled 4.2 percent, the most among the 93 the indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu  said before the ruling
that the government had a back-up plan, without providing
details. President  Traian Basescu  said May 6 that the government
had considered raising the main value-added tax to 24 percent
from 19 percent and the flat income tax to 20 percent from 16
percent before choosing to cut wages and pensions.  
 Opposition lawmakers appealed the austerity measures to the
Constitutional Court after the government survived a vote of no
confidence on June 15.  
 Confidence Vote  
 The opposition may ask for another confidence vote next
week because “state employees will be severely affected by the
decision to cut wages,” Social Democrat leader Victor Ponta
said today in a speech on Realitatea television.  
 The austerity program has provoked a storm of protest, with
dozens of people trying to storm the presidential palace earlier
today.  
 “The government will have to find alternative savings
options, though we do not see this impacting the lending
program,” said  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market
research at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna. “We remain
underweight Romanian equities due to the consumer backdrop and
the noise on the fiscal front,” though “we don’t see the
latest events as something that justifies a leu” sell-off.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        