-- Leu Sinks Most in Six Weeks as Romanian Court Challenges Austerity Program
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-25T14:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/romania-s-leu-heads-for-seven-month-low-on-report-some-budget-cuts-illegal.html

          
          
             Romania’s leu weakened to the lowest
in seven months against the euro and stocks and bonds fell after
the Constitutional Court ruled some of the austerity measures
planned by the government to unlock loan payments are illegal.  
 The leu depreciated 1 percent to 4.2756 per euro, the
lowest since Nov. 30, at 4:53 p.m. in Bucharest. The  BET  equity
index slumped 4.8 percent, the most since May 25 and the biggest
decline among 93 global indexes. The benchmark government bond
in euros due in 2015 fell the most in three weeks, pushing the
yield up to 6.51 percent from 6.25 yesterday.  
 The court said today some of the planned spending cuts,
designed to meet the terms of the Balkan nation’s bailout loan
led by the International Monetary Fund, contradicted local laws
and the parliament must amend the government-proposed bill.  
 “Failure to pass the austerity measures would mean a
further delay in IMF money and a prolonged path for reining in
the budget deficit,” London-based analysts at BNP Paribas SA
wrote in a report before today’s court ruling.  
 Romania, the European Union’s second-poorest member, is
relying on a 20 billion-euro ($24.6 billion) loan to support its
economy and must reach an IMF-mandated deficit goal of 6.8
percent of gross domestic product to secure its bailout. The
next installment would be 850 million euros, with 1.2 billion
euros scheduled to come from the EU. The IMF board is expected
to meet on June 28 to decide on the next disbursement.  
 The payment will probably be delayed after the court ruling
and Romania’s rating could come under negative pressure, Moody’s
Investors Service analyst  Kenneth Orchard  said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Pension Cuts  
 The nine justices said Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s plan to
cut pensions by 15 percent was illegal, while a proposed 25
percent reduction in public wages didn’t breach the
constitution. The government is in talks with the IMF and the EU
on an alternative austerity package, Boc said in a televised
address today after the court ruling was made public.  
 “Alternative strategies, including the possibility of a
rise in value-added tax, will now need to be considered,”  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging market strategist at RBC Capital in
London, wrote in a report today. The next loan payment “will be
put on ice until equivalent budget savings can be agreed.”  
 Dozens of Romanians protesting the austerity plan clashed
with riot police as they tried to storm the presidential palace
in Bucharest today before the court ruling, the Associated Press
reported. The opposition, which says the measures will spark a
social crisis, is considering putting forward a no-confidence
motion in parliament next week, Social Democrat leader Victor
Ponta said in a televised speech.  
 “We remain underweight Romanian equities due to the
consumer backdrop and the noise on the fiscal front,” said
 Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market research at Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Romania Prime Minister Emil Boc faces labor unrest.  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Mihailescu/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Romanian Prime Minister Emil Boc addresses the Parliament. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Romanian Prime Minister Emil Boc addresses the Parliament. Photographer: Daniel Mihailescu/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
