-- Rubber Has Second Weekly Gain on Tire Sales, Rain Disruption to Supplies
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-06-25T07:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/rubber-has-second-weekly-gain-on-tire-sales-rain-disruption-to-supplies.html

          
          
             Rubber climbed for a third day on
speculation that rainfall will disrupt output in Thailand, the
world’s largest producer, making it difficult for suppliers to
meet growing demand from tire makers.  
 Futures in Tokyo gained as much as 1.5 percent, nearing a
one-week high reached yesterday. The price climbed 3.8 percent
this week, booking the second weekly increase.  
 Bridgestone Corp ., the largest tiremaker, raised its first-
half net income forecast by 37 percent yesterday, citing higher
sales and overseas prices. The monsoon covering the Andaman Sea
and the Gulf of Thailand is causing heavy rains in many parts of
the country, according to the Thai  Meteorological Department .  
 “Futures were supported by a strong cash price amid
speculation rain may keep disrupting tapping in Thailand,”
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at commodity broker Fujitomi Co. in
Tokyo, said today by phone. “A bullish earnings outlook by
Bridgestone was also positive to the market.”  
 November-delivery rubber gained as much as 4.3 yen to 285.2
yen per kilogram ($3,184 a metric ton) before settling at 284.7
yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. The December-delivery
contract, which was listed on the bourse today, settled at 278.6
yen after opening at 279 yen.  
 Bridgestone said yesterday net income in the six months
ending June may be 37 billion yen ($413 million), compared with
a previous projection of 27 billion yen. The company attributed
the revision to increased tire sales and improvement in product
prices in overseas markets.  
 Strong Demand  
 “Given the outlook, tire demand may remain strong for the
rest of this year,” Saito said.  
 China, the world’s largest auto market, is the biggest user
of natural rubber. The nation may increase gross imports of the
raw material to 1.68 million tons this year, from 1.59 million
in 2009, according to a May report from the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries.  
 Rubber prices may climb 26 percent next year as supplies
lag behind demand, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Asia
Securities (Singapore) Pte.  
 Natural rubber may average $4,500 a ton next year, up from
$3,580 a ton year-to-date, as “heavy rainfall in southern
Thailand has disrupted supply” and “inventory levels in China
are worse than we expected,” Nirgunan Tiruchelvam, a
commodities analyst at the bank, said in an e-mailed report.  
 The benchmark price in Thailand advanced 0.8 percent to
118.85 baht ($3.67) a kilogram, supported by limited supply and
growing auto demand in many countries, the  Rubber Institute of
Thailand  said on its website today.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
added 0.4 percent to 21,890 yuan ($3,222) a ton at 3:00 p.m.
local time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        