-- Russell Index Rebalancing Poses Late-Day Threat to U.S. Stocks, Knapp Says
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-06-25T18:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/russell-index-rebalancing-poses-late-day-threat-to-u-s-stocks-knapp-says.html

          
          
             The annual rebalancing of Russell
Investments’ stock indexes poses a late-day threat to U.S.
stocks that may be sidelining some investors, said  Barry Knapp ,
chief U.S. equity strategist at Barclays Capital Inc.  
 The value of the shares being added to the  Russell 1000
Index  of large U.S. companies exceeds the value of those leaving
when the indexes are rebalanced at the close of trading. That
will force managers of funds that mimic the indexes to sell a
portion of their other holdings to raise cash.  
 “Today the big issue is the Russell rebalance,” Knapp
said in an interview in New York. “That whole process alone
should create somewhere around $10 billion of Russell 1000
stocks for sale on the close.”  
 U.S. stocks rose as banks rallied on the passage of
financial-reform legislation. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 0.8 percent to 1,082.25 as of 2:06 p.m. in New York. The
Russell 1000 climbed 0.7 percent, while the Russell 2000
advanced 1.6 percent.  
 Russell estimates that $3.9 trillion is benchmarked to its
U.S. stock market measures, which include the Russell 1000 Index
of the biggest American companies and the Russell 2000 Index of
smaller stocks. Of the $3.9 trillion, $542 billion is in funds
that mimic the indexes, said Ashley Bowles, a spokeswoman for
the Tacoma, Washington-based company.  
 “The rebalancing may add volatility,” said  Michael Nasto ,
the senior trader at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which manages
about $2.5 billion in San Antonio.  
 According to  Investment Technology Group Inc. , index
managers will need to raise about $14 billion to buy the stocks
being added to the Russell 1000 and related indexes. The biggest
addition is Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the insurance and
investment company run by billionaire Warren Buffett.  
 Stock Split  
 Berkshire became eligible to join the Russell 1000 after a
50-for-1  stock split  of its Class B shares on Jan. 21. It joined
the S&P 500 on Feb. 12 and has the 13th-largest weighting in
that index.  
 Also joining the index are several companies that became
eligible after Russell changed its criteria for companies
incorporated outside the U.S. for tax benefits. They include
Covidien Plc, a maker of medical devices, and Tyco International
Ltd., the world’s largest maker of security systems.  
 The gap between the cost of adding those companies to the
index and the proceeds from selling the companies that are
leaving it may “put end-of-day pressure on markets because in
the absence of anything else, indexers are going to be selling
some stocks to pay for others,” said  John Carillo , director of
portfolio trading at ITG in New York.  
 A late-day selloff isn’t guaranteed because news affecting
share prices “could completely overwhelm” the index effect,
Carillo said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        