-- Russian Smokers Face `Slow, Painful Death' Health Warnings From Tomorrow
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-06-25T10:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/russian-smokers-face-slow-painful-death-health-warnings-from-tomorrow.html

          
          
             Cigarette packs in Russia must
carry larger health warnings from tomorrow as the government
cracks down on smoking, a habit that Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has called a “real calamity” for health of the nation.  
 Health warnings will have to occupy at least 30 percent of
a cigarette pack’s front cover and half of the back, according
to the Health and Social Development Ministry’s  website . Tobacco
companies must choose between 12 different messages, informing
smokers that their habit could lead to infertility and impotence
as well as a “slow and painful death.”  
 Russia has the most smokers per capita and is the largest
tobacco producer after China, India and the U.S., according to
government data. Tobacco companies with operations in Russia
include  Philip Morris International Inc ., the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company,  British American Tobacco Plc ,
Europe’s largest cigarette maker,  Japan Tobacco Inc . and
 Imperial Tobacco Group Plc .  
 As many as 42 percent of Russia’s 142 million people smoke,
including two-thirds of men, according to government statistics.
Smoking and drinking -- described as a “real calamity” by
Putin in 2008 -- are major causes of premature death among men
in the country.  
 The new measure is “not likely” to have an impact on
cigarette sales in Russia, according to Vadim Zhelnin, the head
of Tabakprom, an association of producers of tobacco products.
He estimates that Russians spent 400 billion rubles ($12.8
billion) on cigarettes last year.  
 Advertising Ban  
 “There is no definite international data showing that
scary signs warning about health problems lead to declines in
cigarette sales,” Zhelnin said today in a phone interview from
Moscow.  
 In 2008, the nation ratified a United Nations convention
aimed at curbing smoking, allowing for the gradual
implementation measures such as banning tobacco advertising and
smoking in public places.  
 Russia may raise its excise tax on cigarettes by 44 percent
next year, Vedomosti reported on June 10, citing Finance
Ministry proposals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        