-- Sa Sa Rises After Cosmetics Retailer Says Yuan Gains May Boost Earnings
-- Ronnie Koo
-- 2010-06-25T08:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sa-sa-rises-after-cosmetics-retailer-says-yuan-gains-may-boost-earnings.html

          
          
             Sa Sa International Holdings Ltd. ,
Hong Kong’s biggest cosmetics retailer, rose by the most in a
month on the city’s stock market after profit jumped and the
company said yuan appreciation will be positive for its outlook.  
 Sa Sa  rose as much as 4.8 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since May 28, before closing at HK$6.14, up 2.2 percent.
The benchmark Hang Seng Index fell 0.4 percent.  
 Profit  for the year ended March  rose  21 percent to HK$381
million ($49 million), Sa Sa said in a statement to the stock
exchange yesterday. The company, a favorite among visitors to
Hong Kong from mainland China, stands to gain from a gain in
the yuan after the policy shift on the currency, Sa Sa Chief
Financial Officer  Guy Look  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today.  
 “The renminbi and the pay rises in China will enhance the
purchasing power of the Chinese,” Look said. “It also has an
added effect because we have business in China.”  
 Annual sales in Hong Kong and Macau rose 10 percent to
HK$3.29 billion,  Sa Sa  said in its earnings statement, amid a
period of rising rental rates in the region.  
 The yuan rose 0.48 percent in its  biggest weekly gain 
since December 2008 as China set the currency’s daily reference
rate at a record high against the dollar, allowing appreciation
before the G-20 meeting which President  Hu Jintao  will attend.  
 The yuan was at 6.7938 per dollar as of 4:12 p.m. in
Shanghai, up 0.1 percent.  
 Rent for  Sa Sa ’s  store  at the Hang Lung Centre in Hong
Kong’s Causeway Bay shopping district doubled when the company
renewed the lease this year, Look said in a separate interview.
The previous lease was signed five years ago. The rent for the
Russell St. store in the same area climbed 30 percent, he added.  
 Today’s share-price gain boosted  Sa Sa ’s climb this year
to 19.7 percent, compared with a 5.6 percent decline in the
 Hang Seng Index .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronnie Koo  at 
 rkoo4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        