-- SAIC Aims to Raise Up to $1.5 Billion in Share Placement
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T09:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/saic-motor-aims-to-raise-1-5-billion-in-share-sale-to-develop-new-models.html

          
          
             SAIC Motor Corp. , China’s largest
carmaker, aims to raise as much as 10 billion yuan ($1.47
billion) in a private share placement to expand in the world’s
biggest auto market by developing own-brand vehicles.  
 The company will sell as many as 900 million yuan-
denominated A shares, and its parent company, Shanghai
Automotive Industry Corp. (Group), agreed to buy at least 10
percent of the shares for 1 billion yuan or more, the automaker
said in a statement late yesterday to the Shanghai stock
exchange.  
 Producing more of its own-brand vehicles may help Shanghai-
based SAIC reduce dependence on ventures with General Motors Co.
and Volkswagen AG that account for most of its sales. China,
which surpassed the U.S. in  auto sales  last year, is encouraging
domestic automakers to develop their own brands and alternative-
energy technology.  
 “SAIC may sell the most cars in China, but they’ve been
relying on their ventures with overseas partners and haven’t
developed their own brands,” said  Liu Lixi , an analyst at
Northeast Securities Co. “Their peers have been developing
their own brands for the past decade.”  
 SAIC rose 1.7 percent to close at 12.26 yuan in Shanghai.
The  shares  resumed trading today after being suspended since
June 18.  
 Sales Target  
 The carmaker aims to sell 180,000 of its own-brand vehicles
this year, President  Chen Hong  said in March. By comparison, the
company’s overall sales target is 3 million.  
 SAIC owns the British Rover and MG sports-car brands and
renamed Rover cars in China as Roewe after taking over the
design rights in 2005. It plans to start making MG cars at its
plant in the U.K. by the end of this year, spokeswoman  Zhu Xiangjun  said in January.  
 The carmaker will sell shares to as many as 10 investors
including its parent company, at a price of no less than 11.47
yuan apiece, the statement said. Possible investors include
securities companies and institutional investors, SAIC said.  
 SAIC aims to boost revenue to 245 billion yuan this year
from 140 billion yuan in 2009, according to a filing to the
Shanghai stock exchange on April 1.  
 The company’s vehicle sales rose 26 percent from a year
earlier to 289,239 in May, the automaker said on June 7. Demand
in China for automobiles, including the Buick Excelle compact
sedans SAIC makes with GM and Sunshine minivans produced by its
SAIC-GM-Wuling unit, helped the Chinese automaker boost first-
quarter profit more than fourfold to 2.88 billion yuan.  
 “Fundraising is of great importance to SAIC right now as
it needs to develop next-generation models for its  Roewe  and  MG 
brands,”  John Zeng , a Shanghai-based analyst at IHS Global
Insight, said in a phone interview on June 19.  
 -- Liza Lin  in Singapore,  Tian Ying  in Beijing. Editors: Chana
Schoenberger,  Terje Langeland   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       SAIC Motor Corp. Vice Chairman and President Chen Hong  
                       
                         
                           Qilai Shen/Bloomberg 
                         
                         SAIC Motor Corp. Vice Chairman and President Chen Hong attends the company's annual shareholders' meeting in Shanghai. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     SAIC Motor Corp. Vice Chairman and President Chen Hong attends the company's annual shareholders' meeting in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
