-- Hana Financial, Samsung Give Koreans Second Reason to Cheer for World Cup
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2010-06-25T03:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/samsung-hana-pledges-give-south-koreans-second-reason-to-cheer-world-cup.html

          
          
             Buyers of  Samsung Electronics Co. ’s
3-D televisions and savers at  Hana Financial Group Inc.  have
become winners in South Korea as the nation’s soccer team
advances to the second round of the World Cup in South Africa.
Insurance companies may be the losers.  
 Cho Young Chul, a 37-year-old research fellow at Yonsei
University in Seoul, stayed up through the night this week to
cheer South Korea when it tied 2-2 with Nigeria at Durban
Stadium to progress to the round of 16.  
 It wasn’t until he got a mobile-phone text message a day
later that Cho remembered opening a savings account with  Hana
Bank , the nation’s fourth-largest lender, promising an extra 0.2
percent more interest on his savings if the team advanced.  
 “I couldn’t have cared less about the extra rates when I
opened the account because I didn’t think our team would make
it,” he said. “They had a tough journey to make it this far
and now I’m earning extra cash -- it’s all the more reason to
celebrate.”  
 South Korean insurance companies face 630 million won ($530
million) in claims to companies that insured their giveaways,
the  Financial Supervisory Service  said in a statement on June 23.  
 They face an additional 2.32 billion won in claims if the
Taeguk Warriors, as the team is known, reaches the quarter-
finals, and another 520 million won if they make it to the semi-
finals, according to the regulator.  
 South Korea reached the semi-finals in 2002, when it co-
hosted the soccer tournament with Japan.  
 ‘Very Proud’  
 “We are very proud of you,” President  Lee Myung Bak 
wrote in a congratulatory message to the team, led by  Park Ji Sung  of Manchester United. “Seeing the Taeguk Warriors doing
their best until the very end without losing focus has given big
courage and hope to our people.”  
 Taeguk refers to the circular design of red and blue on
South Korea’s national flag.  
 Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of TVs, said
it will pay 1 million won each to 333 people who purchased its
3-D TVs between May 7 and June 30.  Lotte Shopping Co. , South
Korea’s biggest department store operator, and its Lotte Mart
discount store chain, are offering gift certificates worth as
much as 1 billion won to 801 customers, with the highest prize
valued at 200 million won.  
 ‘O! Victory Korea’  
 Hana Financial’s banking unit said on June 23 it would pay
an extra 0.2 percent of interest to 170,000 customers who opened
“O! Victory Korea” savings accounts to celebrate the team’s
advance.  
 The windfalls for some comes as the nation mourns the
deaths of 46 sailors on the warship Cheonan, which sank on March
26 after allegedly being torpedoed by North Korea.  
 “The team’s good performance is especially valuable after
the Cheonan incident put South Koreans into such a somber
mood,” said Park Tae Il, director of the consulting division at
the Seoul-based Hyundai Research Institute. Park estimated the
economic benefits from the team’s World Cup advance at 1.3
trillion won in increased consumption and elevated overseas
recognition of South Korea as a country.  
 North Korea  
 North Korea, making its first World Cup appearance in 44
years, drew more than 600 spectators in Seoul on June 21 to a
giant screen erected at Bongeunsa Buddhist temple to televise
matches. North Korea, which has been eliminated from the
tournament, lost 7-0 to Portugal.  
 South Korea, ranked 47th on governing body  FIFA’s list ,
faces Uruguay tomorrow at the Nelson Mandela Bay stadium in Port
Elizabeth.  
 South Korea advanced after a 2-0 victory against Greece, a
4-1 defeat by Argentina and a 2-2 tie with Nigeria.  
 Uruguay, ranked 16th on FIFA’s list, has had two wins and a
draw in the tournament.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bomi Lim  in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        