-- Sanofi-Aventis to Pay Up to $375 Million for Rights to Diabetes Medicine
-- Albertina Torsoli
-- 2010-06-25T15:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sanofi-aventis-reaches-license-accord-with-metabolex-on-diabetes-medicine.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA , France’s biggest
drugmaker, agreed to pay closely held  Metabolex Inc.  as much as
$375 million for rights to an experimental diabetes treatment.  
 The accord gives Paris-based Sanofi an exclusive license to
develop, manufacture and market the drug, called MBX-2982 and
currently in mid-stage testing, the French  company  said in a
statement today. Metabolex will get royalties on any revenue
from the treatment and related therapies covered by the deal.  
 The experimental drug for type-2 diabetes is designed to
boost production of both insulin and a hormone called GLP-1. The
therapy may also help lower body weight, Sanofi said. Other
drugs on the market targeting production of GLP-1 include Eli
Lilly & Co. and Amylin Pharmaceutical Inc.’s Byetta and  Novo
Nordisk A/S ’s Victoza.  
 Diabetics can’t produce enough insulin needed to absorb
sugar, which collects in the blood rather than being absorbed by
muscle and fat cells. This accumulation of glucose can lead to
kidney failure, blindness and heart disease. Sanofi is seeking
to expand in the $24 billion-a-year diabetes market. Its best-
selling product, the insulin Lantus, generated 3.08 billion
euros ($3.79 billion) in  revenue  last year.  
 “Sanofi is adding very innovative products to its diabetes
pipeline,” said  Philippe Lanone , an analyst at Natixis
Securities in Paris, who recommends buying Sanofi stock. “Their
development is risky but they have a big potential and could
guarantee Sanofi’s growth beyond Lantus in the years to come.”  
 The company in April licensed an experimental drug from
CureDM Group Holdings LLC that’s designed to restore the body’s
ability to produce insulin.  
 Metabolex, of Hayward, California, has already signed
agreements with Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. of Japan and Ortho-
McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Johnson &
Johnson. Metabolex’s  owners  include Alta Partners, Bay City
Capital and Venrock Partners.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net 
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        