-- SEC Sues Second ICP Manager for Trades That Benefited Client
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2010-06-26T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sec-sues-second-icp-manager-for-trades-that-benefited-important-client.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators sued a second
employee at ICP Asset Management LLC, the investment firm
accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of defrauding
investors as it bolstered an account held by “an important
client.”  
 That client was Moore Capital LLC, the New York-based hedge
fund that manages about $14 billion, an official confirmed
yesterday, declining to comment further. Moore Capital hasn’t
been accused of any wrongdoing.  
 The SEC sued  Aamer Abdullah , 34, a former money manager at
New York-based ICP, four days after the agency claimed that ICP
founder  Thomas Priore  made trades at artificially high prices on
behalf of collateralized debt obligations he managed.  
 The SEC’s June 21 suit against ICP claimed it made more
than $1 billion of trades at inflated prices for CDOs that were
in part insured by American International Group Inc. Some of the
trades profited an account at ICP held by Priore, 41, and the
unidentified client, the SEC said in its suit.  
 In August 2008, Abdullah and Priore caused a Triaxx CDO to
buy about $22 million of mortgage-backed bonds at a price of
63.5 cents on the dollar. The CDO’s trustee rejected the trade
because the vehicle was prohibited from purchasing bonds priced
below 75 cents under a rule aimed at limiting risk and ensuring
that ICP didn’t add highly distressed bonds.  
 Risk-Free Profit  
 After conferring with Priore, Abdullah bought the bonds
through the account Priore held with the client, the suit said,
and sold them to the Triaxx CDO at 75 cents, the SEC said. The
deal resulted in an immediate, risk-free profit of about $2.5
million for the account.  
 ICP violated its fiduciary duty to its client by failing to
disclose that it lacked the authority to enter into certain
contracts on behalf of the CDOs, the SEC’s lawsuit said. The
client lost more than $200 million when the account’s portfolio
was sold on the open market in late 2008, according to the suit.  
 A phone call to  Lawrence Gerschwer , an attorney listed in
court documents as representing Abdullah at Morrison & Foerster
LLP in New York, wasn’t returned.  
 CDOs package pools of assets such as mortgage bonds, bank
capital notes and buyout loans into new securities with varying
risk.  
 Abdullah also participated in at least one improper swap of
bonds to generate profit at the expense of the Triaxx CDOs and
to evade the required approval procedure, the SEC said.
Abdullah, who worked at ICP from June 2006 until April 2010, was
a managing director at the firm before serving as head of its
asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities desk, the SEC said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        