-- Dead Bond Seller Bilked U.S. Law Enforcers, SEC Says
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-06-25T19:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sec-sues-dead-man-s-estate-for-luring-public-employees-to-fraudulent-fund.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued the estate of a dead Florida man, claiming he
lured law enforcement agents and other government employees into
investing at least $34 million in a fraudulent bond fund for
more than 20 years.  
 Kenneth Wayne McLeod, 48, was found dead on June 22 from a
self-inflicted gunshot wound in Jacksonville, Florida, said
Melissa Bujeda, spokeswoman for the Jacksonville sheriff’s
office. Five days earlier, the SEC determined that McLeod had
raised the money from about 260 government workers since 1988,
the SEC said in a  lawsuit  filed yesterday in federal court in
Miami.  
 On June 18, the day after the SEC completed its
investigation, McLeod sent an e-mail to investors saying he was
shutting down one of his firms, the Federal Employee Benefits
Group Inc., according to documents filed in court by the SEC.  
 “You should expect to be contacted in the coming days or
weeks by the regulators charged with this termination/task,”
the e-mail said. “I pray that at some point in time you can and
will forgive me.”  
 McLeod, through his firms  F&S Asset Management Group Inc. 
and  FEBG , told investors their savings would be put in a
government bond fund, promising returns of 8 percent to 10
percent, according to the lawsuit. McLeod never purchased any
bonds and instead used investors’ money to pay for “lavish
entertainment,” including annual trips to the Super Bowl for
himself and 40 friends, the SEC said.  
 Invested Inheritances  
 Some investors rolled over their retirement and savings
accounts into McLeod’s scheme, and invested their inheritances
and children’s tuition savings, the SEC said. To carry out the
scheme, McLeod told investors their principal would be locked up
for various periods of up to eight years, supposedly due to the
long-term nature of the fund’s underlying bonds, the SEC said.  
 Phone calls to FEBG and F&S weren’t answered, and a
recording said the message boxes were full.  
 McLeod’s target audience was federal law enforcement
agencies, including the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration,
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Federal Air Marshal
Service, the U.S. Secret Service and the U.S. Attorney’s Office,
the SEC said in a court filing.  
 Both active and retired government employees invested in
McLeod’s fund. FEBG has survived on Ponzi proceeds, paying
customers false returns with new investors’ money, and hasn’t
been profitable since at least 2004, according to the lawsuit.  
 ‘Fallen Agents’  
 McLeod told at least one client he was investing in a
special fund for “family and friends, and the families of the
fallen agents,” according to the lawsuit.  
 “McLeod victimized law enforcement agents and other
government employees who dedicated their lives to the service of
this country,”  Eric Bustillo , director of the SEC’s regional
office in Miami, said in a statement. “The victims gave years
of public service and McLeod stole their futures.”  
 A court yesterday ordered an emergency freeze of the assets
of McLeod’s estate and the two firms. The SEC is seeking
disgorgement of gains and unspecified monetary penalties.  
 Editors: William Ahearn, Steve Dickson  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        