-- Sensex Retreats as Singh Expresses Concern on Strength of Global Recovery
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-06-25T11:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sensex-index-retreats-for-second-day-hdfc-bank-sterlite-shares-decline.html

          
          
             India’s stocks fell the most in two
weeks after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh expressed concern
about the strength of global recovery and amid speculation
interest rates will be raised before a scheduled meeting.  
 Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd.  dropped with copper prices.
Singh said the revival remains “fragile and uneven.”  HDFC Bank
Ltd. , the nation’s third-biggest lender, lost 2.7 percent. DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. predicted policy makers will raise borrowing
costs sooner than a July meeting after the government increased
fuel costs.  
 “We will see a rate hike much before the monetary policy
meet,” said  Manish Sonthalia , who helps manage the equivalent
of $200 million in equities at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd. in
Mumbai. “It is a no-brainer that the inflation rate will move
up.” He said shares of banking and financial companies may
underperform.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
fell 155.71, or 0.9 percent, to 17,574.53. The decline erased
the weekly advance. The S&P CNX  Nifty  Index on the National
Stock Exchange lost 1 percent to 5,269.05. The  BSE 200 Index 
retreated 0.6 percent to 2,229.41.  
 Sterlite, India’s largest copper producer, lost 3.4 percent
to 167.85 rupees. Three-month delivery copper fell as much as
1.4 percent on the London Metal Exchange.  Jindal Steel & Power
Ltd. , the nation’s second-biggest producer by market value,
retreated 2.4 percent to 641.6 rupees.  
 Oil Shares Surge  
 HDFC decreased 2.7 percent to 1,947.65 rupees.  ICICI Bank
Ltd. , the country’s second-biggest lender, plunged 3.3 percent
to 856.55 rupees.  State Bank of India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
lender, sank 2.4 percent to 2,300.8 rupees.  
 Indian Oil Corp. , the country’s biggest state-run refiner,
surged 11 percent to 377.95 rupees after a panel of Indian
ministers approved increasing gasoline prices in line with
market conditions, oil secretary  Sthanunathan Sundareshan  said
in New Delhi today.  
 Bharat Petroleum Corp.  soared 13 percent to 620.7 rupees
and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  increased 14 percent to 402.2
rupees.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , the largest state-owned oil
explorer, jumped 6.2 percent to a record 1,263.4 rupees.  
 ‘Serious’ Inflation  
 India’s decision to raise fuel prices may prompt the
central bank to increase interest rates by a quarter-percentage
point before the next scheduled meeting on July 27, said  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS Group. The fuel cost
increase may spur inflation by 130 basis points, said  Jahangir Aziz , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. The pace of price
increases quickened to 10.16 percent in May from a year earlier.  
 Prime Minister Singh said today that the challenge for
Group of 20 nations meeting this weekend is to ensure
sustainable and balanced global economic recovery amid a debt
crisis in Europe. His comments came as investor  Jim Rogers  said
in India the threat of inflation is “extremely serious” and
the world is in an ongoing bear market for financial assets.  
 “The world has an ongoing economic problem which has not
yet been resolved yet and I don’t think the best place for
people to invest is in stocks,” Rogers, chairman of Rogers
Holdings, said today in a Bloomberg-UTV interview. “I am still
concerned about debt around the world. I am short stocks.”  
 Debt Crisis  
 Leaders from the 20 top economies of the world will focus
their meeting on ways to address Europe’s debt crisis, an
official in President  Barack Obama ’s administration said on June
21. The European Union last month led a rescue package of almost
$1 trillion to damp speculation that one or more countries in
the euro area would default on their debt.  
 Overseas  funds  purchased a net  3.7 billion rupees  ($79.8
million) of Indian equities June 23, taking their total
investments in stocks this year to 294.2 billion rupees,
according to the nation’s market regulator.  
 Inflows from overseas reached a record 834.2 billion rupees
in 2009, exceeding the high set two years ago in local currency
terms, as the biggest advance in 18 years lured foreign funds.
They sold a record 529.9 billion rupees of shares in 2008,
triggering a record annual decline.  
 The following stocks were among the most active on the
exchange:  
 Alstom Projects India Ltd.  (ABBAP IN) advanced 5.1 percent
to 662.75 rupees, its highest in more than two years. The
company is close to finalizing talks for a tripartite venture
with Nuclear Power Corp. of India Ltd. and Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd., Hindu Business Line newspaper reported, citing
its parent’s power unit’s Senior Vice-President for Thermal
Products  Guy Chardon .  
 Alstom Projects’ President Sunand Sharma couldn’t
immediately be reached by telephone for comment on the report
and Bloomberg News received no reply to an e-mail to the
company’s corporate communications department.  
 Essar Oil Ltd.  (ESOIL IN) jumped 6.4 percent to 137.65
rupees. The company has been awarded four coal-bed methane
blocks, India’s Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  said.  
 Zenith Birla (India) Ltd.  (ZB IN) soared 20 percent to 29
rupees. The steel pipe manufacturer’s board approved giving
investors one free share for every five held, it said in a
statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        