-- Skilling, Black Aim to Cut Sentences After Supreme Court Ruling
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/skilling-black-aim-to-reduce-sentences-after-top-court-limits-fraud-cases.html

          
          
             The fates of  Jeffrey Skilling  and
 Conrad Black  rest in the hands of lower court judges after U.S.
Supreme Court rulings gave both men grounds to overturn at least
part of their corporate fraud convictions.  
 The  high court  yesterday used an appeal by Skilling, the
former chief executive officer of  Enron Corp. , to  scale back  a
favorite prosecutorial tool, a federal law aimed at so-called
honest services fraud.  
 Lawyers for both men say they will seek to overturn their
entire convictions. Skilling was sentenced to 24 years in prison
on 19 counts stemming from his role in the accounting fraud that
led to Enron’s collapse. Black, the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman, was sentenced to 6 1/2 years for
fraud and obstruction of justice for his role in the skimming of
$6.1 million from the company as it sold off community newspaper
holdings.  
 “We’re back in the game,” Skilling’s lead lawyer,  Daniel Petrocelli  of O’Melveny & Myers LLP in Los Angeles, said in a
telephone interview. “That ruling is fatal to the government’s
case.”  
 Black’s Supreme Court lawyer,  Miguel Estrada  of Gibson Dunn
& Crutcher LLP in Washington, said he will move quickly to seek
bail for his client. Estrada contends that, even if a lower
court upholds Black’s conviction for obstruction of justice, the
sentence should be reduced to no more than 24 months -- less
than Black has already served.  
 Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement that the government will “vigorously
defend the Skilling and Black cases on remand” to the lower
courts.  
 Honest Services  
 The Supreme Court said the honest-services law couldn’t be
applied to either case. Writing for the court, Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said the law, which covers fraud schemes to
“deprive another of the intangible right to honest services,”
applied only to instances of bribery or kickbacks.  
 The question now will be the extent to which prosecutors
relied on the honest services prohibition in convincing juries
that considered the two cases.  
 Prosecutors said Skilling and other Enron officials
deceived investors about the value of the company by issuing
fraudulent accounting statements.  
 The government has said that even the conspiracy count
against Skilling that was directly before the Supreme Court
might survive.  
 Conspiracy Conviction  
 Ginsburg said the court’s decision “does not necessarily
require reversal of the conspiracy conviction.” She said
prosecutors could argue that their reliance on the honest-
services provision was “harmless” because jurors would have
convicted Skilling of conspiracy, regardless. Prosecutors
offered evidence that Skilling had conspired to engage in
securities fraud, in addition to honest-services fraud.  
 Ginsburg also said the high court wasn’t ruling on
Skilling’s contention that the entire conviction hinged on the
conspiracy count and must be thrown out. Skilling, now 56, was
convicted of securities fraud, insider trading and making false
representations to auditors, in addition to conspiracy.  
 Skilling’s attorneys point to a 2006 opinion written by a
judge on a New Orleans-based federal appeals court as an
indication that at least some of the other counts are now
invalid.  
 Relying on a recent appeals court decision that had scaled
back the honest-services law, Judge  Patrick Higginbotham  said
there were “serious frailties” in 14 of the 19 counts against
Skilling.  
 ‘No Substantial Question’  
 At the same time, Higginbotham wrote that Skilling “raises
no substantial question that is likely to result in the reversal
of his convictions on all of the charged counts.” His ruling
rejected Skilling’s bid for bail while he appealed his
conviction.  
 Winning a reversal on other counts will be crucial if
Skilling is to see a significant reduction in his sentence, said
 Kirby Behre , a partner at Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker in
Washington and co-author of “Federal Sentencing for Business
Crimes.”  
 “He didn’t win a get-out-of-jail-free card,” Behre said.
“Most likely the conviction on this charge had little if no
impact on his ultimate sentence. Defense lawyers say all the
time the government overcharges. If you take out one of the 19,
it doesn’t make all that much difference.”  
 A federal trial judge in Houston was already preparing to
resentence Skilling for unrelated reasons.  
 Black’s Conviction  
 Ginsburg similarly  said  the high court wasn’t deciding what
impact the Black ruling would have on his conviction.  
 Estrada said the government will bear a heavy burden when a
Chicago-based appeals court revisits the case. Jurors acquitted
Black on most charges, including some of the allegations that he
stole money from Hollinger, a Chicago-based newspaper publishing
company.  
 “The government cannot come remotely close to showing that
not a single juror relied on honest-services fraud,” Estrada
said.  
 Overturning the single obstruction of justice count likely
will pose a higher hurdle. In rejecting Black’s bid for bail
during Supreme Court review, a federal trial judge in Chicago
wrote that Black “has failed to establish that a ruling in his
favor on the issues before the Supreme Court is likely to result
in a reversal of his obstruction of justice conviction.”  
 One of the lawyers who prosecuted Black,  Jeffrey Cramer ,
said the conviction may stand. Cramer, now the managing director
of Kroll Inc. in Chicago, pointed to the 2008 ruling by the 7th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upholding the conviction.  
 “The 7th Circuit had no problem saying this was fraud,”
Cramer said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former Enron executive Jeffrey Skilling, right. Photographer: Carlos Javier Sanchez/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Black was sentenced to 6 1/2 years  
                       
                         
                           Tim Boyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Conrad Black, former chief executive officer of Hollinger International. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Conrad Black, former chief executive officer of Hollinger International. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
