-- Sound Global Postpones Sale of Stock, Dual Listing in Hong Kong on `Terms'
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-06-25T09:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sound-global-postpones-sale-of-stock-dual-listing-in-hong-kong-on-terms-.html

          
          
             Sound Global Ltd.  postponed a dual
listing in Hong Kong and the sale of new stock as the plan
couldn’t be undertaken “on acceptable terms,” calling off the
planned move less than a week after issuing a prospectus.  
 “The company has determined that the global offering
cannot be concluded,” Sound Global said in a statement to the
Singapore exchange today. The provider of wastewater-treatment
services in China said on June 21 it planned to sell 261 million
shares at as much as HK$5.60, with trade set to start on July 6.  
 Concerns that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will hurt the
global economic recovery have dragged the  MSCI World Index  7.6
percent lower this year, forcing companies from the U.S. to Hong
Kong to shelve share-sale plans. About 47 companies have
cancelled offerings in the past three months globally, compared
with 27 a year ago, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Market sentiment is not very good, so the company decided
to cancel,” Cherry Qiu, an external spokeswoman for Sound
Global in Hong Kong, said by phone. The sale may be held at a
later date, the statement said, without being more precise. The
company is being advised by Morgan Stanley.  
 Sound Global  stock in Singapore, where the company used to
trade as Epure International Ltd., has surged 85 percent in the
past year compared with the 24 percent gain for the benchmark
 Straits Times Index . The shares, suspended from trading today,
last traded at 85 Singapore cents yesterday, valuing the company
at S$1.1 billion ($785 million).  
 Last month, billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Americold Realty Trust
canceled this year’s largest U.S. IPO and Swire Properties Ltd.,
landlord to Time Warner Inc. in Hong Kong, also shelved its plan
to raise as much as HK$20.8 billion ($2.7 billion).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        