-- U.S. Stocks Gain on Banks; Russell 2000 Surges Before Changes
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-06-25T21:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/stock-index-futures-decline-on-growth-concern-rim-falls-oracle-advances.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, trimming the
biggest weekly  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  drop since May, as
banks surged after Congress diluted a financial-reform bill.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. drove S&P 500 financial shares to a 2.8 percent
gain after congressional negotiators agreed on reform that
doesn’t ban hedge-fund and buyout-fund investing. Moody’s Corp.
surged 6.8 percent as lawmakers agreed to modify legislation
that would have made it easier to sue credit-rating companies.
 Newmont Mining Corp.  rose 4.6 percent as commodities prices
gained on a U.S. dollar decline.  
 The  S&P 500  rose 0.3 percent to 1,076.76 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The index has slumped 3.7 percent since June 18.  The
Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 8.99 points, or 0.1 percent,
to 10,143.81 today. The Russell 2000 Index of small companies
rallied 1.9 percent before annual changes to Russell
Investments’ benchmarks took effect after the close of trading.  
 “The approval of the financial regulation brings more
clarity, some of the uncertainty was eliminated,” said  Walter “Bucky” Hellwig , senior vice president at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham, Alabama, which oversees $17 billion.
“You’re seeing some buying here.”  
 Traders including  Michael Nasto  of U.S. Global Investors
Inc., which manages about $2.5 billion in San Antonio, said the
Russell’s adjustments may have spurred volatility. The S&P 500
shifted between gains and losses at least 25 times before 1
p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 $542 Billion  
 Russell estimates that $542 billion is invested in funds
that seek to track the performance of the firm’s U.S. stock
market measures, which include the Russell 1000 Index of the
biggest American companies and the Russell 2000. Investors that
mimic those gauges must buy and sell shares to match Russell’s
adjustments.  
 “Today’s Russell rebalance is one of the largest in the
past few years,”  Doug Rivelli , chief executive officer of
Pragma Securities, a broker and technology firm that provides
trading strategies and other tools, wrote in a note today.  
 The value of the shares being added to the Russell 1000
Index exceeds the value of those leaving, forcing index fund
managers to sell a portion of their other holdings to raise
cash, said  John Carillo , director of portfolio trading at
Investment Technology Group Inc. in New York. Assuming that
about $524 billion is invested in Russell index funds, the
difference amounts to about $14 billion, according to ITG.  
 Volume Jumps  
 Trading on U.S. stock exchanges amounted to 13.9 billion
shares, the most since May 21 and 46 percent higher than the
2010 average, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Volume at
NYSE Euronext Inc.’s New York Stock Exchange  jumped  in the final
20 minutes of the day.  
 Stocks fell during the first four days of the week as the
Federal Reserve signaled that European indebtedness may harm
American growth and sales of new U.S. homes fell to the lowest
level on record. Concern about risks to the recovery has dragged
the S&P 500 down 12 percent from this year’s high April 23.  
 Congressional negotiators today approved the most sweeping
overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great
Depression, reshaping oversight of Wall Street and some of its
most complex financial products.  
 Swaps  
 Banks including JPMorgan and Citigroup Inc. will be
permitted to maintain swaps operations used to hedge risk under
the accord announced today. The deal ended a standoff over a
provision crafted by Senator Blanche Lincoln, an Arkansas
Democrat, that was among the most contentious in the debate over
new rules for Wall Street.  
 Bank of America rose 2.7 percent to $15.42, while JPMorgan
gained 3.7 percent to $39.44. Citigroup added 4.2 percent to
$3.94. Goldman Sachs increased 3.5 percent to $139.66.  
 Investors should buy  bank stocks  as they will be able to
pass on to consumers the cost of the most sweeping overhaul of
U.S. financial regulation since the Great Depression, according
to  Dick Bove  of Rochdale Securities LLC.  
 “They can increase prices,” Bove, who is based in Lutz,
Florida, said in a telephone interview. “You’ll see prices on
just about every bank product soar. Everybody else will be
negatively impacted by this bill, but not the banks. The
industry has been pummeled because everybody believed that banks
caused the financial crisis. That pummeling is over.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Banks Index  fell 18 percent from
a 17-month high on May 3 through June 9 on concern that widening
European deficits and regulation would curb lending.  
 Moody’s  
 Moody’s rose 6.8 percent to $22.01 after a U.S. House of
Representatives and Senate conference committee reached
agreement on a plan to overhaul financial regulation. Lawmakers
agreed to modify legislation that would have made it easier to
sue credit-rating companies. They also decided to delay
implementation of a plan under which regulators would have
selected firms to assign ratings to asset-backed securities.  
 A gauge of raw-materials producers rose 1.4 percent as a
weakening dollar boosted the appeal of commodities. The dollar
fell for a third day against a basket of six  major currencies ,
as traders trimmed bets that the U.S. will boost interest rates
this year. The  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities
rose as much as 1.5 percent.  
 Newmont Mining gained 4.6 percent to $61.67, while
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. rallied 4.9 percent to
$66.57.  
 Oracle  
 Oracle Corp.  gained 2 percent to $22.66. Fourth-quarter
earnings excluding acquisition costs and other expenses was 60
cents a share, the world’s second-largest software maker said
yesterday. That topped the 54-cent average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Research In Motion Ltd.  declined 11 percent to $52.23. The
maker of the BlackBerry smartphone reported first-quarter sales
of $4.24 billion, missing analysts’ estimates $4.35 billion amid
competition from Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  
 For-profit colleges fell after William Blair & Co. said
scrutiny may weigh on the shares in coming months. Yesterday’s
Senate oversight hearing on the industry “did little to
persuade us that the regulatory focus on the sector will lessen
in the near term,” analyst  Brandon Dobell  wrote in a note.  
 Apollo Group Inc.  declined 4.8 percent to $43.75 for the
biggest loss in the S&P 500. DeVry Inc. slipped 2.2 percent to
$55.33. Career Education Corp. dropped 3.9 percent to $24.71.  
 GDP, Consumer  
 Stocks declined earlier after a report showed the U.S.
economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter,
less than previously calculated, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. It reflected a smaller
gain in consumer spending and a bigger trade gap.  
 Equities reversed losses after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
 confidence  increased to 76, the highest since January 2008, from
73.6 in May. The gauge was projected to rise to 75.5, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Legg Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller  said the U.S. stock market
will rise after Europe’s banks complete stress tests.  
 European Union leaders sought to calm investors by agreeing
last week to publish the evaluations of banks’ ability to
withstand financial shocks. The U.S. last year released the
results of tests on 19 financial companies to determine whether
they needed more capital following the subprime mortgage crisis.  
 “The stress test in Europe will do the same thing that the
U.S. stress tests did last year,” Miller said in an interview
in Chicago, where he attended the Morningstar Investment
Conference. A double-dip recession prompted by the debt crisis
is “not probable,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deborah Kostroun reports
on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks rose, trimming the biggest weekly Standard & Poor’s 500 Index drop since May, as banks surged after Congress diluted a financial-reform bill. The Russell 2000 Index of small companies rallied 1.9 percent before annual changes to Russell Investments’ benchmarks took effect after the close of trading. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
