-- Sukuk Rally to Six-Month High on Debt Settlements, Growth: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-25T07:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sukuk-rally-to-six-week-high-on-debt-settlements-growth-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Islamic bonds are trading at their
highest level in more than six months as companies reach
agreements with creditors to restructure debt and the global
economy recovers.  
 The  Dow Jones Citigroup Sukuk Index , which measures the
performance of Islamic bonds globally, closed at 120.53
yesterday, the highest since Nov. 30 and leaving it 3.8 percent
short of the record set Nov. 25. The  index  has climbed 6.3
percent from its low in December, helped by Dubai World’s May 20
agreement to restructure part of its $23.5 billion of debt.  
 “That was a big boost for the global sukuk market,” said
 Zeid Ayer , who helps manage $1.6 billion of Shariah-compliant
equities and bonds in Kuala Lumpur for Principal Global
Investors and Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd ., which have an
asset management joint venture. “Restructuring deals help to
bring a lot more clarity to the situation.”  
 Shariah-compliant bonds have weathered the European debt
crisis better than notes in emerging markets. Islamic bonds
returned 6 percent so far this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Listed US Dollar Sukuk Index , while regular
debt in developing markets gained 5.45 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 The World Bank predicted this month that economic growth in
the Middle East and North Africa will accelerate to 4 percent in
2010 from an estimated 3.2 percent growth last year as oil
prices rebound. Malaysia, the world’s largest sukuk market, is
forecast by the government to grow 6 percent this year after
shrinking 1.7 percent in 2009.  
 Malaysia Sukuk  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 fell six basis points this week to 3.61 percent, the
second-lowest level since the bonds were sold on May 27,
according to prices from HSBC Holdings Plc. The difference over
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has narrowed five basis points
to 175 since then.  
 The spread between the average yield for emerging-market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, to 431 so far this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .  
 The  difference  between the average developing-nation yield
and Libor narrowed 49 basis points to 586 basis points, based on
the EMBI+ index from JPMorgan Chase & Co. That is 156 basis
points more than the average spread for sukuk.  
 Pakistan Sukuk  
 Transactions in the $1 trillion Islamic finance industry
are based on the exchange of assets rather than interest to
comply with Shariah principles. Global sales of Islamic bonds
have fallen 24 percent to $6.5 billion so far in 2010 from the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sukuk issuances rose to a record in 2007.  
 Pakistan may sell sukuk in the domestic market for the
first time in two years to fund its budget deficit,  Syed Wasimuddin , a central bank spokesman, said June 23. Indonesia
plans to sell $650 million of global Islamic bonds in October,
according to  Dahlan Siamat , the finance ministry’s head of
Islamic financing unit.  
 Dubai World, one of the United Arab Emirates three main
state-owned business groups, announced in November a plan to
restructure $23.5 billion of debt. It reached an agreement with
its main creditor group last month.  
 Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co., Saudi Arabia’s
biggest property company by market value, said on June 23 it
agreed with creditors to cut the cost of a $450 million sukuk
sold in February.  Investment Dar Co ., the Kuwait-based owner of
half of Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd., and its creditors agreed to
most commercial aspects of restructuring its debt, the company’s
creditors committee said June 14.  
 Restructuring Pacts  
 Gulf Finance House EC , the Bahrain-based investment bank,
aims to reach an agreement with creditors by early next month on
renegotiated terms for a $100 million loan, Chief Executive
Officer  Ted Pretty  said on June 10.  
 More restructurings might take place in Dubai as the
region’s business hub seeks to repay loans over the next 12 to
18 months, Moody’s Investors Service said June 14.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Dubai government debt narrowed
167 basis points to 484 as of June 24 from a year high of 651 on
Feb. 15, according to CMA DataVision prices. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 “Let’s hope another Dubai-like crisis doesn’t happen,”
said  Muhammad Asad , who manages the equivalent of $210 million
as chief investment officer at Al Meezan Investment Management
Ltd. in Karachi, Pakistan. “There is a global economic recovery
and if that continues to happen, Islamic bonds will be
attractive.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net 
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Olivier Douliery/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
