-- Sunway REIT Seeks $460 Million in Southeast Asia's Biggest IPO This Year
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2010-06-25T05:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/sunway-reit-raises-460-million-in-southeast-asia-s-biggest-ipo-this-year.html

          
          
             Sunway Real Estate Investment Trust ,
controlled by Malaysian property tycoon  Jeffrey Cheah , is
raising about 1.5 billion ringgit ($460 million) in Southeast
Asia’s biggest initial public offering this year.  
 Malaysia’s largest REIT, a part of property and hotel group
 Sunway City Bhd. , priced shares offered to institutions at 90
sen each, the low end of the 90 sen to 98 sen range marketed to
investors, according to a term sheet sent to investors.  
 The IPO tops  Masterskill Education Group Bhd.’s  771.4
million ringgit sale in May and underscores rising investor
appetite for stocks in the Southeast Asian nation amid an
economic rebound from last year’s recession. Sunway REIT will
begin trading on July 8 and join 12 other REITs listed on the
Kuala Lumpur stock exchange.  
 “Sunway REIT is a defensive REIT that will offer unit-
holders a longer-term growth catalyst,”  Mervin Chow Yan Hoong ,
an analyst at OSK Research Sdn., said in a report June 22.
“Malaysians are great shoppers and the recent global recession
may have only slightly curbed this tendency.”  
 The REIT sale is being managed by a group of banks led by
 Credit Suisse Group AG  and  RHB Capital Bhd . The other banks are
HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co, CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
and Maybank Investment Bank Bhd.  
 Malls, Hotels  
 Cheah is founder and chairman of the Sunway group and was
ranked 18 in Forbes Asia’s list of the 40 richest Malaysians
this year with a net worth of $350 million. The  property trust 
includes shopping malls and hotels valued at 3.7 billion ringgit,
making it the biggest REIT in the country by asset value.  
 Its Sunway Pyramid Shopping Mall is the largest in Malaysia
by net lettable area, according to OSK. More than 70 percent of
Sunway REIT’s income is derived from its retail properties.  
 The REIT also owns the Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa and the
Pyramid Tower Hotel in Petaling Jaya, outside Kuala Lumpur.  
 Tourist arrivals in Malaysia reached a record 23.6 million
in 2009, from 22 million a year earlier, according to data from
the Malaysia Tourism Promotion Board.  
 Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy has emerged from its
first recession in a decade. The country may expand by between
4.5 percent and 5.5 percent this year after shrinking 1.7
percent in 2009, Bank Negara Malaysia said in its annual report
on March 24.  
 Four so-called cornerstone investors agreed to buy a 14
percent stake in Sunway REIT, according to the sale document.
They are the Employees Provident Fund,  Permodalan Nasional Bhd. ,
 Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  and Great Eastern Life
Assurance (Malaysia) Bhd.  
 As part of the REIT listing,  Sunway City  last month agreed
to sell two shopping malls, a hypermarket, three hotels and two
office towers to the property trust for 3.7 billion ringgit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  at   thchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        