-- Swiss Franc Rises to Record Versus Euro as SNB Says No Risk of Deflation
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-06-25T14:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/swiss-franc-rises-to-record-versus-euro-as-snb-says-no-risk-of-deflation.html

          
          
             The Swiss franc strengthened to a
record against the euro after the central bank reiterated that
the risk of deflation has largely disappeared, fueling
speculation it will stop resisting gains in the currency.  
 Switzerland’s currency rose for a fourth day versus the
U.S. dollar. The Swiss  economy  will grow faster this year than
previously anticipated as consumers increase spending and a
global recovery fuels exports, the country’s BAK economic
institute said. The  Swiss National Bank  said today in its
 quarterly bulletin  that it would take necessary measures to
ensure price stability should the sovereign debt crisis in the
euro area “lead to a renewed threat of deflation.”  
 The franc appreciated as much as 0.77 percent to 1.3491
against the euro as of 3:08 p.m. in London, the strongest level
since the euro’s 1999 debt. That pushed its gains this year so
to 9.8 percent. Against the dollar, the Swiss currency gained
0.4 percent to 1.0987.  
 “This basically means as long as the franc doesn’t
overshoot, they won’t intervene,” said  Marcus Hettinger , a
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. Demand for
francs may also increase as investors bet “that interest rate
differentials will narrow,” Hettinger said.  
 The Zurich-based SNB started selling the franc in March
2009 to ward off deflation and revive the economy amid the worst
global financial crisis since World War II. Pressure on the
currency to appreciate increased as the euro tumbled on concern
that countries from Greece to Portugal would default on their
debt and lead to the collapse of the shared currency.  
 Gross domestic product may rise 1.9 percent this year and
1.7 percent in 2011, the Basel, Switzerland-based institute said
in the  statement  on its website. It previously forecast the
economy to grow 1.2 percent in 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        