-- Swiss Man Sentenced to Three Strokes of Cane, Jail for Singapore Vandalism
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-06-25T11:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/swiss-man-faces-cane-after-guilty-plea-for-graffiti-on-singapore-train.html

          
          
             Oliver Fricker, a Swiss executive at
financial software maker  Comit AG , was sentenced to three
strokes of the cane and five months in jail for breaking into a
Singapore depot and spray-painting a commuter train.  
 Fricker, 32, was given three months in jail for vandalism
and two months for trespassing. The three cane strokes were
given for the vandalism charge, according to the ruling handed
down by Judge See Kee Oon in Singapore today. Vandalism carries
a maximum penalty of eight strokes. Fricker agreed to pay train
operator  SMRT Corp. ’s estimated costs of S$11,054 ($7,900).  
 Singapore’s penalties for vandalism gained international
attention in 1994 when U.S. teenager Michael Fay was sentenced
to four months in prison, a fine and six strokes of the cane for
vandalizing cars and possessing stolen goods. His sentence was
reduced to four strokes after a request by then U.S. President
 Bill Clinton . Fricker, along with an accomplice, painted the
train with the words “McKoy Banos” on May 17.  
 When handing down his ruling, Judge See said the
“calculated criminal conduct” wasn’t for the “noble” purpose
of highlighting security lapses at SMRT, as argued by the
defense. Fricker will appeal, said Derek Kang, his lawyer.  
 Singapore  police  have placed a global alert for the arrest
of British citizen Lloyd Dane Alexander, 29, who was named as an
accomplice. The train remained in service for two days as SMRT
staff thought it was an advertisement.  
 ‘Strong Deterrent Message’  
 Kang said his client has been a “model expatriate worker
contributing to Singapore” since his arrival in the city in
October 2008. He also pleaded guilty at the earliest instance,
Kang said. Fricker was “cajoled” into entering the depot after
a few beers with Alexander, and committed the vandalism for
“fun,” not “malice,” the lawyer said.  
 The prosecution had asked Judge See to send a “strong
deterrent message” for the act, which caused public alarm about
the security of Singapore’s public transportation system.
Fricker and his accomplice were experienced graffiti writers who
chose the commuter train to gain maximum exposure for their act
and add to their trophies.  
 The incident “shouldn’t be taken lightly or seen as just a
prank or for fun,” Sharon Lim, the deputy public prosecutor,
said in court today.  
 SMRT  President  Saw Phaik Hwa  on June 8 apologized for the
“serious security lapse” and pledged to step up vigilance. The
measures include increasing the number of security personnel and
patrols at its depots and installing more closed circuit cameras.  
 Misdemeanor  
 “In this case, Singapore should thank Oliver instead of
some terrorist for exposing the security lapses in our public
transportation system,” Subhas Anandan, head of the criminal
law practice at  KhattarWong  in Singapore, said before the ruling.
“That should be one of the mitigating factors.” Anandan isn’t
involved in the suit.  
 Graffiti is considered a misdemeanor in countries including
the  U.S.  and the  U.K.,  which has banned the sale of spray-paint
cans in some areas and offers rewards for the arrest of vandals.
In Victoria,  Australia,  graffiti vandals may be jailed for as
long as two years.  
 The Swiss embassy in Singapore was providing consular care
to Fricker and would attend the court proceedings as an observer,
said Peter Zimmerli, deputy head at the embassy. He declined to
comment on whether the  embassy  will plead for leniency on
Fricker’s behalf.  
 “Oliver Fricker has been suspended until he returns to
Switzerland,” said Christoph Oggenfuss, a spokesman for Zurich-
based Comit. “We are supporting him as an employee.”  
 Vandalism  
 Those found guilty of vandalism in Singapore may be jailed
for as long as three years or fined as much as $2,000 and caned
up to eight strokes. Trespassers into a protected area may be
fined S$1,000 and jailed for as long as two years.  
 Singapore introduced its vandalism act and flogging for
those found guilty in the 1960s to prevent the spread of
communist graffiti when the city’s democracy was in its infancy,
KhattarWong’s Anandan said. Prosecutors now have the discretion
to charge illegal spray painters with vandalism or mischief,
which isn’t punishable by caning, he added.  
 “If there is one thing that the Michael Fay incident has
shown, Singapore will strictly enforce its rules whether the
accused are locals or foreigners,” said Jonathan Yuen, a
partner at Harry Elias Partnership LLP in Singapore. “That
vandalism is a mere misdemeanor in other countries is wholly
irrelevant to the issue at hand.”  
 The case is Public Prosecutor v. Oliver Fricker, Singapore
Subordinate Court, case numbers DAC0024677/2010 and
MAC002548/2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        