-- Swiss Stocks Decline, Head for Weekly Loss; Transocean Falls in Zurich
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-06-25T16:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/swiss-stocks-decline-head-for-weekly-loss-transocean-falls-in-zurich.html

          
          
             Stocks  in Switzerland fell for a
fourth straight day, extending the benchmark Swiss Market
Index’s biggest weekly loss in a month.  
 Transocean Ltd., the company that leased the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico to BP Plc, fell on
concern a storm could hamper the clean-up of oil leaking from
the site.  Basilea Pharmaceutica AG  plunged 8.4 percent after the
drug company presented a new timetable for a fungal infection-
fighting drug.  
 The  SMI  of the biggest and most actively traded companies
fell 45.27, or 0.7 percent, to 6,275.35, taking this week’s loss
to 2.7 percent. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
retreated 0.7 percent today.  
 The SMI is down 9.9 percent from this year’s high on April
15, on concern a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will slow
growth and speculation the Chinese authorities are moving to
cool the world’s largest emerging economy.  
 “The market is torn between optimism that the economy will
grow again and fear that we will go back to a double dip,” said
 Claude Zehnder , head of brokerage at ZKB in Zurich. “We will be
prisoners of these two sentiments and so we may see a market
that trades sideways for the next weeks or even months.”  
 Transocean fell 2.9 percent to 54.55 Swiss francs. The
first tropical storm of the Atlantic hurricane season has a 60
percent chance of forming this weekend, with one computer model
indicating it could head into the Gulf of Mexico where BP has a
flotilla of vessels trying to clean up the oil spill.  
 Basilea  tumbled 8.4 percent to 65.55 francs, its steepest
retreat since December. The stock was cut to “neutral” from
“buy” at UBS AG, which estimated the drug company will delay
by two years treatment data on first new patients in the phase
III program of isavuconazole. The delays may result in a later-
than-expected introduction of the drug, UBS wrote in a note to
clients.  
 In addition, Basilea said Europe’s drug regulator rejected
a renewed request to have the ceftobiprole anti-infection
medicine recommended for sale.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        