-- U.K.'s FSA Publishes New Rules to Protect Consumers Behind on Mortgages
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-06-25T10:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/u-k-s-fsa-publishes-new-rules-to-protect-consumers-behind-on-mortgages.html

          
          
             The Financial Services Authority
plans to make all mortgage advisers “personally accountable,”
as it introduced new rules for companies that deal with
consumers who are behind on their mortgage payments.  
 The regulator, which started reviewing the mortgage market
in October, said today all mortgage sales staff and firms must
be FSA approved. The agency also said it is seeking to protect
those who sell and then rent back their homes, giving them at
least five years tenure, and banning “exploitative advertising
and high-pressure sales.” The new rules take effect June 30.  
 “Sale and rent back is often used by those who want to
sell in a hurry to stay in their home, and so it is vital that
they are better protected during what is usually a difficult
period financially,” Lesley Titcomb, the FSA director
responsible for the mortgage sector, said in  a statement  today.
“We also think it is wrong that arrears charges should be taken
from customers already in difficult circumstances.”  
 U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  this week
announced the biggest budget squeeze since World War II as
governments around the world seek to spark an economic recovery
after the financial crisis.  
 In situations where a customer is late with mortgage
payments, the agency’s new rules won’t allow a lender to charge
monthly arrears if a repayment agreement has been made, will
require that payments customer make first be used to cover
missed mortgage payments rather than late fees, and that firms
record all customer calls related to handling loans that are in
arrears and keep the records for three years.  
 Fewer U.K. mortgage holders failed to make repayments on
their home loans in the first quarter as lower interest rates
and an  economic recovery  eased Britons’ financial problems, the
FSA said June 22. Total loans in arrears fell 4 percent in the
three months through March from the prior quarter, while the
number of new arrears slipped 2 percent. The total loans in
arrears represent 3.23 percent of all mortgage loans, it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        