-- U.S. Equity Market-Maker Rules Should Be Revamped, Virtu's Concannon Says
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/u-s-equity-market-maker-rules-should-be-revamped-virtu-s-concannon-says.html

          
          
             Traders who place buy and sell
orders on stock venues for other investors to execute against
should face stricter quoting obligations, said  Chris Concannon ,
a partner at Virtu Financial LLC and a former executive at
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  
 Market makers should be required to match the best
available price a certain amount of the time, Concannon said.
Nasdaq officials are discussing such a proposal with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to  Eric Noll , the
company’s executive vice president for transaction services.
Concannon said regulators should also ban stub quotes that are
so far away from the market that they’re not “relevant” and
mandate that firms quote at “several price levels” away from
the best bid or offer.  
 Finding ways to ensure orders are continuously supplied to
equity markets and preventing trades from executing against
quotes that aren’t meant to be used has become a focus after the
May 6 crash that erased $862 billion in 20 minutes. The plunge
was “possibly exacerbated by the withdrawal of liquidity by
electronic market makers,” the SEC and Commodities Futures
Trading Commission said in a report on May 18.  
 “Because of the problem with stub quotes, exchanges must
revisit their market-maker definition,” according to Concannon,
who helps runs a quantitative firm that trades on multiple
venues and operates as a second-tier liquidity provider on the
New York Stock Exchange. “Heightened obligations are clearly
needed to provide more liquidity in times of stress,” he said.  
 Profit From Spread  
 Exchanges historically relied on market makers to provide
bids and offers for investors to trade against. The firms were
able to book steady profits based on the spread, or difference
between buy and sell prices. All trading on Nasdaq went through
market makers in the 1990s, while NYSE specialists could see
orders sent to the exchange. Quoting obligations were weakened
over the years as the benefits shrank, primarily due to the
narrowing of spreads by the SEC’s mandate that stock prices be
quoted in as little as 1-cent increments.  
 The SEC,  Nasdaq  and other venues are discussing new
obligations for market makers that would require firms to quote
at the best available price a “set percentage” of the day,
according to  Noll . The requirements “may encourage high-quality
and continuous quoting on all markets,” he said at a June 22
panel in Washington.  
 NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange, and
Bats Global Markets, which operates an electronic stock platform
from Kansas City, have talked with the SEC about market-maker
obligations, NYSE spokesman  Ray Pellecchia  and Bats spokeswoman
Kelly Bailey said. They declined to say whether their exchanges
support instituting similar requirements.  
 Better Prices  
 Designated market makers, which replaced specialists on the
NYSE when the venue changed its trading model in 2008, must
quote at the best price at least 10 percent of the time for
active stocks. Other firms called supplemental liquidity
providers, including Virtu, have looser obligations. Both sets
get better pricing than other traders on NYSE.  
 Stub quotes are used on Nasdaq, CBOE Stock Exchange, NYSE
Arca and elsewhere to meet an obligation to provide both buy and
sell orders in a stock. One-cent quotes in companies such as
 Accenture Plc  and Exelon Corp. were hit by sell orders on May 6
after the NYSE took steps to slow trading as prices began to
plunge. About 20,800 transactions were canceled because they
took place 60 percent or more away from what exchanges deemed
were reasonable prices that day.  
 ‘Affirmative Obligations’  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told lawmakers on May 20 that
her agency is considering the “creation of affirmative
obligations” that market makers would have to meet. Ensuring
the continuous availability of quotes has become harder as rules
changed and more volume has come from automated high-frequency
trading firms that can choose when they want to quote.  
 Market makers have been “considerably weakened” by high-
frequency traders that can transact at will and should be given
incentives in exchange for stronger obligations,  Thomas Peterffy , chairman, president and CEO of Interactive Brokers
Group Inc., told the SEC on June 22.  
 The firms should be required to post bids and offers for a
set number of shares within a certain percentage of the best
price 97 percent of the time, Peterffy said. In return, they
should get faster executions than other investors, whose orders
could be paused for a tenth of a second before reaching the
venue’s matching engine, he said.  Interactive Brokers  is based
in Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 Locating Shares  
 Market makers who meet certain quoting requirements now
receive an exemption from the obligation to locate shares for
stocks they want to sell short and more-lenient terms than other
investors for when they must deliver shares for bearish trades.
In a short sale, borrowed shares are sold with the aim of
profiting by later buying back the stock back at a lower price.  
 Jump Trading LLC Chief Operating Officer  Matt Schrecengost 
told the SEC that market-maker obligations should be recast so
firms don’t feel they’re mainly servicing exchanges. If
reasonable incentives exist, his computerized trading firm will
meet more stringent requirements to make markets, he said. Jump,
founded in 1999, is based in Chicago.  
 The SEC should also consider allowing market-making firms
to meet quoting obligations across venues rather than on a
specific exchange, Concannon said. If a firm gets benefits from
an individual market such as better pricing or preferential
standing in its order book, the requirement to provide orders
should apply to that exchange, he said. Benefits related to
rules across markets including short-sale regulations should
translate into obligations that could be met anywhere, he said.  
 Exchanges could agree to basic requirements for market
makers and create their own “special standards above and beyond
that” to attract more quotes to their venues, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        