-- U.S. Insurance Negotiator Sought by Ace Has Role Scaled Back by Congress
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-06-25T19:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/u-s-insurance-negotiator-sought-by-ace-has-role-scaled-back-by-congress.html

          
          
             Lawmakers  scaled  back the role of
the new federal insurance regulator sought by non-U.S. carriers
such as  Swiss Reinsurance Co. ,  Ace Ltd . and Lloyd’s of London.  
 Congressional leaders crafting the financial regulatory
bill placed limits on the new U.S. Treasury Department insurance
office, which can negotiate international regulations. State
regulators and consumer groups had said a version previously
approved by the Senate needed provisions to prevent Treasury
from helping companies preempt state rules governing reinsurers.  
 “It was a relief to see that the conference inserted the
key House provisions limiting Treasury’s authority,”  Lori Wallach , the director of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch who
fought against the provision, said in an e-mail.  
 In the U.S., states regulate insurance, which creates a
hodge-podge of conflicting rules and regulations, according to
foreign underwriters and the largest domestic carriers.  
 Non-U.S. reinsurers such as Ace and Swiss Re say they’re
hobbled in the $63 billion U.S. market because they’re required
to post higher collateral on contracts than their domestic
competitors. The American Insurance Association, which
represents companies including  Chubb Corp. , also fought for the
provision, saying it would help open markets for U.S. companies
in Europe or Asia.  
 “Major events this decade highlighted the inherent
limitations of the current insurance regulatory system as well
as the critical need for insurance expertise at the federal
level,” said  Blain Rethmeier , a spokesman for the AIA.  
 International Matters  
 While the legislation was a positive step, “we continue to
have concerns with provisions that could restrict the ability of
the federal government to reach agreement on international
matters,” he said.  
 Negotiators inserted parts of the House bill that limit
Treasury’s scope to preempt state rules, mandated that any new
rules must provide the same level of consumer protection as
current state regulations and provided states with the ability
to get a court review of proposed changes.  
 Companies had lobbied on behalf of greater authority, and
backed the Senate’s version. Lloyd’s of London, the world’s
oldest insurance market, spent $380,000 on lobbying in the first
three months of 2010 on this and other measures. Swiss Re, the
world’s second-biggest reinsurer after Munich Re, spent $40,000
in that period. Zurich-based Ace spent $1.17 million on lobbying
in the quarter.  
 Charles Landgraf, a lobbyist for Lloyd’s and other foreign
insurers, didn’t return a telephone message.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        