-- U.S. Asks Appeals Court to Stay Order on Drilling
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/u-s-asks-appeals-court-to-put-off-order-lifting-deepwater-drilling-ban.html

          
          
             The U.S. asked a federal appeals
court in New Orleans to delay enforcement of a judge’s June 22
order lifting a six-month moratorium on deep-water drilling
imposed after the  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  ruled the drilling ban,
issued after the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
oil rig in April, was overly broad and he prohibited federal
regulators from enforcing it.  
 The government yesterday asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New Orleans to put the order on hold during an appeal. The U.S.
previously filed notice that it would appeal Feldman’s order.  
 “The district court committed legal error and abused its
discretion in issuing its preliminary injunction order,”
government lawyer Sambhav Sankar said in yesterday’s filing. He
said the Interior Department is “continually collecting new
information regarding the safety and reliability of deep-water
drilling operations” and will evaluate this information along
with the existing record “to issue new suspension decisions in
the near future.”  
 The Interior Department said it may seek emergency
consideration of its request to stay the order lifting the
moratorium “if it becomes aware that drilling operations will
commence imminently at any of the rigs affected by the
suspension decisions,” Sankar said.  
 Safety Study  
 President  Barack Obama  temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential
commission time to study improvements in the safety of offshore
operations.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies on June 7 sued U.S. regulators, including
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , seeking to lift the ban.
Hornbeck and the other companies argued they would suffer
irreparable economic harm from the suspension in drilling.  
 “Everyone is trying to find out how to get back to work,”
 Samuel Giberga , Hornbeck Offshore’s general counsel, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “That’s certainly what we’re
interested in.”  
 Giberga said he wasn’t aware of any companies that had
resumed drilling since Feldman ordered the government not to
enforce its moratorium.  
 Five environmental groups including the Sierra Club and the
Natural Resources Defense Council previously joined the lawsuit
to defend the moratorium. Yesterday, those groups appealed
Feldman’s order lifting the ban.  
 Protecting Resources  
 The moratorium is essential to ensure public safety and
further investigation is needed before the ban should be lifted,
the government has argued.  
 “By assessing the safety and regulation of deep-water
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico over the next six months,
Interior is engaging in a deliberate and considered effort to
protect the Gulf’s economic, social and ecological health by
reducing the risk of another disaster like the Deepwater
Horizon,” Sankar said in the government’s filing yesterday.
“The public’s interest weighs heavily in favor of making sure
that another comparable tragedy does not occur.”  
 Feldman denied a U.S. request on June 24 to put on hold his
order lifting the ban while regulators appealed.  
 Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was based on
findings in a U.S. report following the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon rig, owned by  Transocean Ltd. , off the Louisiana coast.  
 Too Far-Reaching  
 Feldman said the six-month ban was too far-reaching a
response to its investigation.  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
Feldman said in his 22-page decision. “The blanket moratorium,
with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed
and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs
drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an
imminent danger.”  
 In yesterday’s filing, government lawyers said Feldman
incorrectly equated the moratorium to concluding that “all
airplanes (are) a danger because one was.”  
 The judge “profoundly misunderstood the problem,” the
government told the appeals court. “Until Interior can
implement regulations to address newly identified deep-water
drilling concerns, rig-by-rig compliance reviews under an
outdated regime cannot ensure safety.”  
 Feldman also substituted his own judgment on technical
matters for that of the Interior Department, the government
argued.  
 Blowout Preventer  
 “For example, the court independently concluded that a 7.5
percent failure rate in certain blowout preventer equipment was
acceptable, and chastised Interior for concluding that this
failure rate justified the temporary suspensions,” lawyers
said, referring to the device designed to prevent an
uncontrolled release from a well.  
 Salazar said June 22 that the U.S. would issue a new
moratorium governing deep-water drilling in the Gulf.  
 If the appeals court doesn’t grant a stay, the deep-water
rigs may resume drilling “using the same technologies employed
by Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon under the same regulatory
regime in which the massive blowout occurred,”  Walter Cruickshank , deputy director of the agency that oversees
offshore drilling, said in a sworn statement submitted with the
government’s filing. “Of greatest concern is the possibility
that a second such spill could occur even before the Deepwater
Horizon spill is halted.”  
 If the government can’t suspend drilling while better
technology is deployed and tougher regulatory standards are
imposed, then it can’t insist that drillers proceed with greater
safety than BP and Transocean, said Cruickshank, whose agency is
the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Neal Dingmann, senior vice president at Wunderlich Securities, talks about his investment strategy for energy stocks. 
     Dingmann says he recommends onshore oil companies over offshore companies on the risk of permitting and "cap liabilities". He talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
