-- U.S. Economy  Grew 2.7% in First Quarter, Less Than Forecast
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-25T12:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/u-s-economy-grew-2-7-in-first-quarter-less-than-economists-forecasts.html

          
          
             The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7
percent annual rate in the first quarter, less than previously
calculated, reflecting a smaller gain in consumer spending and a
bigger trade gap.  
 The revised increase in gross domestic product was smaller
than the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
and compares with a 3 percent estimate issued last month, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.
Corporate profits climbed more than previously projected.  
 The revised figures showed an economy that was more
dependent on inventory restocking and less driven by demand from
consumers and businesses before the European debt crisis
intensified.  Unemployment , combined with the turmoil in financial
markets and a lack of inflation, are among reasons Federal
Reserve policy makers this week reiterated a pledge to keep
interest rates low.  
 “It’s a moderate kind of recovery,” said Jay Feldman, an
economist at Credit Suisse in New York, who projected growth
would be revised down. Consumer spending “is not growing as fast
as in prior recoveries.”  
 Stock-index futures dropped immediately after the report,
trimming earlier gains. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,071.8 at 8:48 a.m. in New York.
Treasury securities were little changed.  
 Less Than Forecast  
 GDP was forecast to grow at a 3 percent annual pace,
according to the median estimate of 79 economists surveyed.
Projections ranged from gains of 2.4 percent to 3.6 percent. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 5.6 percent pace in the
last three months of 2009.  
 Today’s GDP report is the third for the quarter. The advance
estimate for second-quarter growth is due July 30, when the
Commerce Department will also issue its annual revision to growth
figures covering the past three years.  
 Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose at a 3 percent pace last quarter, compared with
the 3.5 percent the government estimated last month and a 1.6
percent gain in the prior three months. The first-quarter
increase was the biggest since 2007.  
 The revision reflected smaller increases in spending on
services than previously thought.  
 Consumer Spending  
 A report last month showed purchases in April were unchanged
from the previous month, snapping a streak of six consecutive
increases. Consumer spending figures for May, due June 28, are
forecast to show a 0.1 percent gain, according to a survey
median.  
 Last quarter’s trade gap was revised to $373 billion from
$368.3 billion as imports climbed more than previously estimated.  
 A bigger gain in inventories, now calculated at $41.2
billion rather than $33.9 billion, partly offset the slowdown in
household spending and a bigger trade deficit. The new data
indicate inventory restocking will contribute less to growth this
quarter.  
 Corporate profits  increased 8 percent in the first quarter
after, the same as in the previous three months, today’s report
showed. Earnings were up 34 percent from the same time last year,
the biggest year-over-year gain since 1984. The gain is one
reason some economists project business investment and employment
will pick up.  
 Factory Rebound  
 Manufacturers in the U.S. are reaping the benefits of the
global recovery. Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, will see revenue rise 25 percent this
year on surging demand for equipment from the mining and energy
industries in developing nations, Chief Executive Officer James
Owens said this week.  
 “We’re coming back very strongly after the recession,”
Owens told reporters after a conference in Lima. “We’ll see
growth in oil, gas and coal because we need energy for these
rapid-growth emerging countries that are driving the need for
commodities.”  
 A report yesterday from the Commerce Department showed
bookings for goods meant to last at least three years, excluding
autos and aircraft, increased 0.9 percent in May, the third gain
in the past four months.  
 The report also showed shipments of non-defense capital
goods excluding aircraft, which are used in calculating GDP,
increased 1.6 percent after no change in April.  
 Debt Crisis  
 Mounting concern over the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
has rattled global financial markets. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index is down 8.2 percent from March 31 through yesterday, and
the dollar index, which tracks the currency’s performance against
six major currencies including the euro and yen, is up 5.8
percent.  
 The decline in stocks may damp household wealth, leading to
smaller gains in consumer spending, while the advance in the
dollar may slow American exports.  
 The economy lost 8.4 million jobs during the recession that
began in December 2007, the biggest employment slump in the post-
World War II era. From January through May, company payrolls grew
by 495,000 workers.  
 A Labor Department report July 2 may show total payrolls
fell in June as the decennial census neared completion, allowing
the federal government to cut temporary jobs associated with the
population count, economists said.  
 The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, rose at a 0.7
percent annual pace, the lowest level since 1962, today’s report
showed. The reading underscores the Fed’s pledge to keep interest
rates near zero in coming months as the economy expands without
stoking inflation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     James Owens, chairman and chief executive officer of Caterpillar Inc., talks with attendees after giving a speech at the National Association for Business Economics economic policy conference in Arlington, Virginia. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less than previously calculated, according to the Commerce Department. Bloomberg's Betty Liu and Mike McKee report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group LLC, discusses his study of the correlation between best-selling book topics and the health of the U.S. economy.
     Colas speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
