-- UBS to More Than Double Revenue at Asian Debt Trading Unit, Kengeter Says
-- Philip Lagerkranser
-- 2010-06-25T11:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/ubs-to-more-than-double-revenue-at-asian-bond-forex-unit-kengeter-says.html

          
          
             UBS AG , the biggest Swiss bank, aims
to more than double revenue at the unit that trades bonds,
currencies and commodities in Asia-Pacific within two years,
said the co-head of the company’s investment bank.  
 “The doubling and more of our FICC revenue is a realistic
rather than an aspirational target, and one we expect to reach
in two years or less,” London-based  Carsten Kengeter  said today
in an interview in Hong Kong, referring to UBS’s fixed income,
currencies and commodities unit in the region. “We have a good
branch and infrastructure framework across the region.” He
didn’t give a revenue figure for the business.  
 Asian companies, who traditionally sold stock and borrowed
from banks for financing, will have to rely more on bond markets
to fund growth, Kengeter said. A rebound in global debt trading
helped UBS and rivals including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  recover
from the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.  
 Zurich-based UBS on May 4 reported the highest  quarterly
profit  in almost three years, buoyed by income from debt
trading. The investment bank, led by Kengeter and  Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell , reported a pretax profit of 1.19 billion Swiss
francs ($1.1 billion) for the first quarter.  
 UBS is rebuilding the debt-trading business that was
responsible for most of the $57.2 billion in losses and
writedowns during the credit crisis and forced the bank to take
a 6 billion-franc lifeline from the Swiss government. The
company aims to make the FICC unit the biggest revenue
contributor at the investment bank in three to five years, with
more than 8 billion francs per year.  
 ‘Another Dimension’  
 Strengthening the FICC unit in Asia will also put pressure
on other businesses to perform, said Kengeter, 43. He joined UBS
in September 2008 from Goldman Sachs to head the debt business
before being named co-head of the investment bank in April 2009.  
 UBS ranks third in arranging stock sales in Asia outside
Japan so far in 2010, down from second last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The data don’t include offerings in
China, where UBS has a local securities venture.  
 “A strong FICC business in this region will add another
dimension to our equities and investment banking businesses
which, historically, have been the more dominant in the
region,” Kengeter said.  
 UBS is the fifth-largest arranger of bond sales in Asia-
Pacific outside Japan this year, down from fourth in 2009, data
compile by Bloomberg show. The firm helped BOC Hong Kong
(Holdings) Ltd. sell $2.5 billion of bonds in 2010.  
 Unit Staffing  
 The Asia FICC unit, run by  Thomas Siegmund  and  Shahryar Mahbub , has about 350 to 400 employees, according to Kengeter.
UBS already has about 80 percent of the staff it needs at the
division, he said.  
 “We will not be a participant in frenzied, accelerated
hiring,” said Kengeter.  
 UBS in November identified Asia-Pacific as a key growth
region for all its businesses. The bank aims to boost annual
gross revenue from the region by more than 60 percent to 8.5
billion francs in three-to-five years, with about two-thirds of
the increase coming from the investment bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Carsten Kengeter, co-chief executive officer of UBS AG's investment bank. Source: UBS via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
