-- Lukoil Allocates $5 Billion to Finance Iraq West Qurna-2 Field Development
-- Anton Doroshev
-- 2010-06-25T10:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/lukoil-allocates-5-billion-to-finance-iraq-west-qurna-2-field-development.html

          
          
             OAO Lukoil , Russia’s largest non-
state oil producer, allocated $5 billion to finance the West
Qurna-2 project in Iraq as the company seeks to boost output
through foreign projects.  
 The funds were provided as a loan to its Lukoil Mid-East
Ltd. unit exclusively for the Iraq project, spokesman  Dmitry Dolgov  said today by telephone in Moscow. The loan matures at
the end of 2030, the company said in a regulatory filing today.  
 Lukoil , which has the most overseas assets among Russian
oil producers, has looked abroad for profit and expansion
because of Russia’s tax burden and the preference given to state
companies in gaining licenses to domestic deposits. The company
said in March that it planned an initial investment of $3.7
billion in West Qurna-2, after which the project will use free
cash flow to fund development.  
 With partner Statoil ASA, Lukoil won the rights to develop
the second phase of Iraq’s “super giant” West Qurna deposit in
December after agreeing to pump 1.8 million barrels a day for a
fee of $1.15 per barrel. Lukoil holds 56.25 percent, Statoil has
18.75 percent, and Iraq’s North Oil Co. the rest.  
 Dependent on oil for most government revenue, Iraq is
seeking foreign investors to boost output after seven years of
conflict and prior sanctions destroyed its infrastructure.  
 Drilling will begin next year, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer  Leonid Fedun  said earlier this month. Oil output may
begin in 2013 at the field, which has recoverable reserves of
about 12.9 billion barrels. West Qurna may produce 95 million
tons of crude a year, CEO  Vagit Alekperov  said in February.  
 Lukoil expects to book 8 million to 10 million metric tons
of oil a year from the project, Fedun said June 2. “Over the
next few years, Lukoil’s oil output increase will come because
that compensation crude we get from West Qurna-2 will provide a
stable cash flow and oil flows.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anton Doroshev  in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        