-- Luxury Car Surge Has BMW, Daimler Adding Shifts, Reducing Summer Breaks
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-06-25T17:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/luxury-car-surge-has-bmw-daimler-adding-shifts-reducing-summer-breaks.html

          
          
             Magna International Inc., Canada’s
largest auto-parts maker, reversed recent gains on the Toronto
Stock Exchange after it suspended a vote to end founder  Frank Stronach ’s control of the company.  
 Magna fell C$1.68, or 2.3 percent, to C$72.71 at 1:55 p.m.
in Toronto and earlier dropped as much as 3.2 percent. Aurora,
Ontario-based Magna said today in a statement that it postponed
the planned June 28 special meeting of shareholders and hasn’t
set a new date.  
 The company said it will comply with a provincial agency’s
order to make additional disclosures before proceeding with the
vote, which would eliminate its dual-class share structure and
end Stronach’s control in exchange for C$965 million
($925 million) based on yesterday’s closing price in Toronto.  
 “We intend to work cooperatively with the Ontario
Securities Commission staff to address the commission’s concerns
and comply with the OSC’s additional disclosure requirements,”
Chief Financial Officer  Vincent Galifi  said in the statement.  
 A three-member panel of the OSC said a company circular
“does not provide sufficient disclosure to shareholders to
permit them to make an informed decision,” according to a
statement.  
 The OSC sought approval from the panel led by Vice Chairman
 James Turner  for a cease-trade order on Magna’s Class “B”
shares or a ban on issuing new “A” shares to prevent the
company from converting stock that gives Stronach control.  
 The commission should have prohibited the deal altogether,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board Chief Executive Officer
 David Denison  said. The board held nearly 1.1 million Magna
shares, or 1 percent of the company, as of March 31.  
 ‘Too Much’  
 “We think the premium being asked of shareholders is
inappropriate,” Denison said. Stronach is “absolutely getting
too much.”  
 Under the plan approved by  Magna’s  board, the Stronach
Trust would receive $300 million in cash and 9 million Class A
shares for the Class B stock that now gives the family about
66 percent of voting rights.  
 The Class A shares gained 57 percent over the  past year ,
including an 8 percent gain from June 18 through yesterday,
before falling today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        