-- Vancouver Olympic Village Going Condo at Manhattan Prices as Bubble Builds
-- Bryant Urstadt
-- 2010-06-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/vancouver-olympic-village-going-condo-at-manhattan-prices-as-bubble-builds.html

          
          
             The Olympics are over, and the
Village is for sale. The complex in Vancouver, British Columbia,
that housed the athletes during the 2010  Winter Olympics  has
been converted into 1,100 luxury condos.  
 About 450 have been presold, and the sales of the rest may
well render a verdict on a mystery that looms over this city
like Grouse Mountain: Did Canada prudently steer its way clear
of the worst of the financial crisis only to be rewarded with a
massive housing bubble of its own?  
 On a bright, warm Saturday in late June, couples and
families wandered through the empty village, which has been
renamed  Millenium Water . It opened for public tours last month
and draws about 100 people a day, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its June 28 edition. Millenium Water is a city of the future,
built with environmental touches like green roofs and automatic
shades that moderate the temperature inside the apartments.  
 An 815-square-foot, one-bedroom apartment is on sale for
C$879,000 ($845,270), which works out to C$1,078 a square foot,
or $12 higher than the average price in Manhattan, according to
The Corcoran Report.  
 Millenium Water isn’t in Manhattan, of course. It’s not
even in downtown Vancouver, which is across an inlet known as
False Creek. It isn’t really even in a neighborhood; the nearest
establishment is the sales office for another condo development.
If all this is starting to sound a little irrationally
exuberant, well, that’s Vancouver for you.  
 “Real estate is like a sport here,” says Tracie McTavish,
president of Rennie Marketing Systems, which is overseeing the
sale of Millenium Water. In the past 12 months alone, the
average home price has risen 14 percent, to about C$1 million.  
 Prices Double  
 One can look at  charts  to understand how long and intense
the climb has been, with inflation-adjusted prices of an average
home in Vancouver doubling in the last 35 years, but it is much
more fun to watch  The Vancouver Real Estate Market Roller
Coaster , a video posted by the anonymous owner of the website
Vancouver Condo Info.  
 Using software called NoLimits, the programmer turned that
graph of home prices into a high-definition roller-coaster ride.
Starting with a warning, “Please fasten your safety belt. Keep
arms and assets inside ride at all times,” the years float by
like mileposts during the ride: 1979, 1980, a long climb up to
1981, and then a harrowing drop down to 1983. But it is the ride
up from 2000 to 2010 that is the steepest, and that, except for
a brief drop in 2008, seems to go on forever.  
 The video ends with an imagined plunge into the ocean.  
 Like Las Vegas  
 To a visitor, it can seem as if Vancouver’s main industry
is real estate, like it used to seem in Las Vegas or Orange
County, California. A newcomer, emerging from the gate for
international arrivals, is greeted with three separate backlit
billboards, all offering architect renderings of planned
communities. Aspac Developments promises that they’re “building
a legacy of excellence.”  
 Concord Pacific describes each of its multiple developments
as “a master planned world unto itself with park, schools,
daycares, shops, restaurants, and resort-style amenities.”
Polygon calls itself “Vancouver’s Builder of Choice,” and
offers contact information in English and Chinese.  
 Driving out of the airport and up Vancouver’s main
thoroughfare, Granville Street, one notices billboards for
brokers and advertisements on the backs of buses for agents and
developments.  
 “Some of the brokers in Vancouver think they’re rock
stars,” says Grant Connell, a broker with  Sotheby’s . According
to Connell, they are getting paid like them too. “Many have
made $500,000 or $1 million this year,” he says. Connell, a
former professional tennis player, is among Sotheby’s top-
producing brokers. As of June of this year, he had amassed 52
“ends,” as he calls a completed sale.  
 Not Unscathed  
 The market in Vancouver wasn’t entirely unscathed by the
financial crisis. Like the rest of the world, it took a hit.
Then prices rebounded, and the average home in the city is now
about 10 percent above the pre-crash peak.  
 On a driving tour, winding up a twisted knot of roads in
the West Vancouver neighborhood, which stretches up a slope with
a view of the bay and the mountains, Connell slows down by two
similar homes. “I sold the first for $4 million right when it
came on,” he says. “The second was a little later to market.
It took a long time to sell for $3 million. There’s your 25
percent 2008 correction right there.”  
 As Canada headed into 2009, locals  jumped back  into buying
homes. Home prices have been strong from coast to coast,
especially relative to the U.S. Vancouver prices, however, have
run with special gusto.  
 ‘Just Spastic’  
 In the second half of 2009, Connell says, “it was just
spastic.” He points to a narrow lot right on the beach, a
vacant slot between two nice homes. “That was a $5.2 million
sale last year,” he says. “They tore down the home but never
built anything.”  
 In Vancouver, new developments are presold via “assignment
letters,” or commitments to buy. Throughout 2009, Connell and
others say, assignment letters were being flipped. “The minute
I actually heard a taxi driver talking about flipping
assignments,” Connell says, “I knew something had to give.”  
 Canada was supposed to have been safe from flippers,
teardowns, bidding wars, and the other markers of the U.S.
bubble. Its banking system was voted the soundest by the World
Economic Forum’s most recent Global Competitiveness Report, and
President Obama has called Canada “a pretty good manager of the
financial system and the economy in ways that we haven’t always
been.”  
 The mortgage default rate in Canada is less than half a
percent, compared with 3.73 percent in the U.S., and its first-
quarter 2010 gross domestic product growth was 6.1 percent.
Canada has been among the first of the developed nations to
raise interest rates, pushing them up a quarter of a point on
June 1, officially declaring its recession over.  
 ‘The One-Eyed Man’  
 “It could be that investors see Canada entering a
renaissance,” says David Rosenberg, chief economist at Toronto-
based portfolio manager  Gluskin Sheff . “As the old saying goes,
in the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is King.” Or as
 James Grant , editor of Grant’s Interest Rate Observer, put it in
a recent newsletter: “Such nice people, the Canadians -- and
solvent, too.”  
 Canada’s banking system is healthy in part because it went
through a reform after a crisis in the early ‘90s. Though
Canadian banks appear similar to the big American ones, they are
much more tightly regulated -- in ways that keep loan quality
high and increase banks’ incentives to hold those loans.  
 Sound and Stable  
 Terms are largely dictated by the Bank of Canada; borrowers
putting less than 20 percent down, for example, are required to
purchase insurance from providers such as Genworth or the
Canadian Mortgage & Housing Corp. Unlike in the U.S., the big
Canadian banks write the majority of those loans. Lastly, the
majority of Canadian loans are recourse, meaning lenders can go
after a borrower’s earnings and assets; walking away is a very
unattractive option. All this has made Canadian home loans sound
and banks stable.  
 That safety and stability has come with a price. It may
have overinflated values. At least that’s how some doubters see
it. One Vancouver wag has been affixing “certified bubble
pricing” stickers to Realtor signs.  
 Also among the skeptics is Petr Pospisil, a teacher in
Vancouver who created a website called “ Crack Shack or
Mansion ,” in which the visitor tries to guess whether a
pictured bungalow is a bombed-out home of little value or a real
listing that costs more than a million Canadian dollars.
Pospisil, alternately concerned and amused by what he saw as an
irrational mania for real estate, got 30,000 views on the site’s
first day. Within five days, 200,000 had played the game.  
 Canada’s ‘Different’  
 “Canadians defend their bubbles, especially here in
Vancouver,” Pospisil says. “People get angry when you tell
them it’s a bubble. They say it’s different here, that this is
such a beautiful place and everything is different. Everywhere
there is a bubble, they say it’s different.”  
 Robert Hogue , a senior economist at RBC Royal Bank,
fundamentally agrees. “The type of price increases that we’ve
seen in Vancouver are unlikely to be sustained,” Hogue says.
“There might be some downside risk to that market.”  
 Garth Turner, a financial writer and former member of
Parliament, sees Canada going all the way down the road the U.S.
took. “My basic view is that we have a Canadian version of the
 U.S. real estate  bubble,” he says. “We’ve relaxed lending
standards, we have high unemployment and we’ve reached a point
of unsustainability in the housing market. I see real estate
values falling shockingly.”  
 Low Rates  
 Rosenberg notes three factors that have spurred home sales
in recent months. First, as in the U.S., near-zero interest
rates have kept mortgage prices at historic lows. Until June 1,
the overnight rate target set by the Bank of Canada was one-
quarter of a percent. It is now half a percent and expected to
rise. Second, the Canadian Mortgage & Housing Corp., Canada’s
hybrid version of the Housing & Urban Development Department and
Fannie Mae, announced in February that it would be moderately
tightening loan standards in April, decreasing the maximum
length of loans to 35 years from 40 years and increasing certain
minimum down payments. Third, a sales tax on services in Ontario
and British Columbia goes into effect July 1. The imminence of
all three has likely pushed some buyers to jump into the market.  
 Cameron Muir, chief economist for the British Columbia Real
Estate Association, argues for Vancouver’s special situation.
“Vancouver has had the highest prices in Canada for some
time,” Muir says. “You’ve got the Pacific on the west, the
mountains to the north, the U.S. border to the south, and land
reserves to the east. That puts tremendous upward pressure on
land prices. We also have solid population growth with a
sizeable proportion of immigrants.”  
 More Immigrants  
 Vancouver is a city of just over 2 million and Muir expects
40,000 immigrants this year. There are also wealthy Asians
buying as investments, as second homes or for relatives living
locally, Muir says.  
 “I’d say over half our high-end listings go to China
buyers,” Connell says. “Yesterday we did an open house for a
$3.5 million home, and six groups came through. They were all
Chinese.”  
 Broker Andrew Hasman says 70 percent to 80 percent of his
high-end listings are going to mainland Chinese. He oversaw an
open house recently for a $1.8 million home. Of 100 visitors, 91
were from China.  
 ‘Starting to Sit’  
 Spend enough time speaking with Rosenberg, Hasman, Muir,
and others, and prices in Canada seem to make a kind of sense, a
rational response to market forces that just so happens to have
pushed prices way above the norm. Like many brokers, Connell
acknowledges that things are overheated. “I see it more
stalling than anything. Units are starting to sit,” he says,
opening the door to a $3.8 million four-bedroom penthouse in
Vancouver’s downtown, in the 7-year-old Classico building. Decks
on two sides look out over the tankers moored in English Bay,
and Grouse Mountain beyond. It is a second home, full of
stainless steel, granite, and floor-to-ceiling windows. At
$1,688 a square foot, it is well over Manhattan’s average.  
 “This would have been snapped up just a couple of weeks
ago,” Connell says, though he’s not overly concerned.
“Everybody always has a take on Vancouver, and nobody ever
seems to be right.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryant Urstadt  in New York at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Sales Centre at the Millenium Water condominium complex, which was formerly the 2010 Winter Olympic Village used to house athletes, in Vancouver. Photographer: Lyle Stafford/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Buildings stand at the Millenium Water condominium complex, which was formerly the 2010 Winter Olympic Village used to house athletes, in Vancouve. Photographer: Lyle Stafford/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
