-- Vietnam's Trade Deficit Widens as Exports Slump on Decline in Gold Sales
-- Jason Folkmanis
-- 2010-06-25T07:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/vietnam-s-trade-deficit-widens-as-exports-slump-on-decline-in-gold-sales.html

          
          
             Vietnam’s trade deficit widened in
June as exports slumped due to a decline in gold sales.  
 The shortfall widened to $1.2 billion from a revised $871
million in May, based on preliminary figures from the General
Statistics Office in Hanoi.  Exports  slipped 5 percent in June to
$6 billion and  imports  were little changed at $7.2 billion.  
 Vietnam’s export figures were boosted in May by the sale
of previously imported gold as traders took advantage of a gap
between domestic and international prices. Almost all Vietnamese
gold exports are from bullion obtained through past imports
rather than local output.  
 “The trade data for May were distorted by a jump in
exports of precious metals,” said  Ben Bingham , the senior
resident representative in Vietnam for the International
Monetary Fund. “If you strip out the gold figures, it looks
like underlying exports continued to make a steady recovery.”  
 Exports of precious metals in June fell to $350 million
from a revised $993 million in May.  
 “The gold exports here are not really a true commodity
export, but more of a portfolio relocation that really distort
the figures,” said  Martin Rama , lead Vietnam economist for the
World Bank.  
 Overall Deficit  
 The deficit widened to $6.73 billion in the first half from
$2.26 billion in the same period a year earlier, based on
today’s figures.  
 “Vietnam needs to see improved exports to mute any
incipient concerns about its balance of payments,” said  Matt Robinson , a Sydney-based economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc.  
 The weaker Vietnamese dong, which traded today at 18,975
per dollar, compared with 18,479 at the end of 2009, may not
help ease the country’s trade deficit as much as a weaker
currency would elsewhere, the World Bank’s Rama said.  
 “Because of the strong import-based component of many
Vietnamese exports, the weaker currency doesn’t make such a big
difference to the overall trade balance,” said Rama. “If the
currency weakens, companies get more for their exports but they
have to pay more for their imports.”  
 A widening deficit poses a “macroeconomic risk,” the
country’s central bank told a meeting this month in the Mekong
Delta province of Kien Giang. The government’s policy is to
“combine measures to promote exports and control imports,” the
central bank said.  
 Vietnam shouldn’t “import unnecessary items and should use
tax measures, tariffs, and technical barriers to limit imports
and promote production and consumption of domestic goods, thus
contributing to reduce the deficit of the international balance
of payments,” the State Bank of Vietnam said in its report to
the meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        