-- Visteon Bankruptcy Judge Allows Creditor Vote on Reorganization Proposal
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-25T18:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/visteon-bankruptcy-judge-allows-creditor-vote-on-reorganization-proposal.html

          
          
             Visteon Corp.  won bankruptcy court
approval to seek creditor support for a reorganization plan
designed to raise $1.25 billion by selling new stock in the
 auto-parts maker .  
 Today’s decision sets up a battle between bondholders, who
have the chance to buy at least 93 percent of Visteon under the
plan, and shareholders and lenders, who claim they could arrange
a similar deal that didn’t require the company to pay tens of
millions of dollars in fees.  
 “We’re headed to  litigation  and I’m aware of that,” U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher S. Sontchi  said today at a hearing
in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 The plan gives bondholders, if they win final court
approval, the chance to organize the stock sale and take over
the company. Creditors have until July 30 to submit their votes.
Sontchi scheduled an eight-day hearing on the plan starting
Sept. 28 and will take the creditor vote into consideration in
deciding whether to approve the reorganization.  
 Visteon , based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, proposed a
plan with the $1.25 billion stock sale to unsecured creditors,
including bondholders. The money would be used to pay creditors
and allow Visteon to exit bankruptcy.  
 Sontchi overruled objections from shareholders and lenders,
who claim Visteon is buying  bondholders ’ support for the
turnaround plan by paying them more than $72 million in fees
related to the sale. He approved the company’s disclosure
statement, a detailed description of the reorganization written
to help creditors decide how to vote.  
 Stock Sale  
 Earlier Sontchi denied a request by lenders and
 shareholders  to halt implementation of the stock sale agreement
between Visteon and bondholders while they appeal his approval
of the deal.  
 The stock sale is being arranged by holders of about half
of Visteon’s $870 million in unsecured notes.  
 Visteon was spun off from  Ford Motor Co.  in 2000. The
company filed for bankruptcy in 2009, listing assets of
$4.58 billion and  debt  of $5.32 billion in its Chapter 11
documents.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        