-- Visteon Judge Refuses to Halt Bondholder-Backed Stock Sale During Appeal
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-25T16:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/visteon-judge-refuses-to-halt-bondholder-backed-stock-sale-in-appeal.html

          
          
             The judge overseeing  Visteon Corp. ’s
bankruptcy refused to suspend an agreement that pays bondholders
$22 million to sponsor a stock sale related to the auto-parts
maker’s reorganization.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher S. Sontchi  in Wilmington,
Delaware, denied a request by lenders and  shareholders  to halt
implementation of the agreement while they appeal his approval
of the deal. Visteon is paying bondholders fees to buy support
for the turnaround plan, the lenders and stockholders say.  
 “That’s like an American company going oversees and saying
they have to pay bribes because that’s just what you have to do
to do business,” shareholder lawyer  Martin J Bienenstock  said.  
 Visteon, based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, proposed a
plan that would raise $1.25 billion from selling stock to
unsecured creditors, including bondholders. If Sontchi approves
the plan, bondholders will own about 95 percent of the new
stock.  
 Visteon is in court today seeking permission to send its
reorganization plan to creditors for a vote. Sontchi will take
that tally into consideration when he decides whether to approve
the plan.  
 The judge rejected the lender-shareholder arguments about
the stock sale, saying the fees are not a bribe and are
reasonable.  
 Saving Money  
 Shareholders and lenders say the stock sale could go
forward without any fees’ being paid to bondholders, saving
Visteon money.  
 The agreement calls for bondholders to be paid $22 million
in fees initially and $49.5 million later in return for
backstopping the stock sale.  
 The parts maker was spun off from  Ford Motor Co.  in 2000.
Visteon filed for bankruptcy in 2009, listing assets of
$4.58 billion and  debt  of $5.32 billion in Chapter 11 documents.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        