-- World Cup Success May Boost South Africa Companies, Continent, Mobius Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-06-25T07:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/world-cup-may-boost-investor-interest-in-south-african-stocks-mobius-says.html

          
          
             South Africa’s “world-class”
companies may gain from the soccer World Cup and support
economic resurgence across the continent, Templeton Asset
Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  said.  
 South Africa “has shown that it can host an international
event to international standards,” Mobius, who oversees about
$34 billion in emerging markets as Templeton Asset Management’s
Singapore-based chairman, wrote on his  blog . “This bodes well
for the region’s future investment prospects.”  
 The successful hosting of the tournament had defied critics
and cast South Africa in a positive light, former U.S. President
 Bill Clinton  said yesterday in Johannesburg, according to Agence
France-Presse. The World Cup may enhance South Africa’s image
and draw investment and tourism, helping to support an
“economic resurgence,” Mobius said.  
 South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index  has dropped
0.7 percent this year, less than the 4.3 percent decline in the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index . The country’s stocks are  valued 
near their highest in more than five years relative to the
developing nation gauge, according to weekly Bloomberg data.  
 The  country  has many “world-class” companies that offer
good investing opportunities, with the infrastructure, tourism,
retailing, media and telecommunications industry poised to
benefit from the sporting event, he wrote. Mobius said he’s
positive on the outlook for Africa, given its natural resources
and young population and as the soccer World Cup draws attention
to the continent.  
 Elsewhere in Africa, Templeton is looking at Nigeria, Egypt,
Kenya, Botswana, Ghana, Morocco and Tunisia, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        