-- Yuan Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain Since 2008 Before Group of 20 Meeting
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T10:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/yuan-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-2008-before-group-of-20-meeting.html

          
          
             The yuan had its biggest weekly gain
since December 2008 after China set the currency’s daily
reference rate at a record high, allowing appreciation before
the Group of 20 meeting tomorrow.  
 The People’s Bank of China said June 19 it would end a two-
year peg to the dollar and manage the yuan with reference to a
basket of currencies, noting that the European Union is the
nation’s biggest trading partner. The currency closed at its
strongest level since 1993, a day before President Hu Jintao
attends the G-20 summit in Toronto tomorrow.  
 “President Hu can point to it as evidence that China is
serious about making its currency more flexible,” said  Brian Jackson , a senior emerging-markets strategist for the Royal Bank
of Canada in Hong Kong. “But the rest of the G-20 were not born
yesterday, and there may be some suspicion that the move over
the last week was just window-dressing.”  
 The yuan rose 0.5 percent this week, and 0.1 percent from
yesterday, to 6.79 per dollar as of 5:51 p.m. in Hong Kong. The
central bank  fixed  the reference rate at 6.7896 per dollar, 0.3
percent stronger than yesterday and 0.15 percent higher than the
close in the spot market. The yuan is allowed to trade 0.5
percent on either side of the daily fixing.  
 Unfair Advantage  
 The euro dropped 0.1 percent, after rallying 0.5 percent
against the greenback in the previous two days. The central bank
noted over the weekend that 16.3 percent of China’s trading
volume is with the EU, compared with 12.9 percent for the U.S.  
 “The yuan rate is more closely linked with a basket of
currencies, especially the euro,” said  Liu Xin , a currency
analyst at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications Ltd.,
China’s fifth-biggest lender. “The yuan tends to be moved by
the relative strength of the euro versus the dollar.”  
 President  Barack Obama  said it is too soon to say whether
China’s decision to allow more flexibility for its currency will
be sufficient to rebalance the world economy. Obama and Hu are
scheduled to have a bilateral meeting June 26 while at the
summit.  
 “The initial signs were positive but it’s too early to
tell,” Obama said at a joint news conference with Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  at the White House yesterday.  
 The yuan’s dollar peg had provided China with an “unfair
trade advantage,” and the U.S. has told the Chinese government
“we expect change,” Obama said. He said his administration
“did not expect a complete 20 percent appreciation” because
that would be damaging to the world economy.  
 Sanctions Threat  
 The U.S.  trade deficit  with China reached $71 billion for
the first four months of the year, up 5.8 percent from the same
period of 2009, according to U.S. government data. Senator
Charles Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said he will seek a
vote soon on legislation to let U.S. companies seek tariffs on
Chinese  imports  to help offset the weak yuan.  
 Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters
in Beijing yesterday that a revalued yuan won’t solve U.S.
economic woes.  
 “The appreciation of the yuan cannot bring balanced
trade,” Qin said. A strengthening yuan “cannot help to solve
U.S. problems of unemployment, overconsumption and low savings
rate.”  
 China’s benchmark money-market rate rose to near the
highest level this year as bets that the yuan’s appreciation
will be modest spurred speculation funds will flow abroad. The
12-month non-deliverable forward contract was pricing in a 1.7
percent currency gain in 12 months.  
 ‘Limited Appreciation’  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability between banks, surged 29 basis points today to 3.16
percent, extending this week’s gain to 47 basis points,
according to the daily fixing rate published by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate reached this year’s high of
3.28 percent on June 2. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “The market expects limited yuan appreciation and more
funds will flow out of the country than are coming in,” said
 Pang Aihua , a Beijing-based fixed-income analyst at China Citic
Bank.  
 Government bonds were little changed. The yield on the 1.77
percent note due in December 2013 was 2.64 percent, and the
price of the security was 97.14 per 100 yuan face amount,
according to the funding center.  
 -- Belinda Cao ,  Frances Yoon . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,
 James Regan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chinese President Hu Jintao speaks at the opening ceremony of the U.S.-China Strategic & Economic Dialogue (S&ED) in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Tim Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for the nation's relations with the U.S. 
     Adams, speaking from Washington, also discusses the outlook for the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, U.K.'s budget, and U.S. and European fiscal policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Indonesian Trade Minister Mari Pangestu talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for regional trade.
     Pangestu, speaking from Jakarta, also discusses the outlook for Indonesia's palm oil industry, and global efforts to fight climate change. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jing Ulrich, chairwoman for China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about China's decision to end the yuan's peg to the U.S. dollar and the outlook for the currency. 
     Ulrich also discusses Chinese stocks, the country's economy and her investment strategy for China. Ulrich talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
