-- Zhongyu Gas Falls to Eight-Month Low in Hong Kong After Quarterly Net Loss
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-25T05:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-25/zhongyu-gas-falls-to-eight-month-low-in-hong-kong-after-quarterly-net-loss.html

          
          
             Zhongyu Gas Holdings Ltd. , a Chinese
piped-gas distributor, fell to an eight-month low in Hong Kong
trading after posting a first-quarter loss.  
 The shares fell as much as 18 percent to HK$0.65, the
lowest since October last year, and traded at HK$0.67 at the
midday break. The stock resumed trading today after being
suspended since March 22 because the company couldn’t release
its 2009 annual results as required by the stock exchange.  
 Zhongyu Gas reported a loss of HK$4.9 million ($630,010) in
the first three months compared with a profit of HK$12.3 million
a year earlier, according to a statement filed to the Hong Kong
stock exchange today. Operating expenses climbed 40 percent
after paying bonuses a quarter earlier than the year before.  
 The Hong Kong-based company, also a coal-bed methane
producer, is the target of a disputed takeover bid by  China Gas
Holdings Ltd. , a supplier of the fuel to mainland homes and
businesses. China Gas submitted a request to the Securities and
Futures Commission not to proceed with a proposed HK$2.12
billion bid for Zhongyu “in view of the prolonged suspension”
of trading in Zhongyu shares, China Gas said in April.  
 Zhongyu received letters of objection to China Gas’s
takeover bid from joint venture partners of five of its 19
subsidiaries in China and from three of the nine local
governments where the company has operations, the company said
in the statement.  
 Operating expenses in the first quarter rose 40 percent to
HK$43.4 million because of an “increase in staff salary cost”,
Zhongyu said in today’s statement.  
 Sales of piped gas gained 22 percent from a year earlier
after an increase in total gas consumption and connections to
households and industrial and commercial users, the company said.
Overall sales climbed 36 percent to HK$218.7 million, it said.  
 -- Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ang Bee Lin ,  Alex Devine .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        