-- Why Hedge Funds Skip Spreadsheets, Call K Street: David Reilly
-- David Reilly
-- 2010-01-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-07/why-hedge-funds-skip-spreadsheets-call-k-street-david-reilly.html

          
          
             What will the government do? That was
the big question for anyone valuing  bank  stocks early last year.
It still is, even though the shares are on firmer footing.  
 The unfortunate need to keep monitoring political
maneuvering was underscored by Senator  Christopher Dodd’s 
announcement Wednesday that he wouldn’t seek re-election. Since
Dodd is chairman of the Senate Banking  Committee , the notion
that he will depart at year’s end raises a host of questions
about the prospects for financial reform and, ultimately, bank
profitability.  
 So bank investors have to be as adept at political calculus
as with traditional valuation  metrics  like comparing a bank’s
stock price to its book value or earnings.  
 No wonder savvy investors remain glued to doings on Capitol
Hill and are carefully scrutinizing the lay of the political
land in the run-up to the 2010 midterm elections. Hedge-fund
managers are often spending as much time consulting Washington
lobbyists and poring over proposed legislation as they do
analyzing balance sheets.  
 A recent quarterly letter to investors in Third Point LLC
hammered this home. In the November missive, the hedge fund’s
well-known founder,  Daniel Loeb , said, “While I have never
professed to have a crystal ball that forecasts market
direction, I can make one prediction with certainty: It is a
bull market in government regulation and intervention.”  
 New Concerns  
 Too bad that’s the one bull market most investors would
rather not see. It’s also difficult to play, since there isn’t
an exchange-traded fund tracking K Street lobbying firms.  
 Granted, the issue of government involvement in financial
firms no longer revolves around whether major banks such as
 Citigroup Inc.  or  Bank of America Corp.  will be nationalized.
That was a concern in early 2009.  
 And many big banks, including Bank of America and to an
extent Citigroup, have paid back funds they received from the
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 New issues have arisen, though. The government may yet
decide to break up big banks like  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  or
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Even if only a remote possibility, it
still unnerves investors. On the other hand, congressional
horse-trading and looming elections may defang financial reform
legislation, which would boost bank stocks.  
 Then there are ever-present worries about how the
government and Federal Reserve will withdraw all the stimulus
that has underpinned big gains in bonds and stocks over the past
nine months.  
 Head Scratching  
 Gauging possible outcomes became exponentially more
difficult with Dodd’s announcement. Here are some new variables
investors will have to plug into their political calculations:  
 -- Dodd’s lame-duck status may make him more willing to
reach a bipartisan compromise to push through what he hopes will
be his legacy: financial reform legislation. The price would
likely be large giveaways to banks, possibly through a gutting
of any new consumer financial protection agency. While probably
good for bank stocks, this may add to the raging populist anger
toward Wall Street.  
 -- Reaching a compromise with Senate Republicans may prove
easier for Dodd than brokering a deal with House Democrats. They
passed their own version of financial reform, which is in many
ways at odds with Dodd’s vision. Whatever the Senate ultimately
passes will have to be reconciled with the House bill.  
 -- How the reconciliation process plays out may depend on
Democrats’ perceived need to strike a populist tone in the run-
up to November elections. Just how far they want to tack in this
direction will depend on factors such as the direction of the
 unemployment rate  (the latest non-farm payrolls data is due this
morning) and the outcome of health-care reform.  
 Populist Approach  
 -- If Democrats are feeling desperate, they may need to
back some radical proposals that they have so far rejected, just
to prove they are on Main Street’s side. They could try to gut
the  Federal Reserve . Or move to re-impose a Glass-Steagall Act-
like separation of commercial and investment banking. The former
would prove a big negative for the economy and  dollar , the
latter a threat to JPMorgan, Citigroup and Bank of America.  
 -- As the political wrangling rages, the Fed will have to
decide by the end of March whether to stick with a plan to stop
direct purchases of mortgage-backed securities. Doing so may
cause renewed trouble in the housing  market , because mortgage
rates will likely rise and in turn cause further losses at
banks. So the Fed may prove reluctant to let nature take its
course if its own independence is in play on Capitol Hill.
Continued support for the mortgage market from the Fed would
help bank stocks.  
 -- This all supposes it’s possible to pass some version of
financial reform legislation this year. It may not be. House
Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank  could at some point
throw up his hands and decide he’d rather deal with Dodd’s
successor. Additional delay would mean continued uncertainty
over the shape of regulation and banks’ capital requirements.  
 The only clear thing is that what happens in Washington
will consume folks on Wall Street for some time to come. Until
that changes, we’re still a far ways from anything resembling a
normal market.  
 ( David Reilly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Reilly at   dreilly14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        