-- Ambac Has $71.1 Billion of CDO `Exposure,' Mostly AAA
-- Christine Richard
-- 2007-08-10T16:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-10/ambac-has-71-1-billion-of-cdo-exposure-mostly-aaa-update2-.html

          
          
             Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the
world's second-largest bond insurer, said it guaranteed
collateralized debt obligations worth about $71.1 billion.  
 About $58.4 billion, or 82 percent, of the CDO tranches have
AAA ratings and about $12.1 billion, or 17 percent is AA rated.
Less than $1 billion is A rated, the company said in a
presentation on its Web site.  
 New York-based Ambac said the CDOs were backed by $29.2
billion of mortgage assets, $9.3 billion of which were securities
that relied on the repayment of subprime mortgages to people with
bad or limited credit. CDOs package pools of securities backed by
collateral that can include mortgages. The value of subprime
mortgage assets has slumped in the past two months after defaults
on home loans rose to a 10-year high.  
 ``Overall, it looks like their underlying exposure is skewed
toward A and above,'' said Robert Haines, an insurance analyst
with independent research firm CreditSights Inc.  
 Still there are ``outlying'' exposures with lower underlying
ratings that will need to be watched, Haines said. For example,
the company reported that it insured a $510 million CDO in 2007
that is 83 percent backed by subprime mortgage collateral, all of
which is rated the Moody's equivalent of Baa or below.  
 Ambac shares fell $2.64, or 3.8 percent, to $66.86 at 11:39
a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen more than 25 percent since the beginning of the year.  
 Default Swaps  
 Most of the CDOs were insured with credit-default swap
agreements, Ambac said in the presentation. That means the
company is required to record changes in the values of the
securities against which it has written these contracts. While
that may cause a decline in earnings, Ambac said its payment
obligations are based on a CDO's failure to pay, not on its
market value.  
 Bond insurers have reported profit declines after taking
unrealized losses on some securities they guarantee that are
backed by subprime mortgages. Ambac had a 27 percent drop in
profit, while MBIA Inc. reported a 4 percent drop in profit.  
 Standard & Poor's  released a report last week saying bond
insurers would maintain a capital cushion above what they need to
keep their current ratings even in the event of what the ratings
company described as a ``highly stressed'' scenario for the
subprime mortgage market.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Richard in New York at 
 Crichard5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        