-- Eurotunnel plan seen approved if quorum reached
-- By  Elena Moya
-- Fri Nov 24, 2006 3:23pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/24/businesspro-transport-eurotunnel-vote-dc-idUSL2465647920061124

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - Creditors of Anglo-French cross-Channel 
tunnel operator Eurotunnel EUTL.PA ETL.L are expected to 
approve a restructuring plan on Monday, should the vote be 
attended by enough to form a quorum, sources close to the talks 
said. 

  Fifty-three creditors holding about 4.2 billion pounds of 
debt are scheduled to vote on Monday at a Paris court on the 
plan, which is aimed at saving the company from liquidation.  More than half of the 53 creditors, or their 
representatives, are required to be present for the vote to 
take place.  Holders of two-thirds of the debt are required to back the 
plan for the proposal to go through. At least 27 creditors need 
to approve the plan as well for it to pass.  "If there's quorum, there's a good chance the 'yes' will 
have more than 66.6 percent of the votes," one of the sources 
said. "The big issue is the quorum."  Oaktree Capital Management LLC, an investment management 
company, will not attend the vote as it would interfere with 
its present litigation, a source close to Oaktree said.  Oaktree has publicly opposed the plan, which could give 
shareholders as much as 13 percent of the company after the 
restructuring.  Such restructuring often leaves shareholders, who rank 
after bondholders as creditors of a troubled company, with 
around 4 to 6 percent of the equity.  "It is a very generous amount of equity left to existing 
shareholders," said Phil Roantree, who indirectly owns senior 
Eurotunnel debt as part of the 3 billion pounds of bonds he 
helps oversee at New Star Asset Management Ltd. in London.  Still, he would vote in favor of the deal.  "I would vote in favor just to get this resolved. It has 
been dragging on for such a long time," Roantree said.  If creditors voted against the debt restructuring plan, 
Eurotunnel would be liquidated, with its assets sold.  Eurotunnel has struggled to meet interest payments on its 
6.2 billion pounds of debt.  Following months of often acrimonious negotiations, 
Eurotunnel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jacques Gounon 
presented a plan last month under which part of the company's 
debt would be turned into equity. Under the plan, the company 
would refinance and sign a new loan of 2.8 billion pounds.  ($1=.5307 Pound)