-- Corporate governance report cards prove tricky
-- By  Martha Graybow
-- Fri Nov 24, 2006 3:52pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/24/businesspro-column-lifting-dc-idUSN2427533920061124

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A wave of business scandals in the 
past few years has focused much more attention on how companies 
are run, but even many investor watchdogs don't exactly agree 
on how to assess corporate governance. 

  Firms such as high-profile proxy adviser Institutional 
Shareholder Services publish corporate governance report cards, 
on issues including executive pay and board independence.  But since each uses its own methodology, the ratings can be 
all over the map. Some investors do not look too closely at 
governance to start with, and even those who do say the lack of 
scoring consistency makes it hard to put much stock in them.  "You can't just accept these ratings at face value," said 
Bill Hackney, managing partner at Atlanta Capital Management, 
which oversees $9 billion in investments. "We don't think you 
can distill these issues down to an individual score."  Pharmaceuticals company Pfizer Inc. ( PFE.N ), for example, 
gets good marks with some ratings services but is near a 
failing grade on another, largely because of varying views on 
how much weight to place on executive compensation.  Hank McKinnell, a former Pfizer chief executive, walked 
away with an $83 million retirement package in July, enraging 
shareholder activists. The stock fell more than 40 percent 
during his tenure, which started in 2001.  The Corporate Library, a governance ratings service, gives 
Pfizer a "D" grade -- on an "A" to "F" academic-like scale -- 
largely because of compensation issues.  But Pfizer fares far better with other governance graders.  GovernanceMetrics International gives it a 9.5 on a 1 to 10 
scale. Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) grades Pfizer's 
governance higher than 82.6 percent of the Standard & Poor's 
500 index components and 99.2 percent of drugs companies.  "Pfizer traditionally has had very good governance 
practices," said Paul Wanner, an ISS ratings manager. He said 
ISS weighs 65 various governance factors, so while "we might 
ding them if we feel their compensation is out of whack ... 
they may still do very well."  In another case, Home Depot Inc. ( HD.N ) -- which has also 
drawn fire from investor activists who say Chairman and CEO 
Robert Nardelli's generous pay is not in line with the stock 
performance -- gets different grades depending on the scorer.  The Corporate Library gives the retailer an "F," but ISS 
says it outperforms 94.8 percent of the S&P 500 and 100 percent 
of fellow retailers. GovernanceMetrics rates it slightly above 
average, at 7.5 compared with other U.S. companies.  Pfizer was not immediately available for comment, and Home 
Depot declined to comment on its ratings.
  TRYING TO FIND THE NEXT ENRON  Governance ratings became a hot area a few years ago, 
following accounting scandals at Enron, WorldCom and other big 
companies. The services are aimed mostly at money managers -- 
though other clients include plaintiffs' lawyers and insurers 
that write policies for boards of directors. Subscriptions to 
the reports can cost several hundred thousand dollars a year.  The idea "is to determine where the next Enron might be," 
said Shirley Westcott, managing director of policy at Proxy 
Governance, a research firm that provides governance analysis 
but not quantitative scores. "A company that gets a low rating 
is one that I think investors might be cautious about."  Critics, though, say assessing governance based on a 
checklist of do's and don'ts can be difficult.  ISS's proxy service, for instance, was criticized as going 
too far in 2004 when it advised Coca-Cola Co. ( KO.N ) 
shareholders to withhold support for the re-election of Warren 
Buffett, the billionaire investor who himself has been an 
outspoken advocate of board reform, to Coke's audit committee. 
ISS made the recommendation because subsidiaries of Buffett's 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( BRKa.N ) also did business with Coke.  The proposal was unsuccessful and Buffett was re-elected. 
He stepped down from the Coke board this year, citing increased 
demands on his time.  Companies closely track governance report cards. Pfizer has 
a governance "recognition" page on its Web site that highlights 
accolades such as its high ratings from GovernanceMetrics, but 
it does not mention the low rating from The Corporate Library.  The ratings agencies say they are well aware their 
methodology varies widely. The Corporate Library, for example, 
places emphasis on overall effectiveness of companies' boards 
-- not just the governance policies that boards have on paper.  "Everything that we look at is designed to answer one 
question -- can the board say no to the CEO?" said Nell Minow, 
a co-founder of The Corporate Library. "You can have corporate 
governance policies that are so beautiful they should be in an 
illuminated manuscript, but it doesn't mean that you are 
following them."