-- UPDATE 4-EADS board split puts new Airbus jet on hold
-- 
-- Fri Nov 24, 2006 12:08pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/24/transport-eads-idUSL2431547920061124

 

  (Recasts, adds details) 

  By  Tim Hepher  and William Emmanuel PARIS  Nov 24 (Reuters) - The mooted Airbus A350 XWB
airliner is on hold until top shareholders in parent firm EADS
( EAD.PA ) settle differences over how to fund the $10 billion
project, industry sources told Reuters.  A board meeting set for Friday was scrapped because of
disagreement between founding shareholders Lagardere ( LAGA.PA ),
DaimlerChrysler DCXGn.DE and the French state, one source
said.  The two industrial shareholders oppose a proposal by France
which would see the French state take a larger stake in EADS, a
second source said.  Such a move would dilute their stakes and upset the equal
balance of German and French ownership in the company, a move
which Germany would oppose.  EADS declined to comment.  
  DEVELOPMENT FUNDING  Analysts say EADS could mount a rights issue or new bond,
with some suggesting the company could need 3 billion euros to
see it through development of the A350 XWB (extra wide body).  A weakening dollar is also a threat as planes sell in
dollars and EADS sources many components in euros, a currency
which hit a fresh 19-month high against the dollar on Friday.
 The company also faces lower-than-expected income for
several years because of delays of the A380 superjumbo,
triggering speculation that EADS will need to find fresh
funding, possible by attracting new investors.  Russian bank Vneshtorgbank has already bought a stake of
more than 5 percent and the Spanish government has said it could
be interested in raising its 5.5 percent holding.  The exit of top European defence firm BAE Systems BA.L
from Airbus this year has added to speculation that new
investors could be on the horizon.  Yet analysts said the French will be hesitant about ceding
too much control to new investors ahead of French elections set
for next April.  "I can't see it in the next six months," said one
London-based aerospace analyst, citing the election.  Airbus needs cash to develop the A350, a plane aimed at
catching arch rival Boeing Co. ( BA.N ) in the market for
mid-sized, long-range airliners.  The planemaker has spent two years grappling with the design
of the A350, ceding a headstart to Boeing which has won more
than 400 orders for its 787 Dreamliner due in 2008.  Airbus this week set forth its long-term market outlook,
which sees demand for more than 5,000 mid-sized planes over the
next two decades.  The challenge for the planemaker is making sure the A350 XWB
is the right design to capture a chunk of that market,
especially as it will likely arrive four years later than the
Boeing.  Airbus has secured orders for 100 planes, but they were for
earlier proposed versions of the A350. The A350 XWB, which was
unveiled in July, has not yet won a single order.  EADS shares plunged in October after the company revealed
new delays to the A380 and gave a profit warning.  The stock was down 0.43 percent at 23.26 euros by 1611 GMT.  Five-year default swaps on EADS were quoted 2 basis points
higher at a 24 basis point mid-price, a trader in London said,
although he said no trades had gone through at that level.   "It's obviously not good for sentiment. It's going to cause
a bit more uncertainty because it's key management issues at
EADS, but I don't see it as a massive credit story," he said.  EADS Co-Chief Executive Louis Gallois took direct control of
Airbus as its new chief executive last month and has pledged a
decision on the A350 by the end of November.  Airbus Chief Operating Officer for Customers John Leahy
reiterated this week that the board was set to decide.  "The market right now is asking us to build the A350 but
it's not really up to the market, it's not up to me, it's up to
our board," Leahy told Reuters on Wednesday.  (Additional reporting by  Sudip Kar-Gupta  in Paris and
Quentin Webb and  Jason Neely  in London) editing by Greg Mahlich/Rory Channing; Reuters Messaging: sudip.kargupta.reuters.com@reuters.net; tel: +33 1 49 49 52 26))  ($1=.7708 Euro)