-- `Accidental' Portsmouth Owners Say They Need Luck to Get Back Investments
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-16T00:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/-accidental-portsmouth-owners-say-they-need-luck-to-get-back-investments.html
The “accidental owners” of the
first Premier League soccer team to seek bankruptcy protection
say they’ll be lucky not to lose their investment.  Hong Kong-based  Balram Chainrai  and his Israeli business
partner  Levi Kushnir  took over Portsmouth Football Club for a
second time last month. They got control after loaning the
English south-coast team 16.5 million pounds ($26.5 million),
and almost lost the entire investment when the club twice came
within hours of closure over debts of 100 million pounds. They
are interested in selling the team.  “Both of us got stuck in this situation and the both of us
became accidental owners,” Chainrai, who runs a consumer
products business, said in an interview alongside Kushnir. “If
we get out of this without getting hurt, we’ll consider
ourselves lucky.”  Portsmouth sought protection from creditors in February
after U.K. authorities tried to force its closure over unpaid
taxes. The team was demoted from the top division at the end of
last season after being hit with a nine-point penalty that left
it last in the standings of the world’s richest soccer league.  Chainrai and Kushnir, who’ve worked together on property
deals, became the club’s fourth owners in six months earlier
this year when a group controlled by Saudi Arabian Ali Al-Faraj
couldn’t repay them the loan. The club was then taken over by
administrators, who ran it for eight months, before the duo took
over again Oct. 24. They’ve agreed to repay creditors about 20
percent of what they’re owed.  Near Death  The 112-year-old club was twice close to liquidation. On
Feb. 10 a judge in London’s High Court turned down a request
from tax authorities to close the team. Then, three weeks ago,
administrators UHY Hacker Young said Portsmouth would go out of
business if Alexandre Gaydamak, one of the club’s former owners
and main creditors, didn’t sign off on the deal to Kushnir and
Chainrai. He’s owed 30 million pounds.  “We were on the verge of losing everything,” Kushnir
said.  Portsmouth was forced to sell players who’d helped the club
win the 2008 F.A. Cup, its first major trophy in more than half
a century. Those sales brought in more than 80 million pounds,
yet the team still owed in excess of 100 million pounds. Kushnir
said officials are still looking into records to see where the
money went.  Gaydamak put the club up for sale in mid-2009, saying he
wasn’t prepared to fund it, and Standard Bank called in its
loan. Sulaiman Al Fahim, a Dubai-based businessman, took control
for 44 days before he couldn’t find the finances to run it. The
club was then passed to Al-Faraj before being seized by Kushnir
and Levi and placed into administration, a form of protection
from creditors.  Rule Changes  The negative publicity generated by the financial problems
forced the Premier League and the Football League, which is
responsible for English soccer’s three lower-tier professional
divisions, to change their rules on ownership and governance.  Al-Faraj was able to take control of the team on the
strength of legal documents and without meeting Premier League
officials. That’s no longer possible.  “I was personally shocked how such a huge company didn’t
have monitoring or policing procedures,” Kushnir said. “Today
the Premier League will not just allow somebody to come in and
buy a football club with a document that’s been faxed over to
them.”  Potential owners are required to undergo an interview with
league officials, provide future financial information and
explain how they plan to operate the team. Portsmouth needs the
Football League’s permission to sign new players.  New Style  Chainrai and Kushnir, who’ve never run a sports team, have
sought advice from Israeli agent Pini Zahavi and British-based
Iranian businessman Kia Joorabchian. They won’t be buying their
way back into the Premier League.  “What was before in Portsmouth will not be in the future
as long as we are owners,” Kushnir said. “There will not be a
shopping spree of expensive players, taking commitments on a
company knowing it will not be able to be settled.”  Portsmouth lost 3-2 when it hosted Doncaster Rovers in its
last league game on Nov. 13. It stands 14th in the 24-team
Championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  