-- `Dim Sum' Debt Shows Yuan Opening Amid Hot Money Crackdown: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T07:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/-dim-sum-debt-shows-yuan-opening-amid-hot-money-crackdown-china-credit.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Standard
Chartered Plc , the biggest foreign underwriters of yuan bonds
sold in Hong Kong, say they have never been busier even as China
seeks to curb inflows of capital to limit appreciation.  Justin Chan , HSBC’s deputy head of global markets in Asia
Pacific, said the bank has organized 10 conferences outside
China to promote use of the currency in world commerce and has
“a very strong pipeline” of companies seeking to sell so-
called dim sum bonds, yuan-denominated debt issued in the city.
 Sundeep Bhandari , Standard Chartered’s head of global markets in
Northeast Asia, said the bank has done 25 similar events in 2010
and is advising a fund that plans to focus solely on the debt.  While Chinese regulators joined counterparts from Brazil to
Thailand last week in  tightening  limits on inflows of funds,
 central bank  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday China will
push ahead with exchange-rate reforms in the yuan. Issuers are
paying 40 percent less to borrow in the currency in Hong Kong
than they pay in Shanghai because of demand from overseas 
investors betting on exchange-rate appreciation.  “China still wants to develop the onshore market by
opening it up in a controlled manner,” Chan at HSBC, Europe’s
biggest lender, said in a Nov. 12 interview in Hong Kong. Last
week’s measures, which included tighter rules on repatriating
capital and borrowing overseas, were precautions “to prevent
further hot-money flows into China,” he said.  Lifting Demand  The yuan may rise 6.2 percent to 6.26 per dollar by the end
of next year, the most among the so-called BRIC nations that
also include Brazil, Russia and India, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 17 analysts. The median estimate is for a 1.3 percent
gain in the Brazilian real, a 4.2 percent advance in the Indian
rupee and a 5 percent climb in the Russian ruble.  HSBC’s Chan said he expects the currency to appreciate 3
percent to 5 percent annually in the next one or two years. He
said the yuan may become one of the three major global
currencies, with the dollar and the euro, in 20 to 30 years.  The yuan declined 0.16 percent to 6.6488 per dollar as of
1:25 p.m. in Shanghai. The offshore rate in Hong Kong of 6.6075
was 0.6 percent stronger than the onshore. The yuan’s non-
deliverable forwards reflect bets the currency will advance 2.4
percent in the coming 12 months.  China is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade and investment to reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar,
after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March he is “worried” about
holdings of assets denominated in the greenback. Purchases of
U.S. currency to contain yuan appreciation swelled the nation’s
foreign-exchange  reserves  to $2.65 trillion in September.  Trade Settlement  The value of international trade transactions settled in
the Chinese currency jumped 160 percent from the three months
through June to 126.5 billion yuan ($19 billion) in the third
quarter, the People’s Bank of China reported on Nov. 2. Yuan
 deposits  at Hong Kong banks more than doubled to a record 149
billion yuan in the six months ended Sept. 30, Hong Kong
Monetary Authority data show.  “Our clients want to know about the yuan,” Standard
Chartered’s Bhandari said in a Nov. 12 interview in Hong Kong.
“I will fly back from London at 5 p.m. on Wednesday and get a
Thursday morning flight to Tokyo."  Bhandari declined to give details about the planned fund
focused on yuan debt or name its manager. The dim sum bond
market has grown 42 percent to 50 billion yuan since July 19,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. said in a report on Nov. 15.  HSBC said it underwrote 11 issues of yuan-denominated debt
instruments this year in Hong Kong, including dim sum bonds and
certificates of deposit. Standard Chartered said it has been an
underwriter on sales of totalling 8.4 billion yuan in 2010.  Planned Sales  Export-Import Bank of China  plans to sell as much as 5
billion yuan of bonds in Hong Kong next month. International
Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private investment arm, aims to
sell about 100 million yuan of five-year bonds in Hong Kong,
according to Treasurer  Nina Shapiro .  ‘‘We like buying offshore renminbi bonds because the
regulations are not as tedious,’’ said  Chia Tse Chern , director
at UOB Asset Management, which oversees the equivalent of $10.6
billion and is a unit of Singapore’s second-largest bank. ‘‘They
want to develop the renminbi bond market and possibly don’t want
more capital flows into the mainland. So they are allowing the
market to be developed out of Hong Kong.”  Attractive Returns  Yuan appreciation plus interest-rate payments can translate
into annual returns of as much as 7 percent, he said.  The average yield of yuan bonds in the city, including
those sold by state-controlled lenders including China
Development Bank and Bank of China Ltd., is 1.77 percent,
according to data from the Treasury Markets Association, which
tracks 23 outstanding issues that have maturities of no more
than four years. The average rate in China for one- to three-
year bonds issued by government-linked companies is 2.99
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s China
Quasi-Government Index.  The yield on China’s 3.28 percent government bond due in
August 2020 was little changed at 3.74 percent, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center. The  extra yield  investors
demand to hold China’s 10-year bonds rather than similar-
maturity U.S. government debt has widened 63 basis points since
June 30 to 101, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Risk  The perceived risk of investing in Chinese debt has fallen
this year. Five-year credit-default swap contracts on government
bonds rose two basis points to 63 basis points yesterday, CMA
prices in New York show. They have declined 11 basis points this
year. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  HSBC’s Chan said China won’t slow the opening up of its
financial market because it wants to make the yuan an
international currency. The central bank allowed overseas
financial institutions on Aug. 17 to invest yuan funds in the
nation’s bond market. The Hong Kong units of HSBC and Standard
Chartered won the approval last month.  China had approved qualified foreign institutional
investors to buy $18.97 billion of assets in China by Sept. 30,
up from $16.67 billion of quotas at the end of last year,
according to a  statement  on SAFE’s website on Nov. 10. The
authorities  granted  the Hong Kong Monetary Authority a QFII
license in October.  Charles Li , the chief executive officer of Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., has proposed allowing Chinese
companies to sell yuan-priced stock in Hong Kong, where
investors are free from the quotas imposed by Beijing on foreign
ownership of mainland equities.  “If you want big demand for yuan offshore, you need to
create channels for offshore yuan funds to be invested,” said
Chan. “This will by and large help open the door for capital-
account movement.”  -- Judy Chen . With assistance from  Patricia Lui  and
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore and  Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Patrick Chu ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 