-- `Short' Kenya Shilling for Zambia Kwacha on Yield Advantage, Investec Says
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-16T09:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/-short-kenya-shilling-for-zambia-kwacha-on-yield-advantage-investec-says.html
Investors should borrow Kenya’s
shilling to buy Zambia’s kwacha to take advantage of interest-
rate differentials between the two African nations, according to
Investec Asset Management.  Non-deliverable forward transactions enable investors to
borrow Kenyan shillings at 2.36 percent for as long as a year,
and invest the proceeds in Zambian kwacha at 4.31 percent,
making it profitable to “short” the shilling for its southern
African counterpart, according to Antoon de Klerk, a Cape Town-
based analyst at Investec Asset Management. Surging prices for
copper, which account for about 70 percent of Zambia’s export
revenue, coupled with foreign investment in its mining industry,
will also support the kwacha, he said.  “Rates are so low in Kenya it makes the shilling a good
funding currency for intra-African carry trades,” de Klerk said
in an interview. “Copper prices are well-supported so that’s
positive for the kwacha.”  A forward is a contract to trade an asset, such as a
currency, at a future date. In a non-deliverable forward
contract, no principal is exchanged, or delivered, only the
difference between an agreed price and the price at the time of
the contract.  Carry trades involve borrowing in countries with low
interest rates to invest in markets that offer higher returns, a
strategy that has helped South Africa’s rand and Brazil’s real
surge to best performing emerging market currencies since the
start of last year. Benchmark interest rates of 10.75 percent in
Brazil and 6 percent in South Africa compare with deposit
returns of 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Copper Push  Copper prices have trebled since the start of last year as
demand from China, the world’s biggest user of the metal used in
pipes and wiring, outpaced supply. Copper will lead a rally in
base metals into 2011 as increased consumption cuts stockpiles
and financial market turmoil spurs investment demand for
commodities, according to Morgan Stanley.  “Zambia’s copper production has increased by about 60
percent in the past year and there’s been consistent foreign
direct investment into that sector,” said de Klerk.  Kenya’s shilling is likely to depreciate about 2 percent to
as weak as 82 per dollar over the next three months while
Zambia’s kwacha will probably gain almost 4 percent to as strong
as 4,500 over the period, de Klerk said. The shilling traded at
80.35 per dollar by 10:05 a.m. in Johannesburg while the kwacha
was at 4,685 to the U.S. currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  