-- Madagascar to Vote in Referendum Tomorrow That Aims to End 20-Month Crisis
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-11-16T08:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/madagascar-to-vote-in-referendum-tomorrow-that-aims-to-end-20-month-crisis.html
Madagascar votes on constitutional
changes tomorrow in a referendum that may help to legitimize the
administration of President  Andry Rajoelina , who seized power
with the help of the military in March last year.  The government says the referendum is the first step toward
presidential and parliamentary elections next year and will help
lift the country out of its 20-month diplomatic and economic
isolation.  “It’s a way of electing Andry Rajoelina by plebiscite
until he decides to hold presidential elections,” said Pierrot
Rajaonarivelo, head of the Madagascar Democracy Movement, an
opposition group.  Much of the opposition is boycotting the vote, saying the
new constitution was designed by the government after it reneged
on power-sharing accords brokered by international mediators and
that it doesn’t give a deadline for the handover of power to a
democratically elected administration. The government says it
will help solve the 20-month political impasse.  The vote “is the one and only route left out of the
crisis,” said  Augustin Andriamananoro , special adviser to the
president and head of the “Yes” campaign. “It is up to
everyone to fulfill their civic duty and vote for constitutional
order.”  Andriamananoro said he expects 70 percent to vote in favor
of the changes, with a voter turnout of about 50 percent.  Legitimized  “I fear the government will turn around to the
international community and say, look, we’ve been legitimized,”
said Sahondra Rabenarivo, a lawyer and “No” campaigner.  The government is portraying the referendum as a vote for
change and an end to the crisis, without explaining the details
of the constitutional changes that do nothing to limit
presidential power in Madagascar, Rabenarivo said.  Rajaonarivelo said he expects the “No” campaign to win in
the capital, Antananarivo, while the “Yes” vote wins in the
rest of the country. Still, the international community won’t
accept the results if less than 50 percent vote, he said.  On Nov. 2, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary for African
Affairs  Karl Wycoff  met with political parties and said the U.S
government didn’t recognize the referendum and political process
supported by the current administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 