-- German Stocks Slide Most in Three Months; BMW, Daimler Shares Lead Decline
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-11-16T16:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/adidas-daimler-infineon-kabel-deutschland-german-stock-market-preview.html
German stocks fell the most in three
months amid speculation that China may take further measures to
cool inflation and increasing concern about the depth of
Europe’s fiscal crisis.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG  slid more than 2
percent after new-car registrations in Europe declined for a
seventh month. BASF SE, the world’s largest chemicals maker,
plunged the most since June.  Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s
second-biggest chipmaker, climbed 4.2 percent as third-quarter
earnings beat analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  DAX Index  sank 1.9 percent to 6,663.24 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, the biggest drop since Aug. 11.
The broader HDAX Index tumbled 2 percent. Ireland is in talks
with European and International Monetary Fund officials about a
bailout that would shore up the state’s finances and allow the
injection of capital into its banks, said a European official
with direct knowledge of the talks.  “Equities are down as Ireland continues to dig in its
heels over a bailout, while accelerating inflation in China has
market participants worrying about another rate hike by the
country’s central bank,” said  Mads Koefoed , a market strategist
at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “Equities look a bit stretched
at the moment and I’m looking for a 5 to 10 percent correction
in the remainder of 2010.”  Irish Talks  Irish bonds fell, reversing a two-day rally, on concern
that European finance ministers might fail to strike a deal at a
meeting in Brussels that started at 5 p.m. today. Elsewhere in
Europe, Austria threatened to block its next transfer of funds
to Greece unless the government gets a deficit-cutting plan
agreed with the EU and IMF back on track.  Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China is
under “pressure” from capital inflows as a state newspaper
said price controls could be imposed to cool the fastest
inflation in two years. Zhou reiterated government goals of
“moderate” credit growth and stronger liquidity management at
a forum in Beijing today. The China Securities Journal said
price limits are possible for food, citing unidentified sources.  BMW , the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, fell 2.6
percent to 54.62 euros and Daimler, the second-largest, lost 2.8
percent to 49.47 euros.  European car sales fell 16 percent to 1.06 million vehicles
in October from 1.27 million a year earlier, the Brussels-based
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said today. Ten-
month sales declined 5 percent to 11.6 million.  Daimler Recall  Separately,  Daimler ’s Mercedes-Benz unit recalled 11,739
vehicles in Japan because of a problem with the cars’ steering
wheels, according to a filing today with the nation’s transport
ministry.  BASF tumbled 3.9 percent to 54.98 for the biggest drop in
the DAX.  ThyssenKrupp AG  and Salzgitter AG, Germany’s largest
steelmakers, retreated 2.8 percent to 27.22 euros and 4.7
percent to 50.80 euros, respectively, as base metals slumped on
the London Metal Exchange.  Separately, ThyssenKrupp would have to close one of its
steel blast furnaces in a “worst case” scenario as a result of
Germany’s goals to cut carbon-dioxide output, Manager Magazin
cited Chief Executive Officer  Ekkehard Schulz  as saying.  Infineon climbed 4.2 percent to 6.22 euros, the biggest
gain since August. The chipmaker said it will pay its first
dividend in a decade after reporting fiscal fourth-quarter net
income of 390 million euros. Earnings beat the 216.2 million-
euro average profit estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Catalis SE  rose 2.5 percent to 16.5 euro cents. The maker
of optical testing equipment said third-quarter operating profit
before one-time costs more than doubled to 700,000 euros.  About 72 percent of the 29 companies in the  DAX  that have
announced quarterly results since Oct. 7 have beaten analyst
estimates for per-share income, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 