-- Adidas to Boost China Stores 9% to 6,100 Next Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T06:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/adidas-plans-500-net-store-openings-in-china-next-year-chief-hainer-says.html
Adidas AG , the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, will increase China stores by 9
percent to 6,100 by the end of next year as it forecast sales
growth of at least 10 percent in the country.  Adidas  plans 500 net store openings in the world’s most
populous nation, with Greater China sales projected to exceed 1
billion euros ($1.36 billion) next year, Chief Executive Officer
 Herbert Hainer  said in an interview today in Shanghai.  The clothing and footwear market in China may be worth 334
billion yuan ($50 billion) in 2010, almost double what it was
five years ago, data from Euromonitor International show.  Adidas 
competes with  Nike Inc. , the world’s largest sporting-goods
maker, and Li Ning Co. in China, where retail sales growth
averaged 18.3 percent in the 10 months through January.  “I’m quite confident” in China, Hainer said. “We’ll see
double-digit growth in China over the coming years. It’s a big
population and a lot of people want their sneakers.”  Adidas plans to add about 2,500 stores in smaller Chinese
cities over the next five years, expanding its presence to 1,400
cities from 550 now.  Consumers in smaller cities want "access to global
brands,’’ Christophe Bezu, Adidas’ Greater China chief, said at
a briefing in Shanghai.  China Suppliers  Adidas  faces the challenge of managing its prices in China
as inflation and raw-material costs rise, said Sophia Wu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Sinopac Securities. She has a neutral
rating on Li Ning.  China will be the biggest source of products for the
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company for at least another 10
years, even as suppliers may “have to raise salaries for their
workers,” Hainer, 56, said in a separate interview on Bloomberg
TV.  Adidas  buys 35 percent to 40 percent of its products from
suppliers in China, he said.  Belle International Holdings Ltd.  has the biggest market
share in China’s clothing and footwear market with 6.5 percent,
according to Euromonitor.  Li Ning , the Chinese sportswear maker
started by a former Olympic gymnast, ranked second with 2.6
percent and Anta Sports Products Ltd. was third with 2 percent
by 2010, according to the researcher.  Adidas today said Colin Currie will take over from Bezu as
managing director for Greater China, effective Jan. 1. Bezu will
be the company’s chief e-commerce officer next year.  -- Michael Wei  and  Susan Li . With assistance from  Hope Ngo  in
Hong Kong. Editor:  Frank Longid   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  