-- Maersk Drilling Plans to Order Rig Every Six Months, Chief Hemmingsen Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-16T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/maersk-drilling-plans-to-order-rig-every-six-months-ceo-says.html
Maersk Drilling, which has the
second-youngest fleet of oilrigs, aims to order a new one every
six months as rental rates rise and competitors buy each other
or combine, its chief executive officer said.  “We need to be somewhat bigger to become a strong factor
in the market,” Claus V. Hemmingsen said yesterday in an
interview at the company’s headquarters near Copenhagen. The
company, which has 3 percent of the offshore market, has a long-
term target of expanding its capacity by 50 percent, he said.  Maersk Drilling, owned by Denmark’s biggest company A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S, has spent $3 billion the past four years
expanding its fleet to 26 rigs from 20 and cutting the average
age to eight years, the lowest after Seadrill Ltd. The fleet
gives the company an advantage to meet tighter regulation that
may follow this year’s Gulf of Mexico spill, Hemmingsen said.  “I imagine we would order two to three rigs over the next
12 to 18 months,” Hemmingsen said. “This will be an ongoing
investment plan. It will help expand our fleet, but it’s also
necessary if we want to keep the age of the rigs low.”  Rig operators are expanding after a recovery in oil prices
since the end of 2008 and drilling in areas such Brazil has
stoked demand. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled
oil company, said this month it has leased 20 foreign rigs to
start drilling in the next two years as it seeks to boost oil
and gas output at offshore fields.  Nothing Cheap  The global rig fleet has an average age of 23 years,
according to Hemmingsen, whose company will expand with new rigs
rather than existing units. “We would only purchase existing
rigs if they have the technology that matches our current
fleet,” he said. “The rig market hasn’t been distressed so no
cheap assets have come up for sale.”  Hemmingsen said the industry will probably continue to
consolidate, with Seadrill, as one of the active companies.  Seadrill, controlled by billionaire John Fredriksen, sold
bonds in September and October to help finance an expansion
after taking over competitor Scorpion Offshore Ltd. this year.
The Bermuda-based company last week ordered as many as four
ultra deepwater rigs, after this month and last putting in
orders in Singapore and China for as many as 10 jack-up rigs.  Maersk Drilling’s 26 rigs includes 6 ultra harsh
environment jack-ups, 6 350 feet or 375 feet jack-ups, 4 semi-
submersibles and 10 drilling barge rigs. The company is the
world’s 10th-largest by capacity.  Contracts Covered  New rig orders may include ultra harsh environment jack-ups
to operate in the North Atlantic and the North Sea, Hemmingsen
said. The company may also order semi-subs for operations in the
Gulf of Mexico, West Africa and Brazil, he said. Jack-up rigs
have extendable legs while semi-subs are rigs that float and are
partly filled with water for stability.  The company has all of its rigs operating under contract
and 75 percent of 2011 is covered, Hemmingsen said  “I’m confident that six months into 2011 we will be in a
situation where we also will be 100 percent covered,” he said.  The unit’s third-quarter net income surged to $125 million
from $61 million a year earlier helped by rigs coming into
service and higher rates, Maersk said Nov. 10.  Nils Smedegaard Andersen, chief executive officer of A.P.
Moeller-Maersk, said in a Nov. 10 interview he was “very
optimistic going forward” on the unit. Maersk also includes an
oil and gas explorer, a tanker division and a port unit.  Rates for jack-ups will rise over the next 12 to 24 months
“as we see activity and demand steadily picking up” while
gains on semi-submersibles will be “modest,” Hemmingsen said. In
Norway, where rates are among the highest and Maersk Drilling
owns five of the six working jack-ups, rates will “remain
stable” amid the toughest safety requirements for operators.  “Operating in Norway has given us a lesson and has also
formed our strategy of focusing on buying high-end rigs and
focusing on safety,” said Hemmingsen. “In the context of the
Gulf of Mexico spill, this gives us an advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 