-- Afghan War's Giunta Gets First Nonposthumous Medal of Honor Since Vietnam
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-16T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/afghan-war-s-giunta-gets-first-nonposthumous-medal-of-honor-since-vietnam.html
President  Barack Obama  today awarded
the Medal of Honor, the nation’s highest military decoration, to
U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta, who risked his life
in Afghanistan to rescue comrades.  Giunta is the first living service member from the Iraq or
Afghanistan wars to receive the award. Six medals of honor have
been awarded posthumously. He also is the first living honoree
from an active conflict since the Vietnam War.  “He’ll tell you he didn’t do anything special, that he was
just doing his job,” Obama said of Giunta at a White House
ceremony. Directing his remarks at the soldier, he said, “You
may believe you don’t deserve this honor, but it was your fellow
soldiers who recommended you for it.”  The Iowa native was cited for “acts of gallantry at the
risk of his life” during a battle in Afghanistan on Oct. 25,
2007. Giunta, 22 at the time, exposed himself to enemy fire to
pull a comrade to a covered position and then prevented two
insurgents from capturing an American paratrooper.  According to the  official narrative of the battle , Giunta’s
patrol was ambushed by insurgents who fired 10 rocket-propelled
grenades and came within 10 meters of Giunta’s platoon.  When a squad leader was struck in the head by an AK-47
round, Giunta ran to provide aid and was shot twice, with the
bullets hitting his chest armor and a weapon he was carrying on
his back.  ‘Wall of Bullets’  “Sal charged headlong into a wall of bullets to pull him
to safety,” Obama said.  Then as he pursued fleeing insurgents, Giunta came upon two
who were dragging away Staff Sergeant Joshua Brennan. Giunta
killed one of the insurgents and rescued Brennan as the other
fled.  “Sal never broke stride. He leapt forward; he took aim; he
killed one of the insurgents and wounded the other who ran
off,” Obama said.  “Giunta’s selfless actions and personal courage were the
decisive factors in changing the tide of the battle, ensuring
that Sergeant Brennan was not captured by the enemy, and
preventing the lead fire team from being destroyed by the
enemy’s near ambush,” according to the narrative. “His actions
saved the lives of multiple paratroopers and changed the course
of the battle in his platoon’s favor.”  Five U.S. personnel were wounded in the battle and two were
killed, Brennan and Sergeant Hugo Mendoza, a medic.  Losing Friends  Giunta, said their deaths made his honor “bittersweet.”  “I lost two dear friends of mine,” he told reporters
after the ceremony. “I would give this back in a second to have
my friends with me right now.”  More than 3,400 Medals of Honor have been awarded since
Congress authorized them in 1861. While Giunta is the first
living honoree from a continuing conflict since the end of the
Vietnam war, some living veterans have been awarded the medal
since then for valor in conflicts that had long been ended.  Giunta’s medal is the third awarded by Obama. He last year
awarded one to U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Jared C. Monti, who was
killed in Afghanistan in 2006 while trying to save a wounded
comrade, and this year honored Robert J. Miller, who was killed
in Afghanistan in 2008 while repelling an enemy ambush, and
Richard L. Etchberger, who died in Vietnam in 1968 during a
classified rescue mission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  