-- Agency Bond Transparency Derailed by Brokers Avoiding Finra Trade Reports
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-16T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/agency-bond-transparency-derailed-by-brokers-avoiding-finra-trade-reports.html
Brokers are frustrating efforts by
regulators to bring transparency to the $2.7 trillion market for
federal agency debt, keeping bond investors in the dark.  The second-largest underwriter of debt from issuers such as
Fannie Mae, First Horizon National Corp., of Memphis, Tennessee,
is among firms that don’t report trades through the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. Finra, the non-governmental
regulator for almost 4,700 brokerages in the U.S., began
requiring eight months ago that brokers post transactions
through its bond-price reporting system within 15 minutes.  About a dozen banks aren’t participating in Finra’s plan,
said Mike Nicholas, chief executive officer of the Bond Dealers
of America. They may undercut expanding the Trade Compliance and
Reporting Engine, or Trace, to more types of debt, including the
$5.3 trillion market for mortgage bonds guaranteed by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac or federal agency Ginnie Mae, which provide more
than 90 percent of the funds for U.S. home lending, according to
industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.  “The information Finra is sharing to the public is
wrong,” said Nicholas, whose group includes Wells Fargo & Co.
and Fifth Third Bancorp. “It’s not capturing the entire
market.”  The gaps underscore shortcomings in the biggest overhaul of
financial-industry oversight since the 1930s.  One of the aims of the Dodd-Frank legislation was to avoid
a repeat of a crisis that led to the failures of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Washington Mutual Inc. and a $700 billion
bailout for companies including American International Group
Inc. by addressing breakdowns in supervision when multiple
regulators are responsible for individual markets and banks.  Agency Trades Excluded  While Dodd-Frank, enacted in July, created a board of
regulators to oversee the biggest financial companies, it
doesn’t address reporting of trades in the agency market, which
represents almost 8 percent of the $35.3 trillion in  U.S. bonds ,
according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, the New York-based trade group. Finra expanded
Trace to the market for agency debt in March after gaining
Securities and Exchange Commission approval.  “We were all looking for convergence of regulation and,
unfortunately, in this case it just hasn’t happened,” said Dan
Leland, head of fixed income at SWS Group Inc.’s Southwest
Securities in Dallas. The firm was founded in 1972.  Agency debt includes corporate bonds sold by government-
supported Fannie Mae, which along with Freddie Mac owns or
guarantees about half of U.S. residential debt; the Federal Home
Loan Bank system, the 12 government-chartered lenders to
financial companies; the Federal Farm Credit Banks; and the
Tennessee Valley Authority. The notes all carry top ratings
because of the issuers’ explicit or implied government backing.  ‘Loophole’ to Address  While Wall Street’s largest dealers are participating in
Trace, brokers that are divisions or units of banks have been
able to avoid the type of disclosure that’s made it cheaper for
everyone from mutual funds to individuals to buy and sell
corporate bonds. That’s because those firms don’t all report to
Finra.  “There appears to be a loophole that needs to be
addressed,” said Kumar Venkataraman, an associate finance
professor at Southern Methodist University’s Cox School of
Business in Dallas who has studied Trace’s effects on the
corporate market.  Trace Expansion  Finra, based in New York and Washington, and the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, which monitors federally
chartered banks, say they’re looking into the exceptions.
Regulators are “working cooperatively toward solutions,” said
Steven Joachim, executive vice president for transparency
services for Finra.  “Some have brought this to our attention as a possible
issue and we are looking into the matter,” said Kevin Murki, a
spokesman for the OCC.  Trace, which started in July 2002, provides trading details
on corporate and agency bonds to anyone with an Internet
connection. The information includes the most-active bonds,
volume, advances, declines, highs and lows.  Finra plans to start collecting trading data in May for
agency mortgage bonds, as well as $3 trillion of riskier
securitized debt. At first, that information won’t be released
publicly as Finra studies whether disclosing the data would
confuse investors.  Voluntary Reporting Pursued  First Horizon’s FTN Financial Capital Markets unit, one of
the company’s two arms that handle trading for its securities
business, didn’t intentionally opt out of Trace’s expansion,
spokesman Jack Bradley said in an e-mail. The firm is exempt
because it’s regulated by the OCC, Bradley said. The unit “has
pursued with its regulators avenues to voluntarily report agency
trades to Trace, but has been informed that Finra is not able to
accept those trades,” he said.  FTN has underwritten 921 sales of agency debt this year,
second only to UBS AG’s 1,126, and the amount of securities
totals $43.5 billion, compared with $146.3 billion for the
Zurich bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company has “not made any changes in its longstanding
operating structure as a result of the recently enacted Trace
reporting requirements,” Bradley said. FTN Financial Securities
Corp., which is a subsidiary rather than a division of First
Tennessee National Bank, is regulated by Finra and reports
agency trading it handles to the regulator, he said.  Traders can tell which banks are reporting transactions to
Trace based on requirements that they identify in reports
whether they’re trading with a broker or customer, said Nicholas
of the bond dealers’ association.  Trading Profits Curbed  Exceptions for Trace reporting don’t apply to corporate
bonds because rules for banks limit the amount of their trading
in that debt and exempt government-related securities. Corporate
bonds also require banks to hold more capital than agency debt,
making carrying the securities in trading inventories more
expensive.  Trace has curbed trading profits in corporate bonds, as
measured by the shrinking difference between bid-ask spreads on
investment-grade company debentures.  The difference at which investors can buy or sell the same
securities shrank to 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
from 7 basis points before Trace, according to a study
Venkataraman published in 2007 in the Journal of Financial
Economics. The larger the gap, the more the securities firms in
the middle can earn.  As securities are more easily traded, “one would expect
that a reduction in transaction costs would result in increased
returns for investors and, in an equilibrium, that part of the
savings would be passed on to whoever’s borrowing the money,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Technology Savings  Bid-ask spreads yesterday on some actively traded Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLB notes maturing in 5 years were about 1
basis point to 3 basis points, the same as in March 2009, when
the Trace expansion was proposed, Bloomberg data show.  Along with being able to avoid disclosing how much they
paid for agency debt when trying to sell it, brokers that don’t
report save on technology expenses, reporting fees and potential
fines for late disclosures, Southwest Securities’ Leland said in
a telephone interview.  “The next step in this thing if it stays this way, is some
of the even bigger players say, ‘This is a cost-saving move why
shouldn’t we do it,’” he said.  Writing new rules for Dodd-Frank has distracted government
departments from the agency issue, Nicholas said. That’s ironic,
considering the goals of the financial-overhaul law, he said.  “The coordination is not good, which should have been
addressed,” Nicholas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  