-- Mahathir Calls Currency Trading `Silly,' Advocates Return to Bretton Woods
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2010-11-16T10:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/mahathir-calls-currency-trading-silly-advocates-return-to-global-pegs.html
Former Malaysian Prime Minister
 Mahathir Mohamad , who fought off an attack on the ringgit with
capital controls during the Asian financial crisis, said
currency trading is “silly” and the world should return to the
Bretton Woods System of fixed exchange rates.  Currency wars are futile and the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
latest quantitative easing plan will result in hot money pushing
up prices in small countries, the 85-year-old said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur today. The Fed on Nov. 3 said it
intends to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries to
foster growth.  “When you lose money, you must accept that you have lost
money,” he said. “When you lose money and then you go back to
your house and print more money for yourself, that makes things
quite ridiculous. This is money that is not real, yet this money
can destabilize by, for example, going into small countries to
invest in stock exchanges.”  Mahathir, who stepped down in October 2003 after 22 years
in power, drew international criticism when he imposed currency
curbs in 1998. He called  George Soros  a “moron” and accused
the billionaire investor of attacking the country, while Soros
responded by describing the Southeast Asian leader as a “menace
to his own country.”  Capital Controls  More than a decade later, the World Bank has said countries
in the region may need capital controls to protect against
destabilizing inflows caused by U.S. monetary policy. Asian
economies may need to respond to the Fed’s easing with short-
term, targeted controls to address asset bubbles in their stock,
currency and property markets, World Bank Managing Director  Sri Mulyani Indrawati  said on Nov. 9.  “We’re seeing big swings in Asian currencies because
people are concerned over a slew of capital control measures,”
 Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based economist at DMG &
Partners Securities Pte said in a telephone interview today.  South Korea and Indonesia have already adopted measures to
manage capital flows, while China, India and Australia have
raised interest rates to limit inflation pressure.  “Currency trading doesn’t create any jobs or spin off any
business,” Mahathir said. “What we should do is stop this
silly thing called currency trading,” which would remove one
source of “instability,” he said.  Instead, nations should return to the Bretton Woods System
first established after World War II, under which countries were
obliged to adopt monetary policies to maintain their exchange
rates within a fixed range linked to gold.  Gold Standard  “This idea that the market should fix the exchange rate is
a new thing,” Mahathir said. “A currency war is not something
that is going to overcome the present crisis. The result is a
very unstable exchange rate system in the world.”  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in a Financial
Times column last week that Group of 20 nations should once
again consider using gold as an international reference point of
market expectations about inflation, deflation and future
currency values as they reform the global monetary system.  Mahathir also said Malaysia’s ringgit should be repegged
and criticized current Prime Minister  Najib Razak ’s September
proposal to allow off-shore ringgit trading, which would remove
the nation’s remaining control from the Asian financial crisis.  “I think the government came up with this idea at the
wrong time,” he said. “I think that the government may have
second thoughts now, because if everyone else is controlling
their currencies and you allow your currency to be manipulated
by the market you will suffer.”  Joint Measures  Asian nations may undertake joint measures to prevent
excessive speculation in their currencies, Thai Finance Minister
 Korn Chatikavanij  told reporters in Bangkok on Nov. 4.
Malaysia’s central bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said last week
there may be a joint effort by governments in the region to
manage capital flows.  The region’s currencies have climbed against the dollar
this year as the region’s growth outpaces the rest of the world.
The Malaysian ringgit gained 9.3 percent this year, the best
performer after the Thai baht among the 10-most active
currencies in Asia outside of Japan. Malaysia’s benchmark stock
 index  climbed to a record on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
 Haslinda Amin  in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  