-- Thailand Extradites Accused Arms Dealer Bout to Face U.S. Terror Charges
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-16T09:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/thailand-to-extradite-accused-russian-arms-dealer-viktor-bout-to-the-u-s-.html
Thailand extradited  Viktor Bout  to
the U.S. to face terrorism charges, ending two years of legal
wrangling over the accused Russian arms dealer dubbed the
“merchant of death.”  Bout left Bangkok’s Don Muang airport on a 14-seat U.S. jet
at 1:27 p.m. local time, said Supisarn Phakdinarinath, a
Metropolitan Police spokesman. The extradition was approved by
Thailand’s Cabinet today, Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said.  The  U.S. says  Bout, a former Soviet air force officer, ran
an air cargo network that shipped weapons to conflict zones from
Afghanistan to Rwanda. Bout has repeatedly denied wrongdoing,
saying he was framed by U.S. undercover agents who posed as
Colombian rebels during his arrest in Bangkok two years ago.  Bout is charged in the U.S. with conspiracy to kill U.S.
nationals, conspiracy to kill U.S. officers or employees,
conspiracy to acquire an anti-aircraft missile and conspiracy to
provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist
group. If convicted, he may face life in prison.  Bout’s case has fueled a diplomatic dispute between the
U.S. and Russia, with each country pressuring Thailand to follow
its version of events.  ‘Illegal Extradition’  Russia’s Foreign Ministry said the “illegal extradition”
resulted from “unprecedented U.S. political pressure on the
government and judiciary of Thailand.” The U.S. push for
extradition “can only be described as interference in the
judicial process and casts doubt on the independence of the Thai
judicial system and decisions made by the Thai authorities,”
the ministry said on its  website .  Bout’s brother, Sergei, said the extradition decision was
political. “There’s no proof of his guilt,” he said. “The
U.S. needs a scapegoat because they can’t find  Osama bin Laden .
They’re also trying to show that Russia isn’t fighting
terrorism.”  The Moscow mobile phone of Bout’s wife Alla was switched
off when Bloomberg News tried to reach her today. Bout’s Thai
lawyer, Lak Nittiwattanawichan, didn’t answer calls to his
mobile phone. His Russian lawyer, Viktor Burobin, didn’t answer
calls to his Moscow office.  The extradition was delayed when a Thai court ruled last
month that a second set of charges against Bout must be heard.
The additional charges, which included money laundering and
electronic fraud, were dismissed on Oct. 5, clearing the way for
Bout’s extradition.  The U.S. Treasury imposed financial sanctions on Bout in
2004 and 2005. He controlled as many as 50 aircraft, according
to Amnesty International, and specialized in delivering weapons
around the world.  The U.S. was Thailand’s biggest trading partner last year,
with $16.7 billion in commerce, about 40 times more than the
Southeast Asian country’s trade with Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ; 