-- U.S. Senators Urge Earlier Inspections for Inbound Air-Cargo After Bombs
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-16T22:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/air-cargo-must-be-inspected-earlier-to-foil-terrorists-two-senators-say.html
Federal authorities must inspect
U.S.-bound air cargo sooner to prevent attempted terrorist
attacks such as the bid foiled last month to turn printer
cartridges into bombs, two senators said.  Air-cargo manifests are submitted four hours before the
shipments arrive, providing no opportunity for further
inspection before the aircraft departs for the U.S., Senator
 Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, said today at a Homeland
Security Committee hearing in Washington.  U.S. Customs and Border Protection may require shippers to
submit manifests more than four hours in advance of arrival,
Commissioner Alan Bersin said, without disclosing details.  A bomb in a printer cartridge sent as cargo, found at the
U.K.’s East Midlands airport on Oct. 29, was timed to explode on
a flight as it reached the U.S. East Coast, London’s
Metropolitan Police have said. Another bomb concealed in a
printer cartridge was found in Dubai. The packages, both from
Yemen, were bound for synagogues in Chicago.  Maritime-cargo manifests must be submitted 24 hours before
cargo is loaded, Collins said.  “That is a major difference” from the air cargo standard,
she said. “We need a system that would have ensured that
additional inspection abroad.”  ‘Too Late’  The four-hour notice required of air-cargo carriers “may
have been too late” to prevent the printer-bomb attacks, said
Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent. “Can’t we
move that timeline up?” he asked.  Bersin said his agency would have a recommendation to
revise the four-hour standard in the near future.  John Pistole , who leads the Transportation Security
Administration, said the government might require air-cargo
manifests to be submitted as much as 24 hours in advance.  “The question is, are the carriers capable of implementing
that?” Pistole said. “How do we make it happen?”  Separately today, Representative Edward Markey, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said he introduced legislation requiring
full screening of all shipments on cargo aircraft.  The U.S. announced security measures for cargo on passenger
aircraft Nov. 8 after the bomb plot using printer cartridges was
uncovered. The rules bar “high-risk cargo” from passenger
planes flying to the U.S., and bar toner and ink cartridges
weighing more than a pound (0.45 kilogram) in carry-on or
checked bags on commercial and some international cargo flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 Jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  