-- Airbus Said to Target Higher A380 Superjumbo Deliveries in 2011
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-16T10:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/airbus-said-to-target-more-a380-deliveries-even-as-engines-being-switched.html
Airbus SAS  is aiming for slightly
higher deliveries of its A380 superjumbo in 2011 than this year,
even as switching some engines may burden output in the first
months, according to four people who attended a briefing for
analysts in Toulouse, France.  This year, Airbus may hand over 20 of the double-decker
aircraft, two fewer than planned, as issues such as financing
push two deliveries into 2011, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the meeting wasn’t public.  Chief Executive  Tom Enders , who spoke at the gathering,
said last week that deliveries of the world’s largest passenger
aircraft may be delayed next year as the company and engine
maker  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  work to replace engines on the A380
following an explosion of a turbine earlier this month. Rolls-
Royce is prioritizing supplies of A380 engines to existing
customers, which may affect deliveries, according to the people.  Airbus doubled output of the A380 this year as it improved
production. Enders told analysts yesterday that Airbus’s
production rate for A380s next year will be two each month, the
people said. Costs for producing A380s have dropped 40 percent
from a year ago, the people at the meeting said.  Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
organised the meeting, which continues today. Airbus spokesman
 Stefan Schaffrath  declined to comment, saying the briefing was
private. Slides with some points discussed at the briefings were
posted on EADS’s website.  Largest Customer  Airbus to date has won 234 orders for the A380, which began
commercial service with Singapore Airlines Ltd. in October 2007.
It has delivered 38 to customers, with 16 going to customers so
far this year. Emirates is the largest customer for the
aircraft, with a total of 90 A380s on order.  Airbus offers the plane with a choice of engines by either
Rolls-Royce or by Engine Alliance, a joint venture by  General
Electric Co . and Pratt & Whitney. The aircraft with Engine
Alliance powerplants, which Emirates and Air France Group use,
aren’t affected by the incidents on Rolls-Royce powered jets.  Rolls-Royce discovered oil leaks after examinations of all
Trent 900 engines on the A380 engines following a blast on a
Qantas Airways Ltd. plane on Nov. 4. Qantas has since grounded
its fleet of six A380s, and Singapore Airlines Ltd. and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  have switched some engines.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 