-- Airbus Says Rolls to Ship Engines From A380 Factory
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-16T09:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/airbus-says-rolls-royce-may-take-a380-engines-from-in-production-airplanes.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc  plans to ship
some engines from Airbus SAS’s A380 factory to customers
replacing units after a turbine explosion on a Qantas Airways
Ltd. flight, according to the planemaker.  “Rolls-Royce is arranging for some engines to be supplied
to airlines from the production line to replace some engines
that have been removed from in-service aircraft,” Airbus
spokesman  Sean Lee  said today by phone from Singapore. London-
based Rolls-Royce declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg News questions regarding Lee’s comment.  Qantas,  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG 
have removed some Rolls-Royce powerplants from aircraft after
the mid-air blowup of a Trent 900 engine earlier this month led
to the discovery of potential defects. The London-based engine-
maker has said it will miss its 2010 profit target and Airbus
SAS has said A380 deliveries may suffer next year from the
blowout on the superjumbo.  Qantas, Australia’s largest airline, kept its fleet of six
A380s grounded for the 13th day as it continues to “work
closely” with Rolls-Royce, said  Simon Rushton , a spokesman for
Sydney-based company.  Singapore Air pulled three A380s out of service last week
to change one engine on each aircraft. The last of the three
planes will be back in service today,  Nicholas Ionides , a
spokesman for the airline, said by phone.  Scheduled Deliveries  Singapore Airlines is due to take delivery of its 12th A380
before the end of March 2011, Ionides said. The carrier hasn’t
been informed of any delays, he said.  Lufthansa , which is taking delivery of its fourth A380 this
week, has no new updates on delivery schedules from Airbus yet,
said Frank Puttmann, the airline’s Singapore-based spokesman.
The carrier is scheduled to take delivery of four superjumbos
next year, he said.  Qantas  fell  2.2 percent to A$2.73 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney, while Singapore Air dropped 0.8 percent to
S$15.78 in Singapore.  Rolls-Royce  declined 2.3 percent in London
yesterday, when Lufthansa gained 0.5 percent in Frankfurt.  Qantas, which has never had a fatal jet accident, has
deployed spare capacity and shuffled its fleet to maintain long-
haul operations after the mid-air explosion earlier this month.  Uncontained Failure  So-called uncontained failures occur about once a year on
average, while fatalities only happen once a decade,  Paul Hayes ,
director of safety at aviation consulting firm Ascend, said
earlier this month.  “An uncontained failure is a potentially catastrophic
event,”  Bill Alderman  of Alderman & Co. Capital, a broker
specializing in the aerospace industry, said in a Bloomberg TV
interview. “In a properly designed engine, a small component
can still fail and the system will remain contained.”  Airbus has 234 orders from 17 customers for the double-
decker A380. China Southern Airlines Co. and Korean Air Lines Co.
are the only new customers slated to receive A380s next year,
with the remainder going to the five existing operators, which
also include Air France-KLM Group and Emirates Airline.  Air France and Emirates power their A380s with engines made
by a General Electric Co. and Pratt & Whitney venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sue Ling Chan  in Singapore at 
 slchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  