-- Taiwan Growth Probably Surpassed 8% as Inflation Pressures Set to Escalate
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 2010-11-16T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/taiwan-growth-probably-surpassed-8-as-inflation-pressures-set-to-escalate.html
Taiwan’s economy probably expanded
by more than 8 percent for the fourth straight quarter last
quarter as exports increased, extending the island’s recovery
and adding to the case for higher borrowing costs this year.  Gross domestic product  climbed 8.34 percent in the three
months through September from a year earlier, after rising 12.53
percent in the second quarter, according to the  median  of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The statistics bureau will
release the data at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow.  Taiwan’s government projects 8.24 percent economic growth
this year, one of the fastest in the world. The expansion even
as a stronger Taiwan dollar clouds the outlook for exports
increases pressure on the central bank to tighten credit for a
third time this year. The bank raised the benchmark rate in June
and in September from a record low of 1.25 percent to tackle
price pressures including the threat of a property bubble.  “The inflationary pressure will be more obvious next year
and the central bank needs to take a preemptive measure to
normalize rates,” said  Tony Phoo , a Taipei-based economist for
Standard Chartered Plc. “Prices of commodities and oil will
trend up because of weakening U.S. dollar.”  Policy makers will increase the benchmark interest rate by
0.125 percent point in the quarterly meeting next month to bring
the benchmark rate to 1.625 percent, Phoo predicted.  ‘Overshoot’  Asia-Pacific officials are preparing for stronger
currencies that may hurt exports and spark asset-price inflation
after the U.S. Federal Reserve said this month it will pour $600
billion into the economy, funds that could head to emerging
economies with better yields than in the U.S.  Taiwan’s currency could advance to less than NT$30 per
dollar in the next six months to one year, ING Groep NV’s Head
of Asia Research  Tim Condon  said in Taipei on Nov. 3.  Taiwan’s central bank said Oct. 19 it will step into the
foreign-exchange market when the island’s currency “overshoots.”  The Taiwan dollar was unchanged at NT$30.732 against its
U.S. counterpart at the 4 p.m. close yesterday, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. It has climbed 5.5 percent in the past three
months, the second-best performance in non-Japan Asia. The
benchmark Taiex stock index rose 0.9 percent to 8,312.21.  Accelerating Inflation  “The recovery this year has improved earnings and prompted
companies to add more jobs as they expand,” said  Chuang Rehong ,
an economist at SinoPac Securities Corp. in Taipei. “Higher
wages also indicate a sound rebound and pave the way for
accelerating inflation.” Chuang forecast an increase of 12.5
basis points in borrowing costs and another 50 to 100 basis
point boost in 2011. The median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is for a 2.25 percent rate by the end of next year.  The island’s  unemployment rate  fell to 5.08 percent in
September, the lowest in 21 months. Reviving demand for the
island’s exports of computers and semiconductors prompted  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the world’s largest custom
manufacturer of chips, to budget a record $5.9 billion spending
on equipment this year. Chairman  Morris Chang  said on Oct. 28
that spending next year will likely be higher.  Taiwan’s exports climbed 21.9 percent in October, faster
than the 16 percent rise that economists estimated. Exports are
equal to about two-thirds of Taiwan’s economy.  Consumer prices  rose for a second straight month to 0.56
percent in October, the statistics bureau said Nov. 5. Inflation
this year may be less than the 1.23 percent estimated by the
statistics bureau, and might exceed that figure in 2011,  Perng Fai-nan , the governor of the central bank, said last month.  Record Home Prices  The central bank said in October that mortgage curbs
introduced in June are “yielding results,” and that it has
used “moral suasion” on 16 commercial lenders to ensure rules
are followed for loans claiming vacant land as collateral.  Taiwan introduced mortgage restrictions, including a 70
percent cap on loans for second homes in the Taipei metropolitan
area, after housing prices jumped and fueled concerns that an
asset bubble may form.  Still, home prices in Taipei are set to rise for the
seventh year in 2010, and record-high home prices may prompt the
capital’s population to fall for a fourth straight year as
people move to cheaper cities. The average existing-home prices
in Taipei relative to annual disposable incomes climbed to the
highest in two decades, according to Sinyi Realty Co., the
island’s biggest housing broker.  Policy makers need to lift the benchmark rate from 1.5
percent now to 2.875 percent by the end of 2011 to prevent a
housing bubble, Stanley Su, head of research for the property
agency, said last month.  “The recovery won’t be a sustainable one that people
welcome if they can’t afford to buy homes for themselves,”
SinoPac Securities’ Chuang said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
 Jay Wang  in Singapore at 
 jwang298@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  