-- Wal-Mart Urges India to End Poverty as Alcatel Sees ‘Fortune’
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-16T07:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/alcatel-sees-fortune-in-india-s-poor-as-wal-mart-urges-action-for-growth.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the world’s
biggest retailer, and  Alcatel-Lucent SA  urged India’s government
to pull 828 million people out of poverty to sustain consumer
demand and boost economic growth.  India’s impoverished population is so vast that it should
be seen as a “big opportunity” rather than a burden for
companies,  Ben Verwaayen , chief executive officer of Paris-based
 Alcatel-Lucent  told the World Economic Forum’s India summit in
New Delhi yesterday.  Raj Jain , CEO of India operations at the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said inclusive growth will
create more consumers in a nation where domestic spending
accounts for about three-quarters of economic growth.  “If you talk about 700 million people in rural India, that
is such a huge market to tap into,” said Verwaayen, the CEO of
France’s largest telecommunications equipment maker. “There is
a huge fortune to be made.”  China has lifted 300 million citizens out of poverty since
introducing free-market policies in 1978, 13 years before India,
according to the United Nations, driving annual average growth
of 10 percent in the past three decades. If India doesn’t find
jobs for the underprivileged, it could widen social disparities
and foment unrest, said  Rajat Nag , managing director at the
Manila-based Asian Development Bank.  ‘Sustainable Growth’  “We do not have inclusive growth in India, which means we
do not have sustainable growth,”  Om Prakash Bhatt , chairman of
State Bank of India, the nation’s largest lender, said at the
summit. “We have to look at the numbers and quality of life”
of those living in poverty.  About 800 company executives and investors including  Ellen Kullman , chief executive officer at DuPont Co., the third-
biggest U.S. chemical maker, and  Jon Fredrik Baksaas , CEO of
Telenor ASA, the Nordic region’s largest phone company, are
attending the annual event organized by the World Economic Forum
in the nation’s capital.  The theme of the three-day conference, which ends today,
was “Implementing India,” highlighting the need to include
more people in the growth process.  Wilmington, Delaware-based  DuPont  expects annual revenue
from India to increase more than 40 percent to about $1 billion
by 2012, Kullman said in an interview on the sidelines of the
event.  Michel Lies , member of the group executive committee for
client markets at Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-
largest reinsurer, said it’s looking for a local partner to
enter India’s life and health insurance market.  Poverty Challenge  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  wants to sustain more than 9
percent growth for at least three decades. The World Bank
estimates 828 million Indians live on less than $2 a day.  At the other end of the spectrum, the wealth of India’s 100
billionaires is the equivalent to a quarter of the country’s
gross domestic product, Forbes magazine estimates. The number of
millionaires is expected to triple by 2018, according to a
report by Merrill Lynch & Co. and Cap Gemini SA.  Singh made “inclusive growth” the centerpiece of his
economic policy since coming to power in 2004, after the
electorate ended the six-year rule of the opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party , feeling alienated by India’s economic boom. The
BJP fought the election on the slogan of “India Shining,” as
the economy expanded.  In 2006, Singh implemented the  National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act  to provide 100 days of work to 30 million families
in 200 of the nation’s poorest districts.  Building India  He also announced a 1.76 trillion-rupee ($39 billion) plan,
called  Bharat Nirman , or Building India. The project aimed to
ensure safe drinking water supply in some 55,000 villages,
provide electricity to 100,000 villages, extend irrigation to an
additional 10 million hectares (25 million acres) and build 6
million houses.  Still, India’s jobless rate was 9.4 percent in the
financial year ended March 31, 2010, the government said last
week in its first survey of the nation’s labor market,
indicating more needs to be done to create jobs in an economy
that has averaged an annual growth of 8.5 percent since 2005,
the fastest after China among the world’s major economies.  “Despite impressive economic growth over the years, the
situation on the employment front leaves much to be desired,”
said B.N. Nanda, director general of the Labor Bureau, which
conducted the unemployment survey.  India’s government estimates that 440 million of the total
population of 1.2 billion is under the age of 18.  ‘Demographic Dividend’  “The demographic dividend can easily become a demographic
curse if you do not provide jobs,” Nag said. “It could lead to
unrest if people coming into the workforce are not employed.”  Economic deprivation has prompted Maoists, numbering about
10,000, to fight the government while holding mineral-laden land
in the eastern part of the country, roughly the size of Portugal.
The rebels have some influence in more than a third of the
nation’s 626 districts, the government estimates.  The Maoist activity in seven states is threatening at least
$78 billion in natural-resource projects, brokerage CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets estimates. Prime Minister Singh called Maoists
the “biggest single internal security challenge” and
controlling it was crucial for the progress of the country.  “If we do not have inclusive growth it means that we will
not be safe in our homes or our cars,” State Bank’s Bhatt said.  The government is relying on improving credit delivery to
help reach out to those untouched by the nation’s economic
progress. The Indian Banking Association estimates only 35
percent of India’s 1.2 billion people have access to banking
services.  ‘Financial Inclusion’  “Financial inclusion is a key determinant of sustainable
and inclusive growth,” India’s Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said at the conference. “We are according high
importance to financial inclusion to cover the entire gamut of
financial services from savings to credit, insurance and
transfers.”  This view was shared by  Klaus Schwab , the World Economic
Forum’s founder and executive chairman, who said that raising
the living standards of the poor was not just an act of social
responsibility but also an opportunity for businesses.  “Those are the people who will drive the economy in the
future,” Schwab said of India’s poor. “This is the only way to
achieve sustained growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Macaskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net 
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  