-- Alcoholic Energy Drinks Will Be Barred by U.S. After Deaths, Schumer Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-16T21:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/alcoholic-energy-drinks-will-be-barred-by-u-s-after-deaths-schumer-says.html
Alcoholic energy drinks such as  Four
Loko  will be effectively banned by U.S. regulators after reports
of deaths and hospitalizations in young people, according to
Senator  Charles Schumer .  The Food and Drug Administration plans to announce that
caffeine isn’t a safe addition to alcoholic beverages, ending a
yearlong review of the products, Schumer, a New York Democrat,
said today in a statement. The Federal Trade Commission will
tell manufacturers that marketing these products is potentially
illegal, the senator said.  Washington, Michigan, Utah and Oklahoma and some colleges
banned the drinks after reports of young people being sick or
injured after consuming them, Schumer said. Chicago-based
 Phusion Projects LLC , the closely held maker of Four Loko,
halted sales of its caffeinated alcohol products in New York
this week under pressure from Governor  David Paterson .  “This ruling should be the nail in the coffin of these
dangerous and toxic drinks,” Schumer said in the statement.
“Parents should be able to rest a little easier knowing that
soon their children won’t have access to this deadly brew.”  Last year, the FDA sent  letters  to about 30 companies
including Diageo North America Inc., Constellation Brands Inc.
and United Brands Co. to alert them that their products were
under review.  “This is a very important issue for FDA,”  Michael Herndon , a spokesman for the agency, said yesterday. He declined
to comment on the agency’s decision or when an announcement
would be made.  U.S. law requires that substances intentionally added to
foods be approved as safe by the FDA. The agency has the power
to  seize  unapproved adulterated food products.  The FTC has no comment at this time, said Betsy Lordan, an
agency spokesman, in an e-mail. E-mail and voice-mail messages
left for Phusion weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 