-- Allied Irish Must Pay $1.8 Billion of Bonds Early by Year End
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-16T13:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/allied-irish-must-repay-1-8-billion-of-bonds-early-by-year-end-data-show.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc , struggling
to raise the capital it needs to stay out of government hands,
must meet the equivalent of about $1.8 billion of early bond
repayments before the end of the year.  Ireland’s second-largest lender, which has a market
capitalization of 418 million euros ($569 million), was able to
raise debt this year by giving buyers the right to sell the
notes back at face value at set dates prior to final maturity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Today the bank said an
investor requested repayment of 120 million euros of its
floating-rate bonds due in February at the Nov. 30 put date.  “Payment is a contractual obligation when the bond is put
back to the issuer,” said  Simon Adamson , a banking analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London. “Failure to pay would be an event
of default.”  Ireland, which has to pay for a banking bailout that may
cost as much as 54 billion euros, is in talks with European and
International Monetary Fund officials about a bailout, said a
European official with direct knowledge of the talks. The
country’s banks need to raise capital after bad debts surged
amid the collapse of a decade-long real estate boom.  The Irish banks were able to raise small amounts of debt
this year with the aid of a government guarantee, typically
selling notes with maturities of 12 months or less. Giving
buyers a put option acted as an added guarantee.  Put Options  Of the three main Irish lenders, Allied Irish sold the most
short-term debt with near-dated puts, Bloomberg data show.  Bank
of Ireland  still has the equivalent of about $190 million of
bonds with puts outstanding next year. Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
recipient of the nation’s biggest banking bailout, has none.  Allied Irish has the equivalent of 104 million euros of
regular bonds still to mature this year, Bloomberg data show.  Ireland’s financial regulator told Allied Irish earlier
this year to raise 10.4 billion euros of new capital by year-
end. Executive Chairman  David Hodgkinson , who is seeking to sell
assets to raise cash, said this month he plans to independently
stress-test the company’s balance sheet, spurring concern the
bank may be fully nationalized.  Ronan Sheridan , a spokesman at Allied Irish in Dublin,
didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  