-- Altman Said to Be a Leading Candidate to Replace Summers on Obama Council
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-17T17:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/altman-said-to-be-a-leading-candidate-to-replace-summers-on-obama-council.html
Roger Altman , founder of Evercore
Partners Inc. and a former deputy treasury secretary, is a
leading candidate to replace  Lawrence Summers  as director of
President  Barack Obama ’s National Economic Council, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Altman met with Obama yesterday afternoon to talk to him
about the job as head of the White House group that coordinates
policy-making and economic advice for the president.  Altman, 64, who served at the Treasury Department under
former President  Bill Clinton , has close ties to the business
community. The people familiar with the matter said he might be
able to repair the rift that has emerged between Obama and
investors. Altman didn’t return a request for comment.  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  confirmed Altman
is under consideration. The selection process is in the
“early” stages and “there are a number of good candidates,
including him,” Gibbs said today.  It’s “way too premature”
to say any of those under consideration is at the top of the
president’s list, he said.  The search for a director of the council has been under way
at least since September, when Summers announced he would return
at the end of the year to Harvard University, where he was once
president.  Business Relations  The administration is trying to repair relations with the
business community that were frayed by the battles over health
care and financial regulations, and to spur job growth to cut an
 unemployment rate  that has been at 9.5 percent or higher for
more than a year.  The economy was a top issue in the Nov. 2 midterm
congressional elections in which Republicans won control of the
House of Representatives and narrowed the Democratic majority in
the Senate. That will make it more difficult for Obama to carry
out his economic agenda, which includes a package of tax cuts
for businesses and more spending on U.S. infrastructure.  Obama also is attempting to reach out to the U.S. business
community, saying in a news conference the day after the
election that he wants to make “absolutely clear” that he
views company success as important to the economy.  “Setting the right tone publicly is going to be important
and could end up making a difference at the margins in terms of
how businesses make investment decisions,” Obama said.  Defending Administration  Altman has defended the White House against criticism that
it is anti-business while also saying the administration has
made mistakes in its approach.  In an opinion article published July 19 in the New York
Times, he wrote that “this poisonous dynamic” must be fixed.  “Both sides should make adjustments, but the business
community -- of which I am a proud member -- especially needs to
make efforts to mend this relationship,” Altman wrote. “Yes,
the administration has made some mistakes. But, on balance, its
actions have supported business.”  Altman began his banking career at  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc . and served in the Carter administration as assistant
secretary of the treasury. In the 1980s, he joined the
Blackstone Group LP. He was deputy treasury secretary in the
Clinton administration from 1993 to 1995.  Altman has expressed concern about  deficit  reduction and
argued that the U.S. corporate tax rate is too high while income
taxes are lower than in other developed economies.  Income Tax Rates  “Our income tax rates may strike some people as high, but
by international standards they’re not that high,” he said on
“The  Charlie Rose  Show” on Nov. 2, election night. “But the
corporate tax rate in the U.S. actually is quite high.”  The National Economic Council includes the heads of
departments and agencies whose policies have an impact on the
economy.  Other members of Obama’s economic team who have left the
administration since July include budget director  Peter Orszag 
and  Christina Romer , head of the Council of Economic Advisers.
 Austan Goolsbee  has taken over at the Council of Economic
Advisers. The confirmation of Obama’s choice to be director of
the Office of Management and Budget,  Jacob Lew , has been held up
in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  