-- Ambac Faced Possible Liquidation, State Official Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-17T00:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ambac-faced-potential-liquidation-wisconsin-official-tells-state-judge.html
Ambac Assurance Corp., the second-
largest U.S. bond insurer before the 2008 financial crisis,
faced potential liquidation as policy claims mounted, a
 Wisconsin  insurance department official testified.  Roger A. Peterson, director of the department’s Bureau of
Financial Analysis and Examination, told a Wisconsin state court
judge today the regulators also considered rehabilitation of the
entire company before electing to segregate its $50 billion
portfolio of asset-backed security policies.  “We felt it was our duty to take regulatory action,”
Peterson told Judge William D. Johnston on the second day of a
hearing at the Lafayette County Courthouse in  Darlington .  Wisconsin Insurance Commissioner Sean Dilweg is seeking the
court’s approval of a plan to pay segregated account claimants
25 percent of their claims in cash and the balance in nine years
at 5.1 percent annual interest.  Dilweg’s proposal has drawn opposition from  hedge funds  and
from banks acting as trustees for holders of residential
mortgage-backed securities insured by the Wisconsin company.  Those critics have questioned whether the plan will pay
policy holders more than if the company had been liquidated and
whether, if confirmed, policy holders will ultimately receive
full payment.  Peterson, the second witness to testify in support of the
rehabilitation plan, told the court that the alternatives of
total-company rehabilitation or liquidation would have triggered
defaults by other insureds, leading to litigation and greater
financial losses.  $1 Billion  Dilweg testified earlier in the hearing that those losses
could have totaled between $1 billion and $3 billion.  Among the companies that would have been hurt by total
rehabilitation were drive-in restaurant chain Sonic Corp. and
doughnut purveyor Dunkin Brands Inc., businesses for whom Ambac
insured securitized revenue, Dilweg and Peterson said.  “We took great pains that we understood the risks,”
Peterson told the court,  The hearing comes as  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the New
York-based holding company for the Wisconsin insurer, seeks to
reorganize in a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filed Nov. 8 in  Manhattan .
The parent company has $1.68 billion in liabilities.  The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  has challenged both
companies’ claims to  tax deductions  they say were generated by
$7 billion in net operating losses.  Absent some of that money, the holding company has said it
is unlikely to be able to reorganize successfully.  Net Operating Losses  Peterson said that while his department’s calculations for
payoff of the segregated account claims rely on future net
operating losses, they aren’t premised on retaining the losses
disputed by the IRS.  He also told the court that if the plan is approved, Ambac
Assurance may be able to resume processing claims as soon as
January and begin making the cash portion of the payments in
February.  In March, Dilweg’s office ordered the carrier to turn over
control of its subprime assets to isolate them from the balance
of the insurer’s business as defaults accelerated the pace of
policy  claims , threatening to deplete the company’s reserves.  Payment of claims on the segregated policies halted pending
approval of the rehabilitation proposal. Johnston is hearing the
case about 66 miles southwest of the state’s capital, Madison,
where it was initially filed.  ‘Financially Hazardous’  Dilweg, the first witness to testify, told the court
yesterday that the company had become “financially hazardous,”
paying out up to $150 million per month on claims.  The commissioner said it was his intention to treat Ambac
policyholders fairly and equitably under the plan.  During cross-examination, the commissioner twice tried to
distance himself from the company into which he is intervening,
telling objectors’ lawyers that he’d told Ambac executives,
“We’re not partners in this. We’re just roommates.”  The case is In re The Rehabilitation of Segregated Account
of Ambac Assurance Corp., 2010cv001576,  Dane County , Wisconsin,
Circuit Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Darlington, Wisconsin, at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 