-- Amgen Said to Consider Actelion Takeover Bid to Gain Rare Disease Drugs
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-11-17T16:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/amgen-may-approach-swiss-drugmaker-actelion-with-bid-as-early-as-this-week.html
Amgen Inc. , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, is considering a takeover offer for
 Actelion Ltd.  to gain new medicines for rare diseases, and may
approach the Swiss drugmaker as early as this week, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Actelion and its advisers recently learned of a potential
bid from Amgen, said one of the people, who declined to be named
because the process is private. As a defensive measure, Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Clozel  has discussed asking Roche
Holding AG, Johnson & Johnson and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. to
consider taking a minority stake, they said. Clozel, who has
said he wants the company he founded to stay independent, has
contacted Roche, one person said. Actelion rose 9.1 percent in
Swiss trading.  Actelion, the world’s biggest maker of pulmonary arterial
hypertension drugs, may generate $2.1 billion by 2015 from
Tracleer, as well as added sales from two experimental drugs in
final-stage tests for the  rare  condition, which afflicts no more
than 200,000 people worldwide, said  Olav Zilian , an analyst with
Helvea AG, in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Amgen has talked about geographic expansion and Actelion
seems to have a strong business in Europe and in the specialty
drug market, selling drugs for rare diseases at premium
prices,” said  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New
York, in a telephone interview yesterday.  No Decision  David Polk , a spokesman for Amgen, declined to comment on
the company’s potential interest in Actelion. “As part of its
ordinary course of business, the company is in regular dialogue
with other industry participants,” Actelion said in a statement
today.  Roland Haefeli , a spokesman for Actelion, didn’t return a
call and e-mail seeking comment.  Jeffrey Leebaw , a spokesman for Johnson & Johnson, and
Jennifer Fron Mauer, a spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers, also
declined to comment. “As usual we would not comment on such
market rumors,” Roche Chief Executive Officer  Severin Schwan 
said in an interview today. Clozel, a former Roche scientist,
founded Actelion in 1997 to develop medicines that Roche had
given up on.  Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, California, hasn’t made a
final decision and a formal offer may not emerge, one of the
people said.  Actelion rose 4.55 Swiss francs to 54.60 francs at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Zurich, the biggest gain since Oct. 8.
Amgen declined 40 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $53.63 at 11:49 a.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  ‘Blocking Position’  Actelion, based in Allschwil, Switzerland, has a market
value of 7.1 billion francs ($7.1 billion). The company’s board
formed a committee to consider strategic alternatives this year
and hired Moelis & Co. for advice after a share-price decline
left the company vulnerable to a takeover. Credit Suisse Group
AG is advising the company, while Lazard Ltd. is working with
Amgen.  “Actelion is clearly trying to pull a fast one by
negotiating a blocking position with Roche,” said  Guy Wyser- Pratte , head of the New York-based Wyser-Pratte Management Co.,
an Actelion investor. Actelion could be worth 70 Swiss francs a
share in an acquisition, he said.  Amgen may use acquisitions to expand outside the U.S., and
to gain products in areas beyond its current focus in cancer and
immunology,  Roger Perlmutter , Amgen’s executive vice president
for research and development, said in a Nov. 15 telephone
interview.  Amgen’s Cash  “When we look out at the world, we would like to expand
our programs to other countries where we’re relatively narrow,”
Perlmutter said. “A company that has an effective R&D
organization in an area where we have not been active -- such as
cardiology, neuroscience or infectious disease -- also might
make sense.”  Amgen had about  $17 billion  in cash and short-term
investments as of Sept. 30. Over the past five years, Amgen has
announced seven purchases with an average value of $561.4
million and an average premium of 32 percent. Its biggest deal
was the $2.1 billion purchase of Abgenix Inc. in 2005, which
gave Amgen the cancer drug Vectibix.  Amgen revenue fell last year as its top-seller, Enbrel for
arthritis, faced new competition and its anemia drugs, Aranesp
and Epogen, dropped for the fourth straight year after being
linked to heart attacks. Actelion could provide steady revenue
growth, Zilian said.  “One upside with Actelion is that you could continue to
grow the pulmonary arterial hypertension market because it’s
still only a minority of people that are diagnosed and
treated,” Zilian said. “For a company that wants to be present
in the market for lung disease, the specialist sales force is
really important and you’d already have that with Actelion.”  Tracleer  Actelion got about 85 percent of its revenue last year from
Tracleer, which has dominated the market for pulmonary arterial
hypertension, or PAH, since it won approval in 2001. The
medicine generated 1.51 billion francs in sales in 2009. PAH is
a potentially fatal condition that causes high blood pressure in
the artery moving blood from the heart to the lungs.  Tracleer works by blocking the hormone endothelin, which is
elevated in the plasma and lung tissue of people with pulmonary
hypertension. Endothelin is a potent blood vessel constrictor
that plays a role in other illnesses including kidney disease
and cancer.  Actelion’s stock fell this year after disappointing
clinical trials. In March, the company’s efforts to expand use
of Tracleer suffered a setback when the drug didn’t meet the
goal of a clinical test on patients with a rare lung ailment.
The drugmaker also said Sept. 27 its clazosentan medicine failed
to meet the main goal of a study in patients who had suffered
from bleeding in the brain.  Actelion’s Pipeline  Actelion also has four compounds in the third and final
stage of tests generally needed for regulatory approval. Two of
those experimental medicines, macitentan and selexipag, are
designed to treat PAH.  “The attraction of buying Actelion would be that you’d have
the dominant player in PAH and, if you believe that macitentan
will come good, you’d see the longevity of that franchise
substantially increased,”  Samir Devani , an analyst at Nomura
Code in London, said a telephone interview yesterday.  Johnson & Johnson, of New Brunswick, New Jersey, in April
2009 won U.S. approval of Simponi, a rheumatoid arthritis
treatment injected less frequently than Enbrel.  Sales of Amgen’s anemia drugs Aranesp and Epogen fell 21
percent to $5.2 billion last year from a high of $6.6 billion in
2006 after cardiovascular risks began to emerge in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 Ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  