-- Hana Financial's Bid for KEB May Derail South Korea's Plan to Sell Woori
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-17T03:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hana-financial-s-bid-for-keb-may-derail-south-korea-s-plan-to-sell-woori.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. ’s renewed
interest in buying control of Korea Exchange Bank may threaten
the South Korean government’s plan to sell a stake in Woori
Finance Holdings Co.  Hana is in talks to buy a 51 percent stake in KEB from
Dallas-based Lone Star Funds, four years after a previous
attempt failed, South Korea’s fourth-largest financial company
said yesterday. Hana will decide by next week whether it will
bid for KEB or Woori, Chairman  Kim Seung Yu  told reporters.  State-run  Korea Deposit Insurance Corp.  plans to divest its
57 percent stake in Woori, the country’s largest financial firm
by assets, as President  Lee Myung Bak  privatizes enterprises to
boost competitiveness. A withdrawal by Hana would delay the
government’s sale because it’s the only known candidate for
Woori after KB Financial Group Inc. dropped out, according to
KTB Asset Management Co. in Seoul.  “If Hana turns to KEB, that’ll erase any competition for
Woori and delay the privatization,” said  Chang In Whan ,
president at KTB Asset, which manages the equivalent of $6.5
billion in Seoul.  Woori  dropped 2.6 percent to 13,100 won at 12:17 p.m. in
Seoul trading. Seoul-based  Hana  rose 2.3 percent to 33,700 won
and KEB advanced 2.4 percent to 12,900 won. The benchmark Kospi
index was little changed.  Officials at Korea Deposit and Seoul-based Woori declined
to comment by phone.  Woori for Sale  Korea Deposit said last month that it will receive
preliminary bids for Woori by Nov. 26. Interested investors
should bid for at least 4 percent of Woori shares or merge with
the company, Korea Deposit said on Oct. 29. The Financial
Services Commission, the government regulator that is leading
the sale, aims to have a shortlist of bidders by the end of the
year and name a preferred candidate in the first quarter of 2011.  “The absence of a strong potential buyer would damp
Woori’s sale prospects and make it difficult for the government
to get a decent price,” said Kwak Jae Woo, a fund manager at  Hi
Asset Management Co ., which manages $7.1 billion worth of assets
in Seoul.  Hana’s interest in Korea Exchange Bank pits it against
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , which is also
exploring buying Lone Star’s stake in the lender to expand in
Asia. That competition could help Lone Star receive a higher
offer and divest its share after almost five years of trying.  Lone Star Wins  “Lone Star is the winner with this latest development as
it now has two cards to play with to negotiate the price,” said
Kim Min Kyum, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.8 billion at
Midas International Management Ltd. in Seoul.  Lone Star spokesman  Ed Trissel  declined to comment on the
talks with Hana. The firm’s stake in KEB is worth 4.1 trillion
won ($3.6 billion), based on yesterday’s closing price.  ANZ, Australia’s third-largest bank by market value, has
been reviewing KEB’s finances to decide whether to purchase the
controlling interest and yesterday said it remains in the due-
diligence process.  “Exploring strategic and organic growth opportunities in
Korea is a logical fit,” the Melbourne-based lender said in a
regulatory filing.  KDB Financial Group Inc. , South Korea’s largest state-owned
banking group, may consider buying a stake in KEB from Lone Star,
KDB Chairman  Min Euoo Sung  told reporters today. KDB isn’t in
talks with Lone Star and any acquisition decision would require
consultation with the government as it owns the firm, Min said.  KDB Purchase ‘Unlikely’  A purchase of KEB by KDB Financial is “pretty unlikely,”
said  Lee Chang Wook , a banking industry analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “KDB’s most urgent task
is its own privatization through an initial public offering.
It’s not desirable to make it heavier before a stock sale.”  The Financial Services Commission, the government regulator,
hasn’t been asked about a possible bid by KDB for Korea Exchange
Bank, FSC spokesman  Ernst Lee  said by phone in Seoul. KDB plans
a local IPO as early as next year.  Lone Star has failed to sell its  holding  in Korea Exchange
Bank after regulators examined its 2003 purchase of the Seoul-
based lender.  HSBC Holdings  abandoned a $6 billion purchase of Korea
Exchange Bank in September 2008 amid the widening global
financial crisis. That was the second blow to Lone Star after
Kookmin Bank, now part of KB Financial, walked away from talks
to buy 65 percent of KEB in November 2006. Kookmin defeated Hana
for negotiation rights earlier that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  