-- Hana Financial Said in Talks With Lone Star to Buy Korea Exchange Holding
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-16T07:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hana-financial-is-in-talks-to-buy-lone-star-s-stake-in-korea-exchange-bank.html
Hana Financial Group Inc.  revived an
effort to buy Lone Star Funds’ 51 percent stake in  Korea
Exchange Bank , challenging  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.  for control of the lender.  Hana Financial, South Korea’s fourth-largest financial
company, is in talks with Dallas-based Lone Star, an official at
Hana said. No agreement has been reached and Hana may announce a
decision on the purchase next week, the person said, declining
to be identified because the discussions are private.  Hana Financial’s renewed interest may help Lone Star
complete a five-year quest to sell control of the lender that’s
been dogged by investigations into the circumstances of the
fund’s 2003 purchase. While the talks may threaten a separate
plan by ANZ Bank to buy Korea Exchange Bank, Hana has also said
it is interested in  Woori Financial Holdings Co. , which the
government plans to privatize by next year.  Buying KEB “would definitely be a better choice for Hana
than purchasing Woori Finance, which is bigger than Hana and
would be more difficult to control,” said  Koo Kyung Hwe , a
banking analyst at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul. “Investors
seem to think the Hana-KEB combination would create a lot of
synergies for both.”  Lone Star’s stake in KEB is worth 4.1 trillion won ($3.7
billion), based on today closing price.  Lone Star spokesman  Ed Trissel  declined to comment.  Hana’s Choice  Hana Financial will decide whether to bid for Korea
Exchange Bank or Woori Finance by next week, Edaily reported
today, citing Chairman  Kim Seung Yu . A Hana spokesman, who
declined to be named, confirmed the remarks.  Purchasing KEB may boost Hana’s  assets  to 300 trillion won
from 200 trillion won, according to data from the companies as
of Sept. 30. That is still less than Woori Finance’s 332
trillion won, KB Financial Group Inc.’s 330 trillion won and
Shinhan Financial Group Co.’s 311 trillion won.  Hana Financial rose 2.7 percent to 32,950 won at the 3 p.m.
close of Seoul trading after climbing as much as 5.5 percent,
the biggest jump in more than three months. KEB fell 3.1 percent
to 12,600 won.  ANZ Bank  rose 0.6 percent to A$23.22 in Sydney
trading.  ANZ, Australia’s third-largest bank by market value, has
been reviewing KEB’s finances to decide whether to purchase the
controlling interest in the bank and today said it remains in
the due-diligence process. “Exploring strategic and organic
growth opportunities in Korea is a logical fit,” the Melbourne-
based lender said in a regulatory filing today.  Buying the South Korean bank might be a “distraction” for
ANZ as it seeks to expand in other parts of Asia, said  TS Lim ,
an analyst at Southern Cross Equities Ltd. in Sydney.  ‘Good’ Either Way  “If they get it, it’s good, if they don’t get it, it’s
still good,” said Lim, who  rates  ANZ as a “buy.” “It means
they have to now focus on east Asia and China and Hong Kong.”  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Lone Star has
signed a preliminary agreement with Hana Financial to sell its
stake in Korea Exchange Bank.  Since its 2003 purchase, Lone Star has recouped 1.87
trillion won of its total 2.15 trillion won investment in the
Korean lender through a block sale and  dividends  after tax,
according to Korea Exchange Bank’s data.  HSBC Holdings  in September 2008 abandoned a $6 billion
purchase of Korea Exchange Bank amid the global financial crisis.
That was the second blow to Lone Star after Kookmin Bank, now
part of KB Financial Group Inc., walked away from talks to buy
65 percent of Korea Exchange Bank in November 2006, after
beating Hana for the right to negotiate earlier that year.  KEB this month reported third-quarter  profit  fell 31
percent to 290 billion won as it set aside more funds for bad
loans and other costs. Hana Financial said last month that
profit in the same period climbed 10 percent to 265.1 billion
won, helped by wider lending margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  