-- Argentina to Start Talks Over Paris Club Debt Without IMF, Fernandez Says
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-16T14:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/argentina-to-start-talks-over-paris-club-debt-without-imf-fernandez-says.html
The Paris Club group of creditor
nations accepted Argentina’s request to start talks on
restructuring about $6.7 billion in debt without the oversight
of the International Monetary Fund, President Cristina Fernandez
de Kirchner said.  Fernandez, who first announced plans to pay the Paris Club
in 2008, said in a nationwide broadcast from Buenos Aires last
night that she hopes to have the defaulted debt renegotiated by
2011. A resolution of the outstanding debt would help generate
investment in the country, Fernandez said, adding that Argentina
won’t have to pay fees since the talks won’t involve banks,
companies or advisers.  The Paris Club “has accepted Argentina’s position to
negotiate its debt without IMF intervention,” Fernandez said.
“The negotiating should be realistic, which means it should
involve a payment plan that will allow us to sustain the
country’s economic activity and grow with social inclusion.”  South America’s second-biggest economy owes the Paris Club,
an informal association of creditors that includes the U.S.,
Germany and Japan, about $6.7 billion in defaulted debt. In
June, Argentina restructured $12.2 billion in bonds that were
held out from a 2005 exchange. The country defaulted on $95
billion in bonds in late 2001.  E-Mail  Fernandez said she received an e-mail from the Paris Club
earlier this month accepting Argentina’s request to leave the
IMF out of the talks. The e-mail was followed by an official
letter confirming the acceptance, she said.  Bloomberg messages seeking comment from France’s Finance
Ministry, which houses the Paris Club, weren’t immediately
answered. Andreas Adriano, an IMF spokesman in Washington, said
the fund doesn’t comment on the Paris Club’s affairs.  Fernandez, on Sept. 2, 2008, announced plans to tap central
bank reserves to pay down Argentina’s debt to the creditor
group. The government had to shelve the plan once the global
financial crisis took hold following the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. less than two weeks later.  Standard & Poor’s raised Argentina’s credit rating in
September, saying the country’s “strong” economic expansion is
helping it make debt payments. The economy will expand 9 percent
this year, the most since 2005, according to the central bank’s
forecast, after 0.9 percent growth last year.  Debt Ratings  S&P raised Argentina’s foreign and local debt ratings one
level to B, in line with Bolivia and Honduras and five steps
below investment grade. The increase matched a move made by
Fitch Ratings in July.  An agreement with the Paris Club is not “a rating change
trigger, but it’s definitely a positive event in the sense that
Argentina will continue to normalize its relationship with the
international community,” said Sebastian Briozzo, a Latin
America director at S&P, in a telephone interview in Buenos
Aires, before yesterday’s announcement.  Foreign direct investment in Argentina is among the lowest
in South America’s major economies, totaling $2.2 billion in the
first half of 2010 compared with $17.1 billion in Brazil, $8
billion in Chile, $4.1 billion in Colombia and $3.4 billion in
Peru, according to the Santiago-based United Nations Economic
Commission for Latin America.  If the Paris Club situation can be resolved, “it will be
very positive in terms of allowing Argentina to receive more
funds from foreign direct investment,” Briozzo said.  The Paris Club met for the first time in May 1956 in the
French capital, after Argentina “voiced the need to meet its
sovereign creditors to prevent a default,” according to the
organization’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  