-- Aristocrat Viridian WS Slot Machines Infringe Patents, IGT Claims in Suit
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-11-16T05:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/aristocrat-viridian-ws-slot-machines-infringe-patents-igt-claims-in-suit.html
Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. , the world’s
second-biggest maker of slot machines, infringed patents with
its Viridian WS machines,  International Game Technology , the
largest manufacturer, claimed in a lawsuit.  International Game Technology, based in Reno, Nevada, filed
the lawsuit yesterday in Federal Court in Santa Ana, California,
claiming Aristocrat willfully infringed and continues to
infringe two patents on technology used to authenticate gaming
software. A copy of the claim wasn’t immediately available on
the federal court’s web site.  “The lawsuit comes after failed attempts to resolve the IP
disputes between Aristocrat and IGT,” International Game
Technology said in a Nov. 15 statement.  International Game Technology and Sydney-based Aristocrat
are involved in an on-going dispute over intellectual property,
Aristocrat said in a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange.
Aristocrat sued International Game Technology in the U.S. and
Australia for patent infringement and International Game
Technology’s claim “appears” to be part of that dispute,
Aristocrat said.  Aristocrat received “informal notification” of the suit
and has yet to be served with the claim, the company said. The
current intention is to defend against the claim, Aristocrat
said.  Aristocrat introduced the  Viridian WS  machines in April,
following up on its original Viridian cabinet. The company sells
gaming machines in more than 90 countries, according to its
website.  Aristocrat had net income of A$49.3 million ($48.6 million)
in the six months ended in June, with Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Odell  calling conditions in most markets “very
difficult,” as U.S. and Australian casinos scaled back
purchases of new machines.  The case is: IGT v Aristocrat Technologies Inc. 8:10-
cv-01748-jvs. U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  