-- Asian Stocks Drop on Signs Governments Taking Measures to Cool Inflation
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-16T10:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/asian-stocks-drop-on-signs-regional-governments-acting-to-combat-inflation.html
Asian stocks fell for a third day on
speculation that governments in the region will take further
steps to cool inflation. Japanese exporters rose after a report
showed U.S. retail sales grew more than estimated and the yen
weakened against the dollar.  Jiangxi Copper Co. plunged 8.7 percent in Shanghai on
speculation China will intensify so-called tightening measures.
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. tumbled 15 percent in
Seoul as the Bank of Korea raised its benchmark interest rate.
James Hardie Industries SE slumped 2 percent in Sydney after
being downgraded to “underperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG.
Mazda Motor Corp., with 24 percent of sales in North America,
surged 2.8 percent in Tokyo.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.7 percent to 130.78
as of 7:51 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than two stocks falling for
each that climbed. The Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 4
percent on speculation measures to curb inflation including
price controls and higher interest rates may hurt earnings.  “We’re getting to the point where measures are being taken
by developing countries to put a dampener on growth,” said Matt
Riordan, who helps manage about $6.6 billion at Paradice
Investment Management in Sydney. “Stock performance this year
has been biased toward companies exposed to the theme of
developing economies, so when steps are taken to put on the
brakes, we’re seeing some profit taking starting to come in.”  The Asia Pacific gauge earlier lost as much as 0.5 percent
and gained as much as 0.2 percent.  China Lending  Reports that Chinese banks suspended some lending yesterday
fueled speculation the country will act further to cool its
economy, driving the Asia Pacific gauge 0.4 percent lower.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.6
percent today. In New York, the index retreated 0.1 percent
yesterday as increased criticism of the Federal Reserve’s plan
to stimulate growth and concern that a swelling federal deficit
will lead to higher borrowing costs drove Treasury yields higher.
Yields on 30-year Treasuries rose to 4.41 percent,　the highest
intraday level since May.  Sales at U.S. retailers climbed 1.2 percent in October, the
biggest gain in seven months, according to data from the
Commerce Department issued yesterday in Washington. That
exceeded the highest forecast among economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.3 percent and
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.3 percent, while New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index declined 0.4 percent in Wellington. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 1.4 percent.  Materials Demand  Jiangxi Copper plunged 8.7 percent to 36.32 yuan in Shanghai
and 2.5 percent to HK$23.85 in Hong Kong. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.
tumbled 9.2 percent to 26.28 yuan on speculation further
tightening will curb raw material demand. China Construction
Bank Corp. dropped 5.3 percent to 4.83 yuan on the prospect
higher borrowing costs will curb loan growth.  “Speculation that the central bank will tighten monetary
policy continues to dog the market,” said Wang Cheng, a
strategist at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The
market will be under pressure for the coming three to 12 months
from the threat of measures to cool inflation.”  South Korea’s Kospi Index slumped 0.8 percent as the Bank
of Korea said in Seoul today that it raised the benchmark
interest rate by 0.25 percentage point to 2.5 percent. Six of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the decision,
while the rest forecast no change.  ‘Balance of Risks’  Hyundai Engineering tumbled 15 percent to 62,200 won in
Seoul today after South Korea’s rate decision, and as Hyundai
Motor Group and Hyundai Group submitted rival offers for a stake
in South Korea’s biggest builder. Hyundai Group was later named
the preferred bidder by Kim Hyo Sang, a director at Korea
Exchange Bank.  Also in Seoul, Tong Yang Major Corp., a supplier of cement
and ready-mixed concrete, plunged 15 percent to 1,825 won.  Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers said they raised
interest rates this month to counter an expected rise in
inflation as strengthening mining investment, employment and
trade propel the nation’s economy.  “The board judged that the balance of risks had shifted to
the point where a modest tightening of monetary policy was
prudent,” the RBA said in minutes of its Nov. 2 meeting
released in Sydney today.  James Hardie, which yesterday reported a first-half loss,
slumped 2 percent to A$5.54 in Sydney, after Credit Suisse
analysts downgraded the stock to “underperform” from
“neutral.”  Copper, Oil  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
sank 0.7 percent to A$86.44 in Sydney and Santos Ltd.,
Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer, fell 0.6 percent
to A$13.10, as oil declined for a third day and copper futures
dropped as much as 1.2 percent. Japanese commodities-trading
house Mitsubishi Corp. dropped 0.2 percent to 2,102 yen in Tokyo.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has increased 9.3 percent
through yesterday in 2010, compared with gains of 7.4 percent by
the S&P 500 and 7.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at an average 14.4
times estimated earnings, compared with 14.1 times for the S&P
500 and 12.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  Among stocks that rose today, Sony Corp., the maker of
Bravia televisions that gets about a fifth of its revenue from
the U.S, gained 1.8 percent to 2,841 yen in Tokyo, while Mazda
Motor Corp., Japan’s second-largest car exporter, surged 2.8
percent to 224 yen.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. rose 3.4 percent to HK$22.80 in
Hong Kong after forecasting a better-than-estimated annual
profit. Hong Kong’s biggest airline said full-year profit will
more than double to a record on rebounding travel demand and
asset sales.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 