-- Asian Currencies Strengthen, Led by Won, on Bank of Korea's Rate Decision
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-16T08:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-won-on-bank-of-korea-s-rate-decision.html
South Korea’s won and Singapore’s
dollar led gains among Asian currencies after the Bank of Korea
raised borrowing costs for a second time this year.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  snapped a three-
day drop as policy makers in South Korea boosted the seven-day
repurchase rate by 0.25 percentage point to 2.5 percent. Only
six of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast the
outcome. The yuan rose as the New York-based Conference Board’s
leading index for China climbed for a fifth month in September.  “We saw the BOK rate hike and good data out of China,
reminding investors of the strength of emerging Asia,” said
 Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “The trend remains for Asian currencies to
strengthen. The drop in the past few days was just a
correction.”  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,129.47 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Singapore’s currency climbed 0.4 percent to S$1.2988
and Malaysia’s ringgit appreciated 0.2 percent to 3.1340.  The won trimmed earlier gains of as much as 0.6 percent
amid concern the government will impose measures to temper
inflows of capital that threaten to drive up consumer prices.
South Korea will announce capital-control measures by the end of
this year, Yonhap News reported, citing Vice Minister Yim Jong
Yong.  “The market is still nervous,” said  Gerrard Katz , head of
foreign-exchange trading at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.
“It awaits any measures Korea would take to control the inflow
of hot money.”  Yuan Gains  The yuan snapped a two-day drop, rising 0.1 percent to
6.6375 per dollar, as the Conference Board’s leading index for
China rose 0.6 percent to 150.8. The reading compared with an
advance of 0.7 percent in August.  The gains “suggest the economy is likely to expand
steadily through early 2011,” William Adams, resident economist
for the Conference Board China Center in Beijing, said.  Thailand’s baht strengthened for the first time in five
days on speculation exporters will take advantage of the
dollar’s appreciation convert earnings at a more-favorable
exchange rate.  “There is speculation a lot of exporters are selling the
dollar on its recent rally because they are worried they won’t
get such a good price going forward,” said  Nalin Chutchotitham ,
a Bangkok-based analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl.  Taiwan’s dollar erased earlier gains on suspected
intervention by the central bank in the final minute of trading.
The currency, which ended unchanged at NT$30.732, traded 1.6
percent higher a minute before the close of trading.  Elsewhere, India’s rupee dropped 0.1 percent to 45.30 per
dollar. Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.1 percent to 8,953 and the
Philippine peso was steady at 43.75.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 