-- AT&T, Verizon Hire Ex-GE Executive for Mobile Venture
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-16T21:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/at-t-verizon-hire-former-ge-executive-to-lead-payments-venture.html
AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless , the
biggest U.S. mobile carriers, hired former  General Electric Co. 
executive  Michael J. Abbott  to head a venture that would let
people make purchases with their mobile phones.  Abbott, 43, was named chief executive officer of the New
York-based mobile payments company that includes Deutsche
Telekom AG unit T-Mobile USA as a partner, the carriers said
today in a statement. He will help build a national payments
network, called  Isis , that will be available to all banks,
merchants and wireless providers, the statement said.  “Our goal with this is to fundamentally transform the way
that people shop, pay and save,” Abbott, previously chief
marketing officer for GE’s retail consumer finance  business  in
the U.S., said in an interview. “This provides 200 million
phones and 200 million consumers.”  The phone companies are working with Riverwoods, Illinois-
based  Discover Financial Services  and  Barclays Plc  to let
consumers pay retailers with the contactless wave of a
smartphone, potentially supplanting plastic credit and debit
cards. That may pose a threat to  Visa Inc. ,  MasterCard Inc.  and
New York-based  American Express Co. , the biggest card networks,
which have been testing mobile payments worldwide.  Payment Alternative  The service, similar to those already available in Japan,
Turkey and the U.K., is expected to be introduced “in key
geographic markets during the next 18 months,” the company said
in the statement. People familiar with the plan said in August
that the carriers were considering pilots in Minneapolis, Salt
Lake City, Atlanta and Austin, Texas. Isis is the Egyptian
goddess of simplicity, among other things.  “It’s a great  alternative  for consumers,” said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, in an interview.  AT&T declined 1.4 percent to $28.24 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Verizon Communications
Inc. , which co-owns Verizon Wireless with Vodafone Group Plc,
dropped 1.8 percent to $32.19. Discover fell 4.1 percent, the
most since July, to $18.10. Visa slid 1.8 percent to $74.99 and
MasterCard declined 4.1 percent to $233.06.  Transactions would be run through Discover’s network,
currently the fourth-biggest by payments volume behind Visa,
Purchase, New York-based MasterCard and American Express.
Barclays, based in London, is expected to be the first issuer on
the Isis network, the statement said.  Convergence  “Mobile payments are really where all the action is going
to be and in the not too distant future, everything is going to
converge,” said  Diane Offereins , president of payment systems
for Discover, in a telephone interview. “We want to make sure
that your phone is your wallet.”  In 2002, Abbott joined Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE to
build its strategy of issuing store-brand cards that can be used
elsewhere because they carry the MasterCard, Visa, AmEx or
Discover logos. GE, the biggest U.S. private-label card issuer,
has portfolios including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and Dillard’s Inc.  Abbott previously was senior vice president of card
services at FleetBoston Financial, now owned by  Bank of America
Corp . Before that he was a researcher for International Business
Machines Corp. and began his career analyzing electronic warfare
intelligence data for Syracuse Research Corp. He has a master’s
degree in electrical engineering and an MBA in finance and
accounting from Columbia University, according to Isis’  website .  “With his knowledge and our great relationships with
merchants, it’s a huge win-win,” Offereins said.  Radio Microchip  A consumer using the mobile service would be able to pay a
retailer by holding a smartphone with an embedded radio
microchip near a reader at checkout. The near-field
communication technology, or NFC, may allow people to forgo
plastic cards and enable retailers to send customers electronic
receipts and rewards immediately.  “This network will provide greater value than simply a
payment network,” said Abbott, who joined the venture on Nov.
1. “Just think of the cost and efficiency savings for the
merchants.”  He declined to comment on how carriers will profit from
transactions.  “This is where the market is moving,” said  Amer Sajed ,
CEO of Barclaycard U.S., in an interview. “We’ll have
tremendous access to scale with three of the largest telcos in
the country.”  Apple and Google  Other companies including  Apple Inc. , the maker of iPhones,
and Google Inc., operator of the world’s most-used Web search
tool, also are working to develop mobile payments technologies.  Google’s next version of Android, its operating system for
mobile devices, will be equipped for payments using near-field
communication technology, CEO  Eric Schmidt  said yesterday during
the annual Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco.  Retailers may want to help another network after fighting
for years to win lower transaction fees. Last month, Visa and
MasterCard settled a U.S. antitrust lawsuit that said the
companies’ contracts unfairly bar retailers from steering
customers to other brands. Merchants filed a 2005 antitrust
lawsuit that is still pending and earlier this year persuaded
Congress to approve caps on fees for debit transactions.  Visa and MasterCard handled $2.45 trillion, or 82 percent,
of U.S. consumer spending on all-purpose cards last year,
according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter. That
dominance has helped fuel  profit growth  for both firms. Visa’s
annual operating income has grown almost eightfold since fiscal
2005 to $4.54 billion in the year ended Sept. 30. MasterCard’s
surged more than fivefold to $2.27 billion in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  