-- ATP Chief Helfant Is `Optimistic' Board Will Favor Shorter Tennis Season
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-16T16:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/atp-chief-helfant-is-optimistic-board-will-favor-shorter-tennis-season.html
Adam Helfant , executive chairman and
president of the men’s tennis tour, is “optimistic” the ATP
board will vote in favor of plans to shorten the season.  Heeding pleas from players for a longer offseason so they
can get more rest, the  ATP World Tour  board will meet in London
over three days starting Nov. 20 to vote on plans to trim its
tennis calendar starting in 2012 by as much as three weeks.  “I do believe the board will take action on this,”
Helfant said in an interview at the draw ceremony for the
season-ending  ATP World Tour Finals  that start in London on Nov.
21.  Cutting the week in between the BNP Paribas Masters in
Paris - which this year ended on Nov. 14 - and the start of the
ATP Finals is “one of the options” being looked at, said
Helfant, a former Nike Inc. vice president who joined the tour
at the beginning of 2009.  Should the season be shortened by two weeks or more, then
the Davis Cup finals may “move up,” Helfant said. The finals
of the elite men’s team competition, which is run by the
International Tennis Federation, will be held Dec. 3 through 5,
when Serbia plays France in Belgrade.  Players including top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of Spain have
been calling for a shorter season for years to give their bodies
time to recuperate and prevent injuries. The men’s tennis tour
consists of 62 events in 32 countries and runs from January
until the end of November.  Some tournaments “have to be a little bit flexible,”
 Roger Federer  told a news conference in Paris last week when
asked about the plans. Federer is a member of the ATP’s Players’
Council alongside Nadal.  “I just think it’s time that we shifted back a bit and we
get a proper offseason,” Federer, the winner of a men’s record
16 majors, said. “Because four weeks is just not an offseason,
really. Six weeks is much better. Already at least you can take
two weeks off, practice for four weeks, which is a lot for us in
our world. That’s why we’re talking about it. I hope tournaments
understand it’s in their best interest as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Danielle Rossingh  at the
London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  