-- Mauritania Central Bank Plans to Sell Bills to Manage Inflation, Liquidity
-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 2010-11-16T12:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/mauritania-central-bank-plans-to-sell-bills-to-manage-inflation-liquidity.html
Mauritania ’s central bank said it
may begin selling its own bills next year as a tool to drain
excess funds from the economy and prevent rising wheat prices
from pushing up inflation.  The debt will be addition to the Treasury bills the  Central
Bank of Mauritania  already sells on behalf of the government,
Sayid Mohamed, chief of monetary services, said in an interview
yesterday in Nouakchott, the capital.  “The Treasury bonds will be for the needs of the Treasury,
and the central bank bills will help lead the fight against
inflation,” Mohamed said.  Mauritania’s annual inflation rate will probably rise to an
average of 5.3 percent in 2011 from 5 percent this year,
according to data on the  International Monetary Fund ’s website.
Inflation may rise even further next year because of rising
wheat prices, IMF Mission Chief Boileau Loko said in an Oct. 6
interview.  Wheat prices have risen as much as 35 percent this year
after excessive rain in Canada prevented farmers from seeding
grain and a drought damaged crops in Russia, which imposed an
export ban on Aug. 15. Canada and Russia are the world’s second-
and third-biggest shippers of the grain.  Mauritania is a net food importer and only produces enough
cereals to cover a third of national consumption, according to
the Food and Agricultural Organization’s  website . Retail wheat
prices in Nouakchott increased by 21 percent between July and
September, the FAO said last month.  Inflationary Pressure  “The recent sharp rise in international wheat prices is
likely to lead to high inflationist pressure on the domestic
food market and erode the purchasing power of urban and rural
consumers,” it said.  Higher inflation may undermine forecast for an economic
growth rate of 5 percent next year, compared with expected
growth of 6 percent this year, Loko said. The IMF is advising
Mauritania about increasing the number of instruments used to
mop up liquidity, he said.  “Their immediate challenge is to support the economy, but
to keep inflation in check,” Loko said.  Officials at the central bank haven’t decided how often
they will issue securities or how they will price the debt,
Mohamed said.  “In the immediate short term, this is something we won’t
see on the market, but it’s something we are working to launch,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Hinshaw  in Dakar via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 