-- Aurora Targets Australian Individual Investors to Boost Hedge Fund Assets
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-11-16T21:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/aurora-targets-australian-individual-investors-to-boost-hedge-fund-assets.html
Aurora Funds Ltd. , formed after a
merger of Australian hedge fund managers including Fortitude
Capital, is targeting individual investors to reverse a slump in
assets and lack of allocations from local pension funds.  The  Aurora Fortitude Absolute Return Fund , which seeks to
profit in rising and declining markets, aims to boost assets
managed on behalf of investors with at least A$100,000 ($98,600)
to about A$500 million from A$60 million, Chief Investment
Officer  John Corr  said in an interview in Sydney yesterday.  Australian hedge funds are struggling to rebound from the
global financial crisis, which triggered a surge in redemptions
and slashed funds under management by about 30 percent to no
more than A$65 billion, according to  Australian Fund Monitors .
Corr aims to benefit from overseeing wealth for older
Australians that need steady returns to fund their retirement.  “Retail money is sticky,” said  Chris Gosselin , chief
executive officer of AFM, which monitors more than 200 hedge
funds in Australia. By contrast, while “institutional money is
nice because it’s quite lumpy -- it comes in 10, 20 or 30
million dollar lumps,” many of those funds were withdrawn
during the crisis even as managers posted positive returns, he
said.  Finding new investors is a key challenge for the industry
in a nation that weathered the global financial crisis without
government-funded bank bailouts or an economic recession, unlike
in the U.S. and Europe. Australia is home to the world’s fourth-
biggest pool of managed funds, and alternative investments
account for less than 5 percent of the nation’s A$1.35 trillion
in  pension savings .  ‘Frustrating Process’  “We tried to engage with a couple of gatekeepers at the
domestic institutions and we found that a frustrating process,”
Corr, 47, said. “I think they’re somewhat set up to look at
classic long-only managers.”  Post the global financial crisis, people realized they’re
happy to take somewhat lower returns in the good times to
preserve their capital, which is the aim of his fund, said Corr,
a former trader at  Citigroup Inc.   “I think there’s a risk they’ve gone to sleep again a
little bit in 2009 and 2010 because the markets bounced back
well and they think they’re ok,” said Corr.  Aurora’s market-neutral absolute return fund, which seeks
steady profits that outpace the Australian central bank’s
benchmark  overnight cash rate  by trading pricing gaps between
securities, has returned 67.7 percent after fees since its
inception in March 2005. The  MSCI World Index  has gained 4.9
percent in the period.  Assets in the fund currently stand at A$60 million, after
falling from a peak of about A$200 million in December 2008,
Corr said. The fund has capacity of about A$500 million, he said.  Negative Months  After losing money during only three months in its first
three years, the fund posted negative returns six times in 2009
and this year because of the rebound in global share markets,
fewer mergers and acquisitions, and an increase in the cost of
options, which Aurora uses to insure against losses, Corr said.  The fund has advanced 1.8 percent this year through October.
Globally, hedge funds have gained 7.3 percent, according to
Singapore-based  Eurekahedge Pte .  Corr, who was previously director of proprietary trading at
Citigroup Global Markets Australia, said the strategies he uses
are ones that individual investors could pursue themselves if
they had the time and Aurora’s lower trading costs.  “That’s why it does appeal to the retail side, because
we’re happy to tell them it’s not a black box,” he said. “When
it doesn’t work, we can say ‘this is why.’”  Aurora was formed this year through a merger between
Sandringham Capital Ltd., founded by  Steuart Roe , former UBS AG
head of equity risk management products for Australasia, Aurora
Funds Management Ltd. and Fortitude. It manages about A$550
million across all its funds for more than 3,500 investors,
according to the company.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  