-- Austria Threatens to Halt Greek Aid Transfer on Deficit Concern
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-11-16T17:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/austria-s-proell-threatens-to-halt-greek-aid-transfer-on-deficit-concern.html
Austria threatened to block its
share of the next transfer of aid funds to Greece unless the
government meets deficit-cutting goals agreed upon six months
ago with the European Union and International Monetary Fund.  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said in Vienna that
he lacked assurances from Greece to commit to the payment. He
toned down his remarks later, telling journalists in Brussels
that Austria was prepared to meet its pledge to Greece and that
Greece was “on a good path.”  “We are getting indications that the Greeks can’t stick to
their plan in a sufficient manner, in particular on the revenue
side,” Proell said according to a government e-mail that
confirmed remarks made after a Cabinet meeting today. “The data
we have at the moment doesn’t give any reason to approve the
December tranche from the Austrian point of view.”  Talking to reporters in Brussels before a meeting of euro-
area finance ministers, Proell said: “Greece is on a good path
-- I want to say that explicitly -- but apparently isn’t exactly
on course.”  Greek  bonds  fell as concern mounted that the debt-strapped
nation, which received a 110 billion-euro ($149 billion) bailout
in May, won’t be able to cut its budget deficit fast enough. The
government said yesterday that it will curb the shortfall to 9.4
percent of gross domestic product this year, compared with a May
pledge of 7.8 percent.  Spread Widens  The extra  yield  that investors demand to hold 10-year Greek
bonds over German counterparts rose 8 basis points to 894 basis
points today. It touched a closing record of 965 basis points on
May 7.  Proell’s remarks were “probably just political posturing,
but it was enough to cause a little panic,” said  Peter Boockvar , a strategist with Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  Greece receives cash from the EU and the IMF in quarterly
instalments following an assessment of the country’s progress in
cutting the deficit. Austria’s share of the EU tranche, which is
due in December, is 190 million euros, Proell said.  While Greece still says it will bring the shortfall below
the EU’s 3 percent ceiling in 2014, Proell said he will ask the
country’s finance minister today how he plans to do this.  “We want to see how the Greeks will tighten their original
plans to stick to this plan,” Proell said in Vienna. “The
Greek minister will today give a clear overview. If this is
clear and the numbers are credible, we’ll have new data.”  Meeting Targets  Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , also
speaking to reporters in Brussels, said his country would meet
its budget targets for next year: “We will fully respect the
2011 targets and intend to take any measures that are necessary
in that respect.”  Luxembourg’s Finance Minister  Luc Frieden  said he saw no
reason to withhold the Greek aid tranche.  Tensions between Greece and Germany rose before the
meeting. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  yesterday
criticized Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s proposals to force
bondholders to shoulder more of the burden from bailouts. Her
finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , rejected the remarks.  “When I heard the comments by the Greek prime minister I
thought, with all due respect, that Greece has enjoyed a lot of
European and German solidarity,” he said. “But solidarity is
not a one-way street. That shouldn’t be forgotten in Greece.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Groendahl  at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  