-- RBA Calls Rate Rise `Prudent' to Curb Inflation, Minutes Show
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-16T02:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/australia-central-bank-says-november-rate-rise-prudent-to-curb-inflation.html
Reserve Bank of Australia policy
makers said they raised interest rates this month to counter an
expected acceleration in inflation as mining investment, job
growth and overseas demand propel the nation’s economy.  “The board judged that the balance of risks had shifted to
the point where a modest tightening of monetary policy was
prudent,” the central bank said in  minutes  of its Nov. 2
meeting released in Sydney today. The RBA increased its
benchmark interest rate at that meeting to 4.75 percent after a
five-month pause.  Surging shipments of iron ore, coal and energy to China are
boosting Australia’s growth, prompting companies such as  BG
Group Plc  to increase investment and hiring. That has helped
spur the local currency to parity with the U.S. dollar, which
the central bank said today would help damp inflation pressure
even as it hurts industries such as tourism.  The minutes indicate the decision to raise rates “was much
more of a pre-emptive move,” said  Su-Lin Ong , senior economist
at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney. “It was very much driven
by their medium-term views on above-trend growth and rising
inflation.” She doesn’t expect the bank to move again until
late in the first quarter next year.  Steven’s Direction  Governor  Glenn Stevens  has raised the RBA’s overnight cash
rate target seven times since October 2009, in contrast with the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy of a benchmark rate near zero
since December 2008. That divergence has made the local dollar
the second-best performer among 16 major currencies this year,
with a 9.7 percent gain against the U.S. dollar.  “A gradual upward trend in inflation remained likely over
the medium term,” policy makers said in the minutes. “If
monetary policy was to be conducted in a forward-looking way,
these developments meant there was a case for increasing
interest rates at the current meeting.”  The Australian dollar surged this month to the highest
level since exchange controls were removed in 1983, reaching
$1.0183 on Nov. 5. The local dollar fetched 98.44 U.S. cents at
1:14 p.m. in Sydney, little changed from 98.38 cents before the
minutes were released.  RBA policy makers said that while the stronger currency was
affecting industries including tourism, surveys indicated that
conditions for manufacturers were “around average.” That
partly reflected the benefits of cheaper imported capital
equipment and components, according to the minutes.  Fewer Risks  The central bank said that while this month’s decision to
raise rates was also “finely balanced,” some of the
uncertainties that were a reason to keep borrowing costs steady,
including risks to the global economy, “had lessened
recently.”  Policy makers noted the possibility that the nation’s banks
would boost rates on loans by more than the move in the
benchmark rate, while saying that “this tendency would not be
lessened by delaying a change in the cash rate.”  Westpac Banking Corp.  and  National Australia Bank Ltd.  last
week announced increases to their standard variable home-loan
rates, following Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. All boosted borrowing costs by
more than the rise in the RBA cash rate.  Inflation Target  RBA policy makers aim to keep inflation within a target
range of 2 percent to 3 percent. While the rate slowed to 2.8
percent in the third quarter, a monthly gauge compiled by TD
Securities Ltd. and released Nov. 1 showed an annual jump in
consumer prices of 3.8 percent for October.  “While inflation had moderated, it was likely that the
decline was now largely complete,” the minutes said today.
“Inflation was expected to remain around the current level for
several quarters, but was likely to move higher thereafter.’  The RBA, in a quarterly report on Nov. 5, reiterated its
forecast that economic growth will strengthen to 3.75 percent by
the end of 2011, climbing to 4 percent by the end of 2012.
Consumer prices will rise 2.75 percent through June 2012;
previously, the RBA had estimated inflation of 3.25 percent
through mid-2011.  A report last week showed Australian employers added 29,700
workers from September, almost 50 percent more than the median
forecast for a 20,000 increase in a Bloomberg News survey. The
jobless rate rose to 5.4 percent in October, a six-month high as
the participation rate in the labor force surged to a record.  5,000 Jobs  BG Group, a U.K.-based energy company, said last month it
will begin work on a $15 billion liquefied natural gas venture
in Queensland, generating 5,000 construction jobs.  Even so, the RBA said in the minutes that Australian
consumer spending, which accounts for more than half of gross
domestic product, remained cautious.  Home-building approvals and retail sales were weaker than
economists forecast in September, and house-price gains
decelerated in the third quarter, reports published this month
showed. Consumer confidence declined in November to a five-month
low, according to a survey released last week.  Traders in futures contracts are betting on a 2 percent
chance the RBA will boost its key rate by a quarter point to 5
percent next month, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 12:08 p.m.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  