-- Aussie Dollar Drops to Two-Week Low on `Finely Balanced' RBA Rate Decision
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-16T16:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/australian-dollar-is-near-two-week-low-as-minutes-say-consumers-cautious.html
The Australian dollar dropped to the
lowest in more than two weeks after minutes of the Reserve
Bank’s meeting showed its decision to raise interest rates was
“finely balanced,” damping prospects for further increases.  The Aussie declined against most of its major counterparts
as policy makers said a “modest tightening” was considered
prudent when they increased the benchmark rate by a quarter-
percentage point on Nov. 2. New Zealand’s currency dropped for a
fourth day as stocks fell on speculation China will take more
steps to cool inflation.  “The market will take the view that RBA is going to sit
back and wait until February,” said  Greg Gibbs , a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney.
“There are bets toward the Australian currency falling with the
U.S. dollar strengthening broadly.”  Australia’s currency dropped 1.2 percent to 97.31 U.S.
cents at 11:47 a.m. in New York, from 98.53 cents yesterday. It
touched 97.28 cents, the lowest level since Oct. 29. New
Zealand’s dollar slid 0.9 percent to 76.61 U.S. cents, from
77.29 U.S. cents.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in  Australia  and
3 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  Rate Outlook  Swaps traders are betting the Reserve Bank of Australia
will keep its cash target unchanged at its next meeting on Dec.
7, before raising it by 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage
point, over the next year, according to an  index  compiled by
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Demand for the South Pacific nations’ currencies fell as
signs Asian governments will take further steps to curb
inflation spurred declines in regional shares. The Bank of Korea
today raised its benchmark interest rate by 0.25 percentage
point to 2.50 percent.  China may impose price limits on food and toughen
punishment on those found speculating on agriculture futures,
said the Securities Journal, citing an unidentified person. The
21st Century Business Herald reported that China may adjust its
economic policies for 2011 on increasing inflation pressure.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 1.4 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, plunged 3.5 percent. China is Australia’s
largest trading partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  