-- Tax-Exempts Tumble as California Offers $10 Billion in Notes: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-16T20:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/tax-exempts-tumble-as-california-sells-10-billion-muni-credit.html
Ten-year,  top-rated tax-exempt 
yields, which move inversely to prices, climbed to a four-month
high as California led states and local governments issuing
$16.3 billion this week, the most in at least seven years.  California  yesterday sold 44 percent of its $10 billion in
notes to individual investors. The securities today are yielding
1.25 percent for May maturities and 1.5 percent for those due in
June, according to a person with knowledge of the deal. That’s
about 0.99 and 1.24 percentage points more than  top-rated one-
year  municipal bonds, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.  Ten-year AAA general obligations jumped 0.06 percentage
point to 2.69 percent at 2:06 p.m. in New York, the highest
since July 7, according to a BVAL municipal benchmark index.
States and local governments plan to offer  about $26.3 billion 
in debt during the next 30 days, according to the Bloomberg
visible supply index, the most since February 2005.  “We’re going to need a bigger boat,”  Tony Shields , a
principal in the public-finance department at Williams Capital
Group in New York, said in an e-mail. “New supply is close to
unmanageable.”  Treasuries rose after the biggest two-day decline in almost
two years as Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said the central bank’s bond purchases won’t cause an
inflation problem.  Yields  on 10-year notes fell two basis points
to 2.91 percent as of 1:45 p.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data.  Closed-end mutual funds that invest in muni debt also pared
losses today. The funds, which borrow to boost returns by
selling preferred stock, rose 1 percent at 2:44 p.m. in New
York, after  falling  the most in two years yesterday.  Biggest Decline  The  Nuveen Municipal Closed-End Index  yesterday dropped 4.4
percent, the biggest one-day decline since Oct. 15, 2008, after
losing 6 percent last week, the largest retreat since February
2009, Bloomberg data show. The selling yesterday sent long-term
borrowing costs for California issuers to a  two-month high 
relative to top-rated debt, Bloomberg Fair Market Value data
show.  California and  Illinois  have the lowest state credit rating
at A1, fifth-highest, from Moody’s Investors Service.  Last year when California sold $8.8 billion of similar
notes in September, the state paid 99 basis points more than
top-rated one-year securities for notes that matured in May and
paid 124 basis points more on those due in June. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Build Americas  The nation’s most-populous state later this week will begin
marketing $3.75 billion in general obligations, including as
much as $2 billion in Build America Bonds. The program for the
taxable securities, which offer issuers a 35 percent federal
subsidy on interest costs, is set to expire on Dec. 31.  Supporters are pressing for an extension in the lame-duck
session of the Democratic-controlled Congress, which began
yesterday. Prospects may grow dimmer in January, when
Republicans, who have called President  Barack Obama’s  $814
billion stimulus too costly, take control of the U.S. House of
Representatives and reduce the Democratic majority in the
Senate.  “The overall muni-market has had a horrible three days,”
said  George Friedlander , a senior municipal-bond strategist at
 Citigroup Inc . in an interview. “At some point the market will
stabilize when it gets cheap enough, but it’s hard to get there
until we know more about what is going to happen to the Build
America program. There will be a buying opportunity here at some
point, but I’m not ready to call it that yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  