-- Axa Seeks $2 Billion in Cost Cuts to Free Up Capital for Emerging Markets
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-11-16T10:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/axa-seeks-2-billion-in-cost-cuts-to-free-up-capital-for-emerging-markets.html
Axa SA , the French insurer that’s
trying to buy out its Asian units, expects to reduce costs by at
least 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) by 2015 at the company’s
life-insurance and property-and-casualty businesses.  “In a post-crisis world, we’re reviewing the balance
between growth and efficiency and the way we manage our
capital,” Chief Executive Officer  Henri de  Castries said in a
statement today. Axa aims to deploy capital in emerging markets
and in businesses such as protection and health, he said.  Axa plans to have more than 500 million euros of pretax
“productivity gains” at its life-and-savings business and it
expects at least 1 billion euros of pretax gains from reducing
expenses, including “claims handling costs,” at the property-
and-casualty operations, it said.  “The cost reductions are aggressive,” said Pierre Flabbee,
a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who recommends
buying the stock. Still, “this isn’t a complete plan. The
market is not reacting on this.”  Axa will present its “deployment plan” in the first half
of 2011, de Castries, 56, said today. The CEO and Axa’s
management will hold an investors’ presentation in Paris today
starting at 11 a.m. local time.  Axa  fell 13 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 13.42 euros at 10:15
a.m. in Paris trading, valuing Europe’s second-largest insurer
at about 30.7 billion euros.  Axa expects U.S. variable annuities, equity-linked
insurance products, to cut operating profit by about 100 million
euros in the second half on “assumptions for long-term
surrender rates,” the company said.  The insurer also said it expects between 300 million euros
and 500 million euros a year of net realized gains from
investments on assets such as equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 