-- Taxidermist Stuffs Barnum's Elephant, Kills Leopard With Bare Hands: Books
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2010-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/taxidermist-stuffs-jumbo-kills-leopard-with-his-bare-hands-book-review.html
Carl Akeley, the pioneering
taxidermist, stuffed birds for Brooklyn milliners, gave P.T.
Barnum’s favorite elephant a second life and created rooms full
of exotic beasts for the American Museum of Natural History in
New York.  In “ Kingdom Under Glass ,” Jay Kirk tries to preserve
something of Akeley’s life. The results, like Akeley’s dioramas,
are arrestingly real if a little contrived.  The  Akeley Hall of African Mammals  opened in 1936, a decade
after his death, at the Museum of Natural History. Each of its
28 dioramas depicts a fully realized moment in the life of
exquisitely rendered creatures.  Akeley pioneered the use of papier-mache to accentuate the
animals’ muscles and motion, an improvement on his predecessors,
who draped skins over frames and stuffed them with sawdust. The
emerging medium of film served as a model, and rival, for
Akeley, who patented a movie camera. A visitor to his gallery
stands in a darkened room and peers at illuminated scenes
through rectangular frames: 3D without the funny glasses.  Born in 1864 outside of Rochester, New York -- the
headquarters of George Eastman’s photo empire -- Akeley got his
first break when helping to preserve Barnum’s star attraction,
 Jumbo the Elephant , after that pachyderm’s fatal encounter with
a train. But it was Africa that sealed Akeley’s legacy.  The environmental movement was taking shape, epitomized by
the preservationist zeal of John Muir and the adventurous
paternalism of  Theodore Roosevelt . In Africa, where big-game
hunting was the favored pastime of bored imperialists,
naturalists embraced a paradox: killing threatened animals to
preserve the scientific record in the face of extinction.  African Adventure  At the start of the 20th century, Akeley and his first
wife,  Mickie , roamed east and central Africa killing animals and
collecting plants. Kirk’s narrative gifts emerge in these
sequences. Mickie guns down elephants (one of which stands in
the Akeley gallery); Carl kills a leopard with his bare hands.
Drawing from diaries and memoirs, Kirk gives these incidents the
pace and detail they deserve.  His portraits of the Akeleys’ circle are lively and deft:
museum patrons Roosevelt and Eastman; filmmakers  Osa and Martin
Johnson ; and tracker Gikungu Mbiru.  Kirk also captures the cultural moment in describing early
filmmaking, the emergence of the U.S. as a world power and the
profound racism of his subjects, for whom the people of Africa
are merely a means of obtaining the continent’s animals.  “Kingdom Under Glass” might have worked better as a fact-
based novel than a work of history. Kirk, who teaches in the
creative-writing program at the University of Pennsylvania,
lumps together disparate events and invents others. This
irritating habit, which he calls “inference” or “collage,”
had me routinely checking the endnotes to sort out the facts.  On a recent visit to the Akeley gallery, a friend showed me
the small surprises hidden alongside the gorillas and giraffes -
- a pig huddled in the bamboo, a viper menacing a mandrill. For
the attentive reader, “Kingdom Under Glass” also holds many
surprises, most of them pleasant.  “Kingdom Under Glass: A Tale of Obsession, Adventure and
One Man’s Quest to Preserve the World’s Great Animals” is
published by Holt (387 pages, $27.50). To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  