-- Banco Macro, Bradesco, Petrobras: Latin America Equity Preview
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-11-16T05:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/banco-macro-bradesco-gol-movil-petrobras-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes today in Latin American trading. Stock
symbols are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous
close.  The MSCI Latin America Index fell 0.4 percent to 4,474.74.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock. Brazilian markets were closed yesterday for a national
holiday.  Argentina  Banco Macro SA (BMA AR): The Paris Club of creditor nations
accepted Argentina’s request to restructure its estimated $6.7
billion of debt without the oversight of the International
Monetary Fund, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner said
yesterday. Banco Macro, Argentina’s largest lender by market
value, rose 4.6 percent to 20.5 pesos.  Brazil  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4 BZ): Brazil’s second-largest bank
plans to sell five-year international debt denominated in reais
as soon as this week, according to a person familiar with the
offering. Barclays Plc, Banco Bradesco and Citigroup Inc. are
underwriting the sale, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Bradesco fell 0.4 percent
to 35.46 reais on Nov. 12.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4 BZ): The biggest
airline by market value was cut to “market perform” from
“outperform” at Raymond James & Associates Inc. after the
airline missed the firm’s estimate for third-quarter earnings.
The shares rose 1.6 percent to 28.5 reais on Nov. 12.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4 BZ): The state-controlled oil
company is considering a second listing or issuing depositary
receipts in Hong Kong, Ming Pao newspaper reported today, citing
an unidentified source. Shares of the company known as Petrobras
declined 3.3 percent to 25.85 reais on Nov. 12.  Chile  Cementos Bio Bio SA (CEMENT CI): The cement and building
materials company agreed to pay 29.5 billion pesos ($61 million)
for 30 percent of Peru’s Cementos Portland SAC. Bio Bio will
acquire the stake through capital increases that will be used to
build a 750,000 tons-per-year cement plant near Lima, it wrote
in a statement posted yesterday on a website of the securities
regulator. Bio Bio rose 0.1 percent to 1,457.9 pesos.  Mexico  America Movil SAB (AMXL MM): The Argentine unit of Latin
America’s largest wireless carrier will invest $420 million in
broadband in Argentina next year, controlling shareholder Carlos
Slim said yesterday in Buenos Aires. America Movil rose 0.4
percent to 35.29 pesos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 dpapadopoulos@bloomberg.net  