-- Bank of America Home Loan Head Says No Homes Improperly Seized
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bank-of-america-home-loan-head-to-tell-congress-no-homes-improperly-seized.html
Flaws in  Bank of America  Corp.’s
foreclosure paperwork haven’t caused the bank to seize any homes
improperly, the president of the company’s home-loan division
said in testimony prepared for Congress today.  Barbara Desoer  of Bank of America, who will appear before
the Senate Banking Committee, is among at least seven banking
officials who will face lawmakers’ questions today and Thursday
in the first Congressional hearings on the problems with
foreclosure documents that surfaced publicly in September. Also
scheduled to testify today is  David Lowman , chief executive of
 JPMorgan  Chase & Co.’s home loan division.  Lawmakers, who are returning to Washington for a post-
election session before a new Congress takes office in January,
said they will ask federal regulators as well as banking
officials about what actions they have taken to ensure that
foreclosures were fair and legal.  “Thus far we have confirmed the basis for our foreclosure
decisions has been accurate,” Desoer said in her prepared
testimony. “At the same time, however, we have not found a
perfect process.”  Desoer and Lowman are to appear today along with Iowa
Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is leading a 50-state
investigation into the way mortgage-servicing firms handled
foreclosures.  “Our process was not what it should have been; quite
simply, it did not live up to our standards,” Lowman said in
testimony prepared for the hearing.  Because the congressional session lasts only a few more
weeks and the calendar is already full, any legislative action
related to foreclosures will likely wait until the new session
in January.  ‘Myth From Reality’  “This will be the chance for Congress on both sides of the
Capitol to get their oar in the water relative to what’s
happened since the news broke,” said Bill Killmer, senior vice
president of legislative and political affairs at the Mortgage
Bankers Association. “It’s also an opportunity for those who
have been called forward to separate myth from reality.”  Today’s hearing will be conducted by Senator  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the banking
committee and is retiring from the Senate this year. South
Dakota Democrat  Tim Johnson , who is in line to succeed Dodd,
said in an e-mailed statement: “I look forward to learning more
about the situation, including what problems allowed for the
breakdown in the process, what companies have done to fix
problems and whether homeowners could have been foreclosed upon
improperly.”  Ally Financial Inc.’s  GMAC Mortgage unit, JPMorgan Chase
and Bank of America temporarily halted foreclosures amid claims
that legal documents were mishandled.  Attorneys General  A coalition of state attorneys general announced an
investigation on Oct. 13 in response to revelations that banks
used so-called “robo-signers,” or people who sign affidavits
without actually reviewing the facts underlying foreclosures.  On Thursday, Democrats on the House Financial Services
Committee will hold one of their last hearings before they turn
over control of the committee to Republicans, who gained a
majority in the House in the midterm election.  The hearing will include officials from Bank of America,
Wells Fargo & Co., Citigroup Inc., Ally Financial, and JPMorgan
Chase.  Both the House and Senate panels will hear testimony from
R.K. Arnold, CEO of Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, or
MERS, an electronic registration system for mortgage transfers
which foreclosure and bankruptcy attorneys have accused of
muddying ownership of titles. MERS is being investigated by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and several other
regulators, Acting Comptroller John Walsh said in a Nov. 10
letter to Congress.  Mortgage Modifications  Democrats said they are concerned not only about
foreclosures, but also about whether mortgage servicers are
properly handling mortgage modifications intended to keep some
homeowners from losing their properties.  “If many banks and servicers are not handling even basic
foreclosure procedures correctly, it is likely that many are
also not correctly evaluating homeowners for mortgage
modifications,” Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat
who is a member of the Banking Committee, said in a letter to
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  that is scheduled to be
sent today.  In the House, lawmakers will also call in overseers and
regulators from government agencies, including the OCC and the
Federal Housing Finance Agency.  Republicans on the committee said they want to examine
government agencies responsible for overseeing mortgage lending.
Republicans gained a majority in the House of Representatives,
and will take charge of the chamber and its committees in
January.  ‘Rampant Problem’  “I specifically want to know how this became a rampant
problem without the federal and state regulators raising
concerns until it was widespread,” Representative  Shelley Moore Capito  of West Virginia, the senior Republican on the
subcommittee holding the hearing, said in an e-mailed statement.  The problems with paperwork at many of the nation’s largest
mortgage servicers has led to a slowdown in foreclosures, which
fell 9 percent in October from a month earlier, the biggest
decline in a year.  RealtyTrac Inc., based in Irvine, California, reported on
Nov. 11 that the number of foreclosures fell to 93,236 in
October, from 102,134 in September.  Alabama Republican  Spencer Bachus , who is likely to take
over the chairmanship of the House Financial Services Committee
in January, said Republicans will continue to meet with
regulators and mortgage servicers next year.  “We must be diligent in ensuring that the regulators
complete their investigations promptly to remove the uncertainty
that is currently plaguing the market,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Clea Benson  in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 