-- Bank of Korea `Dangerously Behind' After Record Run of Negative Real Rates
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-11-17T00:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bank-of-korea-dangerously-behind-after-record-run-of-negative-real-rates.html
The Bank of Korea’s second  interest-
rate increase  this year leaves its benchmark below the pace of
inflation, a sign the central bank will need to add to its move
in coming months or risk eroding households’ savings.  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  raised borrowing costs by 0.25
percentage point to 2.5 percent yesterday. The benchmark is 1.6
percentage point below October’s annual pace of inflation, and
has remained under the gains in  consumer prices  for 12 straight
months, the longest stretch since the base rate’s introduction
in 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The BOK has realized finally that it is dangerously
behind the curve in terms of monetary policy,” said  Erik Lueth ,
a Hong Kong-based senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, who previously worked at the International Monetary
Fund.  Negative real interest rates, when the benchmark is less
than the pace of inflation, skew incentives toward spending
rather than saving, elevating pressure on consumer prices. With
the central bank likely to raise rates again as soon as next
quarter, the nation’s currency is poised to climb, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The won appreciated 0.2 percent yesterday to close at
1,129.47 per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has climbed 7.2 percent since the end of June, the
third strongest performance in Asia excluding Japan. The
currency will reach 1,050 over the next 12 months,  Goohoon Kwon ,
a Seoul-based economist at Goldman Sachs, said in a note.  The  Kospi  share index fell 0.8 percent to a two-week low of
1,899.13. The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 fell
16 basis points to 3.32 percent, the most in a month, according
to Korea Stock Exchange.  Capital Flows  A stronger exchange rate risks crimping exports, which
account for about half the $832.5 billion economy. South Korea
is preparing to combat the gains by introducing a system to
counter capital inflows that have driven up the currency.  “Korea won’t be able to introduce capital controls strong
enough to scare off foreign investors but most likely will take
mild steps,” said  Oh Suk Tae , an economist at SC First Bank
Korea Ltd. in Seoul. The won will probably rise to less than
1,100 per dollar next year, Oh said.  Other forecasters also expect an appreciation. The currency
will advance to 1,090 by the end of the year and 1,080 by June,
 Ho Woei Chen , a regional economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd.
in Singapore, said in a note yesterday.  100 Basis Points  The central bank is likely to raise interest rates by
another 100 basis points to 3.5 percent next year after holding
back on any increase next month, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
 Dong Tao  and  Christiaan Tuntono  wrote in a report.  South Korea joined India and Australia in boosting
borrowing costs this month. The central bank had paused its rate
campaign from August to October, citing concern that growth in
advanced economies was slowing.  “With the economy coasting close to potential there is a
need to push up interest rates,”  Frederic Neumann , co-head of
Asian economics at HSBC Group Plc in Hong Kong, said in an e-
mail interview. “Prolonged monetary accommodation raises the
risk of asset bubbles and overheating.”  Neumann expects the central bank to raise the benchmark
rate by at least 0.75 percentage point next year. Royal Bank of
Scotland’s Lueth expects quarter-point increases each quarter
through 2012. South Korea’s neutral interest, which supports
employment and activity without creating inflation, may be
around 4 percent, the IMF said in September.  Consumer-price inflation accelerated to a  20-month high  of
4.1 percent in October. The Bank of Korea aims for 2 percent to
4 percent on average through 2012.  The bank yesterday dropped its pledge to keep monetary
policy “accommodative” for the first time since the global
financial crisis. While the benchmark isn’t currently at a
neutral level, the economy isn’t ready for “normal” rates yet,
Governor Kim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  