-- South Korea Raises Interest Rate for Second Time in 2010
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-11-16T04:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bank-of-korea-raises-interest-rate-for-second-time-in-2010-won-advances.html
The  Bank of Korea  increased interest
rates for the second time this year, and dropped a reference to
keeping borrowing costs “accommodative,” after inflation
surged past the central bank’s ceiling.  The bank raised the  seven-day repurchase rate  by 0.25
percentage point to 2.5 percent, it said in a statement in Seoul
today. Six of 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News predicted
the decision, with the rest seeing no change. Governor  Kim Choong Soo  raised the rate from a record-low 2 percent in June.  The won climbed the most in two weeks against the dollar as
the rate move countered the impact of plans to curb capital
flows into Asia’s fourth-largest economy. South Korea, along
with economies from Thailand to Taiwan, is struggling to contain
price pressures while at the same time avoid exchange-rate gains
that may imperil export growth.  “The central bank made it clear that they will keep raising
interest rates,” said  Oh Suk Tae , an economist at SC First Bank
Korea Ltd. in Seoul. “The crisis is over and monetary policy” is
now set for “normalization,” he said.  Bonds rallied after the decision, while stocks dropped.
Yields on the 3.75 government bond due June 2013 tumbled nine
basis points, the most in a month, according to the Korea Stock
Exchange. The  Kospi  stock index lost about 1 percent. The won
advanced 0.4 percent to 1,126.94 per dollar as of 12:22 p.m. in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shift in Language  The central bank dropped its pledge to keep monetary policy
“accommodative” for the first time since the global financial
crisis. “Looking ahead, the committee will conduct monetary
policy in such a way as to help the economy maintain price
stability, while sustaining sound growth,” it said.  While the benchmark isn’t currently at a neutral level, the
economy isn’t ready for “normal” rates yet, Governor Kim said
after the decision. Kim said last week that inflation will
accelerate to a 3.4 percent pace next year from a 3 percent rate
in 2010 because of rising pressure from demand in the economy.  Consumer-price inflation accelerated to a  20-month high  of
4.1 percent in October. The central bank aims for 2 percent to 4
percent on average through 2012.  The won’s 7.8 percent appreciation since June, the third-
biggest climb in Asia excluding Japan, may help pare price
pressures. Based on Bank of Korea models, a 1 percent gain in
the won has at least the same effect on inflation as a quarter-
point rate increase,  Kwon Young Sun , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said in a note last week.  Won’s Impact  Currency appreciation has already begun to have some impact,
with a moderation in export gains contributing to  economic
growth  slowing to a 0.7 percent quarterly pace in July to
September, half the gain of the previous three months. Kim
forecasts the annual rate to slow to around 4.5 percent next
year from 6 percent in 2010.  South Korea today joined India and Australia in boosting
borrowing costs this month even as policy makers express concern
about the effect of stronger currencies. The BOK had paused in
its rate campaign for months, citing concern that growth in
advanced economies was slowing.  “The focus of Asian policy makers has shifted decisively
from the prospect of weaker growth and external demand to
concerns about rising inflation pressures,”  Brian Jackson ,
senior emerging markets strategist at the Royal Bank of Canada
in Hong Kong, said in a note.  Samsung Earnings  A stronger exchange rate risks further crimping gains in
South Korea’s  overseas shipments , which account for about half
the $832.5 billion economy.  Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s
biggest maker of televisions, memory chips and flat screens,
last month forecast weaker fourth-quarter earnings partly
because of the appreciation.  South Korea is preparing a “system” of measures in designed
to counter a surge in capital inflows, which policy makers from
Brazil to China have blamed on monetary stimulus in developed
economies, exacerbated by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s move to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries.  Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said at a parliamentary
session in Seoul yesterday that a bond tax on overseas investors,
a bank levy and strengthened rules covering foreign-currency
derivatives at foreign banks are being considered.  The Bank of Korea’s policy board will take such steps into
account when deciding on the benchmark rate, Kim said today. The
summit of the Group of 20 economies in Seoul last week will help
to reduce currency tensions, he also said. Emerging nations have
more room to act after the G-20 said in its Nov. 12 communique
that they can take regulatory steps against capital surges.  “Korea won’t be able to introduce capital controls strong
enough to scare off foreign investors but most likely will take
mild steps,” said Oh at SC First Bank.  Governor Kim also has to contend with a falling property
market and record household debt levels. Declines in home prices
in Seoul and its surrounding areas have recently eased, the
central bank said today.  -- With assistance  Sarina Yoo  in Seoul. Editors:  Sunil Jagtiani ,
 Chris Anstey   To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  