-- Bank Negara Malaysia, Etisalat, Senegal, KPJ, Pakistan: Islamic Bond Alert
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-11-16T03:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bank-negara-malaysia-etisalat-senegal-kpj-pakistan-islamic-bond-alert.html
The following borrowers are expected
to sell Islamic bonds, which use asset returns to pay investors
to comply with the religion’s ban on interest.  Global sales of sukuk fell 29 percent to $13.7 billion so
far this year from the same period in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year,
up from $14.1 billion in 2008.  BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA: The central bank plans to sell 500
million ringgit ($159 million) of Islamic bonds at an auction on
Nov. 22, it said on its website.  KPJ HEALTHCARE BHD.: The Malaysian healthcare provider
plans to sell as much as 500 million ringgit of sukuk to help
refinance existing debt and fund the company’s capital spending
requirements. Affin Investment Bank Bhd. will be the lead
arranger for the debt sale, KPJ said in a statement.  EMIRATES TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP.: The United Arab
Emirates’ largest phone operator, known as Etisalat, said it
will sell sukuk under its $1 billion Islamic bond program, part
of a plan to raise $8 billion to diversify its funding and
manage debt maturities, according to an e-mail on Nov. 11.  SENEGAL : The West African nation may sell its first Islamic
bond with involvement from  Citigroup Inc. , a Finance Ministry
spokesman said. “We are working on this, but it’s not yet for
sure,” said Ousmane Gueye in an interview in Dakar, the capital.
He declined to provide details about the offer’s date, value or
specifically say how Citigroup is involved.  PAKISTAN: The central bank will sell 40 billion rupees
($469 million) of three-year Islamic bonds at an auction on Dec.
13, the State Bank of Pakistan said in a statement. It sold 51.8
billion rupees of sukuk in the domestic market on Nov. 8. The
central bank may sell such bonds on a quarterly or half-yearly
basis, said Saleem Ullah, a director at the central bank.  SOVEREIGN SUKUK: An unidentified government new to Islamic
finance may sell its first sukuk before the end of March, Hulusi
Horozoglu, Citigroup Inc.’s Dubai-based director of global
Islamic banking, said in Beirut on Nov. 5. “The size of the
issue is not decided yet,” he said, declining to provide
further details.  SUDAN: The African country plans to raise $600 million from
the sale of three-year local-currency Islamic bonds by the end
of 2010, central bank Governor Sabir Hassan said. The government
has started offering $200 million of sukuk and plans to conclude
the issue this month. The remaining $400 million will be sold in
stages, said Hassan. The Islamic bonds will pay investors a
return of between 12 percent and 13 percent every quarter.  ALBARAKA BANKING GROUP: The largest listed Islamic bank in
Bahrain expects to raise $200 million from the sale of Shariah-
compliant bonds before the end of the year, using Standard
Chartered Plc as one of the managers, Chief Executive Officer
 Adnan Ahmed Yousif  said.  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK: The multilateral lender plans to
sell at least $500 million of sukuk in 2011 to meet its funding
needs of more than $1 billion annually, said Vice President
Abdul Aziz Al Hinai. The bank sold a similar amount in October.  THAILAND: The Islamic Bank of Thailand, the nation’s only
bank to comply with Shariah law’s ban on interest, will delay
its first sale of sukuk until early next year as it awaits new
guidelines from the securities commission, President Dheerasak
Suwannayos said. The government is also considering selling 40
billion baht ($1.3 billion) to 50 billion baht of Islamic bonds
to fund infrastructure projects, said Dheerasak, who is a member
of the government’s steering committee for Islamic finance.  KNM GROUP BHD.: The Malaysian oil and gas services provider
won approval from the Securities Commission to sell as much as
1.5 billion ringgit ($485 million) of Islamic debt, according to
a company filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange. The
proposed issue involves as much as 400 million ringgit of
commercial papers and 1.1 billion ringgit of medium term notes,
it said.  CAGAMAS BHD.: Malaysia’s national mortgage company may sell
more Islamic bonds this year and next following a sale in August
under its 5 billion ringgit Sukuk al-Amanah Li al-Istithmar, or
ALIm, program, Chief Executive Officer Steven Choy said. The
company sold 500 million ringgit of Islamic bonds on Oct. 18,
Bloomberg data show. As much as 1 billion ringgit of notes under
the sukuk ALIm program was sold in August.  SAUDI ARABIAN OIL CO.: Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest
state-owned oil company, and Total SA plan to sell Islamic bonds
valued at $1 billion this year to fund construction of their
joint oil refinery in Jubail, said Simon Eedle, global head of
Islamic banking at Credit Agricole SA, the lead arranger of the
issuance.  GAMUDA BHD.: The Malaysian builder plans to sell as much as
800 million ringgit of Islamic notes this year under its
proposed 25-year Islamic Medium-Term Notes Program, according to
RAM Rating Services Bhd., which rated the bonds AA3, its fourth-
highest rating.  EGYPT: Egypt plans to issue guidelines on Islamic debt
issuance in 2011 to pave the way for sukuk sales in the country,
said Ziad Bahaa El-Din, chairman of the Cairo-based Egyptian
Financial Supervisory Authority. Al Baraka Bank Egypt ESC, a
Cairo unit of Bahrain-based Islamic lender Albaraka Banking
Group, may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the second
half of 2011, said the bank’s Chairman Adnan Ahmed Yousif.  PT BANK MUAMALAT INDONESIA: The Islamic lender plans to
sell 1 trillion rupiah ($112 million) of Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, Andi Buchari, director of compliance and
corporate planning at the Jakarta-based bank, was quoted as
saying by the Investor Daily newspaper.  SENAI-DESARU EXPRESSWAY BHD.: The operator of Malaysia’s
third-longest highway in the state of Johor will issue as much
as 1.15 billion ringgit of Islamic medium-term notes to
bondholders as part of its debt restructuring program, Chief
Executive Officer Mustaza Salim said. The new issue includes
debt with maturities ranging from one year to 20.5 years, the
company said in a statement.  MALAYSIA DEBT VENTURES BHD.: The venture capital firm owned
by the Ministry of Finance plans to sell as much as 500 million
ringgit of sukuk in September or October next year to fund
investments in technology projects, said Chief Executive Officer
Md. Zubir Ansori Yahaya. The company sold the same amount of
notes in October.  INDONESIA: Southeast Asia’s largest economy plans to sell
Islamic debt in the overseas market in the first half of 2011
and for individual investors in the first quarter, said  Rahmat Waluyanto , director general at the finance ministry’s debt
management office.  TURKEY: Citigroup Inc. plans to arrange more sales of
Islamic bonds from Turkey after managing a $100 million issue
for Kuveyt Turk Katilim Bankasi AS, said Hulusi Horozoglu,
director of global Islamic banking at Citigroup in August.
Kuveyt may sell more than $100 million of five-year sukuk in
2012, the company’s Chief Executive Officer  Ufuk Uyan  said Aug.
25. The government may consider selling yen-denominated bonds or
Islamic securities, Emre Balibek, the Treasury’s deputy general
director for public finance, said in June. Turkey is rated Ba2
by Moody’s Investors Service and BB by Standard & Poor’s.  NAKHEEL PJSC: The property unit of Dubai World may issue as
much as $3.2 billion of five-year sukuk to pay contractors as
part of its debt restructuring plan, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
in a report Aug. 26. The bond to be issued against trade claims
is estimated to have a fair value in the low 60 cents to the U.S.
dollar, it said. Nakheel will issue bonds this year to cover 60
percent of debt it owes contractors, Chairman Ali Rashed Lootah
was quoted as saying by Al Khaleej.  KAZAKHSTAN: The former Soviet republic that last sold debt
overseas in 2000 is planning a debut Islamic bond sale this year
to broaden its investor base, said Aibek Bekzhanov, head of
Islamic instruments at the  Regional Financial Center of Almaty 
without giving details.  PHILIPPINES: State-owned Al-Amanah Islamic Bank is looking
to sell the nation’s first Islamic bonds, the lender’s President
Armando Samia said in July, without giving the size or timing.
The proposal is at a “very exploratory stage,” he said.  AHMED SALEM BUGSHAN GROUP : The Saudi Arabia-based company,
known as ASB, plans to raise as much as $100 million selling
five-year Islamic bonds to fund projects including a mega-steel
plant and a real-estate development, Mohamed H. Zakaria, senior
vice president of the group, said in an e-mailed statement. The
bond will offer a semi-annual return of 125 basis points more
than six-month Libor, the rate banks charge each other on loans.
ASB may ask Fitch Ratings or S&P to rate the debt, he said.  SAUDI ELECTRICITY CO.: The Arab world’s largest utility
company may issue global sukuk in 2011 after April’s sale of 7
billion riyals ($1.87 billion) of Islamic notes, according to
Executive Director of Treasury Fahad Alsudairy.  LUXEMBOURG: The country is considering selling Islamic
bonds, central bank Governor  Yves Mersch  said at a conference in
Bahrain without disclosing the size and the timing of the sale.  KENCANA PETROLEUM BHD.: The Malaysian oil and gas
contractor will sell 250 million ringgit of Islamic bonds this
year to help finance vessel purchases. State bond insurer
Danajamin Nasional Bhd. agreed to guarantee the notes, enabling
them to have the highest AAA rating for local bonds.  WAHA CAPITAL PJSC: The Abu Dhabi-based investment and
leasing company said its shareholders approved a plan to issue
mandatory convertible bonds or sukuk worth 1 billion dirhams to
strengthen its finances and support expansion plans.  EMIRATES INTEGRATED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CO.: The Dubai-based
phone operator known as Du, may consider selling Islamic bonds
in coming years to fund expansion, Chief Executive Officer  Osman Sultan  said in April without disclosing the amount.  LAFARGE MALAYAN CEMENT BHD.: Malaysia’s largest cement
maker will sell as much as 350 million ringgit of Islamic bonds
under a seven-year program to fund expansion, the company said
March 26. The debt is rated AA2 by RAM Rating Services Bhd., its
third-highest ranking for long-term corporate debt instruments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 