-- Bank of New Zealand Selling Covered Bonds Denominated in Euros
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-11-16T13:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bank-of-new-zealand-selling-covered-bonds-denominated-in-euros.html
Bank of New Zealand  is selling
covered bonds in euros in the first issue of its kind in more
than two years by a bank from outside Europe.  The deal “is another indication that covered bonds are
slowly but steadily becoming a global product,” said  Florian Hillenbrand , a senior analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich.
“Important banks, in whatever country, can no longer afford not
to think about covered bonds.”  The notes attract higher credit ratings than regular bonds
and typically pay less interest because they’re backed by a pool
of assets such as mortgages that can be sold in a default.
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce was the last issuer from
outside Europe to sell covered bonds in the common currency when
it raised 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in September 2008,
UniCredit data show.  Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
National Australia Bank Ltd. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc are managing the sale, according to a banker involved in the
transaction, who declined to be identified before the deal is
completed.  The Auckland-based lender, a unit of National Australia
Bank, met covered bond investors in Europe last week, Mahes
Hettige, the lender’s head of balance sheet management, said
today. The deal will be sold through Bank of New Zealand
International Funding.  Bank of New Zealand priced NZ$425 million ($328 million) of
covered bonds in June in the first sale of the securities from
an Australasian bank.  “The New Zealand deal is important because it provides
some guidance for Europe’s taste for non-european issuers,”
said  Christian Riemann-Andersen , a covered bond analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “If it goes well we expect more
to follow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  