-- Barclays, Prosecutors Missed Deadline to Report on Cooperation, Judge Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-16T19:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/barclays-prosecutors-missed-deadline-to-report-on-cooperation-judge-says.html
Barclays Plc  and the U.S. Justice
Department missed a deadline for filing reports on the bank’s
cooperation with the government under a deferred-prosecution
agreement over its dealings with nations including Iran.  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  demanded today in
Washington that lawyers for the bank and the government file
separate status reports by noon on Nov. 18. An Aug. 18 court
order stated the reports were due by Nov. 2, he said.  “This is inexcusable and unacceptable,” Sullivan said.
“I am amazed that with all the legal talent before the court
that no one opened the order to read it.”  Lawyers for the U.S. and Barclays said they didn’t realize
they were required to file the reports until this morning. In
the August ruling, Sullivan approved  Barclays’s  $298 million
settlement with the U.S. over claims the bank violated financial
sanctions against Cuba, Libya, Burma, Sudan and Iran from about
March 1995 through September 2006.  “I always read orders,” Kevin Gerrity, a trial attorney
in the Justice Department, told the judge. “I don’t know how
this happened. I have no explanation at all.”  Barclays, based in London, followed the instructions of
banks in the sanctioned countries to omit their names in payment
messages sent to the New York branch and to other financial
institutions, according to court papers. Barclays also amended
payment messages to remove information identifying links to
sanctioned companies, prosecutors said.  ‘Sweetheart Deal’  A day before approving the Barclays accord, Sullivan called
it a “sweetheart deal” and demanded more information from the
bank and prosecutors. He criticized the Justice Department for
failing to go after individuals and punishing only the company’s
shareholders.  The agreement, which is in place for 24 months, requires
Barclays to cooperate with any federal government agency probing
the deals with restricted countries.  In the Aug. 18 order approving the agreement, Sullivan
said both sides were required to file status reports that
“shall inform the Court what progress has been made under the
terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement.” In particular,
Sullivan said he wanted to know about the steps Barclays has
taken to make its current and former officers, consultants, and
employees available to federal investigators and the progress of
implementing compliance procedures.  “This is a fairly unusual arrangement,” Sullivan said in
court today. “I wanted to know what’s happened since the last
hearing.” Sullivan said both sides must appear before him on
Nov. 23 and said Barclays’ general counsel  Mark Harding  must be
there.  Barclays  fell 8.65 pence to 273.8 pence in London trading.
The shares have declined 15 percent in the past year.  The case is U.S. v. Barclays Bank Plc, 10-cr-218, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 