-- Battle With Bondholders Looms After G-20 Agrees on Basel Rules
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/battle-with-bondholders-looms-after-g-20-leaders-agree-on-basel-bank-rules.html
The next hurdle to bank reform is
looming after U.S. President Barack Obama and other Group of 20
leaders endorsed the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s
new rules in South Korea last week: the bond market.  Regulators worldwide, seeking to protect taxpayers from
having to foot the bill for future bank bailouts and to cushion
big lenders in times of stress, will now turn their attention to
preventing the collapse of systemically important financial
firms. Among the tools they’re considering are capital
instruments that would force investors in bank debt to bear the
cost of a bailout by slashing the value of their bonds or
converting them to equity in a crisis.  That doesn’t sit well with buyers of senior bank bonds who
prize the certainty they’ll be repaid in full. The 201 members
of Morgan Stanley Capital International’s World Banks Index need
investors to help refinance $3 trillion of bonds coming due by
the end of next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The flexibility that regulators want and the
predictability that my investors want seem irreconcilable,”
said John Hale, investment affairs manager at the London-based
Association of British Insurers. “Basel III changes the rules
of the game.” U.K. insurers manage about 1.5 trillion pounds
($2.4 trillion).  Merkel’s Plea  The debate over whether bondholders should suffer when
lenders fail was ratcheted up in Seoul last week, when German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said that creditors should bear more of
the cost of bailing out banks and nations.  “There may be a conflict here between the interests of the
financial world and the interests of politicians,” Merkel said.
“We can’t constantly explain to our voters that taxpayers have
to be on the hook for certain risks, rather than those who make
a lot of money taking those risks.”  During the financial crisis, bond investors in New York-
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. weren’t bailed out, sending
shock waves through the global financial system after the firm
filed for bankruptcy in September 2008. Investors in the senior
bonds of troubled European lenders have been paid the par value
of their investments, apart from in Icelandic banks, according
to an Oct. 15 note written by Morgan Stanley analysts including
credit strategist Carlos Egea.  Wholesale funding -- the funds that banks have to refinance
with bond investors, commercial-paper buyers and other debt
providers -- accounted for 32 percent of European bank funding
as of July, according to Egea. The precise scale of borrowing
from bond investors isn’t known because the information isn’t
disclosed by all banks, he said. U.S. lenders got 13 percent of
their funding from wholesale markets as of July, most of which
was made up of $1.7 trillion in bonds, Egea said.  Ireland, Greece  Irish and Greek lenders, struggling to access bond markets,
are financing themselves through the European Central Bank.
Irish banks’ borrowings from the ECB rose 7.3 percent in October
to 130 billion euros ($177 billion) from a month before,
according to Ireland’s central bank. Greek banks’ reliance on
the ECB is declining, with lenders borrowing a total of 92.4
billion euros in October compared with 94.3 billion euros the
previous month.  G-20 leaders endorsed Basel committee rules to triple the
highest-quality capital banks need to hold, as well as liquidity
requirements for how much cash and easily saleable assets they
need to meet short-term and long-term liabilities. The
committee, which is made up of central bankers and regulators
from 27 nations, delayed implementation of the liquidity rules
until 2015 at the earliest.  ‘Wiped Out’  “The Basel committee can say it wants longer-term senior
issuance to fulfill liquidity requirements, but that doesn’t sit
well with senior bond investors concerned about being wiped out
if the bank they lend to defaults,” said Oliver Judd, a credit
analyst in London at insurer Aviva Plc’s investment unit, which
oversees about 250 billion pounds.  In addition to approving the Basel rules, leaders including
Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao said in a Nov. 12
statement that banks and other institutions whose collapse would
damage the wider financial system should have “higher loss-
absorbency capacity.”  The Basel committee is working with the Financial Stability
Board to develop additional capital standards for the largest
banks that may include “bail-in debt,” which requires
bondholders to take a pre-set loss when a lender collapses.  Swiss CoCos  The board, which the G-20 set up last year to find ways to
rein in the world’s largest financial institutions after the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, said on Nov.
12 that it will identify which firms will be subject to stricter
rules by the middle of next year and how much of an additional
cushion they’ll need by the end of 2011.  National regulators will be able to select from a menu of
options, including straightforward capital surcharges, bail-in
instruments and contingent capital, debt that automatically
converts to stock under stressful conditions.  Swiss regulators proposed in October that the country’s two
largest banks, UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, both based in
Zurich, consider issuing contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos,
debt that converts to equity when there’s a triggering event
such as a decline in an issuer’s capital ratio or its stock
falling to a pre-arranged price.  ‘Would You Invest?’  Banks transform the money they get from capital markets and
depositors into loans they make to companies and households.
Bond investors will make banks pay more to compensate them for
the risks of contingent capital instruments, former Bank of
England Deputy Governor John Gieve said in an interview.  “Having a systemic banking model where you have bonds that
convert on a pre-agreed trigger certainly hasn’t been tried
before,” Gieve, now a London-based senior adviser at hedge fund
GLG Partners Inc., said Nov. 3. “We don’t know how difficult it
will be to get investors into this kind of market. Initially one
would expect there’d be quite a big premium over traditional
bond finance.”  The new convertible-capital instruments being considered in
Switzerland have qualities which make them more like equity than
debt, said Roger Doig, a credit analyst at Schroders Plc,
Europe’s largest publicly traded fund-management company by
market value.  “We see such instruments as quasi-equity, not debt,” Doig
said. “As such, we would only look to participate where the
coupon was high enough to offer equity-like returns.”  ‘Balancing Point’  Hale, of the Association of British Insurers, also says the
new instruments wouldn’t appeal to bond investors.  “It might be more attractive to equity investors,” Hale
said. “I wouldn’t put it past the wit of investment bankers
that they might create something acceptable, but if you were a
fixed-income investor and you were offered to be converted into
equity or suffering a haircut, would you invest?”  Regulators and bond investors may spend six months to two
years trying to find a “golden balancing point,” said Douglas
Elliott, an economics fellow at the Washington-based Brookings
Institution and a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker.  “You need an instrument that will convert to protect banks
and deposit funds,” Elliott said. “At the same time, you need
a low enough probability of conversion and sufficient clarity
about when conversion would happen so that bond investors are
prepared to buy the securities without charging an exorbitant
interest rate.”  The success of Swiss banks in selling CoCos will be an
important test, he said. “If they can make contingent capital
work, then we will learn something in the rest of the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  