-- Berkshire Sells Nike as Buffett Changes Stock Pickers
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-11-16T14:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/berkshire-sells-home-depot-carmax-stakes-as-buffett-changes-stock-pickers.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  sold stakes in  Home Depot Inc.  and  CarMax Inc.  and cut its
holding of  Nike Inc.  as the billionaire replaced a retiring
investment manager and built the company’s cash holdings.  Buffett’s firm lowered its stake in Nike, the world’s
largest sporting-goods provider, by 52 percent in the third
quarter to 3.6 million shares, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
said yesterday in a regulatory filing that listed U.S. equity
holdings as of Sept. 30. Berkshire had 2.8 million shares of
Home Depot, the largest U.S. home improvement retailer, and 7.7
million shares of auto seller CarMax on June 30.  Buffett has trimmed Berkshire’s  portfolio  since the 2008
financial crisis and instead focused on buying whole companies.
The 80-year-old chairman, renowned for multibillion dollar stock
bets, is shuffling his holdings as he welcomes hedge-fund
manager  Todd Combs , hired by Berkshire in October.  Lou Simpson ,
73, once identified by Buffett as his emergency stand in, is
scheduled to depart at yearend from Berkshire’s Geico unit.  “It looks to me like he’s selling out of the Lou Simpson
holdings,” said  Gerald Martin , a finance professor at American
University’s Kogod School of Business in Washington. Buffett may
be amassing funds for Combs to invest “or he may have something
up his sleeves, a potential acquisition somewhere and he’s
building the cash for that,” Martin said.  Wells Fargo, BNY Mellon  Buffett’s firm also eliminated stakes in trash hauler
 Republic Services Inc. ,  NRG Energy Inc.  and  Iron Mountain Inc. ,
a provider of records management. Berkshire divested or reduced
holdings in 12 companies and boosted stakes in San Francisco-
based  Wells Fargo & Co.  and  Johnson & Johnson . Berkshire
disclosed a new investment in  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank.  Berkshire’s equity sales exceeded purchases by about $1.2
billion in the third quarter, according to a Nov. 5 regulatory
filing. It was the sixth period out of eight in which the
company was a net seller of equity securities. Berkshire held
$57.6 billion in stocks on Sept. 30.  “The equity investments have been a great driver of value
for the company, but as the pot gets bigger it’s harder to put
it to work,” said  Paul Howard , director of research at Solstice
Investment Research in Glastonbury, Connecticut. “He’d rather
put the money into acquisitions of businesses and make it easier
on the new investment managers” by leaving them with a smaller
portfolio to oversee, Howard said.  Procter & Gamble  Buffett acquired Burlington Northern Santa Fe in February
for $26.5 billion to add a railroad to Berkshire’s collection of
more than 70 subsidiaries in  industries  spanning insurance,
energy and ice cream. In the last two years, the firm has cut
its stockholding of  Moody’s Corp.  by more than a third and
divested a stake in  SunTrust Banks Inc.   Berkshire trimmed its stake in Cincinnati-based  Procter &
Gamble Co.,  the world’s largest consumer-products company, by
1.7 percent to 76.8 million shares in the third quarter.
Holdings of  Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S. cable-television
company, dropped about 98 percent.  Stephen Burke , a Berkshire
director, is chief operating officer at Philadelphia-based
Comcast.  Berkshire cut its stakes in Naperville, Illinois-based
 Nalco Holding Co. , the provider of industrial water-treatment
services;  Ingersoll-Rand Plc , the Swords, Ireland-based maker of
air conditioners, and  Fiserv Inc. , the Brookfield, Wisconsin-
based provider of electronic commerce systems and services.  ‘Underlying Strengths’  “Investment decisions are made for any number of reasons,
not all of which reflect the underlying strengths of a
business,” Dan O’Neill, spokesman for Iron Mountain, said in an
e-mail. “We’re not privy to how or why those decisions are
made, but our business is strong and performing well.”  John Demming , a spokesman for Comcast, and Atlanta-based
Home Depot’s  Ron DeFeo  declined to comment. Buffett didn’t
respond to a message left with an assistant. Representatives of
Nike and CarMax didn’t immediately respond to messages.  Buffett’s firm had 1.99 million shares of BNY Mellon at the
end of the third quarter. The stake in Wells Fargo rose to 336.4
million shares from 320.1 million at the end of June. Berkshire
has increased  its Wells Fargo stake  in four quarters since the
beginning of 2009 as reductions in short-term interest rates and
financial industry rescue programs helped revive banks’ profits.  ‘Vote of Confidence’  “That is very much a vote of confidence not only in Wells
Fargo, but in the commercial banks and the banking sector,”
said  David Kass , a professor at the University of Maryland’s
Robert H. Smith School of Business. “Warren Buffett is perhaps
more confident now in the economic outlook that our recovery,
however slow, will continue.”  BNY Mellon advanced 27 cents to $28 in early trading at
8:27 a.m. in New York. Phoenix, Arizona-based Republic fell 53
cents to $27.80. Iron Mountain declined 66 cents to $22.14.  Buffett, who also is chief executive officer, has said
Berkshire will divide his roles as head of investments and
operations among more than one successor. Combs, who has
specialized in financial-services investments, may initially
manage $2 billion to $3 billion, Fortune magazine reported.  Berkshire increased its stake by 3.2 percent in New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson, the world’s
largest maker of health-care products, according to the filing.
The stake was 42.6 million shares as of Sept. 30.  Buffett has said he built his equity portfolio by buying
and holding stocks of companies that he believes have durable
competitive advantages. Berkshire is the top shareholder in
 Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest soft-drink maker, and
 American Express Co. , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases.  Berkshire increased its stake in  Munich Re , the world’s
biggest reinsurer, to more than 10 percent in October. Buffett’s
firm disclosed a 3 percent stake in the German company in
January. Yesterday’s filing by Berkshire includes only U.S.
holdings. Equity investments abroad are reported to local
regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 