-- Berlusconi Companies Mediaset, Mondadori Slide on Premier's Political Woes
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-11-17T16:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/berlusconi-companies-mediaset-mondadori-slide-on-premier-s-political-woes.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s political woes are hurting the shares of his
companies,  Mediaset SpA ,  Arnoldo Mondadori Editore SpA  and
Molecular Medicine SpA.  Broadcaster Mediaset, 38 percent owned by Berlusconi’s
holding company Fininvest SpA,  has dropped  13 percent since Nov.
10, wiping almost 900 million euros ($1.22 billion) from its
market value. Mondadori, Italy’s largest book and magazine
publisher, about 50 percent owned by Fininvest, has slipped 6
percent in the period, while Molecular Medicine SpA, a
Berlusconi-controlled biotechnology company, has fallen 12
percent.  “Companies linked to the premier are feeling the impact of
the political situation more than others,” said  Emanuele Vizzini , who helps manage about $1 billion at Investitori SGR in
Milan. He owns shares in Mediaset and  Mediolanum SpA , a
financial-services company partly owned by Berlusconi.
Mediolanum has fallen 4.7 percent since Nov. 10.  Berlusconi will face a confidence vote in parliament next
month, President  Giorgio Napolitano  said in a  statement  on his
website last night after meeting with the heads of the two
houses of parliament. A no-confidence vote could topple the
government and lead to early elections.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has been slipping since
 Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of the ruling People of Liberty
party, broke with him in July. Four members of Fini’s Future and
Liberty for Italy party quit on Nov. 15.  Nightclub Dancer  Fini called for the premier’s resignation after media
reports that Berlusconi helped secure the release from police
custody of a 17-year-old nightclub dancer.  Berlusconi’s political decline is adding to his companies’
weakening operations, some analysts said. Mediaset, Italy’s
biggest commercial broadcaster, on Nov. 9 posted a bigger third-
quarter  net  loss than analysts had predicted on charges related
to investments.  “Incumbents such as Mediaset are worst placed as they face
the highest risk of audience fragmentation and they suffer most
from pay TV competition,”  Giasone Salati , an analyst at
Execution Noble, wrote in a note.  Rupert Murdoch ’s Sky Italia, which competes with Mediaset,
has complained about a 2008 government decision to double sales
tax on pay-TV subscriptions to 20 percent. Sky Italia responded
to the decision with commercials urging customers to protest the
increase, pointing to a conflict of interest for Berlusconi as
prime minister and owner of Mediaset.  ‘Dented Confidence’  “We believe investors’ confidence has been dented,”
 Giovanni Montalti , an analyst at Chevreux, wrote in a note
today. “Given the structural threats and evidence of upward
pressure on costs, we are disappointed by Mediaset’s reluctance
to undertake restructuring.”  Chevreux removed the stock from its sector and country Best
Picks list and cut its rating to “underperform.”  Yesterday, Mediaset sought to calm investor concerns about
its future.  “Mediaset and its investors mustn’t fear political
change,” Vice Chairman  Pier Silvio Berlusconi  said in comments
confirmed by a company spokeswoman. “We have about 6,000
employees and are a healthy company. It would be short-sighted
not to consider this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  