-- Berlusconi to Face Confidence Vote After Passage of Budget Law Next Month
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-11-17T09:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/berlusconi-to-face-confidence-vote-that-may-lead-to-early-elections.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will face a confidence vote in parliament next month
that may topple his government and lead to elections two years
before the end of his term.  The vote will be held in both houses of parliament on Dec.
14, after the legislature passes the government’s 2011 budget
plan. President  Giorgio Napolitano  announced the timetable late
yesterday after meeting parliamentary leaders in Rome to discuss
the country’s political crisis.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has been slipping since
 Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of the ruling People of Liberty
party, broke with the premier in July. Fini this month demanded
that Berlusconi resign, and may have enough backers for his new
Future and Liberty for Italy party in the Chamber of Deputies to
deny Berlusconi a majority and bring down the government.  “This is no way to run a country,” Fiat SpA Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said yesterday in Los
Angeles after the announcement. “The lack of clarity creates
nervousness and the instability doesn’t help things.”  The political turmoil occurs as investors shun the debt of
the euro-region’s so-called peripheral nations on concern that
Ireland’s squabbling with the European Union over emergency aid
will spread the region’s debt crisis.  Risk Premium  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturing German bunds rose 1 basis point to
161.4 at 9:20 a.m. today. It surged to a euro-era record of 190
basis points on Nov. 12 on investors’ concern that Ireland may
follow Greece in seeking a bailout.  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB  Index was little changed at
20,609. Shares of Mediaset SpA, the media company owned by
Berlusconi, declined for a sixth day and have shed 16 percent
since the broadcaster posted lower-than-expected earnings on
Nov. 9. The company has lost about 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in market value in the slide.  “Early elections in the context of this crisis would be
folly,”  Pier Ferdinando Casini , head of the opposition Union of
Centrists party, said on Italian television last night.
“Everyone who cares deeply about our country’s interests should
take a step back. We have Ireland and Portugal that risk going
the way of Greece, and we’re next.”  Ministers Quit  The political showdown came to a head on Nov. 15 when four
members of Fini’s party, including a Cabinet minister, quit the
government to speed its downfall. That prompted Napolitano to
set the confidence votes after meeting yesterday with Fini, who
also is the speaker of the Chamber of Deputies, and his
counterpart in the Senate,  Renato Schifani .  All the major political parties have said they are
committed to passing the budget plan before voting on the fate
of the government. The Chamber of Deputies yesterday began
discussing the budget bill, which includes cuts totaling 13
billion euros to trim the deficit to 5 percent of gross domestic
product. The plan must also be approved in the Senate.  While Berlusconi, 74, may have enough backing in the Senate
to win the confidence vote, Fini may have enough support in the
lower house to deny him a majority. The outcome became less
certain yesterday after  Giuseppe Angeli , a deputy who had joined
Fini’s ranks, announced he planned to return to the Berlusconi
group. Defense Minister  Ignazio La Russa  said he received calls
from three other Fini backers who said they won’t vote against
Berlusconi in the parliamentary showdown.  New Government  The collapse of Berlusconi’s government wouldn’t
necessarily lead to early elections or his exit from Italian
politics. Before calling for a vote, Napolitano would first
consult all the parties to see if a new government could be
formed, possibly one led by Berlusconi. Even with his popularity
at record low levels, polls indicate that his coalition might
still win re-election.  The confidence votes may coincide with a decision by
Italy’s Constitutional Court set for Dec. 14 on the validity of
a law passed by the government granting Berlusconi and other top
officials immunity from prosecution while in office. If the
court rules against the premier, pending corruption trials
against him could resume.  Fini, who abandoned Berlusconi’s party after accusing the
premier of not permitting debate within the government, reached
a truce when he backed the premier in a confidence vote on Sept.
29. The reconciliation began to fray after media reports that
the premier helped secure the release from police custody of a
17-year-old nightclub dancer.  Berlusconi, whose term ends in 2013, has denied pressuring
the police and said he only helped the girl after her release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net 
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  