-- Berlusconi to Face Confidence Vote After Passage of Budget Law Next Month
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-11-16T20:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/berlusconi-to-face-confidence-vote-after-passage-of-budget-law-next-month.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will face a vote of no-confidence in parliament that
may topple his government as soon as the legislature passes his
2011 budget plan next month.  As soon as the budget is passed, “the political crisis will
be examined, which will culminate with a no-confidence vote in
the government,” President  Giorgio Napolitano  said in a
 statement  posted on his website after meeting in Rome with the
heads of the two houses of parliament.  The budget plan will be passed within the first 10 days of
December, allowing for a confidence vote in both houses of
Parliament on Dec. 14, news agency Ansa reported after the
meeting without saying where it got the information. Berlusconi
will defend his government in a debate on Dec. 13, Ansa said.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has been slipping since
 Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of the ruling People of Liberty
party, broke with the premier in July. Fini this month demanded
that Berlusconi resign, and may have enough backers for his new
Future and Liberty for Italy party in the Chamber of Deputies to
deny Berlusconi a majority and bring down the government.  Napolitano announced the confidence vote after discussing
the crisis with Fini, who is also speaker of the Chamber of
Deputies, and  Renato Schifani , his Senate counterpart. The
meeting was held after four members of Fini’s party, including a
Cabinet minister, quit the Berlusconi government yesterday to
speed the collapse of the government.  Budget Cuts  The Chamber of Deputies today began discussing the 2011
budget plan, which includes cuts totaling 13 billion euros ($18
billion) to trim the deficit. It was approved on Nov. 13 by the
lower house’s budget committee and will also require passage in
the Senate.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity German bonds rose to a euro-era
record of 180.9 basis points on Nov. 11 as concern that Ireland
and Portugal may follow Greece in seeking a bailout hurt bonds
of other so-called peripheral countries. The spread rose 2.8
basis point today to 150.7, while Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB 
Index was down 2.1 percent to 20,563 p.m.  Mediaset SpA , the broadcaster controlled by Berlusconi,
tumbled 4.6 percent today to 4.59 euros, taking its five-day
loss to more than 15 percent. Mediaset posted a bigger-than-
expected third-quarter net loss on Nov. 10 of 49 million euros.  While Berlusconi, 74, may have enough backing in the
Senate, Fini may have sufficient support in the lower house to
deny him a majority. The outcome became less certain today after
 Giuseppe Angeli , a deputy who had joined Fini’s ranks, announced
he planned to return to the Berlusconi fold. Defense Minister
 Ignazio La Russa  said he had received calls from other Fini
backers seeking to return to Berlusconi’s forces.  Fini Truce  Fini, who abandoned Berlusconi’s party after accusing the
premier of not permitting any debate within the government,
reached a truce with Berlusconi when he backed the premier in a
confidence vote on Sept. 29. The reconciliation began to fray
after media reports that the premier helped secure the release
from police custody of a 17-year-old nightclub dancer.
Berlusconi, whose term ends in 2013, has acknowledged he helped
the girl, who had attended a party at his Milan villa.  In a Nov. 7 speech, Fini called for Berlusconi to quit.  The collapse of Berlusconi’s government won’t necessarily
lead to early elections or his exit from Italian politics.
Before calling for a vote, Napolitano would first consult all
the political parties to see if a new government could be
formed, including one led by Berlusconi. Even with his
popularity at record low levels, polls indicate that his
coalition might still win re-election.  The confidence votes may coincide with a decision by
Italy’s Constitutional Court set for Dec. 14 on the validity of
a law passed by the government granting Berlusconi and other top
officials immunity from prosecution while in office. Should the
court rule against the premier, pending corruption trials
against him could resume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  