-- BHP, Rio Called to Testify to Australia Senate Committee Over Resource Tax
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-16T07:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bhp-rio-called-to-testify-to-australia-senate-committee-over-resource-tax.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group 
and Xstrata Plc have been called to give evidence to an
Australian parliamentary committee investigating the
government’s planned 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits.  The Senate committee, which will provide recommendations
next June before a vote by lawmakers, has asked BHP Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , Rio’s Managing Director for
Australia  David Peever  and  Xstrata  Coal CEO  Peter Freyberg  to
give evidence, Chairman Mathias Cormann said today in Canberra.  “They will be appearing,” he said in an interview. “I’m
keen for that to happen before the end of the year.”  Following pressure from mining companies, Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  in July watered down the tax to a 30 percent levy
on iron ore and coal profits from predecessor  Kevin Rudd ’s 40
percent tax on all resources. Key independent lawmakers
including  Andrew Wilkie , who hold the balance of power in the
lower house, said her current proposal may be blocked.  “The government has backed down on the weaker mining tax
and now they have failed to garner the support from these key
independents, so it’s embarrassing,” said  Rick Kuhn , a
political scientist at the Australian National University in
Canberra. “The vote is not scheduled until next year, so the
government still has time to save this.”  Xstrata had received the committee’s request and is
determining who will attend, said spokesman  James Rickards . BHP
spokeswoman  Amanda Buckley  and Rio spokesman  David Luff  weren’t
immediately available for comment.  “It is the right of governments to change policy
parameters, for example tax regimes, and to decide if, where and
when resources will be developed,” BHP Chairman  Jac Nasser  said
at the company’s annual general meeting in Perth today. “It is
important that a country’s competitiveness, and its
attractiveness as an investment destination, in not negatively
affected in the process.”  Only Ones  Gillard, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  signed a tax agreement on July 2 with the three miners
in Canberra. Mining  companies  and the government are still
discussing how state royalties will be treated under the
proposal, Ferguson said in a Nov. 10 interview. There are some
questions that only the companies can answer, Cormann said.  “They are the only ones that were in the negotiations with
the government,” he said. “There is now dispute on some key
aspects, specifically around the treatment of royalties.”  Gillard’s Labor Party lost its majority at the August
election and relies on support from four independents to pass
laws. A draft mining tax law is scheduled to be released next
May and introduced to parliament in the second half of 2011.  Independent Wilkie and Nationals lawmaker Tony Crook have
joined  Bob Katter  to oppose the current tax plan and independent
 Rob Oakeshott  said Gillard’s government could lose a
parliamentary vote on the tax if it doesn’t brief lawmakers on
its details.  “The longer the government refuses to provide details,
more independents will drop off,” Oakeshott said in an
interview yesterday. “The government has to get busy and get
selling if they don’t want to see this defeated on the floor of
the  house .”  Even if the remaining independent  Tony Windsor  and Greens
member  Adam Bandt  join Labor to support the bill, Labor wouldn’t
have the 76 votes required.  OECD Report  “The reform of the resource tax to capture excessive
mining-sector rents is welcome, but more could be done to
enhance efficiency and equity,” the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said this week in a report.
“Replacing the royalties by a well-designed resource rent tax
extended to all commodities and all companies irrespective of
their size would be desirable. Royalties should also be
eliminated, rather than credited to Minerals Resource Rent Tax
payers by the federal government.”  The Senate committee is running separately to the
government’s own policy group chaired by ex-BHP chairman  Don Argus . The government aims to implement the taxes from 2012.  “The Argus committee is consulting with industry over the
design and implementation of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax and
is scheduled to report next month,” Swan said in an e-mailed
statement.  National Tax  “I have always been opposed to royalties as a way of
collecting taxes from the mining companies and a national tax
makes much more sense,” Windsor said in an interview today. “I
am waiting for the legislation to come up.”  The tax is forecast to raise A$7.4 billion ($7.3 billion)
in its first two years and will pay for cutting the corporate
tax rate to 29 percent, new infrastructure and to boost
retirement savings for workers.  “Australia’s richest companies should pay more tax but the
Resource Super Profits Tax and its replacement have been hastily
and inadequately constructed,” Wilkie said in a Nov. 11
interview. “I remain to be convinced they should be
supported.”  Unfair Penalty  Fellow lower house lawmaker Tony Crook, who is from Western
Australia state, said in an interview yesterday that the tax
would unfairly penalize his home state, which generates a third
of the nation’s exports and accounts for 62 percent of mineral
production.  “I have campaigned strongly against the implementation of
a mining tax,” said Crook, who has said he would vote as an
independent despite his party affiliation with the opposition
Liberal-National coalition. “A mining tax would not just affect
mining companies, it will seep through in a negative way to the
economy at all levels.”  Greens member Bandt supports the tax, although said he
prefers Rudd’s model. The Greens, which will have control of the
Senate next July, have said they will pass the legislation
through the upper house.  “The Greens opposed the government cave-in on the mining
boom tax, but even a modified tax is better than none,” Bandt
said in a Nov. 11 interview. “We will not stand in the way of
the mining tax despite its low level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  