-- Big C Surges to a Record After Announcing Acquisition of Carrefour Stores
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-11-16T04:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/big-c-surges-to-a-record-after-announcing-acquisition-of-carrefour-stores.html
Big C Supercenter Pcl , Thailand’s
second-biggest hypermarket operator, rose to a record in Bangkok
trading after agreeing to buy Carrefour SA’s Thai stores for
35.5 billion baht ($1.18 billion).  The  shares  rose as much as 13 percent to 88 baht and traded
at 79.25 baht as of 10:56 a.m. local time, set for a record
close. Thailand’s benchmark SET Index slipped 0.2 percent.  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA, which controls Big C,
yesterday agreed to buy the 42 Thai stores owned by its French
rival Carrefour, adding to the 111 that already operate under
the Big C brand in Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy.  “More stores will enhance competitive advantages and
increase negotiation power with suppliers coupled with economies
of scale,” Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl analyst  Suttatip Peerasub  wrote in a note today. “This acquisition allows Big C
to possess some prime locations and licenses of operation.”  The acquisition of Carrefour’s 34 superstores and eight
supermarkets in Thailand will generate so-called synergies
equivalent to about 1.2 percent of the combined 2010 estimated
sales,  Casino  said yesterday. These include improved purchasing
terms, rationalized distribution and higher efficiency in the
greater Bangkok area, where Big C’s presence will more than
double, the company said.  Carrefour’s Thai business may generate sales of 734 million
euros ($1 billion) in 2010, Casino said. Big C’s sales may reach
1.8 billion euros in 2010, Casino’s Chief Financial Officer
Antoine Giscard D’Estaing said.  Paying Too Much?  Big C said the acquisition will be financed from existing
cash and  debt .  “Big C is paying too much for Carrefour,” Bualuang
Securities Pcl analyst  Chaiyatorn Sricharoen  wrote in a note to
clients today. “Although management claims that the acquisition
price is comparable to precedent transactions in Asia, we don’t
believe Big C needs either know-how or branding from  Carrefour ,
so it doesn’t make any sense to pay a comparable price. The
company could generate a much higher return with this money.”  The Carrefour stores complement the geographical spread of
Big C’s own shopping centers, the company said yesterday. The
acquisition will add to Big C’s earnings as of 2011, and the
synergies will be fully implemented by 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  