-- Billionaire Eskenazi Said to Boost Stake in YPF Unit as Soon as Next Month
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-17T18:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/billionaire-eskenazi-said-to-boost-stake-in-ypf-unit-as-soon-as-next-month.html
Argentina’s billionaire Eskenazi
family plans to boost its 15.4 percent stake in  Repsol YPF SA’s 
local unit as early as next month to take advantage of falling
borrowing costs, a person familiar with the situation said.  The Eskenazis’  Petersen Group  will pay about $1.3 billion
for an additional 10 percent stake in Buenos Aires-based oil
producer YPF, said the person, who declined to be identified
because talks are private. Petersen, which has an option until
2012 to increase its stake, will finance 40 percent with its own
funds and the remainder through bank loans, the person said.  Borrowing costs have fallen to as low as 6 percent, from 10
percent a few months ago when Petersen was close to completing
the deal, according to the person. YPF Chief Executive Officer
 Sebastian Eskenazi  said in a May interview he was seeking to
conclude the transaction by year’s end with Madrid-based Repsol.  YPF said this month it’s returning to the global bond
market after 12 years with the sale of as much as $600 million
of debt as the company aims to expand at home and overseas.
Argentine companies including candy maker Arcor SA are selling
the most debt abroad since 2007 after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  in June restructured $12.2 billion worth
of debt remaining from a record $95 billion default in 2001.  Repsol owns 84 percent of YPF, Argentina’s biggest oil
producer. The Petersen Group bought its YPF stake in 2007.  A YPF official representing Eskenazi in Buenos Aires, who
cannot be named under company policy, declined to comment.
Madrid-based Repsol spokesman  Kristian Rix  declined to comment.  Repsol climbed 12 cents to 19.50 euros at 5:30 p.m. in
Madrid. The stock has gained 4.1 percent this year.  Seeking Investors   Repsol  is seeking more Argentine investors for YPF either
through a share sale or a private sale, Chief Executive Officer
 Antonio Brufau  told reporters Oct. 6 in Buenos Aires. Repsol has
said it was weighing a sale of YPF shares in New York and Sao
Paulo and wants to cut its stake in YPF to 51 percent as the
company’s Argentine oilfields mature. YPF represents about 35
percent of  Repsol’s  profit and more than 60 percent of output.  Crude production rose in the first nine months of this
year, the first rise in the period since 2003. Prior to this
year, YPF’s annual oil and gas output fell every year since
1999, except in 2003. The biggest decline was in 2002, when
Argentina had its worst economic recession on record.  Repsol is seeking to develop the offshore Guara and Carioca
fields in Brazil, located near Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s  Tupi field, one of the largest discoveries in
the Western Hemisphere since Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976.  Biggest in Argentina  YPF may spend $3 billion to $3.5 billion a year to boost
operations in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Canada, Eskenazi said
in the May interview. Overseas sales will account for 50 percent
of total revenue in 10 years, up from 30 percent now, he said.  YPF, the biggest Argentina-based company by market value
and the country’s largest employer, produces and processes about
50 percent of the South American nation’s oil and controls about
as much of the domestic fuel market.  The Argentine company’s board approved the bond sale on
Nov. 5 as part of a $1 billion debt program. The company didn’t
provide more details on the offering. Repsol bought the company
in 1999 during then-President  Carlos Menem’s  push to sell state
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  