-- Blackstone Raises Dynegy Bid to $5 a Share Before Vote
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-16T22:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/blackstone-increases-dynegy-takeover-bid-to-5-a-share-as-best-and-final-.html
Blackstone Group LP  raised its bid
for U.S. power producer  Dynegy Inc.  to $604.5 million, an 11
percent increase, calling that its “best and final offer” in
response to opposition before a scheduled shareholder vote
tomorrow.  The offer values the company at 50 cents more per share
than the prior $4.50-a-share bid, according to a statement
issued today by New York-based Blackstone, the world’s largest
private-equity firm. The new bid was quickly rejected by the two
largest  shareholders  in Houston-based Dynegy, who also opposed
the original offer.  Billionaire New York investor  Carl Icahn  declared the $4.50
Blackstone bid too low on Oct. 12. Seneca Capital, holder of 9.3
percent of Dynegy’s shares, joined Icahn a week later in
opposing the offer. Today, both rejected $5 a share as still too
low, and Icahn said he may bid for the company in an open
auction.  ‘They were looking for more,” said  Charles Fishman , a
Falls Church, Virginia-based analyst for Pritchard Capital
Partners LLC, who rates Dynegy shares “neutral” and owns one.
“The Blackstone offer is aimed at the other 75 percent” of
Dynegy’s shareholders, he said.  “The amended $5 per share merger proposal is still the
wrong price at the wrong time for the wrong reasons,” Seneca
said in an e-mailed statement. Icahn, in a filing, said terms of
the existing deal allowed Blackstone to match any higher bid,
discouraging competition.  Dynegy  rose  39 cents, or 8.4 percent, to $5.02 at 5:25 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
intraday gain since the Blackstone bid was made public in
August.  80% Premium  The sweetened offer represents an 80 percent premium to the
share price before Dynegy’s board announced Aug. 13 it had
accepted the Blackstone bid, worth $4.7 billion including  debt .
The new offer is worth $4.77 billion on that basis.  Seneca, a New York-based hedge fund, said in a filing
yesterday that Dynegy is worth more than $6 a share.  David Byford , a Dynegy spokesman, also had no immediate
comment.  Dynegy shareholders are scheduled to meet tomorrow at the
company’s headquarters to vote on the Blackstone bid. A simple
majority is needed to approve the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 