-- Black's Apollo Raising CLO as 2010 Sales Poised to Double: Credit Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-11-16T17:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/black-s-apollo-raising-clo-as-2010-sales-poised-to-double-credit-markets.html
Leon Black ’s Apollo Global
Management LLC and GSO Capital Partners LP may sell $800 million
in collateralized loan obligations as early as this week,
pushing issuance to almost double last year’s total as the  price 
of the underlying debt approaches the highest levels this year.  Some $1.6 billion of CLOs backed by high-yield, high-risk
widely syndicated loans have been sold this year in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from $1.22
billion issued all of last year, Morgan Stanley data show.  The market for the securities is opening up after virtually
disappearing during the credit crisis, which saw issuance drop
from $91.1 billion in 2007. Loan prices have risen 5.4 percent
and the highest-rated portions of CLOs have gained more than 2
cents on the dollar this year. Narrower CLO yields may drive
more issuance of the debt, creating buyers for the more than
$306 billion of loans coming due in the next four years, as
measured by Barclays Capital.  “There has been a significant healing in the underlying
market, which has led to stability of CLO performance,”
 Vishwanath Tirupattur , head of securitized product research at
Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “CLO prices have
rallied and we are close to being in a position where new CLOs”
are possible, said Tirupattur, adding he expects issuance will
continue to increase in 2011.  Oak Hill CLO  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return. Apollo, the New York-based investment
firm, is raising its CLO through JPMorgan Chase & Co., which has
a target size of $400 million, according to people familiar with
the situation, who declined to be identified because the terms
weren’t set.  GSO, the credit investment arm of  Blackstone Group LP , is
raising its fund with Bank of America Corp., also targeted at
$400 million, other people said. Oak Hill Advisors LP is also
raising a CLO with a target size of $405.5 million that should
price before the end of the year.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 166 basis points, or 1.66
percentage points, down from this year’s high of 201 basis
points on June 11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.645
percent, up from 3.58 percent Nov. 12.  Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.41 basis points to a mid-
price of 95.8 basis points as of 12:07 a.m., according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 2.59 basis points to 104.2
basis points in London.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Sprint Nextel Corp.  bonds fell to the lowest in more than
two months after Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it is
reviewing whether to cut its rating on the third-largest U.S.
mobile phone carrier.  Sprint’s $2.475 billion of 6.875 percent notes due in
November 2028 fell 1.6 cents on the dollar to 86.4 cents at
11:58 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The securities have declined 7.8 cents this month and are at the
lowest price since Sept. 8, Trace data show.  El Paso Notes  El Paso Pipeline Partners LP , the operator of natural gas
transportation pipelines and storage, plans to sell $750 million
of senior unsecured notes in a three-part offering, according to
a person familiar with the transaction.  The debt may be issued as soon as today, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The
Houston-based company’s issue may be split evenly among 5-, 12-
and 30-year notes, the person said.  El Paso Pipeline Partners may use the proceeds to fund
acquisitions of Southern LNG Co. and El Paso Elba Express Co.,
purchase an interest in Southern Natural Gas Co., repay a term
loan and reduce outstanding borrowings under its revolving
credit facility, according to a statement distributed today by
Marketwire.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
has  returned  8.4 percent this year after returning 52.23 percent
last year. It lost 28.2 percent in 2008. The index was trading
at 92.38 cents on Nov. 15, up from 87.68 cents Dec. 31, 2009.  Rebounding CLOs  CLOs are rebounding along with most other parts of the
credit market after spreads on the highest-rated portions of the
debt widened to as much as 725 basis points more than Libor in
April 2009 from 23 basis points two years earlier, Morgan
Stanley data show.  Spreads on the pieces rated AAA by S&P were 225 basis
points more than Libor as of Nov. 11 and that debt was trading
at 91.75 cents on the dollar, the highest since May 6, according
to the data. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to each
other. Slices rated AAA are up from 89 cents on Dec. 31, 2009.  “Spreads need to come in a little more for a full-fledged
return of the machine, but I think it’s possible,” Tirupattur
said.  S&P said in a Nov. 8 statement it may raise the ratings on
415 slices from 146 U.S. corporate CLO transactions.  “As a result of this improvement in the speculative-grade
corporate credit environment, cash-flow CLOs have continued to
benefit from a gradual improvement in collateral credit
quality,” the ratings company said in the statement.  Leveraged Loans  While more than $301 billion of U.S. leveraged loans have
been arranged this year, that’s down from the peak of $878.9
billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show. Leveraged loans are
typically rated below investment grade, or less than Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- at S&P.  “Credit spreads are a function of supply and demand, when
you print CLOs, this creates demand for loans which should have
the effect of tightening spreads,” said  Jonathan Insull ,
portfolio manager at  TCW Group Inc. , which oversees about $3.7
billion of leveraged loans, $2.9 billion bundled in CLOs. “This
should contribute to greater demand especially in the primary
market.”  TCW’s leveraged finance group is separating from the Los
Angeles-based investment manager Jan. 1 to become Crescent
Capital Group.  Maturity Wall  Of the $306.8 billion of loans coming due between now and
the end of 2014, $198.6 billion will be due that final year,
according to Barclays and data from S&P’s Leveraged Commentary &
Data unit. Only $4.5 billion of loans mature next year.  “This will help the maturity wall, especially since a
manager will have the ability to put money into longer-dated
assets,” TCW’s Insull said in a telephone interview. Many
existing CLOs are limited by their reinvestment period in buying
assets that mature beyond the next few years.  Apollo, WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC, an
investment firm backed by Welsh Carson Anderson & Stowe, Doral
Money Inc., along with Babson Capital Management LLC as the
collateral adviser, and  Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. ’s LCM
Asset Management LLC have completed CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans this year.  Deutsche Bank AG priced a $300 million CLO in October for
Garrison Investment Group, which is made up of both middle-
market and widely syndicated loans.  -- With assistance from  Tim Catts ,  Sapna Maheshwari ,  Mary Childs 
and  Boris Korby  in New York and  Ed Johnson  in Sydney. Editors:
 Faris Khan ,  Chapin Wright   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  