-- Blankfein Says Emerging Markets Goldman's `Biggest Opportunity' for Growth
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-16T15:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/blankfein-says-emerging-markets-goldman-s-biggest-opportunity-for-growth.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said growth in
emerging markets rather than fundamental changes in business
strategies will be key to future profits.  “The biggest opportunity for us is not necessarily to do
more things, but to be Goldman Sachs in more places,”
Blankfein, 56, said today in New York at a conference sponsored
by  Bank of America Corp.  About 12 percent of the firm’s revenue
came from emerging markets since 2006, Blankfein said.  Goldman Sachs has added employees in emerging markets,
including China, India, the Middle East and Latin America, at a
compound annual rate of 33 percent since 2003, much faster than
in developed markets, Blankfein said. Business in those markets
will fuel an increase in the firm’s return on equity, he said.  “Experience tells us that these markets will not move in a
straight line,” Blankfein said. “We must scale our investment
in such a way so that we can stay the course.”  Goldman Sachs was the most profitable securities firm in
Wall Street history before converting to a bank during the 2008
financial crisis. The firm rebounded in 2009 to set a new
earnings record, then  profit  slumped this year and Goldman Sachs
agreed to pay $550 million in July to settle a fraud lawsuit
filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission over the 2007
sale of a mortgage-linked investment.  Less Volatility  Blankfein said the firm also sees opportunities in the
changing regulatory environment and in technological evolution.
While regulations restrict Goldman Sachs and other banks from
investing and trading their own capital, it will mean that
Goldman Sachs’s fund business increases its return on equity and
produces less volatile revenue, he said. Increased transparency
in over-the-counter derivatives will give advantages to firms
with the best technology, Blankfein said.  “As I think about our industry over the last 30 years, it
has often fought change, fearing it was revolution instead of
evolution,” Blankfein said. “Embracing change early has been
fundamental to Goldman Sachs’s success.”  Asked whether he remains confident in Goldman Sachs’s
ability to achieve a 20 percent or higher return on tangible
equity over the economic cycle, Blankfein said he is “not sure
we have to revise that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 