-- Bloomberg Says Independent Candidate Can't Win Contest for U.S. Presidency
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-16T22:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bloomberg-says-independent-candidate-can-t-win-contest-for-u-s-presidency.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
who has been mentioned as a potential U.S. presidential
candidate, said he doesn’t believe an independent can win.  Bloomberg, who isn’t affiliated with Republicans or
Democrats, said a candidate running outside the two-party system
couldn’t get a majority of the 538 votes in the Electoral
College, which would trigger a provision in the  U.S.
Constitution  giving the House of Representatives power to decide
the election.  “Unless you get a majority, it goes to the House,” he
said today during a conference sponsored by the Wall Street
Journal in Washington. “It’s going to go to the Republicans
because the Republicans have just taken over the House.”  Republicans gained at least 60 House seats in the Nov. 2
election, enabling the party to seize a majority in the chamber
in January.  Bloomberg, 68, the billionaire founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, has on several occasions
denied he intends to run for president in 2012. Several
commentators, including David Gregory of NBC News, speculated
that he might be among the possible candidates.  In 2007 he conducted polling and traveled around the U.S.
to test the potential for a self-financed run, before abandoning
the effort the next year.  Three Terms  Bloomberg has served as mayor since 2002. He spent $108.4
million on his self-financed 2009 campaign for a third term,
which ends in December 2013. He ran on the Republican and
Independence Party lines in that contest.  “Party affiliation is so strong with enough people that
the Republicans and Democrats -- no matter who their candidates
were, no matter who voted -- would get enough votes that you
could get every independent vote, it would still not be a
majority,” he said.  Bloomberg was in Washington to meet with senators. He is
seeking to persuade them to vote for passage of a $7.4 billion
bill that would provide health care for police, firefighters and
volunteers who became ill after working at Ground Zero following
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack. The House has already
passed the measure.  In 1992,  Ross Perot  won 19 percent of the popular vote in
his independent bid for the presidency against Republican  George H. W. Bush  and Democrat  Bill Clinton . He didn’t win a single
electoral vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  