-- Boeing Flies Two 787 Dreamliners to Seattle; Fleet Still Parked After Fire
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-11-17T03:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/boeing-says-fire-in-787-dreamliner-lasted-less-than-30-seconds.html
Boeing Co. brought two of its six
787 Dreamliner test jets back to Seattle today, where the fleet
will remain grounded as the investigation continues into a fire
during a test flight a week ago.  The company is still evaluating the potential effect of the
incident on the 787’s certification and delivery schedule and
can’t comment until it completes the probe and assesses whether
any design changes are necessary, Boeing said in a statement.
The Dreamliner is already almost three years behind schedule.  Flights have been suspended for a week, after a Nov. 9
electrical fire in a power panel under the cabin floor knocked
out some controls, forcing an emergency landing in Laredo,
Texas. Workers have finished inspecting the jet and have “a
detailed understanding” of the incident, Boeing said.  “The fire was caused because of the heat that occurred
when there was a failure in the panel,” said  Lori Gunter , a
spokeswoman. “What we’re investigating is the cause of that
failure.”  Crews have flown to Laredo to replace the panel and
insulation blanket that burned and are repairing composite-
plastic support bars on the inside of the fuselage, Gunter said.  The Dreamliner is the first composite-plastic airliner and
uses an all-electric system to save on fuel. The commercial
debut has been delayed six times as Chicago-based  Boeing 
struggles with the new materials, parts shortages, redesign work
and a greater reliance on suppliers. United Technologies Corp.’s
Hamilton Sundstrand unit makes the power panel that failed.  Test Flights  The 787 has been flying since December 2009 in tests toward
certification for passenger service, which is targeted for the
first quarter of 2011. The fleet is based in Seattle, and the
six planes fly around the world in search of various weather
conditions for tests required by the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration.  One of the jets was flown back today from South Dakota,
where it had been refueling the day the incident happened, and
another from California. Both landed at Seattle’s Boeing Field
without incident, Gunter said.  The FAA  approved the moves after
the planes’ aft electronics bays were inspected, Boeing said,
adding that no tests would be performed during the return
flights.  Two other Dreamliners were already at Boeing Field. A third
is at Boeing’s wide-body aircraft factory in Everett,
Washington, just north of Seattle, where it’s undergoing
scheduled maintenance, Gunter said.  Less Than 30 Seconds  The fire, which broke out as the second plane in the fleet
was preparing to land in Laredo after a test flight, lasted less
than 30 seconds, Boeing said today. The total duration of the
incident was less than 90 seconds, and the backup system that
kicked in would have been good enough to return the plane to an
airport from any point in a typical 787 mission profile, Boeing
said.  The “minor structural damage” will be fixed using
standard techniques from the plane’s repair manual, Boeing said,
adding that crews are still evaluating the timeline for the
repairs to be completed.  The 787’s fuselage is made from carbon-fiber strands woven
around composite support “stringers” laid along a cylindrical
form and baked in an autoclave oven. It requires different
repair methods than traditional aluminum aircraft. Maintenance
workers can either bolt on new material or add and cure new
layers of composites. Gunter declined to give details about how
the damaged fuselage would be fixed.  Boeing has advance orders for 847 Dreamliners, which have
an average list price of $178 million and are intended to carry
about 250 passengers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  