-- Bank of America in `Hand-to-Hand Combat' Over Mortgage Disputes, CEO Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-16T15:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bofa-in-hand-to-hand-combat-over-mortgage-disputes-chief-moynihan-says.html
Bank of America Corp . Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said resolving investor
demands for refunds over faulty mortgages is a battle that will
last at least several more quarters.  “It’s a day-to-day, hand-to-hand combat,” Moynihan said
today during an investor conference held by the lender in New
York. “It’s manageable in the context of who we are, but we’re
not going to spend your  money  unwisely.”  Moynihan’s comments highlight the tensions between Bank of
America, the biggest U.S. lender, and clients who bought its
mortgages or bet on securities backed by home loans. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company faces demands to
repurchase almost  $13 billion  of loans that may have failed to
document required data such as income and home values.  Bank of America has said it would review claims “loan-by-
loan” to protect shareholders as Fannie Mae, bond insurers and
private investors press for so-called putbacks. Some of the
claims stem from loans made by Countrywide Financial Corp., the
mortgage lender Bank of America  acquired  in 2008.  “There’s a lot of people out there with a lot of thoughts
about how we should solve this, but at the end of the day, we’ll
pay for the things that Countrywide did,” said Moynihan, 51.  Legal Action  The bank’s resistance has rankled lawmakers and business
partners, with  Dominic Frederico , CEO of Assured Guaranty Ltd.,
saying in August that settlement talks with BofA were “like
Chinese water torture.” In an August letter to President  Barack Obama , Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat
who leads the House Financial Services Committee, said the
battle to get refunds “should be fought with every tool” to
ensure that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac recover money from banks
on improperly written loans.  Insurers are negotiating repurchases and suing firms
including Bank of America as they seek to recover from losses on
mortgage-security guarantees. The bank is the largest servicer
of U.S. home mortgages and second-biggest originator of loans
after Wells Fargo & Co.  The company expects costs tied to resolving loan disputes
averaging $500 million each quarter for “the next couple of
years or so,” according to an Oct. 19 conference call.  Bank of America declined 22 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
$11.88 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading  at 9:52 a.m.
The lender has slipped 21 percent this year, while the 24-
company KBW Bank Index has gained 9.6 percent.  Foreclosures Resume  The bank said last month it would start resubmitting
foreclosure affidavits in 102,000 cases in which judgment is
pending. Under pressure from lawmakers and state officials,
bankers had been delaying action until they could answer
allegations that filings were marred by so-called robosigning,
in which employees vouched for the accuracy of court filings
without personally checking loan records.  Flaws in  Bank of America ’s foreclosure paperwork haven’t
caused the lender to seize any homes improperly,  Barbara Desoer ,
president of the company’s home-loan division, said in testimony
prepared for the Senate Banking Committee.  Desoer is among at least seven banking officials who will
face lawmakers’ questions today and Thursday in the first
congressional hearings on problems with foreclosure documents
that surfaced publicly in September. Also scheduled to testify
today is  David Lowman , chief executive of  JPMorgan  Chase & Co.’s
home loan division.  Economic Outlook  “Thus far we have confirmed the basis for our foreclosure
decisions has been accurate,” Desoer said in her prepared
testimony. “At the same time, however, we have not found a
perfect process.”  Bank of America, which gets more than  three-quarters  of its
revenue from the U.S., is a “mirror” to the domestic economy,
Moynihan said this month. The U.S. is in a slow rebound as
consumer spending and commercial lending improve, he said today.  “Everything we see points to a continued recovery, albeit
a slow recovery,” Moynihan said. “We continue to see
delinquencies improve in all our products across the board.”  The bank has posted three unprofitable quarters since the
beginning of 2009 as new regulations pressure fee income and
unemployment holds near 10 percent, limiting customers’ ability
to repay debts. The firm reported a $7.3 billion third-quarter
 loss  tied to new rules on credit cards and consumer accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 