-- Bondholders Stand to Lose $6.9 Billion on `Disruptive' Bill: Canada Credit
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-16T20:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bondholders-stand-to-lose-c-7-billion-on-disruptive-bill-canada-credit.html
Canadian lawmakers begin  reviewing  a
bill today that would give workers’ pensions priority over other
debt in a bankruptcy, which analysts say could cost corporate
bondholders as much as C$7 billion ($6.93 billion) if enacted.  The  legislation , proposed by New Democratic Party lawmaker
John Rafferty, was approved in principle by the House of Commons
May 26 in a 144-111 vote. It now goes to the Parliamentary
 industry committee  and, if approved there, would face a final
Commons vote, likely next year.  The bill “could be potentially very disruptive to the
capital markets,” said  Jonathan Allen , head of Canadian credit
research at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in
Toronto. “What it would lead to is rating downgrades for quite
a number of companies.” The changes could lead to losses of
between C$3.5 billion and C$7 billion on corporate bonds and
bank loans, Allen estimated.  While the bill passed the “second reading” stage, the
odds of final passage are long. Since Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government was re-elected in October 2008, only one of
almost 400 private member’s bills  survived  the Parliamentary
process to become law.  Giving “super-priority” to companies’ defined-benefit
pension plans is needed to ensure workers don’t lose their life
savings in a bankruptcy, Rafferty and other lawmakers say,
citing Nortel Networks Corp. and  AbitibiBowater Inc .  “There’s just a basic sense of fair-play involved here,”
said  Jack Layton , leader of the NDP, the smallest of three
opposition parties. “The pension that has been set aside as
deferred wages and the pensioners shouldn’t be at the back of
the pack -- they should be at the front.”  Corporates Underperform  The debate comes as Canadian corporate bonds lag behind the
rest of the world. They have had a total return of 2.1 percent
since the end of June, compared with 3.54 percent for U.S.
investment-grade debt and 3.38 percent for the global corporate
bond market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s corporations rather than its
federal government narrowed to 134 basis points, or 1.34
percentage points, from 135 on Nov. 12, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. It’s the smallest spread since May.  Relative yields on U.S. corporate bonds held at 176 basis
points, the same as on Nov. 12, the Merrill data showed. Global
corporate spreads were 166 basis points, from 167. Canadian
corporate bonds have lost investors 1.2 percent this month,
compared with declines of 1.5 percent for U.S. company debt and
1 percent for global corporates.  Provincial Bonds  In provincial bond markets, relative yields were unchanged
at 51 basis points, down from 53 basis points the prior week and
matching the tightest spreads since April. Spreads have shrunk
from as wide as 71 basis points on May 21. Provincial bonds are
outperforming U.S. municipal bonds. Provincials have returned
6.2 percent this year, compared with 4.9 percent for municipals.  Canada will auction C$1.4 billion in 30-year bonds
tomorrow. The 4 percent bonds mature in June 2041. The previous
auction of 30-year bonds, on Sept. 1, drew an average yield of
3.489 percent and a bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, of 2.29 times.  The benchmark 30-year  bond yield  fell five basis points
today to 3.68 percent. Yesterday, it touched 3.735 percent, the
highest level since July 30. The price of the 5 percent security
due in June 2037 rose 97 cents to C$122.32.  10-year Spread  Canada’s 10-year bonds yielded 22 basis points more than
the equivalent maturity U.S. security. The so-called yield
advantage in Canada’s favor has declined from 37 basis points on
Oct. 7, which was the most since January 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. It has averaged about 12 basis points in
Canada’s favor over the past decade.  Canadian government bonds have lost 1.7 percent so far in
November, headed for the worst monthly performance since
December, the Merrill data show. Treasuries are down 1.4 percent
this month, while global sovereigns lost 1 percent.  Canada’s  factory sales  fell less than economists forecast
in September, as automobile demand tumbled while primary metal,
petroleum and coal receipts increased. Sales fell 0.6 percent to
C$45.1 billion, the third decline in four months, Statistics
Canada said today. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted a 0.9 percent drop.  CU Inc., a natural-gas distribution company, sold C$125
million in 4.95 percent bonds maturing in November 2050. The
bonds were priced to yield 126 basis points over comparable
government debt.  The Parliamentary industry committee will hear testimony
from witnesses including the Canadian Council of Chief
Executives and  former employees  of bankrupt Nortel.  Less Attractive  Opponents, including the  CCCE , warn the legislation would
make the country’s bonds less attractive to foreign purchasers
and deter investment in ailing companies. It could also
discourage firms from running so-called defined-benefit pension
plans, which guarantee a given income amount for retirees, and
encourage defined-contribution plans, in which workers’
retirement income depends on how their investments have done.  “Passage of the bill in its current form could have a very
dramatic and permanent effect on the Canadian bond market,”
 Stephen Dafoe , a corporate bond analyst at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotia Capital unit in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients.
“The impact would be quite material, triggering hundreds of
millions or even billions of dollars of losses in market
value.”  Dafoe estimated that ratings companies like Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services would likely downgrade firms that have
unfunded pension liabilities exceeding 20 percent of their
assets, leading to a one-notch credit rating drop for about a
fifth of corporate bond issuers.  Cost of Capital  The bill would “increase the cost of capital for
businesses,” said  Jack Mintz , an economist and public-policy
expert at the University of Calgary who studies pension reforms.
“It may actually have a bit of a shoot-yourself-in-the-foot
type consequence, where a lot of companies would say, if I want
to have a lower cost of capital, I just won’t even have a
defined-benefit plan in the first place.”  Mintz said there would could be better ways to address the
current pension problems, such as requiring defined-benefit
plans to keep a reserve the way companies that provide annuities
do, or by requiring investment in safer securities.  Lawmakers could address the issue of pension shortfalls
without upsetting markets by creating a government-managed
insurance plan, as the U.S. has done with its  Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp. , Royal Bank’s Allen said.  If passed by the committee, the bill would “probably”
face a final vote in the House of Commons at the end of February
before being sent to the Senate,  Karl Belanger , a spokesman for
the NDP’s Layton, said in an e-mail.  Money ‘Earned’  Rafferty, a lawmaker from Thunder Bay, a northwestern
Ontario city that’s about 375 miles north of Madison, Wisconsin,
said thousands of people in his district faced losing up to 40
percent of their retirement income after AbitibiBowater went
into bankruptcy protection with a C$1.3 billion shortfall in its
pension fund.  “That was not just money that they were given or promised,
that was money that they have earned,” Rafferty told lawmakers
in April as the House of Commons prepared to vote on the bill.
Rafferty was travelling yesterday and could not be reached for
comment.  “I’d say forget it,” said  Nelson Wiseman , a professor of
political science at the University of Toronto. “These things
are largely put out by private members to get the kind of
attention they’re getting and puff up their chest in their own
constituencies.”  Wiseman said that if the government supported the principles
of the legislation, it would delay it and present its own law to
be able to claim credit for the changes.  Last month, lawmakers defeated in a 140-134 vote a private
member’s bill that would have forced the government to probe
human-rights and environmental allegations against Canadian
mining companies operating overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 