-- Bradesco, BicBanco Pull Bond Offerings as Global Market Rout Curbs Demand
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2010-11-16T21:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bradesco-bicbanco-pull-bond-offerings-as-global-market-rout-curbs-demand.html
Banco Bradesco SA  and Banco
Industrial e  Comercial SA  withdrew bond offerings after a global
market rout prompted investors to shun higher-yielding Brazilian
securities.  Banco Bradesco SA, Brazil’s second-largest bank by assets,
put on hold an overseas real bond sale because of market
“volatility,”  Marlene Millan , a bank director, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. She said the bank had a
“robust” book for the sale before emerging-market bond yields
rose. Banco Industrial e Comercial, the Sao Paulo-based lender
known as BicBanco, halted its planned local bond sale, citing
“market conditions” in a regulatory filing.  Emerging-market bond yields rose the most in two months and
global stocks tumbled for a seventh day on speculation the debt
crisis in Ireland, Greece and Portugal is worsening. The extra
yield investors demand to own developing-nation debt instead of
U.S. Treasuries swelled 13 basis points, the most since Sept. 7,
to 2.49 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. A
basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  The MSCI World Index ,
a gauge of global stock markets, sank 2 percent.  The pulled deals are “a response to the drop in risk
appetite across the globe,” said  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-
markets strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  Banco Bradesco planned to sell a five-year real bonds at a
yield of about 10.5 percent as soon as today, said a person
familiar with offering who declined to be identified because
he’s not allowed to speak publicly. BicBanco said Oct. 31 that
its leasing unit planned to sell as much as 200 million reais
($115 million) of two-year bonds in Brazil. Calls to BicBanco in
Sao Paulo after business hours weren’t answered.  Panamericano Bailout  The bond sale cancelations push to three the number of
Brazilian banks that have postponed debt sales in the past week.
Banco BVA SA, a Brazilian bank specializing in loans to mid-
sized companies, delayed an international bond sale last week as
an accounting probe of rival Banco Panamericano SA curbed demand
for debt from the country’s lenders, according to people
familiar with the transaction.  Panamericano’s controlling shareholder, Grupo  Silvio Santos , received a 2.5 billion real ($1.5 billion) loan from the
country’s deposit insurance fund to boost the bank’s capital
last week. Public prosecutors said last week they’re conducting
a criminal investigation of the bank after regulators uncovered
accounting inconsistencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Helder Marinho  at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  