-- Brazil-Beating Growth Sparks Decline in Bond Yield Gap: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-16T14:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/brazil-beating-growth-sparks-decline-in-bond-yield-gap-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s borrowing costs relative
to investment-grade Latin American countries are sinking as the
nation posts the region’s fastest economic growth.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine dollar
notes instead of debt from Brazil, Peru and Mexico shrank to 395
basis points from 581 at the beginning of the year, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. The gap may narrow to
250 basis points, or 2.5 percentage points, by 2012, according
to RBC Capital Markets.  The central bank forecasts Argentina’s economy will grow 9
percent this year, compared with expansions of 7.3 percent in
Brazil, 8 percent in Peru and 5 percent in Mexico. Argentina had
a budget surplus equal to 0.2 percent of gross domestic product
in the 12 months through September, according to Morgan Stanley.
Brazil had a deficit of 2.6 percent and Mexico’s gap was 2.4
percent. Standard & Poor’s rates Argentina B, seven steps below
Mexico and six levels lower than Brazil and Peru.  “It’s going to be gradual and bumpy, but we think it’s
going to converge towards the other Latin American countries,”
said  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets strategist at RBC in
Toronto. “They’re growing strongly. The public finance
situation is relatively strong.”  The yield on Argentine bonds tumbled 192 basis points this
year to 8.94 percent yesterday as South America’s second-biggest
economy posts the fastest economic expansion in five years,
according to JPMorgan. A record 55-million metric ton soybean
harvest and surging automobile sales to neighboring Brazil
pushed  reserves  to a record $52 billion this month.  ‘Good or Better’  Argentina’s  per-capita  GDP of $9,880 last year was more
than twice that of Brazil and triple that of Peru, according to
the World Bank.  “Some of the indicators look as good or better than some
of the other countries in the region that are investment grade
or near it,” said  Sebastian Briozzo , a Latin America director
at S&P in Buenos Aires.  The Paris Club of creditor nations accepted Argentina’s
request to hold talks on restructuring its estimated $6.7
billion of debt without the oversight of the International
Monetary Fund, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said
yesterday. Fernandez said in a nationwide broadcast from Buenos
Aires that she hopes to have the defaulted debt renegotiated by
2011.  Andreas Adriano , an IMF spokesman in Washington, said the
fund doesn’t comment on Paris Club deals.  While an agreement with the Paris Club would be a
“positive event,” it wouldn’t trigger a ratings increase,
S&P’s Briozzo said before Fernandez’s announcement.  Inflation Outlook  Speculation that Fernandez’s government is underreporting
inflation clouds the country’s economic outlook, according to
Briozzo. Economists and politicians including Vice President
 Julio Cobos  have questioned official inflation statistics since
2007, when  Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s late husband and
predecessor, put a political appointee in charge of the agency
that measures consumer prices. The government says its data is
accurate.  The government said Nov. 12 that annual inflation held at
11.1 percent in October for the third straight month. Argentines
expect consumer prices to rise 30 percent over the next 12
months, according to a poll by Buenos Aires-based Torcuato Di
Tella University. The Nov. 1-10 poll of 1,210 people by
Poliarquia Consultores had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage
points, the university said in a statement yesterday.  “In those other countries macroeconomic stability is
better anchored and it’s easier to put out a base-case scenario
for the next three to four years,” S&P’s Briozzo said. “Here,
in Argentina, that’s more difficult.”  ‘Country Risk’  Argentina’s reluctance to work with the IMF and lawsuits
from creditors who rejected the government’s offer to swap debt
from its record $95 billion debt default in 2001 make the
country risky for investors, said  Arturo Porzecanski , an
international finance professor at American University in
Washington.  “A bird’s-eye view of Argentina could easily lead some to
believe that Argentina has come such a long way from its
troubled past that its creditworthiness might be
underappreciated by the rating agencies and that its riskiness
may be exaggerated by bond markets,” Porzecanski wrote in a
paper he presented in Washington this month. “There is a great
deal of country risk that is not captured by these indicators.”  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent today to 3.9672 per
dollar.  GDP Warrants  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt rose
12 basis points yesterday to 664, according to CMA. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to debt
agreements.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.18 cent today to
13.25 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vitali Meschoulam , a debt strategist with Morgan Stanley in
New York, forecasts the price of the warrants may rise to 16
cents by mid-February.  “In terms of performance, Argentina is still one of our
top overweights,” Meschoulam said. “There is a sense in the
investment community that Argentina is doing extremely well, but
it’s doing so in spite of the policy mix that’s being pursued by
the current government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  