-- Bristol-Myers, Milwaukee Bucks: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-16T12:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/bristol-myers-milwaukee-bucks-playboy-intellectual-property.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  partner
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. won a court ruling that will prevent
generic versions of the schizophrenia treatment Abilify from
entering the U.S. market until April 2015.  U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper in Trenton, New Jersey,
yesterday upheld a patent that expires in 2015 and covers
aripiprazole, the key ingredient in the drug.  Closely held Otsuka, based in Tokyo, discovered the drug
and co-markets it with New York-based Bristol-Myers in the U.S.
and Europe. In addition to schizophrenia, the drug is also used
to treat patients with bipolar disorder and forms of mania.  The ruling is a loss for companies seeking to sell generic
versions of the medicine, including  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd.,  Novartis AG’s Sandoz; Apotex Inc.;  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  and Synthon BV. Bristol-Myers’s
sales of Abilify were $1.86 billion in the nine months ended
Sept. 30, the company said in an Oct. 26 statement. The drug
accounted for about 14 percent of company sales last year.  Most investors were anticipating a ruling in favor of
Bristol-Myers and Otsuka, Seamus Fernandez, an analyst with
Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston, said in a Nov. 15 note to
investors. He has an “outperform” rating on Bristol-Myers
shares.  A loss of patent protection for Abilify would have cut
Bristol-Myers earnings by about 40 cents a share through 2014
because of the generic competition, Fernandez said.  Teva and Apotex, in a Nov. 11 filing, said the drug was
already covered by a patent that expired in 2005. The medicine
was first approved by U.S. regulators in 2002.  “Otsuka has been able to extend its patent monopoly on
aripiprazole for almost an additional decade,” the generic-drug
makers said. “Otsuka is not entitled to extend its period of
exclusivity by obtaining a claim in a later patent that is, as
here, merely an ‘obvious modification’ of a claim in an early
patent.”  In its own Nov. 11 filing, Otsuka called that position
“absurd” and said that the compound is “patentably distinct”
from the earlier compound.  “Although scientists have been trying to replicate
aripiprazole’s unique properties since at least 1994 (when
aripiprazole’s successful clinical results were published), no
other antipsychotic drug like aripiprazole has been discovered
to date,” Otsuka said in the filing.  The generic-drug makers also accused Otsuka of making false
statements to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to obtain the
patent, an allegation that Otsuka denied.  The lead case is Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. v. Sandoz Inc.,
07cv1000, U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Bucks Seek ‘Fear the Deer’ Mark, Giants Ignore ‘Fear the Beard’  The  Milwaukee Bucks  professional basketball team has filed
two applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to
register “Fear the Deer” as a trademark, according to the
patent office database.  One application is for the use of the term in connection
with the team. The other is for the use of the phrase on
clothing, including novelty headwear with attached wigs.  A competing application, filed by  Brew City Beer Gear Inc. 
of Milwaukee, also seeks to register the term for use with
clothing. Although the team’s March 2010 applications predate
Brew City’s August 2010 application, Beer City claims it first
began using the term commercially on March 24, two days before
the team said in its application it made its first commercial
use of “Fear the Deer.”  San Francisco Giants  relief pitcher  Brian Wilson  began his
“fear the beard” campaign in July 2010 as part of his team’s
successful push for Major League Baseball’s  World Series
championship. He grew a bushy beard that’s a number of shades
darker than his hair. He said it’s “tan” from the Giants’ day
games and has denied dyeing it.  During the post season playoffs and the World Series
itself, many Giants fans donned fake beards, some of which were
even lettered “fear the beard.” The  fearbeard.com  website
features the image of a beard resembling Wilson’s that fans
could cut out and wear to the game. That site doesn’t appear to
have any formal affiliation with either Wilson or the Giants
team.  Neither Wilson nor the Giants have applied to register
“fear the beard” as a trademark. Stuart R. Kamin of Los
Angeles filed an application in July 2009 to register the term
for a variety of uses, including athletic helmets and caps.  Kamin’s application features a drawing of a bearded figure
with a horned helmet and “fear” on one horn and “beard” on
the other. A website --  fearthebeard.com  -- features the same
line drawing illustrating a story, “The Legend of Beardomon.”
That site makes no reference to baseball.  For more trademark news, click here.  U.K.’s Anti-Fake Campaign Focuses on Crime, Human Trafficking  A Christmas-season campaign in the U.K. against fake goods
will emphasize the roles played by organized crime and human
traffickers, the BBC reported.  The campaign, lead by the U.K.  Crimestoppers  charity, will
focus on fake DVDs, money, tobacco and fashion, according to the
BBC, and will be publicized through posters and beer mats given
to pubs and private clubs.  Agencies assisting the charity include the U.K.’s Home
Office, the Serious Organized Crime Agency, the Federation
Against Copyright Theft, the Bank of England, the Film
Distributors’ Association, and the  Pentland Group Plc  clothing
company, according to the BBC.  The BBC reported U.K. losses related to the sale of fake
goods amount to about 3 billion British pounds ($4.8 billion)
per year.  Drug Dealer’s ‘Superman’ Cocaine Conspiracy Lands Him in Jail  A U.K. drug dealer who printed DC Comics’ “Superman” logo
on 1 kilogram blocks of cocaine was sentenced to an eight-year
prison sentence, the U.K.’s Press Association  reported .  The dealer had also used  Playboy Enterprises Inc. ’s Playboy
bunny symbol as a trademark, according to the press association.  The prison sentence was for conspiracy to distribute
cocaine, not for trademark violations, the press association
reported.  The judge who sentenced the drug dealer called his
distribution scheme “sophisticated and professionally
organized” and noted that the illegal product was marked “with
its own trademark for onward sale to users,” according to the
Press Association.  Product Placement Rules to Be Revised for European TV  The European Union’s House of Representatives amended its
Broadcasting Act of the Audiovisual Media Services to ensure
television viewers will know when a company has paid for its
products and trademarks to appear in a program, Product
Placement News  reported .  Under the amended law, whenever an identifiable product
appears in a television show as part of a financial arrangement,
viewers will be informed, according to Product Placement News.  Broadcasters in the European Union will be limited to 12
minutes of advertising for each hour under the new law, the
trade journal reported.  Copyright  Cooks Source Apologizes to Writer, Cancels Facebook Listing  Cooks Source Magazine, which was the target of a negative
reader campaign over copyright issues, said in a  statement  it
canceled its page on Facebook Inc.’s social-media site, and will
never again use anyone’s material without written consent.  The campaign began after the publication picked up a
writer’s blog posting, published it without her consent or
compensating her, and then told her she was the one who should
be paying because her work allegedly needed editing.  The magazine said it apologized to Monica Gaudio for its
unauthorized use of her article about apple pie, claiming it was
“an oversight of a small, overworked staff.”  It was hit with hundreds of comments on its own Facebook
page and on several look-alike sites set up by users. Cooks
Source said the “e-mail and Facebook abuse” was hurtful to
those who could “ill afford the abuse -- either emotionally or
financially.” Cooks Source said “to say this has hurt our
business is an understatement.”  The magazine said it made donations in Gaudio’s name to the
Columbia School of Journalism and to the Western New England
Food Bank and has now given her credit for the use of her
article.  When accessed yesterday, Facebook still had a number of
user-created sites related to Cooks Source including “I’m not
addicted to cooks source jokes, I can stop any time I want,”
“I participated in the great Cooks Source roast of 2010,” and
“I remember the day Cooks Source Magazine Imploded.”  Judith Griggs, Cooks Source’s publisher,  told  the Daily
Hampshire Gazette she may well suspend publication of her 13-
year-old magazine because of the negative publicity and its
effect on her advertisers.  U.S., EU, Japan Approve Anti-Counterfeiting Accord  The U.S., European Union, Japan and other nations resolved
the final issues for an international accord aimed at preventing
counterfeiting worldwide, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office
said.  Once it’s made final, the accord will be sent to each
government to be put into effect, the trade office said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The measure, originally
announced in October, doesn’t require approval by Congress.  The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement -- known as  ACTA  --
which would set joint rules for cracking down on the pirating of
copyrighted materials, had drawn criticism from companies such
as  Google Inc.  They objected to efforts to export some
provisions of copyright law without offsetting protections for
the fair use of protected books, music or movies.  Following Google’s complaints, the U.S. scaled back its
proposals. Once the governments complete legal vetting of the
agreement, they will begin to implement it, the U.S. trade
office said.  Other objections were to the secrecy with which the ACTA
negotiations were conducted. Oct. 28 a group of law professors
sent President Barack Obama  a letter  objecting to the treaty,
and claiming it contained unconstitutional elements.  Signatories to that letter included professors from
Harvard, Stanford, Duke, the University of California at
Berkeley, and New York University.  Ten countries and the 27-nation European Union are parties
to the agreement.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Seyfarth Shaw Adds Steven Lipman to Its Boston IP Group  Seyfarth Shaw LLP  hired Steven E. Lipman for its Boston IP
practice group, the Chicago-based firm said in a  statement .  Lipman , who joins from the now-defunct  Darby & Darby PC , is
a former senior attorney to several commissioners of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office. He also worked as a patent examiner
at the patent office.  He has represented U.S., European and Japanese clients in
federal court and before the U.S. International Trade
Commission. His clients’ technologies have included
pharmaceutical products, medical devices and computer software.  Lipman has an undergraduate degree in engineering from
Rutgers University and a law degree from Catholic University of
America.  McDonald Hopkins Expands IP Practice, Hires Todd Benni  McDonald Hopkins LLC  hired Todd A. Benni for its IP
practice, according to a  statement  from the Cleveland-based
firm.  Benni  joined from an in-house post with a global supplier
of office products, where he was senior managing counsel for IP,
advertising and licensing.  He has an undergraduate degree from Purdue University and a
law degree from the University of Pittsburgh.  General Patent Corp. Names Anthony Amaral Chief IP Counsel  General Patent Corp. , a patent-enforcement firm based in
Suffern, New York, hired Anthony Amaral Jr. as chief IP counsel,
according to a Nov. 11  statement .  Amaral , who spent 25 years in private practice, has
represented clients in IP litigation in federal trial and
appellate courts. He also has done patent acquisition, licensing
and counseling.  He has an undergraduate and a master’s degree in electrical
engineering from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, which is
today known as Polytechnic Institute of New York University. He
has a law degree from St. John’s University, and a master’s
degree in law related to international trade from New York
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 