-- British Airways Flight-Attendant Union Seeks Talks After Spurning Pay Deal
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-16T16:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/british-airways-cabin-crew-union-seeks-new-talks-after-spurning-settlement.html
British Airways Plc ’s flight-
attendant union will seek new talks with the carrier after
agreeing with crew representatives not to recommend the latest
proposals on pay, staffing levels and the treatment of strikers.  The Unite union’s joint general secretary,  Tony Woodley ,
said in a statement that the labor group reached the decision
following meetings today with elected officials.  British Airways has been at loggerheads with its 12,000
cabin crew for 21 months as Europe’s third-largest carrier seeks
to cut costs. While Unite has said pay and manpower proposals
may be acceptable, it also wants the company to give ground on
the firing of some workers who took part in 22 days of strikes
this year and the suspension of travel benefits for others.  “It was unanimously agreed that the last offer tabled by
British Airways management in the current dispute could not be
recommended to the members,” Woodley said in the statement.  British Airways was  trading  down 4.1 percent at 259.4 pence
as of 4:05 p.m. in London, paring gains this year to 39 percent
and valuing the company at 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion).  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  had said his latest
offer on pay applied only if Unite recommended that attendants
accept it in a ballot. The airline didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment today.  Walsh says the carrier will operate all long-haul flights
should cabin crew go on strike again after training volunteers
and hiring in planes and pilots to provide 80 percent of such
services during the last walkout that ended in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  