-- British Land Earnings Increase 3.7% as Company's Real Estate Gains Value
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-11-16T11:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/british-land-s-second-quarter-profit-advances-on-gain-in-property-values.html
British Land Co. , the U.K. company
that will build the London tower known as the Cheesegrater, said
second-quarter profit rose 3.7 percent after its shopping
centers and office properties appreciated in value.  Net income  for the three months through September rose to
167 million pounds ($268 million) from 161 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said in a statement. Profit
excluding changes in asset values fell 4.6 percent to 62 million
pounds, or 7.1 pence a share.  Higher investment lifted  U.K. property values  in the past
18 months, though there are signs the gains are now slowing,
British Land said. Chief Executive Officer  Chris Grigg  plans to
start five office and retail projects in central London as a
shortage of new space leads to higher rents.  “The doubt is on the demand side,” said  Mike Prew , an
 analyst  at Nomura International Plc with a “reduce” rating on
the stock. “Structural changes taking place in financial
services” may curb leasing of large office space, he said.  British Land , the U.K.’s second-largest real estate
investment trust, fell 12.2 pence, or 2.4 percent, to 494.8
pence at 10:28 a.m. in London trading. The shares advanced
almost 12 percent in the three months to Nov. 15, lifting the
company’s market value to 4.43 billion pounds. The gains are in
line with the 13 percent average increase for the 16 members of
the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trust Index.  Leadenhall Building  British Land plans to build 2.1 million square feet
(195,000 square meters) of office and retail space in central
London at a cost of 1.5 billion pounds. The company will provide
two-thirds of the money. The five developments include the
Leadenhall Building in the City of London financial district.
The property, nicknamed the Cheesegrater, will be constructed in
partnership with Canadian pension fund Ontario Municipal
Employees Retirement System.  “We expect to be able to exploit the growing demand-supply
imbalance in London offices and to benefit from the growing need
from a significant number of retailers to take new space in the
best locations,” Grigg said in the statement.  The value of the U.K. company’s properties  increased by 103
million pounds to 8.86 billion pounds in the second quarter. Net
asset value rose 1.9 percent to 525 pence a share.  Net rental income fell 14 percent to 127 million pounds
following the sale of a 50 percent stake in British Land’s
Broadgate estate in the City of London to Blackstone Group LLP
and because of other property sales.  British Land reduced its vacancy rate to 2 percent in the
second quarter from 2.2 percent at the end of June. This
followed the leasing of 850,000 square feet of space in the
fiscal first half at rents that were on average 5 percent above
their previously estimated value.  “Offices continued to benefit from the restricted supply
of high quality space and we saw improving rental trends in
retail,” Griggs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 