-- Canada's Clement to Issue Foreign-Investment Guidance Before End of Year
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-16T20:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/canada-s-clement-to-issue-foreign-investment-guidance-before-end-of-year.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement , who this month rejected BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion
bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., said the government
will issue guidelines on its foreign-investment law before the
end of the year.  “I would like to give more certainty to international
investment markets as to how we interpret the factors that are
found in the Act -- that way, the ground rules will be better
known for potential investors,” Clement said today in a
telephone interview.  Clement refused the takeover offer from Melbourne-based
 BHP , the world’s largest mining company, on Nov. 3, saying the
proposal doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada. BHP had 30
days from the date of the ruling to appeal and chose to drop its
bid on Nov. 14. Clement’s decision was only the nation’s second
rejection of a foreign takeover in the past 25 years.  “In the days ahead it will be communicated,” said
Clement, who spoke from Atlanta, where was attending the
Americas Competitiveness Forum with his U.S. and Mexican
counterparts.  Clement also said that “separate and apart” from the
interpretation guidelines, the government will examine
recommendations from a Parliamentary committee if it decides to
review the legislation.  The New Democratic Party, the smallest opposition party in
Parliament, is proposing a motion demanding the government amend
the foreign-investment legislation to include public hearings as
part of the review process. The motion, on which lawmakers will
vote today, would call on the government to make public the
promises made by companies to gain approval.  Under the Investment Canada Act, the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million ($292 million) or more
if it finds it doesn’t provide benefits to the country such as
jobs, exports and investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  