-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Commodity Producers Decline on China Rate Concern
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-11-16T21:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/canadian-stocks-slide-as-loonie-declines-gold-mining-companies-retreat.html
Canadian stocks  fell for a fourth
day as metal and oil producers dropped after comments by a
central bank governor in China spurred speculation that the
nation will raise interest rates, curbing demand.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. and Suncor Energy Inc. each
declined 2.2 percent as crude oil fell to a two-week low. Teck
Resources Ltd., Canada’s biggest base-metals and coal producer,
decreased 2.4 percent as an index of materials stocks slumped
1.6 percent. Goldcorp Inc., the second-biggest gold producer in
the world by market value, slid 0.8 percent as the price of the
metal fell.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  decreased 133.18
points, or 1.1 percent, to 12,602.23 as of 4 p.m. in Toronto.
The four-day slide is the longest decline since May.  “Investor pessimism has returned,” said  Luc Girard , who
helps manage about C$18 billion ($17.6 billion) as director of
the portfolio advisory group at Desjardins Securities in
Montreal. “There’s a lot of negativity in the market with the
potential interest rate increase in China and the Ireland debt
crisis. I’m also seeing investors taking some profits on the
great rally we’ve had since July 5.”  Prices for gold, copper and silver fell on concern that
China, the world’s biggest metals consumer, may take further
steps to cool price gains. The Shanghai Composite Index tumbled
4 percent.  ‘Pressure’  Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  today said
China is under “pressure” from capital inflows as a state
newspaper said price controls could be imposed to cool the
fastest inflation in two years. The China Securities Journal
reported that the country will introduce measures to control
rising food prices in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The Bank of Korea increased interest rates for the second
time this year. The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index  of
commodities sank 3.2 percent.  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would shore up the
state’s finances as well as enable it to inject capital into the
country’s banks, said a European official with direct knowledge
of the talks. The two-part funding package would mean Ireland
wouldn’t have to tap the bond market for an extended period as
it tries to cut the budget deficit, said the person, who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  ‘Risk Aversion’  “Oil, gas and materials are the big drivers in Canada
today primarily from the weakness in China overnight,” said
 Youssef Zohny , the Vancouver-based associate portfolio manager
at Van Arbor Asset Management Ltd., which manages C$50 million
($49 million). “There are more concerns about inflation in
China. There was an interest rate hike in South Korea. Asia is
tightening monetary policy, which is creating risk aversion in
commodities.”  The S&P/TSX has rallied 14 percent since July 5. Factory
sales in Canada fell 0.6 percent to C$45.1 billion ($44.4
billion) in September, the third decline in four months, as
automobiles tumbled while primary metal, petroleum and coal
receipts increased, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a 0.9 percent drop,
based on the median of 20 estimates.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie, declined against
14 out of 15 of its major counterparts. The loonie fell as much
as 1.5 percent against the U.S. dollar to C$1.0254, its weakest
level since Oct. 28.  Energy Shares  Canadian Natural Resources  declined 2.2 percent to C$38.70,
as energy stocks had the biggest decline out 10 sectors in the
S&P/TSX Index, falling 1.9 percent. Crude oil for December
delivery declined as much as 3.3 percent to $82.03 a barrel
today, the lowest level since Nov. 1. Suncor fell 2.2 percent to
C$33.67.  Teck Resources slumped 2.4 percent to C$48.16. The base-
metal producer has declined three straight days. Goldcorp
dropped 0.8 percent to C$45.97. Nine out of ten industry groups
in the S&P/TSX Index declined today.  Cameco Corp., the world’s second-largest uranium producer,
fell 4.5 percent to C$34.30, its biggest decline since December.
Uranium One Inc. declined 5.2 percent to C$4.57. Bank of
Montreal analyst  Edward Sterck  wrote that uranium producers may
pull back because China is likely to target 80 gigawatts of
nuclear generating capacity by 2020, not the 112 gigawatts
reported in the Chinese press. Sterck’s note cited a report by
UxC Consulting Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 