-- Canada Extends Afghan Mission for Three Years With New Focus on Training
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-16T19:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/canada-extends-afghan-mission-for-three-years-with-new-focus-on-training.html
Canada will extend its mission in
Afghanistan for three years until 2014, moving troops away from
combat zones and assigning them instead to train local forces.  “We shall withdraw our troops from Kandahar and end our
combat mission,” Cannon told reporters in Ottawa, referring to
the southern Afghan province where Canadian troops have fought.
“But we are not abandoning Afghanistan.”  The announcement comes as North Atlantic Treaty
Organization heads of state prepare to meet in Lisbon on Nov.
19-20.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said on Nov. 11 he
would extend the country’s military mission and maintain a
“smaller mission.” Canada currently has about 3,000 troops in
Afghanistan and  has lost  over 150 soldiers and one diplomat
since its presence started in 2002.  Harper passed a Parliamentary motion in 2008 signaling
Canadian troops would leave Afghanistan in 2011.  Defense Minister  Peter MacKay  told reporters that the
combat mission may end earlier than July 2011 as “fighting
season” usually starts in May and that may cause logistical
problems. The “vast majority” of troops doing training will be
located in or around Kabul, he also said.  U.S. Position  Canada’s revised position brings it closer to the U.S.
plan, as administration officials told the  New York Times  this
week that President  Barack Obama  plans a step-by-step transfer
of power in a bid to end U.S. combat operations by 2014.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Canadian
television interviews in March that she would like to see Canada
maintain a role for its military in Afghanistan that could shift
toward training and logistics.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said today NATO leaders
are likely to endorse Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s goal of
taking full control from coalition troops by 2014 when they meet
this week. NATO’s International Security Assistance Force
oversees 130,432 troops in Afghanistan.  “There was pressure to continue the combat mission” from
NATO allies, Cannon said. “The government of Canada took its
decision not based on the pressures it faced, but based on our
ability to deliver services, and to make sure our efforts during
the past decade don’t go to waste.”  The cost of keeping troops in Afghanistan from 2011 to 2014
will cost C$700 million ($683 million) a year, according to a
government statement distributed in Ottawa today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 