-- Casino Said to Seek $1 Billion Loan to Finance Acquisition of Thai Stores
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-16T11:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/casino-said-to-seek-1-billion-loan-to-finance-acquisition-of-thai-stores.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA  hired
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc to borrow $1 billion to fund a Thai acquisition,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The French supermarket chain will use money from the one-
year bridge loan to help finance its 868 million euro ($1.18
billion) purchase of Carrefour SA’s business in Thailand, said
the people, asking not to be identified as details are private.  Big C Supercenter  Pcl, a unit of Saint-Etienne-based
Casino, agreed to buy 42 stores in Thailand from Carrefour in a
transaction announced yesterday. The stores will add to the 111
that already operate under Casino’s Big C brand in the Southeast
Asian nation and will give Casino improved purchasing power and
more streamlined distribution in the greater Bangkok area, where
Big C’s presence will more than double.  Casino media spokesman Frederic Croccel was in a meeting
and unavailable for immediate comment when called at his office
in Paris today.  The 868 million euros Casino is paying for Carrefour’s Thai
assets has drawn criticism from analysts including Bualuang
Securities Pcl’s Chaiyatorn Sricharoen, who said the company is
paying too much and could generate a better return on its money
elsewhere.  Casino, which beat out Tesco Plc for the Thai supermarkets,
has $9.2 billion in bonds and loans maturing before the end of
2049, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Contracts insuring Casino’s debt from default rose 3 basis
points in the past week to 115 basis points, according to data
provider CMA. Its stock was trading up 0.1 percent at 68.04
euros as of 10:50 a.m. in Paris, and is up 9 percent this year.  Shares of Big C Supercenter, Thailand’s second-biggest
hypermarket operator, tumbled the most since Oct. 29, 2008,
falling 10 percent to 70.25 baht as of the 4:30 p.m. close in
Bangkok. The stock surged 13 percent earlier in the day.  For Carrefour, the sale forms part of a plan to sell its
businesses in Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore to focus on China
and Indonesia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  