-- Caterpillar CEO Steps Up Deal-Making to Target Emerging Markets
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-11-16T21:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/caterpillar-s-oberhelman-steps-up-deal-making-to-target-emerging-markets.html
Caterpillar Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Oberhelman  is less than five months into the job
and already outpacing his predecessor in acquisitions as he
seeks to boost sales to emerging markets.  Caterpillar’s $7.6 billion purchase of U.S. mining-
equipment maker Bucyrus International Inc. announced yesterday
means Oberhelman, 57, has forged $9.4 billion in deals since
taking over July 1. Predecessor  Jim Owens  made $1.9 billion in
transactions during his more than six years in charge.  Oberhelman “sees the emerging markets growing at such a
good clip that now it becomes, ‘Do we build this technology
internally or do we go ahead and buy?’” said  Mark Demos , a fund
manager for Fifth Third Asset Management in Minneapolis, which
owns Caterpillar shares. “These markets are becoming so big,
they’d rather take a stab at buying.”  Caterpillar is acquiring Bucyrus, which supplied shovels
for the construction of the  Panama Canal  between 1904 and 1914,
to expand the range of mining equipment it offers customers and
to tap into booming demand for commodities. Copper, gold and tin
have traded at records in London in the past month as mining
companies struggle to meet demand.  Shares of Caterpillar fell $1.45, or 1.8 percent, to $80.37
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have  advanced  41 percent this year, leading the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . The company offered $92 a share in cash for
Bucyrus, funded with a combination of cash, debt and equity.
Bucyrus dropped 56 cents to $89.24 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  ‘Faster-Acting’  Last month, Caterpillar agreed to purchase Mannheim,
Germany-based engine-maker Motoren-Werke Mannheim Holding GmbH
for about $810 million and in August closed the acquisition of
locomotive maker Electro-Motive Diesel of LaGrange, Illinois,
for $928 million.  Caterpillar is changing to become a “faster-acting”
company, Oberhelman told analysts and investors on a conference
call yesterday. Oberhelman said he first talked to  Tim Sullivan ,
CEO of South Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based Bucyrus, about the deal
just 60 days previously.  “Oberhelman is much, much more aggressive,”  Eli Lustgarten , an analyst for Longbow Research in Independence,
Ohio, said in an interview. “It’s really hard to go back and
find a time when Caterpillar has participated in so many
transactions significantly important to the repositioning of the
company.”  ‘Wide Open’  Oberhelman joined Caterpillar in 1975, the year he
graduated with a finance degree from Millikin University in
Decatur, Illinois, which is 80 miles (129 kilometers) southeast
of Peoria. He worked in a financial capacity for the company in
South America and also served as managing director and vice
general manager for strategic planning in Japan.  He rose to become  chief financial officer  in 1995. Three
years later, he became vice president of the company’s engine
unit and then group president in December 2001. The unit’s
operating profit as a percentage of sales rose to 12.9 percent
in 2009 from 5.1 percent in 2001, according to Bloomberg data.  Oberhelman said when he and Sullivan started out in their
careers, most of the world was closed to business, citing
countries including China and Russia.  “In 2010, the world is wide open,” he said on the call.
“The developing market is growing twice as fast as the
developed world.”  Growth plans at  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest
mining company, and its rivals may help to boost industry
spending worldwide next year to a record $113 billion,  Paul Galloway  and James Luke, London-based analysts at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a report in August.  ‘Bullish Statement’  Bucyrus, which was founded in 1880, undertook a $349
million leveraged buyout in 1994 backed by Goldman Sachs Group.
Bucyrus filed for bankruptcy in February 1994 and emerged 10
months later after being allowed to give creditors equity in
return for forgiving $135 million of debt, according to
 Reference for Business .  Caterpillar is paying 16.8 times Bucyrus’s earnings before
interest and tax, compared with the 15.1 industry median,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from deals in the past
10 years. Caterpillar is paying 32 percent more than Bucyrus’s
closing share price on Nov. 12, compared with the average
industry premium of 24 percent in the past 12 months.  Largest Deal  Bucyrus would be Caterpillar’s biggest acquisition,
followed by the company’s purchase of Perkins Ltd. in 1997 for
$1.3 billion. Caterpillar made $3.34 billion in deals between
1980 and June 30, when Owens stepped down as CEO.  The deal would also be the largest announced in the
construction and mining machinery industry in the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 32 percent
premium being paid by Caterpillar compares with the 28 percent
average paid in the industry in that period.  The Bucyrus deal “is more of a long-term bullish statement
about the mining industry, which happens to be largely outside
the U.S., as opposed to wanting geographic diversity,” said
 Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit in New
York at Brookfield Investment Management Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  at   ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 