-- Cathay Pacific Climbs to Record After Saying Full-Year Profit May Double
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-16T03:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/cathay-pacific-climbs-to-record-after-saying-full-year-profit-may-double.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Hong
Kong’s largest carrier, headed for the highest close in at least
two decades after saying full-year profit will more than double
to a record.  Cathay  rose  5 percent to HK$23.60 as of 11:16 a.m. on the
city’s stock exchange, poised for the highest level since at
least March 1990. The stock has surged 60 percent this year,
beating the 9.7 percent gain for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Net income will likely climb to at least HK$12.5 billion
($1.6 billion) in 2010 on rebounding travel demand and asset
sales, the airline said yesterday. That surpasses the HK$11.9
billion average of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The results affirm “our sanguine view on Cathay’s second-
half operations,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s analysts including
 Hino Lam  wrote in a note to investors today. They recommend
buying shares of the Hong Kong-based company.  The carrier’s passenger numbers rose 11 percent through
October and freight volumes surged 20 percent, as business
travelers resumed flying and Chinese exporters boosted shipments
overseas. Cathay has also sold stakes in an air-cargo handler
and a maintenance company, and is benefiting from improved
earnings at affiliate Air China Ltd.  Cathay’s forecast includes a HK$2.2 billion gain from the
sale of shares in Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Ltd. and Hong
Kong Aircraft Engineering Co., as well as a 57.1 million euro
($78 million) fine from the European Union tied to
anticompetitive actions in the air-cargo industry.  “We expect the provision to be a one-off exceptional
expense,” Lam wrote.  Unit’s Earnings  The airline said it expects a HK$1.7 billion profit in the
second half from its stake in  Air China Ltd. , the nation’s
largest international carrier. Cathay earned net income of
HK$4.7 billion in 2009, rebounding from a record loss a year
earlier.  Asia-Pacific airlines will probably post a combined profit
of $5.2 billion this year, more than double an earlier forecast,
because of rebounding travel demand, the International Air
Transport Association said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  