-- Chelsea's John Terry May Be Out for Months With Leg Injury: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-16T10:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/chelsea-s-john-terry-may-be-out-for-months-with-leg-injury-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. and French media, with clickable links to the
Web.  Terry Injury  Chelsea captain  John Terry  is facing an “indefinite
spell” on the sidelines because of a long-term nerve problem in
his right leg, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Blues, who lost 3-0 at home to Sunderland two days ago,
already have  Frank Lampard  and  Michael Essien  out of action, and
 Didier Drogba  is trying to get over malaria.  Terry could be out for weeks or even months, the Mail
reported.  “It is at a point where I can’t carry on with it,” he was
cited as saying. “After games I am in agony and not sleeping at
all. I used to play with pain at seven out of 10. Now? It’s 10
out of 10.”  Johnson Out of City?  Adam Johnson hinted he might leave Manchester City to get
regular first-team action,  the Sun  reported.  The winger has been frustrated this season as a “bit-part
player” in the club’s bid to win the title, the newspaper said.  Manager  Roberto Mancini  has criticized Johnson, saying he’s
got carried away with praise and isn’t a top player. Johnson,
who joined from Middlesbrough this year, was cited as saying he
“definitely would consider” a move.  AC Milan may try to sign Mario Balotelli, who’s had a
“difficult start” at City after joining from Inter Milan in a
23 million-pound ($37 million) deal,  the Mail  reported. The
striker is a “self-confessed AC Milan fan,” the paper added.  Pires English Return  Robert Pires , 37, will sign for Aston Villa until the end
of the season later this week, L’Equipe reported. Pires, who
left Villarreal after last season, trained with former club
Arsenal earlier this campaign to stay in shape, L’Equipe said  Bendtner for Bayern?  Nicklas Bendtner  is a target for Bayern Munich after
complaining he’s not getting enough playing time at Arsenal,
according to  the Daily Mirror .  The Gunners don’t want to sell the 22-year-old Denmark
striker even though they also have Marouane Chamakh and  Robin van Persie , the newspaper said.  French Target  Liverpool coach  Roy Hodgson  may try to sign French right-
back Rod Fanni as he looks to replace  Glen Johnson , the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Hodgson watched Rennes defender Fanni play against Auxerre
at the weekend and is ready to bid about 3 million pounds in the
January transfer window, according to the newspaper.  Help for Hammers  Paolo Di Canio  is ready to talk to West Ham about helping
manager  Avram Grant  revive the team from its bottom place in the
Premier League,  the Mirror  said.  The former Hammer has taken a UEFA Pro License coaching
qualification and works on Italian television. His friends say
he’d only come to Upton Park if Grant agreed, the newspaper
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 