-- Chicago's $195 Alinea, L20 Win Michelin's Top Honors for Obama's Hometown
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n   a n d   A n g i e   L a u
-- 2010-11-16T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/chicago-s-195-alinea-l20-win-michelin-s-top-honors-for-obama-s-hometown.html
Alinea, the avant-garde restaurant
whose young chef once lost his sense of taste in a battle with
tongue cancer, was one of two Chicago restaurants to receive the
highest rating in Michelin’s debut red guide for the city.  Chef Grant Achatz, 36, won three stars at Alinea for dishes
such as “hot potato cold potato soup.” Diners pull a pin holding
the truffle-topped hot potato into cold soup before downing it
like a whiskey shot. The restaurant charges $195 for a 21-course
tasting menu.  Restaurant L20 also received Michelin’s top honor amid
reports that its chef, Laurent Gras, has left the pricey eatery;
the restaurant’s website lists set menus ranging from $110 to
$245.  Charlie Trotter, one of Chicago’s most famous fine-dining
chefs, won two stars for his eponymous spot, where tasting menus
cost $135-$225. Ria and Avenues were also awarded two stars.  Rick Bayless, a favorite chef of President Barack Obama,
was awarded a single star for Topolobampo, the sister venue to
his Frontera Grill.  Restaurants that win the three-star ranking may get a 25
percent bump to business, said guide director Jean-Luc Naret in
an interview before the results were released. Chefs and
executives say that will ripple into an economic boost for the
city, where unemployment still sits at more than 10 percent.  Chicago joins New York and San Francisco as the only cities
in North America to have a 2011 restaurant guide from Paris-
based Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-biggest tire maker. It
produced the first Red Guide at the turn of the 20th century to
encourage travel by car.  Three stars means “exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey”; two, “excellent cooking, worth a detour”; one,
“very good cooking in its category.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye ;
Angie Lau in Chicago at 
 alau42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 