-- Chicago’s $195 Alinea, L20 Win Three Michelin Stars
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n   a n d   A n g i e   L a u
-- 2010-11-16T18:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/chicago-s-195-alinea-l20-win-three-michelin-stars-update1-.html
Alinea, the avant-garde restaurant
whose chef once lost his sense of taste in a battle with tongue
cancer, is one of two Chicago restaurants to receive the highest
rating in Michelin’s debut red guide for the city, released
today.  Michelin said it moved the announcement forward by a day
after the Yelp website reported the results for all 23 of the
honored venues, including the single-starred Spiaggia, the high-
end Italian spot on the city’s Magnificent Mile, the shopping
district along Michigan Avenue.  Chef Grant Achatz, 36, won three stars at Alinea for dishes
such as “hot potato, cold potato” soup. Diners pull a pin
holding the truffle-topped hot potato into cold soup before
downing it like a whiskey shot. The restaurant charges $195 for
a 21-course tasting menu.  Restaurant L20 also received Michelin’s top honor, but chef
Laurent Gras has left the pricey eatery whose website lists set
menus ranging from $110 to $245.  A reservationist at L20 said today that Gras was taking a
“leave of absence.” Jean-Luc Naret, director of the guide,
said he spoke with Gras this morning and doesn’t think the
chef’s “mind is set yet” on whether to return.  The two-decade-old  Charlie Trotter ’s, where tasting menus
cost $135-$225, won two stars; Naret called Trotter one of the
country’s “great chefs.” Ria and Avenues were also awarded two
stars.  President’s Choice  Rick Bayless , a favorite of President Barack Obama,
received a single star for his Mexican-themed Topolobampo, the
sister venue to his Frontera Grill. Bayless’s cooking was
showcased this spring during Obama’s state dinner with Mexican
President Felipe Calderon in Washington  Schwa, whose $110 nine-course menu might include apple pie
soup with cheddar or tiger fish with marshmallow, also received
a star for reimagined dishes crafted by its self-proclaimed crew
of “culinary artists.”  Chicago is a hotbed of sorts for gustatory avant-gardism.
The progressive TRU, like Schwa, received a star, while Moto,
whose chef has been known to employ lasers and print edible
menus, did not.  Restaurants that win the three-star ranking may see a 25
percent bump in business, said  Naret  in a separate interview
before the results were released. Chefs and executives say that
will ripple into an economic boost for the city, where
unemployment still sits at more than 10 percent.  Chicago joins New York and San Francisco as the only cities
in North America to have a 2011 restaurant guide from Paris-
based Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-biggest tire maker. It
produced the first Red Guide at the turn of the 20th century to
encourage travel by car.  Three stars means “exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey”; two, “excellent cooking, worth a detour”; one,
“very good cooking in its category.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Sutton  in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye ;
 Angie Lau  in Chicago at 
 alau42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 