-- Chile Raises Rate to 3% as Economy's Rebound Threatens Inflation Targets
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-11-16T21:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/chile-raises-rate-to-3-as-economy-s-rebound-threatens-inflation-targets.html
Chile’s central bank raised its
 overnight interest rate  for a sixth month as accelerating
economic growth threatens to push inflation beyond policy
makers’ 2011 target.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio , raised the benchmark rate by a quarter-point to 3
percent from 2.75 percent today, matching the forecast of 15 of
17 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Two economists predicted
the bank would pause at 2.75 percent.  South America’s fifth-biggest economy has rebounded from
its deepest contraction in a decade on accelerating demand for
its exports and a surge in domestic consumer spending. Policy
makers today decided to raise borrowing costs to prevent the
economy from overheating and exacerbating inflation,  Juan Pablo Castro , an economist at  Banco Santander SA , said.  “If rates don’t continue to return to normal, inflation
next year could become a problem,” Castro said in a telephone
interview from Santiago. “The bank isn’t reacting to current
inflation, which is below expectations, but is preparing for
next year when inflationary pressures could increase.”  Chile’s economic expansion will close the gap between
actual and potential output next year, causing consumer prices
to rise further,  Cristobal Doberti , an economist at Bice
Inversiones in Santiago, said in a Nov. 12 interview.  Prices, Peso  Annual inflation will increase to 3.3 percent in 12 months,
according to the median estimate of 49 investors in a Nov. 10
central bank survey. The central bank targets an annual rate of
3 percent.  Chile’s peso weakened for a third day, falling 0.6 percent
to 485.65 per U.S. dollar. The peso has appreciated 10.3 percent
in the last six months, the best performance among the seven
major Latin American currencies.  “With respect to the dollar, the peso is at a similar
level as the last meeting,” policy makers said in a statement
accompanying today’s decision.  GDP Surge  Chile’s economy expanded a faster-than-estimated 6.5
percent in September from the previous year on growth in the
retail, transport and communications industries, the central
bank said Nov. 5.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the central bank to
report on Nov. 18 that the economy grew 7.1 percent in the third
quarter from the same period a year earlier, according to the
median of 16 forecasts.  “Data on activity and demand show robust economic
growth,” policy makers said in the statement.  The economy will grow as much as 5.5 percent in 2010, which
would be its fastest pace since 2005, according to central bank
estimates in its latest quarterly monetary policy report.  Internal demand will rise 16 percent in 2010 after
shrinking 5.9 percent in 2009, the bank said in the report.  “The decreasing unemployment rate and very strong internal
demand growth could cause inflation to accelerate in coming
months,”  Alejandro Puente , an economist with  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA , said in a Nov. 5 interview.  Demand, Rates, Inflation  Retail sales grew 18 percent in September as supermarket
revenue increased 11 percent, Chile’s statistics institute said
in an Oct. 28 report.  The country’s  unemployment rate  fell to 8 percent in the
three months through September from 8.3 percent in the three
months through August on stepped-up hiring in the agriculture
and retailing sectors, the statistics institute said Oct. 29.  Joblessness averaged 9.6 percent last year, up from 7.7
percent in 2008 and 7 percent in 2007, the International
Monetary Fund said in a Sept. 29 report.  At 3 percent, Chile along with Peru and Colombia has the
lowest benchmark interest rate of the major Latin American
economies tracked by Bloomberg. Chile’s central bank has
increased rates since January at a faster pace than any other
country in the world tracked by Bloomberg.  “The board will continue to reduce the prevailing monetary
stimulus at a pace that depends on the evolution of internal and
external macroeconomic conditions,” policy makers said in the
statement.  Consumer prices rose a less-than-estimated 0.1 percent in
October from September as the cost of clothing and electronic
goods declined in part because of a stronger peso, the National
Statistics Institute said in a Nov. 8 report.  On a year-on-year basis, prices rose 2 percent in October
and 1.9 percent in September, the institute said.  “Inflation has evolved somewhat below expectations,”
policy makers said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  