-- Chile May Raise Rate to 3% as GDP Rebound Threatens 2011 Inflation Target
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-11-16T19:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/chile-may-raise-rate-to-3-as-gdp-rebound-threatens-2011-inflation-target.html
Chile’s central bank will probably
raise its  benchmark interest rate  for a sixth straight month
today as the fastest economic growth since 2004 threatens to
push inflation beyond policy makers’ 2011 target.  All but two of 17 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg  expect
the policy board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio , to
raise the overnight rate by a quarter point to 3 percent. Two
analysts expect the bank to hold it at 2.75 percent.  South America’s fifth-biggest economy has rebounded from
its deepest contraction in a decade on accelerating demand for
its exports and a surge in domestic consumer spending. While an
appreciation of Chile’s peso helps keep prices in check for now,
quickening economic growth will close the gap between actual and
potential output next year, causing consumer prices to increase,
said  Cristobal Doberti , an economist at Bice Inversiones in
Santiago.  “We don’t think they’ll increase rates by more than a
quarter point, but they will continue raising as the output gap
closes,” Doberti said in a Nov. 12 phone interview.  The economy probably grew 7.1 percent in the third quarter
from a year ago, which would be the fastest since 2004,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on central bank data.
The bank publishes its third-quarter report on Nov. 18.  Gross domestic product rose 1.5 percent in the first
quarter and 6.5 percent in the three months through June.  The peso weakened for a third day, falling 0.6 percent to
485.65 per dollar at 2:04 p.m. New York time. The peso has
gained 10.3 percent in six months, the best performance among
six Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Policy Balance  At their October meeting, board members considered raising
the rate by a half point as they had done the previous four
months, according to the minutes of the meeting published on the
central bank website.  The board decided to slow the pace of increases -- voting
for a quarter-point raise -- because of a stronger peso, weaker
projections for the international economy and a moderation in
inflation expectations, according to the minutes.  Raising rates by less than a half point sends a message to
the market that the bank is concerned about the peso’s
appreciation, Banco Penta said in a Nov. 12 report e-mailed to
investors.  The central bank has discussed intervening in the currency
market to weaken the peso as it did in 2008 when it bought
dollars in the spot market, De Gregorio said on Oct. 6. The bank
has not yet found it “prudent” to intervene, he said Oct. 19.  Prices, Expectations  Consumer prices  have risen less than expected by the
market, giving policy makers room to raise rates by a quarter
rather than a half-point, according to the Banco Penta note.  Consumer prices grew 0.1 percent in October from September
as the price of clothing and electronic goods declined, in part
because of the stronger peso, the National Statistics Institute
said in a Nov. 8 report. Core consumer prices, which exclude
fuel and produce, fell 0.1 percent in October from the previous
month, the institute said.  Annual inflation of 2 percent in October and 1.9 percent in
August was slower than the central bank’s target of 3 percent.
The rate will rise to 3 percent in December and to 3.2 percent
in December 2011, according to the median estimate of 45
economists in a Nov. 10 central bank survey.  The bank’s decision “obviously will depend on the exchange
rate, but it’s also worth noting that prices are quite
controlled and core inflation keeps minds at ease,” Ricardo
Matte, director of the economics program at Santiago-based
research group Libertad y Desarrollo, said in a Nov. 12
interview.  Currency  Economists in the central bank survey estimate the bank
will raise its benchmark rate to 3 percent today and to 3.25
percent in December.  Chile has the lowest benchmark rate of the seven largest
Latin American economies. The central bank reduced the rate to a
record low 0.5 percent last year, when Chile suffered its worst
recession in more than a decade.  Since January, the central bank has increased rates at a
faster pace than any other country in the world tracked by
Bloomberg. Policy makers will continue to remove the monetary
stimulus at a pace that depends on economic conditions, they
said in a statement accompanying the October decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  