-- China Considers Gradual Increase in Gold Reserve Holdings, Newspaper Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T03:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/china-considers-increasing-gold-reserve-21st-century-business-herald-says.html
China is considering gradually
increasing the nation’s gold reserves,  the 21st Century Business
Herald  reported today, citing an unidentified consultant to the
government.  There are limits to China’s ability to increase gold
holdings on a large scale within a short time, so the gains in
the government reserves will be a slow, incremental process, the
newspaper said, citing the consultant. China currently has 1,064
metric tons of gold, accounting for 1.6 percent of its foreign
exchange reserves, it added.  Gold has gained 22 percent this year, reaching a record
$1,424.60 on Nov. 9, as a weakening dollar and concern about the
global recovery has spurred demand for a store of value. China
should purchase gold and oil overseas with its foreign-exchange
reserves to avoid losses from a weakening dollar, Shao Fenggao,
an official at China Construction Bank Corp., said on Nov. 1.  “People have always been speculating about China’s gold
reserves, but I think there is not much point in second-guessing
whether the government is going to buy gold,” Ronald Wang,
general manager for greater China at the World Gold Council,
said by phone from Beijing today. “They have access to
information and they must have a plan with regard to gold.”  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries, after its holdings rose by $15.1 billion to $883.5
billion in September from $868.4 billion in August, according to
the Treasury’s statistics.  Low Holdings  China’s gold holdings are far lower than the 8,133 tons
held by the U.S. government, and are only higher than 25
countries of the 110 countries tracked by the International
Monetary Fund, the newspaper said.  Meng Qingfa, a researcher at the China Chamber of
International Commerce, wrote last month in the International
Business Daily that China should increase its gold holdings.  China’s gold market may double in the next decade as retail
investment and jewelry demand gain, the council’s Wang said Nov.
3. Demand may gain to 800 tons to 900 tons in the next ten
years, Wang said. China’s jewelry and investment gold demand was
428 tons in 2009, according to the council.  Immediate-delivery gold fell 0.2 percent to $1,337.10 an
ounce at 11:16 a.m. Shanghai time, heading for the longest slump
since July.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  