-- China Stocks Plunge on Concern Inflation May Spur More Controls
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T07:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/china-s-stocks-decline-on-concerns-over-rising-inflation-property-prices.html
China’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to the lowest in a month, on speculation the
government will intensify measures to curb accelerating
inflation including higher interest rates and price controls.  PetroChina Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co. plunged more than 6
percent on concern further tightening will curb oil and metals
demand.  China Vanke Co.  slid to the lowest since September,
pacing declines by real-estate developers, after the government
ordered first-time foreign homebuyers to show proof they don’t
own other properties. China Construction Bank Corp. and
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  dropped more than 2 percent on
the prospect higher borrowing costs will cut loan growth.  “Speculation that the central bank will tighten monetary
policy continues to dog the market,” said  Wang Cheng , a
strategist at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The
market will be under pressure for the coming three to 12 months
from the threat of measures to cool inflation.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, tumbled 119.88, or 4 percent, to
2,894.54 at the close, the lowest since Oct. 14. The index has
plunged 8 percent in the biggest loss for a three-day period
since Sept. 1 on speculation policymakers may raise rates for
the second time in two months to curb gains in consumer prices.
The  CSI 300 Index  slid 4.4 percent to 3,169.54 today. Today’s
losses pared the Shanghai index’s quarterly gain to 11 percent
as concern the government will limit lending growth and curb
fund inflows overshadowed optimism over the economy and earnings.  Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said today China is
under “pressure” from capital inflows as a state newspaper
said price controls could be imposed to cool the fastest
inflation in two years.  Price Controls  “Some emerging economies have grown quickly and face some
pressure of capital inflows” as growth in developed nations has
slowed, Zhou said. Rising prices in China need attention and
officials should “strengthen liquidity management and maintain
moderate growth in credit and money supply,” he said.  China will introduce measures to control rising food prices,
including limits on how much products may be sold for and
subsidies, the China Securities Journal reported, citing an
unidentified person. Corn prices in China jumped to a record
today and rice also reached an all-time high.  The Ministry of Commerce said it will work with other
government agencies to curb inflation. The supply of most goods
is sufficient although a few products, including diesel, are in
short supply, the ministry said in a statement ahead of a news
conference in Beijing. The government is selling pork and sugar
from reserves to ensure supply, the ministry said.  Commodity Slump  Gauges  of energy and material companies in the CSI 300
Index dropped more than 5 percent. The energy and material stock
gauges rallied more than 26 percent last month on speculation
the U.S. quantitative easing program would spur inflation and
fuel more inflows into emerging markets. China is also the
world’s leading consumer of many commodities.  PetroChina, the biggest oil producer, fell 6.5 percent to
11.57 yuan. Jiangxi Copper, the largest metal producer, declined
8.7 percent to 36.32 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. fell 5
percent to 10.78 yuan.  “The energy and materials sectors are particularly
susceptible to a tightening in monetary policy,” said  Li Jun , a
Shanghai-based strategist at Central China Securities Co.
“Liquidity will be tighter in the short term.”  The People’s Bank of China boosted its benchmark one-year
lending rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to
5.56 percent, the first increase since 2007.  Consumer prices  jumped 4.4 percent in October, the fastest
pace in two years, and more than the 4 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists. The government’s
full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  Developers Drop  China’s property developers, utility companies and oil
refiners are “most susceptible” to government policies to
contain inflation, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Governments usually tend to adopt some form of price
control measures when inflation becomes a social issue,” said
 Peggy Chan  and  Vincent Chan , analysts at Credit Suisse.  A gauge of banks and developers in the CSI 300 Index
dropped 4 percent to the lowest in more than a month.  Vanke, the nation’s largest developer by market value, fell
4.3 percent to 8.16 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
second-biggest developer, slid 5.5 percent to 12.24 yuan.  Foreigners will have to provide home ownership statements
before their purchases, along with proof of at least a year’s
employment in China, the State Administration of Foreign
exchange and the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
said. Overseas companies are only allowed to buy offices in
cities where they are registered, it said.  Banks Decline  Earlier measures couldn’t contain the increase in home
prices, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in Macau yesterday.  The central bank on Nov. 10 ordered an increase in bank
reserve requirements by 50 basis points from today, the first
nationwide increase since May. Credit Suisse Group Inc. said Nov.
11 it expects China’s new loan target for next year to be 5
trillion yuan, from 7.5 trillion yuan this year.  China Construction Bank  fell 5.3 percent to 4.83 yuan. Bank
of China Ltd. slid 3.5 percent to 3.32 yuan. Agricultural Bank
dropped 2.9 percent to 2.67 yuan. China Life Insurance Co. and
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. declined more than 4 percent.  “Inflation is very high and the government acknowledges
that,”  Andy Xie , an independent economist, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong. “They will raise interest
rates soon.”  Economic Outlook  The Shanghai gauge has rebounded 22 percent since reaching
this year’s low on July 5 on expectations central banks around
the world will inject more cash into their economies to boost
growth. The index  remains down  12 percent this year after the
government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed lending
growth to cool the economy.  Foreign direct investment in China increased at a faster
pace in October, while an indicator of China’s economic outlook
rose for a fifth month in September, adding to evidence the
nation’s expansion has stabilized.  “Fundamentals have not changed but monetary policy and
rhetoric will need to stay hawkish in the near term as the
economy gets through this period of elevated year-over-year
inflation numbers,” said  Howard Wang , head of the Greater China
team at JF Asset Management Ltd., which oversees more than $50
billion.  -- Chua Kong Ho  and  Irene Shen  in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan ,
 Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3048 or
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  