-- China Wins First Orders for Plane, Breaking Airbus-Boeing Grip
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T15:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/china-planemaker-gets-100-c919-aircraft-orders-from-ge-lessors-airlines.html
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China 
announced its first 100 C919 passenger-plane orders, breaking
Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.’s stranglehold on the world’s second-
largest aircraft market.  General Electric Co. ’s leasing arm and China’s big three
domestic airlines are among customers for the narrowbody plane,
state-controlled Comac said in a statement issued at the Zhuhai
air show in southern China today. Chinese airlines accounted for
more than half the orders, said  Zhang Xinguo , vice president of
Comac shareholder, Aviation Industry Corp. of China.  Comac has a full-sized model of the front section of the
aircraft on display at the show as it challenges Boeing and
Airbus’s grip on a domestic plane market that could be worth
$480 billion through 2029, according to Boeing. The Chinese
planemaker expects to sell more than 2,000 C919s worldwide over
20 years competing against Boeing and Airbus’s most popular
jets.  “The aircraft is of national importance,” said  Harry Chen , a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co.
“But, as it’s only on the drawing board so far, we still have
to see how fuel-efficient and less expensive it really is.”  China Customers  The C919’s Chinese customers include  Air China Ltd. ,  China
Southern Airlines Co. ,  China Eastern Airlines Corp. , HNA Group
Co. and CDB Leasing Co., according to the statement. It didn’t
say how many planes had been ordered by each customer.  Air China’s head of investor relations,  Rao Xinyu , and
China Eastern spokesman  Li Jiang  declined to comment. Calls to
China Southern’s joint board secretary  Xie Bing  went unanswered.
 GE Capital Aviation Services Ltd. , the world’s largest plane
lessor, said it agreed to buy as many as 10 C919s.  The C919, which has 166 seats in its standard version,
competes with Boeing’s 737 and the Airbus A320. The plane is
scheduled to make its maiden flight in 2014 before entering
service two years later.  Gecas,  as the GE leasing unit is known, also announced an
order for as many as 25 China-made ARJ21 regional aircraft at
the last Zhuhai air show in 2008, as GE seeks to boost sales in
the world’s fastest growing major economy. The 70-seat ARJ21,
China’s first regional jet, is due to make its maiden exhibition
flight at this week’s show.  China first announced plans for the C919 in 2008 to help
develop a globally competitive aerospace industry and pare its
reliance on imports. The nation will trail only the U.S. in
plane orders over the next 20 years, according to  Boeing .  ‘Enough Pie’  “There’s certainly enough pie locally to keep Comac and
their partners busy for a long time,” said  Derek Sadubin , chief
operating officer at industry consultants, Centre for Asia-
Pacific Aviation in Sydney. “It does remain to be seen whether
the aircraft does sell overseas.”  Comac is working with overseas suppliers on the C919,
including CFM International Inc., a venture between  GE  and
Safran SA that has won a $10 billion engine contract. Other
suppliers include Honeywell International Inc.,  United
Technologies Corp.  and Parker Hannifin Corp.  China’s economic growth has stoked demand for aircraft and
boosted its importance in the global aviation market. Air China,
China Southern and China Eastern are all among the world’s four
largest carriers by market value.  China Southern  is Asia’s
biggest by passenger numbers.  Nationwide passenger numbers may jump fivefold in the 20
years ended 2029, AVIC, the nation’s largest aerospace company,
said today.  Airbus Order  China is due to receive 112 aircraft from Airbus this year,
or 22 percent of the Toulouse, France-based planemaker’s total
production, Ascend said this month. It will take 71 planes from
Boeing, or 15 percent of output, according to the London-based
aviation data company.  Airbus this month announced an order for 102 planes from
China, including 50 A320s. The planemaker will assemble half of
the single-aisle planes at a plant in Tianjin, China, its only
production line outside of Europe. Chicago-based Boeing has won
737  orders  this year from Air China, Okay Airways Co. and China
Southern’s Xiamen Airlines.  “We welcome all competition,” Jim Simon, Boeing’s vice-
president for China commercial-airplane sales, said at the show.
“It makes the industry better, frankly, because it makes us
sharper at our game.”  Boeing and Airbus also face other new competitors in the
single-aisle segment, the largest part of the global plane
market. Bombardier Inc. is due to begin deliveries of its
 CSeries planes , which sit as many as 149 passengers, in 2013.
Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA, known as Embraer, has also
said it’s considering plans to build a similar-sized aircraft.  “We were born into competition 40 years ago, and now we’re
number one,” Airbus’s China head  Laurence Barron  said at a show
press conference. “Frankly, we’re used to it.”  China had 1,259 commercial aircraft at the end of 2008,
according to the nation’s aviation regulator. In 1980, it had a
fleet of about 140 commercial planes, mostly seating less than
50 passengers, under the management of the air force.  -- Liza Lin  and  Wing-Gar Cheng . With assistance from  Irene Shen 
in Shanghai. Editors:  Neil Denslow ,  Michael Tighe   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Shanghai at   llin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  