-- China's Leading Economic Index Rises for Fifth Month Amid Sustained Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T02:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/china-s-leading-economic-index-rises-for-fifth-month-as-growth-stabilizes.html
An indicator of China’s economic
outlook rose for a fifth month in September, adding to evidence
the nation’s expansion has stabilized.  The  Conference Board’s  leading index rose 0.6 percent to
150.8, according to a preliminary report from the New York-based
research organization, posted on its website today. The reading
compared with a gain of 0.7 percent in August.  The gains “suggest the economy is likely to expand
steadily through early 2011,” said  William Adams  , resident
economist for The Conference Board China Center in Beijing.
“However, weakening consumer sentiment and tighter monetary
policy may be a concern going forward.”  A more-than-forecast acceleration in inflation to 4.4
percent, announced Nov. 11, stoked speculation that the central
bank may further tighten monetary policy as the Chinese economy
maintains momentum. Interest rates will rise again before year-
end after an increase in October that was the first since 2007,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The Conference Board’s coincident economic index for China,
a measure of current activity, increased 0.7 percent in
September to 191.6 after gaining 1 percent in August.  October’s  inflation  rate was higher than analysts’
estimates, while third-quarter economic growth was 9.6 percent
from a year earlier. Besides raising rates, the central bank has
ratcheted up lenders’ reserve requirements and scrapped a crisis
policy of pegging the yuan to the dollar.  The six components of the leading index are loans by
financial institutions, raw-material supplies, deliveries and
new export orders information from the manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index, consumer expectations, and total floor space
started. The central bank publishes the first two components and
the statistics bureau releases the other four.  -- Sophie Leung , Paul Panckhurst. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Lily Nonomiya   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  