-- China Orders Stricter Fire Controls After Shanghai Blaze Kills 53 People
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T15:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/china-orders-more-stringent-fire-control-measures-after-blaze-xinhua-says.html
China ordered more stringent fire
control measures after a blaze in a Shanghai apartment building
that killed at least 53 people raised public safety concerns.  In a  circular  issued by the State Council yesterday, the
government ordered campaigns to inspect and remove fire hazards
in shopping malls, hotels, hospitals, schools, high rises and
public entertainment sites. Authorities will punish those
responsible for fire accidents and shut down businesses, and
local officials will be held accountable, the statement said.  Eight people were detained in China’s financial capital
after sparks from unlicensed electric welders set off a blaze
two days ago on the 10th floor of the 28-story building, Cheng
Jiulong of the Shanghai Public Security  said  yesterday. The
building was undergoing renovations and was covered with
scaffolding made of flammable nylon netting and bamboo, said
Chen Fei, director of the city’s fire-fighting bureau. Strong
winds helped the fire spread, he said.  Multilayered contracting -- illegal in China -- bad
management and ineffective government safety supervision were
also among the causes of the fire, Xinhua News Agency said,
citing  Luo Lin , head of the State Administration of Work Safety.  Dozens of family members staged a sit-down protest at the
site yesterday, criticizing the government for taking too long
to rescue people, the Hong Kong-based Oriental Daily  said  today.  Family members and friends of the victims burnt paper
offerings and along with the public laid flowers, the Shanghai
Daily reported today. The areas around the building were sealed
off yesterday. A charity in the city received 1.1 million yuan
($170,000) in donations to help survivors, the paper said.  Injured  The blaze in Shanghai’s Jing’an district left 70 people
injured, 15 critically, the city government said in a statement
yesterday. Twenty-six of the 53 dead have been identified after
genetic testing, Xinhua News Agency said today.  Fire apparatus dispatched for the Shanghai fire were unable
to reach the 20th floor and higher, making it difficult to bring
the fire under control at top levels, China National Radio said.  Xi’an city in China’s central-western province of Shaanxi
will spend 25 million yuan to buy a fire truck with the world’s
longest ladder, Xinhua reported today, citing an identified
official at the city’s fire department.  The fire truck, made by a Finnish company, will have a
ladder 101 meters long, compared with the city’s current maximum
 of 53 meters, according to Xinhua. The truck will enter service
in April next year, it said.  China had 1,076 people die in fires last year, according to
the  State Administration of Work Safety . One of the most recent
happened on Nov. 5 when 19 people died and 24 were injured at a
blaze in a shopping center at Jilin Province, the government
said in the circular.  China’s deadliest fire was in December 2000, when a blaze
at a mall in Henan province killed 300 people, according to the
State Administration of Work Safety. A fire in an iron-ore mine
in Hebei killed 70 people in 2004 and 53 people died at a blaze
at a mall in Jilin in February 2004, the department said.  -- Luo Jun  and  Stephanie Wong , with assistance from  Chua Baizhen 
in Beijing. Editors:  John Brinsley ,  Josh Fellman   To contact the reporter on this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  