-- China's Cabinet Is Drafting Anti-Inflation Measures, Wen Says on State TV
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T12:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/china-s-cabinet-is-drafting-anti-inflation-measures-wen-says-on-state-tv.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
the cabinet is drafting measures to counter overly rapid
price gains, suggesting intensified government efforts to
combat the fastest inflation in two years.  Wen’s comments at a Guangzhou, Guangdong, supermarket
were broadcast tonight on state television. He didn’t
elaborate, beyond urging local governments to ensure market
supply and order.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 4 percent today,
after a 5 percent decline on Nov. 12, amid speculation that
more monetary tightening is imminent and will slow the
economy that’s leading the global recovery. Capital flowing
into China betting on the nation’s growth and gains by the
yuan is adding to money already in the financial system from
record domestic lending.  “Inflation is a huge problem,” said  Andy Xie , an
independent economist, in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Hong Kong today, before Wen’s comments were broadcast. “The
bottom line is that money supply has increased too much.”  Xie sees another interest-rate increase “soon” after
the central bank last month raised borrowing costs for the
first time since 2007.  October’s  inflation  rate of 4.4 percent was higher than
any of the estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists,
mainly driven by food costs.  China may impose price limits on food and toughen
punishment of those found speculating on agriculture futures
including corn and cotton, the China Securities Journal
reported today, citing an unidentified person. The government
may also crack down on hoarding, offer food subsidies and
hold local mayors responsible for ensuring vegetable supplies
and controlling prices, the report said.  China in January 2008 temporarily froze prices for oil
products, natural gas and electricity, as well as daily goods
and school and transportation fees, to counter inflation that
surged to the fastest pace in more than a decade.  -- Li Yanping ,  Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Matthew Oakley .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  