-- China May Raise Interest Rates Several More Times, Fidelity's Bolton Says
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 2010-11-16T10:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/china-may-raise-interest-rates-several-more-times-fidelity-s-bolton-says.html
China’s interest-rate increase last
month may be “the first of several” amid increased concern
about lending growth, said  Anthony Bolton , who manages the
 Fidelity China Special Situations Solutions Plc  fund.  Credit expansion “is still too high, particularly when one
takes all the off-balance sheet and unofficial lending channels
into account,” Bolton wrote in a statement with interim results
of his 601 million-pound ($964 million) fund listed in London.
It has climbed 20 percent since starting up in April.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 4 percent
today to the lowest in a month on speculation the government
will intensify measures to curb accelerating inflation including
higher interest rates and price controls. The index has plunged
more than 8 percent since Nov. 11 on the expectation
policymakers will raise rates for the second time in two months.  China raised its benchmark lending and deposit rates for
the first time since 2007 on Oct. 19 ahead of a government
report that showed inflation climbed in September to the fastest
pace in almost two years.  Consumer prices  accelerated further
last month to 4.4 percent, more than the government’s full-year
target of 3 percent.  Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said today China is
under “pressure” from capital inflows as the China Securities
Journal reported that price limits are possible for food.  Quantitative Easing  The U.S. Federal Reserve has fueled concern in emerging
economies with its plans to buy $600 billion of long-term
government bonds to reduce borrowing costs and spur growth in a
second round of so-called quantitative easing. China “doesn’t
support” quantitative easing that causes “imported” inflation
in developing countries, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said Nov.
13.  “I have never before witnessed the current situation
whereby money created in one country is leaking at a rapid pace
into assets in another part of the world,” Bolton wrote. “This
is a phenomenon that I think is only in its early stages and
could be the big investment story of the next year or so.”  Economic growth in China may slow to 7 percent to 8 percent
though will still look “pretty interesting” in an economic
environment where much of the world is growing at about 2
percent, Bolton wrote. China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the
third quarter, the smallest gain in a year.  Bolton made his name managing the U.K.-focused Fidelity
Special Situations fund for 28 years, delivering annual returns
of 19.5 percent, according to Morningstar Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darren Boey  in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  