-- Christie Blocks School Superintendent Contract Renewals, Questions Salary
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-16T17:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/christie-blocks-school-superintendent-contract-renewals-questions-salary.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie’s 
administration blocked school boards from renegotiating existing
contracts with superintendents unless they comply with his pay-
cap regulations that are scheduled to take effect in February.  The move came after  Parsippany-Troy Hills  schools chief
Leroy Seitz was granted a contract extension last week that
would have given him a salary above a $175,000 salary cap. The
extension was voided yesterday by Morris County Executive
Superintendent Kathleen Serafino after Christie called the deal
the “poster child” for mismanagement in public education.  “If we’re asking teachers to sacrifice, administrators
have to sacrifice too,” Christie said yesterday at a town hall
meeting in Washington Township, according to transcripts
released by his office. “They cannot be sitting here saying
that they are some privileged class of folks who deserve to make
that kind of money when everybody else in this state is
tightening their belt and making due with less.”  Christie, 48, announced the pay limit in July as part of
his package to control rising real estate tax bills. Seventy-
percent of New Jersey’s 366 school superintendents may have to
take a pay cut when the ceiling kicks in, Christie said then.  The plan would cap salaries at $120,000 for a K-8 district
with fewer than 250 students, and $175,000 for an administrator
in a district with as many as 10,000 pupils.  Seitz Deal  The five-year contract extension for Seitz that was
approved by the Parsippany school board on Nov. 9 would have
been effective Dec. 1, seven months before the expiration of his
current deal, and would have provided 2 percent annual raises
culminating in a $234,065 salary by 2014-15, the Daily Record
reported. The district serves 7,250 students. Calls to Seitz’s
office weren’t immediately returned.  Acting Education Commissioner Rochelle Hendricks yesterday
asked the state’s 21 executive county superintendents in a memo
to inventory all administrator contracts, reporting details
including salary, contractual raises and expiration dates.  Hendricks was “working directly with the governor’s
office” in calling for the review and blocking contract
renewals or extensions for administrators with accords that
expire before the cap takes effect, said Kevin Roberts, a
spokesman for the governor.  Christie, a Republican who took office in January, has
clashed with education unions over his efforts to reduce public-
employee pay and benefits. He told voters in April to reject
school budgets where teachers refused to take wage freezes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 