-- Widening Discounts Push Down Closed-End Funds After Weeklong Bond Selloff
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-17T21:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/closed-end-funds-drop-most-since-june-as-investors-demand-bigger-discounts.html
A weeklong surge in bond yields is
convincing buyers they are paying too much for the assets
underlying closed-end funds, sending the investment products to
the biggest declines in five months.  “It’s a little bit of panic selling,” said  Paul Mazzilli ,
a former fund analyst at Morgan Stanley and head of S-Network
Global Indexes LLC’s closed-fund index committee in New York.
“The funds have been trading at very rich levels and it’s been
like a game of chicken about who was going to hang on.”  The  S-Network Composite Closed-End Fund Index  lost 1.7
percent yesterday, the biggest retreat since June 4 and its
seventh day of declines, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  John
Hancock Investors Trust  dropped 6.3 percent, the most since Nov.
21, 2008, and Pimco Corporate Income Fund fell 3.7 percent, the
biggest decrease since May 6. The S-Network index climbed 1.2
percent today.  Closed-end mutual funds, unlike their open-ended
competitors, sell common shares to investors that are publicly
traded on exchanges and often borrow to boost returns. The
tumble over the last week reflected declines in their  holdings 
as well as a widening discount in the funds’ market price
compared with the value of the assets they own.  Closed-end funds that trade at the highest levels relative
to the per-share worth of their holdings dropped the most
yesterday. Among 1,260 tracked by Bloomberg, 32 lost 4 percent
or more. Those funds traded at a median premium to the net asset
value of 3.3 percent as of the close on Nov. 15.  Larger Discounts  “They’re overvalued relative to the net asset values
because there’s been so much interest in income-type
securities,” said  Richard A. Barone , chairman of Cleveland-
based Ancora Group Inc., which manages about $3 billion.
“They’re returning to larger discounts now while the underlying
portfolios have been weak, touching it off.”  Closed-end funds in the U.S. traded for 4.5 percent less
than their average net asset value on Nov. 15, data compiled by
Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors Inc. in Miami and Bloomberg show.
That was the biggest discount since May 24 and compared with 1.6
percent at the end October. Closed-end funds have on average
traded at a discount of 2.6 percent over the past year, data
from Herzfeld show.  State, Local  Funds that invest in debt securities issued by state and
local governments  fell  the most in two years on Nov. 15 as
losses in the municipal bond market were exacerbated by concern
that borrowing costs will rise. The  Nuveen Municipal Closed-End
Index , which dropped 4.4 percent on Nov. 15 in the biggest
decline since Oct. 15, 2008, erased a 2.7 percent slump
yesterday and rose 1.8 percent.  “It’s like a fire spreading,” Barone said. “There’s a
general sense that risk is coming back into certain areas of the
bond market, and perhaps that we’ve come to the end of the line
in terms of interest rates coming down. So there’s profit-taking
going on.”  The losses come amid declines in both  stock  and debt
securities over the last seven days. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has retreated 3.9 percent since Nov. 5, while the yield on
10-year Treasury notes has climbed from 2.53 percent to 2.85
percent amid concern that the debt crisis in Ireland and Greece
is worsening and that China will act to slow its economy.  “Closed-end funds tend to be  yield-oriented ,” said
 Mariana Bush , a Washington-based closed-end fund analyst at
Wells Fargo Advisors LLC. “When rates are very low, investors
look for higher yields, and they can find them with closed-end
funds, partly because many can leverage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  