-- Coffee Harvest Delays Lengthen in Vietnam as Rain Expected in Three Days
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T11:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/coffee-harvest-delays-lengthen-in-vietnam-as-rain-expected-in-three-days.html
Harvesting of coffee in Vietnam, the
world’s second-biggest producer, will be delayed for a further
week because of rains, according to local weather officials.  “We expect more rains to come in the next two to three
days,” said, director of the Dak Lak Hydrology and Meteorology
Office. “The rains will last for a few days and the dry season
will start after that,” Nguong said from the biggest growing
province of Dak Lak in the Central Highlands. The rainy season,
which normally finishes at the end of October, was prolonged
this year and has delayed harvesting by about two weeks
“already”, Nguong said today.  Robusta-coffee futures for January delivery were little
changed at $1,900 a ton on NYSE Liffe in London. The commodity
has increased 47 percent this year. Further delays in Vietnam’s
robusta crop, the world’s largest, may support prices.  Vietnam may produce 1.1 million tons, about 3 percent less
than the previous crop, according to an Oct. 29 forecast from
Nguyen Van An, a board member of the Vietnam Coffee and Cocoa
Association. A Bloomberg News survey of 10 growers, analysts and
traders last month predicted an increase to 1.2 million tons.
Officials in Dak Lak, Lam Dong and Gia Lai have all forecast
gains in their regions.  “The rains delayed our harvesting but they haven’t damaged
production,” said Cao Van Tu, director of Ea Pok Coffee Co., a
grower and exporter in Dak Lak province. “The beans could be
hurt, and the output could be reduced if we have rains when
farmers are in the process of picking coffee,” Tu said by phone
yesterday from Buon Ma Thuot, capital of Dak Lak.  -- Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen . Editor: James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  