-- Collective Brands to Open Stride Rite Children's Footwear Stores in China
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-11-16T21:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/collective-brands-to-open-stride-rite-children-s-footwear-stores-in-china.html
Collective Brands Inc.  is planning
to take its Stride Rite children’s shoe brand to the world’s
most populous market, opening stores in mainland China next
year, its chief executive officer said.  The company, based in Topeka, Kansas, is teaming up with Li
& Fung Retailing and will also open stores in Hong Kong,
Malaysia and Singapore starting in December,  Matthew Rubel  said
yesterday in a telephone interview. Li & Fung will develop
stores, e-commerce and wholesale business for Collective in
Asia. Closely held Li & Fung Retailing isn’t related to the
publicly traded company of similar name.  Collective, which operates the  Payless ShoeSource  chain, is
pegging growth on international expansion, opening stores in
Russia and the Philippines this year and expanding in the Middle
East. The retailer is entering China with a “prestige” brand
to meet demand from a growing middle class and because lower-
priced goods are made and widely available there, Rubel said.  “They have the one-child policy,” he said. “Think about
how many adults there are to spend on that one child.”  Rubel declined to say how many  stores  are planned. Li &
Fung Retailing, which will run them, will be “aggressive”
about identifying potential sites, he said.  International  sales  accounted for 13 percent of
Collective’s revenue last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company expects that to grow to more than 20
percent by 2013, a spokeswoman said.  Collective began international franchising of Payless
stores about 18 months ago and predicts that it will have about
700 locations within five years, including at least 300 in
Indonesia, where it announced an agreement with a unit of
publicly held retailer  PT Mitra Adiperkasa  last month.  Collective Brands rose 23 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $15.76
at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Its
brands include Saucony and Keds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  