-- Striking Collahuasi Copper Miners Say They Are Prepared to Lower Demands
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-16T13:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/collahuasi-copper-union-says-it-s-prepared-to-lower-demands-in-wage-talks.html
Workers at  Anglo American Plc  and
 Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi venture in Chile indicated for the
first time that they may make concessions to end a strike at the
world’s fourth-largest copper mine in its 12th day.  Workers will accept government-mediated talks and are
waiting for a call from the office of Regional Governor Luz
Ebensperger, union leader Manuel Munoz said yesterday in an
interview in Iquique, Chile. Collahuasi “is always open to
dialogue,” said Bernardita Fernandez, a company spokeswoman.  “When we get back to negotiations I imagine both positions
will have to come closer,” Munoz said. “One side enlarges its
position and we reduce our position.”  Concern that the stoppage would restrict output at the mine
helped drive copper prices to a record last week. The company
has maintained its shipping schedule during the strike by using
non-union employees and contract workers, Fernandez said today.  Copper for delivery in three months declined 2 percent to
$8,469 a metric ton at 8:06 a.m. New York time in London.  Munoz said the union wouldn’t return to the negotiating
table before Nov. 19, when they can return to work without being
fined by the union under Chilean law, Munoz said. Most workers
will support the strike, he said.  “It would be a triumph for us, we would have won at each
stage,” Munoz said. “Then we would be negotiating on equal
footing.”  Collahuasi will present “an attractive offer” to workers
who decide to go back to work on Nov. 19, Fernandez said by
telephone today.  Rejected Offers  Workers rejected a Nov. 5 offer from the company that
included a one-off bonus of 11.5 million pesos ($23,782) plus
soft loans of 2 million pesos. They almost unanimously rejected
an 8.9 million-peso bonus on Oct. 27.  Collahuasi’s workers have the backing of the workers of
Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer owned by the
Chilean state, Munoz said.  Codelco union leader  Raimundo Espinoza  met with Munoz and
Cristian Arancibia, the head of the Mining Federation that
represents large private mining companies in Chile, in Iquique
yesterday, holding talks on acting together in nationwide
disputes, Munoz said.  Collahuasi, about 4,000 meters above sea level in the
Chilean Andes, produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its
production is only surpassed by BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida,
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia
and Codelco’s Norte division in Chile.  Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
Collahuasi and a group led by Mitsui & Co. holds the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  