-- Colombian Peso Falls to Four-Month Low on Concern Over Ireland's Finances
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-16T19:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/colombian-peso-falls-to-four-month-low-on-concern-over-ireland-s-finances.html
Colombia’s peso fell to a four-month
low as concern Ireland may need to tap international bailout
funds hurt appetite for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The peso slid 0.9 percent to 1,883.30 per U.S. dollar at
3:38 p.m. New York time, its weakest close since July 8. The
decline pared the peso’s gain this year to 8.5 percent, still
the best performance among the six most-traded Latin American
currencies.  “Things in Europe are complicated and local markets are
getting hit because of increased risk aversion,” said  Daniel Velandia , head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Correval SA.  Ireland is in talks with European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would shore up the
state’s finances and allow it to inject capital into the
country’s banks, said a European official with direct knowledge
of the talks. Ireland says it’s fully funded into mid-2011.  Central bank and government measures to ease gains in the
peso have helped stem the local currency’s rally, according to
Velandia.  Banco de la Republica began on Sept. 15 purchasing a
minimum of $20 million a day through auctions which will last
until “at least” March 15. Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said last month that the government will eliminate
most tax exemptions on overseas borrowing and keep $1.5 billion
abroad “at least for the first months of 2011” to reduce the
inflow of dollars.  ‘Willing to Fight’  “The government historically has been a big player in the
market,” Velandia said. “The fact that it isn’t selling
dollars in the market at the moment is helping place a” floor
on the peso, he said.  Echeverry told reporters today in a broadcast on the
presidential website that the government “doesn’t rule out”
capital controls. He made the comments as part of presentations
following President  Juan Manuel Santos ’s 100 days in
office.  “So far we’ve taken structural measures but we don’t rule
anything out,” Echeverry said. “Markets should know that we
are willing to fight to avoid harmful effects on the export
sector from the actions of speculators.”  Echeverry also said the government wouldn’t sell foreign
bonds this year to begin funding the 2011 budget, which is known
as “pre-financing.” The government plans to sell $2.24 billion
in bonds abroad next year as part of its plans to obtain $3.7
billion in external financing.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 rose eight basis points basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 7.41 percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange.
The bond’s price slipped 0.610 centavo to 124.158 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  