-- Comerica First to Raise Dividend, Approves Share Buy
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-11-16T22:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/comerica-doubles-dividend-to-10-cents-sets-share-buyback-as-stock-climbs.html
Comerica Inc. , the Dallas-based bank
that posted annual profits throughout the financial crisis,
became the first of the largest U.S. lenders to raise its
dividend, doubling the payout to 10 cents. The stock climbed.  The dividend is payable Jan. 1 to shareholders of record on
Dec. 15, the company said today in a statement. Comerica also
authorized the repurchase of up to 7 percent of shares
outstanding, sending the stock higher by as much as 3.4 percent
in extended trading after closing at $36.74 on the New York
Stock Exchange.  “You will see a number of the stronger banks increase
their dividends over the next quarter,”  Jennifer Thompson , an
analyst at New York-based Portales Partners LLC, said in an
interview. She assigns a “hold” rating to shares of
Comerica, which ranks among the 20 biggest U.S. commercial
lenders by assets. “The regulators have put rules in place and
now it will be a matter of making individual decisions for each
bank.”  Investors and analysts have used quarterly conference calls
to press banking executives about the timing of dividend
increases. Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said Nov. 12
that banks seeking to raise payouts will be required to undergo
a stress test showing they would have sufficient capital for two
years.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co., U.S. Bancorp, PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. and BB&T Corp. may be next to
announce higher dividends, Thompson said.  Comerica’s buyback plan may include as many as 12,576,281
shares, and the bank also may repurchase warrants covering
11,479,592 shares, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  