-- Commodities to Outperform Equities for 10 Years, Fund Manager Galtere Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-11-16T07:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/commodities-to-outperform-equities-for-10-years-fund-manager-galtere-says.html
Commodities will outperform
companies that buy raw materials as demand for food and clothing
climbs in developing nations over the next decade, according to
Galtere Ltd., an investment company with $1.1 billion.  Shares of companies that use raw materials will lag gains
in the commodities because manufacturers and retailers
won’t be able to fully pass on higher costs to customers,  Lauren Polen , an analyst at New York-based Galtere, said in an
interview in London on Nov. 10. Corn has jumped 36 percent this
year, cotton is up 81 percent and soybeans climbed 21 percent.  “We definitely see a structural shift where you are
going to have over the next 10 years real assets, commodities
across the board, outperforming paper assets like equities,”
Polen said. “Demand pull from emerging market countries is
going to help sustain higher prices, so there is going to be a
longer-term structural bull market.”  Increasing wealth in Brazil, India and China is boosting
demand for grains, dairy, meat and cooking oils. The  Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index  of eight futures climbed 29
percent this year, led by cotton, coffee, wheat and corn as
floods in Canada, Pakistan and China and drought in Russia and
across Europe killed crops. The economies of China and India,
the biggest consumers of cooking oils, are growing at three
times the speed of the U.S.  “Higher input costs typically get passed from retailers
and manufacturers to consumers,” Polen said. “We believe that
the current slowdown in developed market demand would mean that
prices have less room to rise before sales begin to suffer.”  Polen said the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to pump an
extra $600 billion into the economy by purchasing government
bonds, known as quantitative easing, will benefit commodities.  The Galtere International Master Fund has $250 million in
assets, and returned 5.1 percent this year to October, according
to Werner Schuenemann, head of business development and investor
relations in Zug, Switzerland. The remaining assets are in other
commodities including metals and agriculture raw materials, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  