-- Commodities Cap Biggest Five-Day Slide Since 2009 as China May Slow Buying
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-16T23:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/commodities-cap-biggest-five-day-slide-since-2009-as-china-may-slow-buying.html
Commodities capped the biggest five-
session slide since July 2009 on concern that China will seek to
slow its economic growth, curbing raw-material demand in the
country that is leading the global recovery.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
fell 3.2 percent to settle at 296.22 at 5:34 p.m. in New York.
The gauge has dropped 7.2 percent since Nov. 9, the biggest
five-session decline since July 2009. Earlier, the measure
touched 296.2, the lowest since Oct. 22. The  dollar  rose to a
seven-week high against a basket of six currencies.  Premier Wen Jiabao said today the cabinet is drafting
measures to counter the fastest inflation in two years. China
may impose price limits on food and toughen punishment for those
found speculating on agriculture, the China Securities Journal
said, citing an unidentified person. The CRB has gained 15
percent since June 30, led by cotton, corn and sugar.  “The concerns about further monetary tightening in China,
that’s caused a big selloff,” said  Nic Johnson , a commodity
portfolio manager at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co. “People had bid up a lot of these
commodities. Now, what you’re seeing is a healthy correction
back toward where fundamental demand levels are.”  The CRB’s decline today was led by nickel, wheat and
aluminum. Wheat plunged the most in three months. Copper tumbled
the most in four months, while gold fell to the lowest in almost
two weeks.  Corn slumped to the lowest price in five weeks and soybeans
tumbled as much as 5.4 percent. China, the world’s top oilseed
buyer, has boosted corn imports this year.  Dollar Rebound  The dollar has gained seven times in eight sessions. Cotton
climbed to a record last week, while copper, corn and soybeans
reached two-year highs.  “Some of the bullish catalysts have shrunk with the idea
that the dollar is on much more firm footing,” said  James Cordier , a portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,
Florida. “What we’re seeing today is what happens when you have
a crowded space, like commodities have been, get a little bit of
negative news, and everyone hits the exit at the same time.”  Cotton is up 71 percent this year, the most among futures
tracked by the CRB, followed by silver, up 50 percent, and
coffee, up 47 percent.  “We’ve had a pretty good run in the commodity market for
the last couple months,” said  Boyd Cruel , a senior analyst at
Vision Financial Markets in Chicago. “Now, we’re just kind of
seeing the market go through a little correction, maybe
consolidation phase.”  Raw materials may rebound on bullish fundamentals Cordier
of OptionSellers.com said.  “While the liquidation might not be over with one day of
selling, you do want to look for certain commodities to buy back
on this big dip,” Cordier said. He cited sugar, copper, cocoa,
gasoline and crude oil as a “good buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 