-- House Panel to Decide Democrat Rangel's Punishment for Ethics Violations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/congressman-rangel-is-found-guilty-of-11-ethics-violations-by-house-panel.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
ethics committee is scheduled to decide tomorrow whether to
punish Congressman  Charles Rangel , a New York Democrat found
guilty of 11 counts of violating House rules.  An eight-member subcommittee agreed yesterday that Rangel
had violated House rules when he raised money for an  academic
center named for him  at City College of New York, when he filed
erroneous financial-disclosure statements and when he used a
rent-controlled apartment as a campaign office, among other
offenses.  After hearing from committee counsel and from Rangel, if he
so desires, the full 10-member panel, which includes the
subcommittee members, will vote on a motion to recommend that
the House impose punishment. Possible sanctions include a letter
of admonition from the panel, a censure or reprimand by the full
House, and a fine.  Rangel yesterday renewed his complaints about the way the
hearing was conducted. He walked out of the hearing Nov. 15 and
boycotted the proceedings after the subcommittee rejected his
request for a delay to allow him to hire a new lawyer.  “What does surprise me is how they can say I’ve had due
process,” Rangel told a group of reporters. “They just want to
conclude it this year and get it out of the way.”  Regarding punishment, he said, “it seems to me my 50 years
of public service should be taken into account.”  ‘50-Year History’  Representative  Barbara Lee , a California Democrat who
chairs the Congressional Black Caucus, praised Rangel’s
“distinguished, demonstrated 50-year history of service to his
constituents” in a statement. “Any decision on punishment
should be in line with previous findings of the ethics
committee,” she said.  Rangel won a 21st House term Nov. 2 after fending off
challenges from five candidates in New York’s Sept. 14
Democratic primary. He received 80 percent of the general
election vote in his Harlem-based district -- a tally that he
said should quiet any calls for him to leave office, even given
the ethics subcommittee’s findings.  “The question of whether I resign was resolved by the
people,” he said.  Rangel, 80, was charged with violating 13 rules. The
subcommittee deadlocked on a charge that he violated the House
gift rule. It also decided to combine two counts accusing him of
misusing congressional mailing privileges in sending out
fundraising solicitations for the academic center.  The committee’s chief counsel, Blair Chisam, said during
the Nov. 15 hearing that he did not believe Rangel “took steps
to enrich himself.”  Donations Sought  Eight of the charges involved Rangel’s efforts to raise
money to help finance the Charles B. Rangel Center for Public
Service at City College. The subcommittee found that he
improperly used congressional stationery and staff to seek
donations, including from individuals with issues pending before
Congress.  The donations “were accepted under circumstances which
might be construed by reasonable persons as influencing”
Rangel’s performance of governmental duties, according to a
report from Chisam.  Rangel solicited donations from  Verizon Communications Inc .
and  American International Group Inc ., among other companies,
the report said.  The counsel’s report also said Rangel “failed to fully and
accurately report numerous items” on his financial-disclosure
statements, including rental income and investments.  Rangel used a rent-controlled apartment in Manhattan as a
campaign office even though the lease and New York City
regulations required that it be a residence, according to the
report. The committee called it a “favor” from a landlord who
had met with the congressman and his staff and owns buildings in
Rangel’s Harlem-based district.  Rangel stepped aside as chairman of the  Ways and Means
Committee  in March after the ethics panel said he broke House
rules by accepting corporate-sponsored travel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 