-- Continental AG Shifts From BMW Luxury to Tata's $2,700 Nano
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-17T14:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/continental-ag-shifts-from-bmw-luxury-to-2-700-tata-nano-in-asian-growth.html
Continental AG , the world’s biggest
maker of car instruments and display systems, aims to reduce
dependence on a stagnating European market by targeting Asian
buyers of ultra-cheap autos with affordable electronic devices.  “We’re placing a strong emphasis on cars in the lower
price segment,” said  Helmut Matschi , Continental’s interior
unit chief. “If you want to bring the same functionality to
these cars, you have to figure out a way to make them affordable
because the budget is lower.”  The  company  is reducing costs by developing electronic
devices that combine functions, like car access controls and
speed indicators, Matschi said in an interview last week at the
division’s headquarters in Regensburg, Germany. The interior
business generated 4.4 billion euros ($5.9 billion) in revenue
for Continental last year, 21 percent of the company’s total.  Making devices suitable for low-end autos, including  Tata
Motors Ltd. ’s $2,700 Nano, the world’s cheapest car, represents
a shift for the parts maker, which has historically relied on
home market sales to high-end producers Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG, Daimler AG and Volkswagen AG. Continental gets  more than 60
percent  of its sales from Europe and only 14 percent from Asia.  Continental  shares gained 38 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
57.90 euros at 3:37 p.m. in Frankfurt. They have advanced 59
percent this year, making them the third-best performers on the
 Stoxx 600 Automobiles & Parts Index . Valeo SA of France has
increased 57 percent and Pirelli & C. SpA of Italy has risen 34
percent.  ‘Foot in the Door’  Stuttgart, Germany-based  Robert Bosch GmbH  also aims to
accelerate growth by supplying the Asian low-cost market. Bosch
was the first company to announce cooperation with Tata on the
Nano and is cutting non-essential functions from components to
attract customers on the continent, spokesman Thomas Knoll said.  While half of the world’s cars are built in Asia, car
electronics production still largely takes place outside the
region, 47-year-old Matschi said. Continental, which trails
Aichi, Japan-based  Denso Corp.  in most car electronics segments
in Asia, said the new push would target autos which on average
cost about 2,000 euros in India, 4,000 euros to 5,000 euros in
China and as much as 11,000 euros in Japan.  “It’s not going to be easy to get decent margins on these
products, but it’s essential to have a foot in the door,” said
 Frank Schwope , a NordLB analyst in Hanover who recommends buying
Continental shares. “We’re looking at a vast mass market that
they have to tackle and that they can’t leave to the
competition.”  Growth Markets  Continental, based in Hanover, Germany, needs to tap growth
markets to help pay back more than 8 billion euros in net debt
stemming from the 2007 purchase of  Siemens AG ’s VDO division,
which added Matschi’s unit to the company’s portfolio. European
car sales fell for a seventh straight month in October following
the expiration of government incentives, the Brussels-based
European Automobile Manufacturers Association said yesterday.  Continental won  Ford Motor Co.  as a customer last year and
is in talks with carmakers in Asia to supply them with
components that combine functions to reduce the use of materials
and streamline production, Matschi said.  If the technology “meets our functional requirements,
production needs and validation requirement, then we will
definitely be interested in it,” said C.V. Raman, engineering
manager at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , which makes India’s most
popular model, the Alto hatchback. “Of course, cost is an
important determinant.”  Low-End Growth  Tata is in talks with  Continental  on new products,
spokesman Debasis Ray said, declining to provide details. The
German company currently provides Tata with parts including
instrument clusters and fuel delivery modules, Ray said.  Close to all net growth in the global car market from 70
million to 100 million units in the next ten years will come
from low-cost vehicles, said  Christoph Stuermer , a Frankfurt-
based analyst at IHS Automotive. Most cars in the segment don’t
yet have proven electronics systems, making it easier for
suppliers like Continental to enter the market, he added.  “It’s very sensible for suppliers to establish themselves
not only technologically, but also gain experience with the
specific business models that are needed in these markets,”
Stuermer said.  The first hardware from Continental’s new effort is a unit
which combines controls for windows, lighting and other
components in a one-size-fits-all format.  Ford  uses the part,
which is 30 percent cheaper than custom-made controllers, in the
Figo small car, which went on sale in India this year,
Continental spokesman Enno Pflug said.  Product Pipeline  It’s also installed in  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. ’s
Emgrand in China and Proton Holdings Bhd.’s Exora in Malaysia,
Pflug said. After an agreement with a manufacturer is reached,
it only takes about six months for production to start, as
opposed to the usual two to three years, he said.  Products in the pipeline include an antenna module
combining transmitters and receivers for GPS, television and
remote keyless access in one unit. A console combining radio and
climate control functions is also in the works, Matschi said.  “There’s demand there for vehicles that cost very little,
but the production infrastructure isn’t there,” said  Aleksej Wunrau , an analyst at BHF-Bank AG in Frankfurt with a “market
weight” recommendation on the shares. “That’s a gap foreign
suppliers have the chance of closing right now.”  Continental, which is also Europe’s second-largest tire
producer behind France’s  Michelin & Cie.,  is looking to expand
development, production and sales capacities in Asia through
joint ventures and new facilities, Pflug said.  The company’s interior division has sites in 17 Asian
locations including Haryana, India, and Changchun, China, as
well as joint ventures in South Korea, India and Indonesia.  “We don’t want to handle the affordable-car project from
Germany,” Matschi said. “We’re looking at the needs of the
various markets, and it turns out China is an entirely different
story than India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  