-- Ireland's Cowen to Weigh EU Steps to Shore Up Banking System
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-16T12:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/cowen-signals-irish-may-weigh-eu-bank-measures-as-bailout-pressure-climbs.html
Ireland signaled a willingness to
weigh European Union measures to aid its banks, potentially
abandoning a go-it-alone defense to prevent a resurgent debt
crisis from destabilizing the euro.  With European Central Bank officials urging Ireland to set
aside national pride and tap the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion)
fund created in May, Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  put aid for
banks on the agenda of a meeting of euro finance ministers
today.  “We have to discuss these matters with partners as to how
best to underpin financial and banking stability within the euro
area,” Cowen told state broadcaster RTE in an interview late
yesterday. Ireland has not asked for any bailout, he said.  The Irish turmoil marks a new stage in a sovereign debt
crisis that was triggered by Greece and threatened to break the
euro region apart in May. Irish  bonds  tumbled today, reversing a
two-day surge, on concern that today’s Brussels meeting might
end without a deal to shore up Ireland’s banks.  “We are in a survival crisis,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said at the  European Policy Centre  in Brussels today.
“If we don’t survive with the euro zone we will not survive
with the European Union.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3610 at 12:18 p.m. in
London. The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond rose 21 basis points
to 8.364 percent. The  extra yield  over German bunds rose to 559
basis points from 540 basis points yesterday. Refusal to tap EU
funds would push Ireland’s borrowing costs higher again,
Deutsche Bank AG said.  Spreads at Risk  “The recent rally increases the chances that Ireland won’t
ask for any aid but the reality is that spreads are at risk of
rewidening if they don’t,” Deutsche Bank strategists  Jim Reid 
in London and  Colin Tan  in Sydney wrote in an investor note.  Cowen is due to appear in Dublin’s parliament from 2:30
p.m. for a regular question session with lawmakers. European
ministers meet at 5 p.m. in Brussels, with no set time for a
conclusion.  Cowen’s indication of possible EU aid for the banking
system marks a shift from last week, when the government said
there were no talks under way with European authorities. Ireland
isn’t filing a request “for the funding of the state” since it
has enough cash to last until mid-2011, he said.  Pact Doubt  Cowen doubted a concrete agreement would emerge from
today’s meeting. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who runs the meeting, and EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  will brief the press afterwards.  Ireland is “edging” toward accepting aid for banks, the
Dublin-based Irish Independent reported, without citing anyone.
To fend off a bailout for the state, Irish Finance Minister
 Brian Lenihan  is “poised” to agree a bank injection, the
newspaper said today.  “Ireland’s going to need to take some deal from Europe,”
Columbia University professor  Jeffrey Sachs , who advised eastern
European governments on post-Cold War market reforms, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  As Ireland insisted it doesn’t need handouts for its public
budget, ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said it would be
able to use the emergency fund set up to support euro-area
governments to recapitalize banks reeling from the bursting of
the real-estate bubble.  Quick Resolution  An Irish aid appeal “would stabilize the situation,”
Constancio told reporters in Frankfurt today. “Several
countries are under pressure.”  The risk is that Ireland’s crisis spreads to Portugal and,
eventually, to Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy.
Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos
yesterday indicated the risk to his country’s economic
independence if the crisis mounts.  “There is a risk of contagion,” he said in an interview
when asked whether Portugal will seek EU aid. “But there’s a
big difference between saying there is a risk of contagion and
saying help is imminent or that we are going to ask for help.”  For now, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is still pushing
for a quick resolution to a crisis she helped exacerbate on Oct.
29. Merkel won an EU pledge to consider her demand that
bondholders share the costs of future EU bailouts, sparking a
13-day losing streak for Irish bonds.  Getting it Wrong  That forced her to backpedal last week and sign a five-
country declaration on Nov. 12 exempting outstanding securities
from a restructuring that could be imposed under a permanent
rescue mechanism to be created by 2013.  Germany “got it wrong and they’re trying to fix it,” said
 Henrik Enderlein , a political economist at the Hertie School of
Governance in Berlin. Merkel is “trying to send a clear message
that Germany is pro-European, that they are ready to help out
Ireland, Portugal and other countries if necessary and they will
not put the euro at risk.”  While hazy on the details, Merkel wants to penalize
bondholders for betting against fiscally unsound governments
after the EU’s temporary rescue fund runs out in 2013, Deputy
Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter  said.  “Don’t underestimate Germany on this,” Kampeter said late
yesterday in an interview in Karlsruhe. Merkel’s government
“stands full-square behind involving private investors in
bailouts.”  A split on the ECB council has added to market tensions,
with the Trichet-backed program of buying bonds of deficit-hit
states lacking the support of  Axel Weber , head of Germany’s
central bank. Another ECB council member, Spain’s  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez , yesterday blamed Ireland for equivocating
over EU aid.  Stock Slump  Ireland’s top two banks --  Bank of Ireland Plc  and  Allied
Irish Banks Plc  -- are growing increasingly reliant on the ECB
for funding. ECB loans to Irish banks rose 7.3 percent to 130
billion euros in October from the previous month, Ireland’s
central bank said on Nov. 1.  Ireland’s five-member  ISEQ Financial Index  of banking
stocks is now worth 2 percent of the peak valuation reached in
February 2007. Officials put the cost of cleaning up the banking
system as high as 50 billion euros, equal to about a third of
Ireland’s economic output. Irish and international banks’ loan
losses in the country may total at least 85 billion euros,
central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said on Nov. 11.  “There is a problem with liquidity in banks,”  Dick Roche ,
Ireland’s European affairs minister, said on BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” program. “But I don’t think the appropriate response
to that would be for the European finance ministers to panic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling or  jhertling@bloomberg.net  