-- Crude Oil Declines to Two-Week Low as European Debt Woes May Curb Demand
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-16T21:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/crude-oil-declines-to-two-week-low-as-european-debt-woes-may-curb-demand.html
Crude oil tumbled to a two-week low
on speculation Europe’s deepening debt crisis and steps to cool
Asia’s economic growth will reduce demand.  Oil slid 3 percent as European ministers gathered in
Brussels to discuss aid to Ireland’s banks. The Bank of Korea
raised interest rates for the second time this year and the
China Securities Journal said the Chinese government will take
steps to control rising prices. The drop accelerated after U.S.
wholesale costs rose less than forecast in October.  “There are concerns about what the European debt crisis
will mean for the economy and energy demand,” said  Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield, Massachusetts. “There are similar concerns about
what the Asian steps will mean for demand.”  Crude oil for December delivery fell $2.52 to $82.34 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement price since Oct. 29.  Brent crude oil for January settlement declined $2.03, or
2.3 percent, to $84.73 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  Prices advanced from the settlement after the
American Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S.
crude-oil stockpiles decreased 7.65 million barrels to 352.5
million. December oil was down $2.46, or 2.9 percent, to $82.40
a barrel in electronic trading at 4:33 p.m.  West Texas Intermediate oil, the grade deliverable against
the New York futures contract, is trading at a discount of $2.39
a barrel to Brent, the most since Sept. 29. A rising dollar is
reducing the appeal of the U.S. benchmark relative to Brent,
said  Stephen Schork , president of consultant Schork Group Inc.
in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Stronger Dollar  “The strong dollar and WTI December 2010 options expiry
today are likely weighing down on the New York market,” Schork
said. “WTI is more sensitive” to currency moves, he said.  The dollar surged as much as 1 percent to $1.3448 against
the euro, the highest level since Sept. 28, before trading at
$1.3491 at 3:12 p.m. A stronger dollar reduces the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment. December crude oil
options expire at the close of floor trading on the New York
exchange today.  Oil prices have fallen 7.1 percent from the two-year
intraday high of $88.63 a barrel reached on Nov. 11. They may be
“modestly higher” a year from now at $100, said  Mihir Worah  of
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California.  That represents “a fair price,” Worah said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . Worah runs the $18 billion Pimco
Commodity Real Return Strategy Fund, the largest commodity
mutual fund that tracks the Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 1.6 percent to
1,178.34 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 1.6 percent
to 11,023.50.  Irish Talks  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would shore up the
state’s finances as well as enable it to inject capital into the
country’s banks, said a European official with direct knowledge
of the talks. Negotiations are in progress and no decision has
been reached, the person said.  “Concerns are moving from financial center to financial
center,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund focusing on energy. “We are seeing
renewed concerns about Irish and even Greek debt. There are
worries about what all of this will mean for demand.”  The Bank of Korea increased interest rates after inflation
surged past the central bank’s ceiling. China will introduce
measures to control rising food prices, the China Securities
Journal reported, citing an unidentified person. The country’s
central bank boosted lending rates in October for the first time
since 2007.  Interest Rates  “The South Korean rate increase is key,” said  Phil Flynn ,
a Chicago-based analyst and trader with investment adviser
PFGBest. “It increases the pressure on other countries in the
region to raise theirs. It looks like it’s only a matter of time
before China raises its rates again.”  The U.S. producer price  index  climbed 0.4 percent from the
prior month, according to the Labor Department. Economists
projected a 0.8 percent gain in October, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core measure,
which excludes volatile food and energy costs, decreased 0.6
percent, the most since July 2006.  “Some of the optimism about an the economy is ebbing
away,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “Today’s PPI suggests that the
economy is muddling along at best.”  Oil Inventories  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were split over whether
an Energy Department report tomorrow will show  stockpiles  of
crude oil rose or fell last week. Inventories were probably
unchanged from the previous week at 364.9 million barrels,
according to the median of 15 responses.  The department will release its Weekly Petroleum Status
Report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 773,231 contracts as of 3:13
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 595,442
contracts yesterday, 16 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.48 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  