-- Loehmann’s, Cynergy, Wind Hellas, Ambac: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-16T13:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/cynergy-ppi-capmark-wind-hellas-ambac-trico-bankruptcy.html
Discount retailer  Loehmann’s Inc. 
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization early yesterday morning and
later in the day was given interim authority by the bankruptcy
judge for $6 million in credit from a $45 million loan provided
by Crystal Financial LLC, a pre-petition lender.  As submitted to the judge, the loan required filing the
previously negotiated reorganization plan by Dec. 1 and
obtaining approval of an explanatory disclosure statement by
Jan. 7. The deadline for confirmation of the plan was Feb. 7.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert E. Gerber  said the deadlines
were too stringent and agreed to approve the interim loan only
with a looser timetable. By early this morning, an order
formally approving the loan wasn’t on the court’s docket.  For Bloomberg coverage of the Loehmann’s filing and the so-
called first day hearings, click here.  Loehmann’s had an exchange offer in October that failed. It
would have rolled over debt on existing secured notes into new
notes with a different maturity. The Bronx-based company then
negotiated a prepackaged reorganization plan financed in part
with a new $25 million investment from the current owner
Istithmar PJSC and Whippoorwill Associates Inc., the owner of 70
percent of the notes. The plan will exchange the $110 million in
secured notes for the new equity. The $25 million purchases new
convertible preferred stock. The plan would reduce debt by $115
million.  Other debt includes $30.5 million outstanding on a $45
million revolving credit with Crystal. Loehmann’s has 48 stores
in 13 states and the District of Columbia. Eight locations are
closing.  Trade suppliers are owed $15 million, a court paper says.
The treatment of unsecured creditors under the plan is yet to be
negotiated.  Loehmann’s emerged from a 14-month a Chapter 11
reorganization with a confirmed plan in September 2000. It was
then operating 44 stores in 17 states. Loehmann’s was acquired
by Istithmar in July 2006 in a $300 million transaction.
Istithmar is an investment firm owned by the government of Dubai  The case is In re Loehmann’s Holdings Inc., 10-16077, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Cynergy Data Plan Going to Creditors for Voting  Former credit card processor Cynergy Data LLC, now formally
named CD Liquidation Co. Plus LLC, scheduled a confirmation
hearing for Dec. 21 when the bankruptcy judge approved the
disclosure statement on Nov. 12 explaining the liquidating
Chapter 11 plan filed in September.  The plan won’t pay anything aside from lawsuit recoveries
to anyone except holders of first-lien debt. The maximum
recovery by secured lenders is 5 percent, according to the
disclosure statement. The plan is founded on a settlement with
secured lenders.  In case the plan doesn’t fly in December, the bankruptcy
judge extended the company’s exclusive right to propose a plan
until Jan. 11. Cynergy sold the business to private-equity
investor ComVest Group for $81 million, including $14 million in
subordinated debt payable by the purchaser.  Long Island City, New York-based Cynergy processed $10
billion in credit charges annually for 80,000 merchants before
the Chapter 11 filing in September 2009. The petition listed
assets of $110 million against debt totaling $186 million,
including $39.8 million on a first-lien credit and $80.1 million
on a junior secured credit. There was also $9 million owing by
an affiliate that Cynergy guaranteed.  The case is In re CD Liquidation Co. Plus LLC, 09-13038,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Precision Parts Committee Given Approval to Sue Creditors  The official creditors’ committee of  Precision Parts
International Services Corp.  was given authorization by the
bankruptcy judge on Nov. 12 to file lawsuits to recover
preferences. As a result, the committee will be suing the
creditors that it represents.  The committee can also sue to recover fraudulent transfers.
Any suits brought by the committee will be taken over by a trust
to be created under the proposed liquidating Chapter 11 plan.
The hearing for approval of the disclosure statement is
currently on the court’s calendar for Dec. 1.  A preference is a payment received within 90 days of the
Chapter 11 filing in December 2008 that paid off an overdue
debt. The committee cannot sue Gene Davis, the company’s last
remaining director. PPI was an auto parts maker.  PPI’s disclosure statement tells unsecured creditors with
$103 million in claims that they might recover 0.15 percent
under the Chapter 11 plan. PPI filed for reorganization in
December 2008 and sold the assets in March 2009, generating net
proceeds of $16 million. Secured lenders received $9.8 million
immediately.  The plan in part is the result of a settlement with secured
lenders where $575,000 was carved out for creditors with lower
priorities. In addition to $150,000 cash, unsecured creditors
are to receive some recoveries from lawsuits, plus other excess
cash, if any.  The Rochester Hills, Michigan-based company had six plants
in North America making metal-formed components for the auto and
aerospace industries. It owed more than $85 million on bank
loans to  Golub Capital  and Norwest Mezzanine Partners II LP.
Court papers listed other debts as including $184.5 million in
secured and unsecured loan obligations plus $30 million owing to
trade suppliers. The revolving credit and term loans were $89
million while there was an $88.5 million mezzanine loan. First
Atlantic Capital Ltd. acquired control of the company in 2005.  The case is In re PPI Holdings Inc., 08-13289, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Capmark Creditors Want to Sue for Insider Preferences  The Capmark Financial Group Inc. creditors’ committee
believes the bankruptcy judge may have inadvertently denied a
motion by the panel for permission to sue insiders for
preferences. For an insider, a company officer, or a person in
control of a bankruptcy company, a preference is a payment
received within a year of bankruptcy on account of an overdue
debt.  The bankruptcy judge on Nov. 1 filed a 93-page opinion
explaining why he approved a settlement with secured lenders.
The creditors’ committee was opposed to the settlement and
sought authority to sue the lenders.  By approving the settlement, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Christopher Sontchi  also denied the committee’s motion to sue
insiders and lenders.  The committee, in its motion for reconsideration filed Nov.
12, pointed out to the judge how insider preference claims are
not part of the settlement agreement that the judge approved.
The committee therefore wants the judge to modify his prior
ruling by allowing preference suits against insiders.  The settlement pays secured lenders 91 percent in cash on
the $1.1 billion they’re still owed, plus interest and
reimbursement of fees spent in the Chapter 11 case. For details
on the settlement and Sontchi’s reasons for approving, click
here for the Nov. 2 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Capmark previously said it intends on reorganizing around
its non-bankrupt bank subsidiary by giving stock to unsecured
creditors. Based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, Capmark was called
GMAC Commercial Holding Corp. before control was sold in 2006.
It had been GMAC’s servicing and mortgage banking business.  KKR & Co ., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Dune Capital
Management LP and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC owned 75.4
percent of Capmark following a 2006 acquisition from  General
Motors Corp . for $1.5 billion cash and repayment of $7.3 billion
in debt. Capmark’s debt included a $1.5 billion term loan
secured by all assets except Capmark’s bank’s assets, $234
million remaining under a bridge loan, a $4.6 billion senior
credit, $2.34 billion in notes, and a $250 million junior
subordinated debt. The bank had assets of $11.12 billion and
deposits of $8.39 billion, according to a court filing.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Crystal Cathedral Predicts Positive Cash Flow  Crystal Cathedral Ministries , a mega-church in Garden
Grove, California, founded by  Robert H. Schuller , projected
generating $13.5 million in contributions over the first six
months ending in April following the Chapter 11 filing.  The cash flow forecast filed with the bankruptcy court
predicts that cash will grow over the period by $306,000, ending
at $1.03 million.  The largest expense items are $5 million in payroll and
$3.2 million for “airtime” to broadcast the church’s Hour of
Power television show.  The church filed under Chapter 11 in mid-October in Santa
Ana, California, saying both assets and debt exceed $50 million.  Schuller retired from his role as senior pastor in 2006.
His daughter Sheila Schuller Coleman has been senior pastor
since July 2009. A court filing says contributions were down 24
percent in 2009, in part on account of “unsettled leadership.”  The case is In re Crystal Cathedral Ministries, 10-24771,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  AVP Pro Volleyball Tour Set for Dec. 2 Auction  AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour Inc., a producer of beach
volleyball tournaments, will be sold in exchange for secured
debt plus $200,000 cash unless another bid is submitted by the
Nov. 29 deadline.  An auction and sale-approval hearing will be held at the
same time on Dec. 2.  The initial offer comes from RJSM Partners LLC, the secured
lender owed $5.4 million. RJSM’s initial offer is to exchange
less than $2 million of the debt for ownership. RJSM is also the
72 percent owner.  Torrance, California-based AVP filed under Chapter 11 at
the end of October in Los Angeles after canceling the last five
events of a 12-event season.  AVP said it has more than 200 “top volleyball
professionals under exclusive contracts.”  Unsecured debt is $5 million, according to court papers.  The petition says assets are less than $500,000 while debt
exceeds $1 million.  The case is In re AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour Inc.,
10-56761, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  New Filings  Wind Hellas Finance Sub Files Chapter 15 in Delaware  Hellas Telecommunications (Luxembourg) V, a finance
affiliate of Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA, filed a petition
for Chapter 15 relief on Nov. 12 in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Delaware. The petition says assets are less than $1 billion
while debt exceeds $1 billion.  Wind Hellas, a Greek mobile phone provider, is in its
second restructuring in a year. The Chapter 15 case is designed
to complement arrangement proceedings begun Nov. 4 in the High
Court of Justice of England and Wales. For Bloomberg coverage of
the High Court proceedings and the intended scheme of
arrangement, click here for a Nov. 4 Bloomberg story.  The papers filed in the U.S. court carefully explain why
the company and affiliates were entitled to file for
reorganization in the U.K. as opposed to Luxembourg or Greece.  If the Chapter 15 petition is granted, the U.S. court will
assist the U.K. proceedings and in substance require creditors
to fight out any disputes in the court abroad.  The cases is In re Hellas Telecommunications (Luxembourg)
V, 10-13651, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Hyperbaric Clinic Operator Files in Philadelphia  WJO Inc. , the operator of six medical clinics in
Pennsylvania, filed a Chapter 11 petition yesterday in
Philadelphia.  Based in Bristol, Pennsylvania, the clinics are run by
President William J. O’Brien III, its website says. The clinics
use hyperbaric chambers to treat patients with pure oxygen for
maladies such as diabetic wounds and crush injuries.  The petition says assets and debt both exceed $10 million.  The case is In re WJO Inc., 10-19894, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Watch List  David Stern’s DJSP Enterprises Defaults on Debt  DJSP Enterprises Inc.  may be the first business associated
with  David J. Stern ’s foreclosure mill to need bankruptcy
protection. Stern is a Florida foreclosure lawyer under
investigation by the state’s attorney general.  DJSP disclosed yesterday that it’s in default on a $12
million line of credit with Bank of America NA. DJSP provides
processing services for the Law Offices of David J. Stern PA,
which has been barred from providing services for Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac.  DJSP, based in Plantation, Florida, said that it has a
forbearance agreement with the bank good through Nov. 26. The
default on the credit line also caused a default on a separate
$1.85 million equipment loan with a bank affiliate.  The bank used the default to bar DJSP from paying interest
on subordinated debt.  DJSP also said that an affiliate didn’t pay November rent
on the principal offices. The company said it fired 700 workers.  The DJSP stock closed yesterday at 47 cents, an all-time
low. The high was $13.50 on April 23.  Cash of Factory Home Builder Palm Harbor Plunges  Homebuilder  Palm Harbor Homes Inc.  filed financial
statements for the quarter ended Sept. 24 showing an operating
loss of $7.3 million and a net loss of $10.9 million on sales of
$66.3 million.  Sales declined 11.4 percent in the quarter compared with
the same period the year before.  Palm Harbor ended the quarter with $9.5 million cash, a
decline of 64.3 percent from March 26.  Palm Harbor is in default on secured financing from Textron
Financial Corp. The company said that some proceeds from sales
of homes were not paid to Textron that should have been. Textron
has given limited waivers of defaults, the regulatory filing
says.  The filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission says
there are talks with third parties about financing or sale that
may entail a Chapter 11 filing.  For the June 25 quarter, the net loss was $5.7 million on
net sales of $84.3 million. The Sept. 24 balance sheet had
assets of $324 million and total liabilities of $281 million.  National Coal to Default Absent Ranger Merger  National Coal Corp ., a bituminous coal producer based in
Knoxville, Tennessee, has a pending merger with Ranger Energy
Investments LLC that’s scheduled for completion in early
December. If it’s not completed, the company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday that there will be a default on the
10.5 percent notes maturing Dec. 15.  National sold assets to Ranger earlier this year.  Ranger had a $2.2 million operating loss and a $3.7 million
net loss in the Sept. 30 quarter on revenue of $9.7 million.  The balance sheet had assets of $34.1 million and total
liabilities of $54.8 million.  The stock closed unchanged yesterday at 99 cents on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The Ranger merger will pay stockholders $1
a share.  Briefly Noted  No Competition for Constellation to Buy Boston Generating  Power producer Boston Generating LLC said yesterday that no
acceptable bids were received to compete with the offer from
 Constellation Energy Group Inc.  to buy the facilities for $1.1
billion. A hearing is scheduled in bankruptcy court tomorrow for
approval of the sale.  The sale must also be approved by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Boston Generating owns five electric generating plants in
the Boston area.  The bankruptcy case is In re Boston Generating LLC,
10-14419, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Hearing Begins on Ambac Insurance Rehabilitation  The hearing for approval of the rehabilitation of insurance
company Ambac Assurance Corp. began yesterday in state court in
Wisconsin. The proposal is opposed by beneficiaries of some of
the policies and by hedge funds. For Bloomberg coverage and
background, click here.  The insurance company’s parent,  Ambac Financial Group Inc. ,
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization on Nov. 8 in
Manhattan. Although insurance holding companies can reorganize
in bankruptcy court, insurance companies themselves are
prohibited from any type of filing in U.S. bankruptcy court.  The Chapter 11 petition by the Ambac parent listed
liabilities on a non-consolidated basis of $1.69 billion,
including $1.22 billion on six issues of senior unsecured notes
and $400 million in subordinated notes. The insurance company
stopped paying dividends to the parent in 2007 and stopped
writing new business entirely in mid-2008.  The case is In re Ambac Financial Group Inc., 10-15973,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Trico to Auction Two Vessels on Nov.24  Trico Marine Services Inc. , a provider of support vessels
for the offshore oil and gas industry, will hold an auction on
Nov. 24 to test if there is a higher offer for the vessels Trico
Moon and Trico Mystic. If not, they will be sold for $13 million
each to  Tidewater Inc.   The creditors’ committee convinced Trico to arrange an
auction when it said it was aware of higher offers. Under court-
approved procedures, other bids are due Nov. 23, followed by the
auction the next day and a hearing on Nov. 29 to approve the
sale.  The Chapter 11 filing in August was the second by
Woodlands, Texas-based Trico. It completed a so-called
prepackaged reorganization in early 2005 by exchanging $250
million in debt for equity. Shareholders received warrants.  Other than a Cayman Islands holding company, none of the
foreign subsidiaries are in bankruptcy this time. The
consolidated balance sheet for June listed assets of $904
million against liabilities totaling $1.027 billion. The
bankruptcy petition listed liabilities of $354 million for Trico
Marine.  Liabilities  include $202.8 million on secured convertible
debentures and $150 million owing on unsecured convertible
debentures. Non-bankrupt Trico Shipping owes $400 million on the
11.875 percent senior secured notes.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services Inc., 10-12653,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Workflow Management and Selling 50,000 Pounds of Steak: Audio  A possible cramdown effort by  Workflow Management Inc.  in
Norfolk, Virginia, and an opportunity to buy 50,000 pounds of
strip steak are covered in the bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 