-- Deficit Panel Ignores $153 Trillion Hole: Laurence Kotlikoff
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 2010-11-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/deficit-panel-ignores-153-trillion-hole-laurence-kotlikoff.html
The bipartisan National Commission
on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, led by former U.S. Senator
 Alan Simpson  and former chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton ,  Erskine Bowles , spent nine months studying the nation’s
long-term fiscal policy and devising a plan that purports to
keep the country from going broke.  Speaker of the House  Nancy Pelosi  must have spent all of
nine seconds reviewing  the panel ’s draft proposal before
declaring it “simply unacceptable.” I think Pelosi’s right,
but for different reasons.  The co-chairmen’s draft  proposal  includes many provisions
that Democrats should love.  It would cut military spending, raise the ceiling on
payroll taxes for Medicare and Social Security, make the
retirement program’s benefit schedule more progressive, kill tax
breaks for  capital gains  and dividends, drop deductions that
primarily help the rich, increase benefits for the elderly poor,
boost gasoline levies and, to compensate for broadening the tax
base, lower  rates  for everyone, especially for the indigent.  There are four recommendations that Pelosi, apparently,
doesn’t like:  -- Raise Social Security’s retirement age by two years, to
69. (Psst, Pelosi, it would do so over 65 years -- a very long
time.)  -- Cut the corporate income  tax rate . (Psst, this sounds
good for business, but it’s actually good for workers because a
lower corporate rate will attract more foreign investment,
making U.S. workers more productive and helping them earn a
higher wage. Many public finance economists like myself consider
the corporate income tax a hidden tax on workers.)  -- Limit growth in Medicare benefit levels. (Not by much.)  -- Lower rather than raise the top tax rate on the rich.
(If you take account of the elimination of deductions, this is a
progressive  tax reform .)  Perhaps her protest is strategic to ensure the plan stays
as is. Either that or she doesn’t know how to take yes for an
answer.  The problem with the proposal isn’t that it helps the rich
or hurts the poor. It does neither. The real problem is that it
continues to kick the can down the road when it comes to
protecting our kids from our nation’s ever growing bills.  CBO Projections  Look carefully at the plan and you’ll find relatively
modest spending cuts and tax increases over the next decade. In
2020, non-interest spending is only 3 percent lower and taxes
are only 5 percent higher than the  Congressional Budget Office 
now projects. Together these adjustments total 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product.  Contrast this with the 8 percent of GDP fiscal adjustment
undertaken by the British, not in 10 years, but this year.  The co-chairmen’s slides show U.S. finances improving
dramatically after 2020, but that’s because of their heroic
assumption that the government will limit non-interest spending
to 21 percent of GDP instead of letting it rise, over time, to
35 percent of GDP as the CBO says will happen under current
policy.  The CBO isn’t trying to scare us. The nonpartisan agency is
legitimately terrified of the interaction of three developments:
the country’s aging population, excessive growth in health-care
costs and the introduction of the new health-exchange program.  Optimistic Assumptions  Spending related to these factors explains almost all of
the CBO’s post-2020 projected growth in federal non-interest
spending. And its forecast is based on highly optimistic
assumptions about the growth in health-care costs beyond 2020.  For example, the employer-based health-care system, which
now insures the majority of the population, is assumed to stay
intact. But the system is likely to unravel given the modest
penalties employers will face for not insuring their workers and
the significant subsidies they can arrange for their low- and
moderate-earning workers simply by sending them over to the
federal health exchange for health insurance. If this happens,
 Uncle Sam  will find most Americans in its health-care lap.  Unfortunately, there is nothing in the draft
recommendations that prevent the country from aging or federal
health-care benefit levels from rising faster than per capita
GDP. Indeed, the proposal endorses letting health-care spending
grow faster than GDP. On the other hand, they say “additional
steps should be taken as needed” to control health-care
spending growth.  Where have we heard this before?  No Health-Care Fix  Don’t get me wrong. There is a lot in the proposal I
applaud, and it merits Bowles’ request that he and Simpson enter
the federal witness protection program. But the plan leaves off
the table a final fix for our health-care system that has an
iron-clad mechanism of cost control.  The CBO’s projection of current policy implies a fiscal gap
(the present value difference between all future federal
spending and all future taxes) of $202 trillion. If we grant
Simpson and Bowles their unjustified assumption that non-
interest spending will stay fixed after 2020 relative to GDP,
the fiscal gap drops to $31 trillion -- a huge reduction and a
fabulous achievement.  But if federal spending rises after 2020, as the CBO
projects and our demographics and health-care systems appear to
dictate, their plan leaves us with a fiscal gap of $153
trillion. Or, in other words, bankrupt.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff  is professor of economics at  Boston
University , president of Economic Security Planning, Inc. and
author of “ Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  