-- Dendreon Cancer Drug Faces U.S. Review Tied to Its Sole Product
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-16T21:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/dendreon-cancer-drug-faces-u-s-review-tied-to-its-sole-product.html
Dendreon Corp.  is relying on a
decision by Medicare to help generate $1.75 billion a year for
the prostate cancer drug Provenge, the company’s only product.  An advisory panel is expected to vote tomorrow on whether
there is adequate evidence that Provenge extends life, a ruling
that may lead the agency to pay for the drug, said  Robyn Karnauskas  of Deutsche Bank in New York. With reimbursement,
Provenge would generate $1.75 billion in 2014 sales for the
Seattle-based biotechnology company, according to the average
estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Provenge was cleared for sale on  April 29 . The shares have
fallen 29 percent since then on concerns Medicare may decide not
to pay for coverage because of the drug’s $93,000 cost and
inconsistency in study results. Three of four people recommended
for the drug are eligible for the U.S. health plan, the company
has said. An affirmative finding may boost shares 60 percent
within 12 months, according to a survey of nine  analysts.   “There’s been a lot of fear around this panel,”
Karnauskas said in a telephone interview. “It’s a stock people
are afraid to own.”  Dendreon rose 41 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $35.87 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the only 1 of 20
stocks on the AMEX Biotechnology Index to  gain  today. The shares
are up threefold since the last survival data were reported on
April 28, 2009 and may  reach  $57.56 within a year, according to
the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Earlier Rejection  The Food and Drug Administration rejected Provenge in 2007
against the recommendation of an advisory panel after one of two
studies failed to show a benefit. The agency granted approval
this year for use in advanced prostate cancer based on a third
study in 512 patients with a median survival of 25.8 months on
the drug, compared with 21.7 months on a placebo.  The survival benefit in Medicare-eligible patients was more
than six months. Provenge reduced the risk of death by 22.5
percent in the study. An independent technology assessment
released ahead of this week’s meeting concluded the data from
Dendreon’s three trials “are consistent with longer overall
survival” in patients approved for Provenge.  While price isn’t supposed to be an issue when deciding
reimbursement, it’s unusual for the agency to question coverage
so quickly after approval, said  Howard Liang , an analyst at
Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston.  “It’s probably related to the high cost of the drug,”
Liang said in a telephone interview. “If this were a very cheap
drug or a very important use for a narrow population maybe”
Medicare wouldn’t have asked for an advisory review of the drug.  Attacking Cancer Cells  Provenge is the first medicine that trains the body’s
immune system to attack cancer cells as it would a virus. The
 therapy  involves extracting white blood cells from a patient,
mixing with vaccine components and then delivering the
combination as an infusion. Treatment lasts one month with three
doses each given two weeks apart.  Advisers to Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly
and disabled, will  meet  in Baltimore to discuss Provenge.
 Katherine Stueland , Dendreon’s vice president of corporate
communications and investor relations, declined to comment about
the meeting.  Prostate cancer will be diagnosed this year in 217,730 U.S.
men and lead to 32,050 deaths, according to the  American Cancer
Society . Symptoms typically start when patients have less than a
year to live. Of more than 1 million men with the disease, about
70,000 qualify for Provenge, according to Karnauskas, who
recommends buying the shares.  Panelists’ Views  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will  ask  the
panelists on a scale of one to five how confident they are in
the evidence showing the drug significantly improves survival,
controls symptoms and avoids side effects of therapy.  A vote of at least three in favor of survival benefits
would be a victory for Dendreon, according to Cowen & Co.
analyst  Eric Schmidt , who recommends buying the shares.  “If yes, CMS will have to reimburse Provenge for patients
who fit the label,” Schmidt said in an e-mail from New York.  Analysts who estimated $1.75 billion in sales for 2014 have
considered only the FDA-approved uses in their estimates in
anticipation that Medicare won’t pay for broader, “off-label”
use in men whose cancer hasn’t spread.  No cure exists for advanced prostate cancer that has spread
outside the prostate gland. Patients are often given hormone
therapy or chemotherapy drugs such as Paris-based Sanofi-Aventis
SA’s Taxotere.  The agency is  scheduled  to release its draft coverage
proposal by March 30 and a final decision by June 30. While 14
of 15 regional Medicare contractors are paying for Provenge in
the interim, Dendreon has said it can’t meet demand for the drug
until new plants open next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 