-- Deutsche Telekom Reaches Settlement With Victims of Spy Scandal at Company
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-16T09:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/deutsche-telekom-to-give-2-3-million-to-charity-in-spy-scandal-settlement.html
Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s
biggest phone company, said it will pay compensation to some
victims of a spy scandal at the company and make a 1.7 million
euro ($2.3 million) donation to charity.  The company reached a settlement on “the possibility of
compensation for privacy violations” with supervisory board
members and labor leaders whose data was collected, Deutsche
Telekom said in an e-mailed statement without disclosing more
details. The donation will go to various charities, including
some that work for data protection and labor rights.  Deutsche Telekom  “sees the donation as a conscious sign
towards supervisory board, works council and labor union
members, as well as their families, which were in great number
affected by the misuse of phone data,” the company said.  Managers at Deutsche Telekom in 2005 and 2006 obtained the
phone records of journalists and supervisory  board members  to
search for the sources of news leaks. Prosecutors raided offices
of Deutsche Telekom and its T-Mobile unit in May 2008, after the
company had filed a criminal complaint asking prosecutors to
look into the activities. A former security manager is currently
on trial in Bonn over the spying.  Deutsche Telekom said it has also started talks with some
journalists who were victims and entered negotiations with other
reporters.  The company will pay a “substantial sum,” to the victims
stemming from the labor union and labor representative side,
 Manfred Balz , Deutsche Telekom’s general counsel, said during a
conference call today. He declined to specify the amount.  The group profiting from the settlement comprises about 50
people, supervisory board member  Lothar Schroeder , who was one
of the victims, said on the call. The charities that will
receive money were picked by Deutsche Telekom from a list
suggested by the victims, Schroeder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  