-- Deutsche Bank, Calpers Urge Climate Action to Avert 20% World Output Cut
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-11-16T20:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/deutsche-bank-investors-seek-action-to-combat-climate-losses.html
Deutsche Bank AG  and the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System are among 259 investors
urging policy makers to combat global warming or face mounting
economic disruptions in the next 40 years.  Losses stemming from climate change may trim as much as 20
percent from global economic output by 2050, according to a
 statement  from Ceres, a coalition that joined investors holding
$15 trillion in assets in seeking action. Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank is Germany’s largest bank and Calpers, based in
Sacramento, California, is the biggest U.S. public pension fund.  Countries must set a price on carbon-dioxide pollution, cut
emissions, adapt to climate change and embrace policies to spur
use of renewable energy, according to the group. Investors said
the U.S. Congress’s failure to pass legislation limiting
greenhouse-gas emissions makes it unlikely negotiators will
agree on  a global climate-change treaty  during talks in Cancun,
Mexico, this month.  “Investors need greater policy certainty from
governments,” Donald MacDonald, trustee for  BT Pension Scheme ,
the U.K.’s largest employee pension plan, said today in a
statement. “Deferring climate-change agreement adds to investor
concerns that climate-change risks and costs aren’t taken
seriously.”  Negotiators at the United Nations-led talks in Cancun
should establish a plan for  funding  needed from rich countries
to help poor nations deal with the affects of higher
temperatures and rising sea levels, the group said.  The U.S. and industrialized economies  agreed last year in
Copenhagen  to provide $30 billion from 2010 to 2012 and as much
as $100 billion a year from public and private sources by 2020.  Senate Deadlock  The group blamed the U.S. and a deadlock in the Senate on
legislation to cap carbon emissions in part for the lack of
progress in the international talks.  “Climate change may be out of vogue in Washington today,
but it poses serious financial risks that aren’t going away and
will only increase the longer we delay enacting sensible
policies to transition to a low-carbon economy,” Calpers Chief
Executive Officer Jack Ehnes said.  North America is lagging behind Europe and Asia in clean-
energy investing, Ceres, a Boston-based coalition of investors
and environmental groups, said today in a news release on the
investor statement. The U.S. supported $20.7 billion in
renewable energy projects last year while Europe backed $43.7
billion and Asia $40.8 billion, Ceres said, citing a UN report.  Global clean-energy investments are expected to exceed $200
billion this year, according to the coalition. Bloomberg New
Energy Finance and the World Economic Forum have said about $500
billion is needed annually by 2020 to hold worldwide temperature
increases to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) higher
than in pre-industrial times, Ceres said.  ‘Fall Short’  “Current investment levels fall well short of what is
needed to stem the rise of global temperatures and adapt to a
warming world,”  Mindy Lubber , president of Ceres, said today.  Major polluting countries including the U.S. and China
agreed in July 2009 to cap average global temperature increase
to 2 degrees to stave off the worst effects of global warming.  The UN climate-change meeting in Cancun is set to take
place from Nov. 29 through Dec. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 