-- Stocks, Commodities Drop on Concern Over Ireland's Debt Crisis; Bonds Rise
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-11-17T00:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/dollar-near-month-high-as-asian-stocks-oil-decline-on-inflation-concerns.html
Global stocks  fell for a seventh day,
the longest streak since January, and commodities slid amid
concern that the debt crisis in Ireland and Greece is worsening
and that China will act to slow its economy. U.S. Treasuries
snapped a two-day plunge and the dollar rallied.  The  MSCI World Index  slid 1.9 percent, the most since Aug.
11. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.6 percent. Ten-year
Treasury yields  fell  12 basis point to 2.84 percent after a 31-
point gain over the past two days. Irish 10-year yields
increased 28 basis points. The Dollar Index rose 0.9 percent,
while nickel led  commodities  lower. After the close of U.S.
markets, S&P 500 futures climbed 0.3 percent at 7 p.m. in New
York while Japanese and Australian stocks fell in early trading.  The S&P 500 plunged the most in three months and the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index sank the most since July. Irish Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen  said he doubts a concrete agreement will be reached
to resolve the government’s fiscal crisis at a meeting of
European finance ministers, while Austria threatened to block
its next transfer of financial rescue funds to Greece.  “There’s still concern about what’s going on in Europe and
some concern about China,” said  Michael Strauss , who helps
oversee about $27 billion as a managing director at Commonfund
in Wilton, Connecticut. “In the U.S., the economy clearly
improved from the soft spot we saw earlier this year. That tells
me that the Fed panicked and did quantitative easing and maybe
it’s not needed.”  Treasuries Rebound  Treasuries slid yesterday, sending  30-year yields  to the
highest level since May, and the S&P 500 erased an early rally
amid increased criticism of the Fed’s plan to stimulate growth
through bond purchases and growing concern that a swelling U.S.
deficit will lead to higher borrowing costs.  The  S&P 500  fell for a fourth day today, its longest streak
since August, even after U.S. factory production rose in October
by the most in three months, signaling industries continue to
support the economic recovery. Other data showed wholesale costs
in the U.S. rose less than forecast in October, underscoring the
Fed’s rationale for quantitative easing.  Two regional Fed bank presidents said they expect the
central bank to buy the entire $600 billion of Treasuries that
policy makers authorized Nov. 3 in a bid to reduce  unemployment .  “Given my forecast, I fully anticipate we will purchase
the entire amount,” Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said
today in an interview with Bloomberg News.  James Bullard  of St.
Louis said in a separate interview the Fed would buy less than
planned only after a big improvement in the economy.  Fed Pressure  Republican lawmakers said they want to compel the Fed to
focus solely on controlling inflation, upending a mandate that’s
shaped monetary policy for more than 30 years. Representative
 Mike Pence , chairman of the House Republican Conference, said he
will introduce a bill requiring the Fed to promote price
stability while no longer seeking maximum employment. Senator
 Bob Corker , a member of the Senate Banking Committee, backed a
single mandate for the Fed, saying the Fed’s dual roles are
“confusing to the market.”  Commodity producers led today’s declines, with Exxon Mobil
Corp. dropping 2.2 percent and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. losing 4.3 percent.  Funds that invest in bonds tumbled. The  John Hancock
Investors Trust , which buys debt securities, lost 6.3 percent
for the biggest decrease since November 2008. Pimco Corporate
Income Fund, an owner of corporate bonds, tumbled 3.7 percent.  Earnings Watch  Only two stocks rose in the 30-company  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , which tumbled 178.47 points, or 1.6 percent, to
11,023.50 and dipped below 11,000 for the first time in a month.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  rose 0.6 percent after reporting a 9.3
percent increase in quarterly profit as overseas growth helped
make up for U.S. sales declines. Home Depot Inc. climbed 1
percent after third-quarter profit beat the average estimate in
a Bloomberg survey and the company increased its earnings
forecast for the year.  The S&P 500 is up about 12 percent since the end of August
amid improving earnings and speculation the Fed will be
successful in stimulating the economy. Earnings per share have
topped analysts’ average estimates at about three-quarters of
the 441 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results
since Oct. 7, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  sank 2.3 percent, the most since
July 1. Basic-resources stocks led declines, as Rio Tinto Group
slumped 4.8 percent and Antofagasta Plc plunged 5.5 percent.
HSBC Holdings Plc fell 2.5 percent. Acciona SA retreated 6.6
percent, the most since May, after the Spanish construction
company said profit fell.  China Stocks Plunge  The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 4 percent to the lowest
level in a month as PetroChina Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co.
plunged more than 6.5 percent on concern tighter monetary policy
will curb demand for commodities. The China Securities Journal
reported that the country will introduce measures to control
rising food prices in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  South Korea’s Kospi Index of shares lost 0.8 percent, while
the won strengthened 0.4 percent against the dollar. The Bank of
Korea raised the seven-day repurchase rate by 0.25 percentage
point to 2.5 percent today, the second increase this year, and
dropped a reference to keeping borrowing costs
“accommodative.”  Thirty-year Treasury yields decreased 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 4.26 percent after surging 17 basis
points in the previous two days. The 31-point gain in ten-year
yields during the past two days was biggest back-to-back rise
since January 2009.  Gross Reduces Treasuries  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
 Pacific Investment Management Co. , reduced  holdings  of
government-related debt to the lowest level since July 2009 and
added mortgage-related debt in October. The $256 billion Total
Return Fund’s investment in government-related securities fell
to 28 percent of assets from 33 percent the previous month,
according to data the Newport Beach, California, company
published on its  website  yesterday.  Market News International reported yesterday that the lead
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service said a permanent extension
of former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts would be a
“definite negative” for the U.S. credit rating. Moody’s is
“not contemplating changing anything anytime soon,”  Steven Hess , senior credit officer in New York, said in an interview
with Bloomberg News later.  ‘Choppy Ride’  “It will be a choppy ride before we find some footing,”
said  Burt White , who helps oversee $284 billion as chief
investment officer at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston. “The
market is really trying to get its arms around a few lingering
questions -- China, Europe, tax policy or whether or not QE2 is
going to work or if it’s even necessary.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
notes instead of similar-maturity benchmark German bunds  widened 
22 basis points to 562 basis points after falling from a record
652 basis points, or 6.52 percentage points, reached on Nov. 11.  Ireland was in talks over a financial rescue with the
European Union and International Monetary Fund that would mean
the nation wouldn’t have to tap the bond market for an extended
period, said a person with knowledge of the situation, who spoke
on condition of anonymity. It would also give the government
capital to help banks if necessary. Talks are continuing and no
decision has been reached, the person said.  Ireland says it’s fully funded into mid-2011.  “It is clear that as much as Ireland protests that they can
fund themselves for a while yet, the European Union would like
the situation settled as quickly as possible to try to stop the
contagion effect,”  Gary Jenkins , a strategist at Evolution
Securities in London, wrote in a report today.  Default Swaps  Greek 10-year bond yields surged 20 basis points to 11.62
percent amid concern that the nation, which received a 110
billion-euro bailout in May, won’t be able to cut its budget
deficit fast enough. Austria is threatening to block its next
transfer of funds to Greece unless the government gets back on
track a deficit-cutting plan agreed just six months ago with the
EU and IMF.  “We are getting indications that the Greeks can’t stick to
their plan in a sufficient manner, in particular on the revenue
side,” Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said, according to a
government e-mail that confirmed remarks made after a cabinet
meeting today. “The data we have at the moment doesn’t give any
reason to approve the December tranche from the Austrian point
of view.”  Greece led a surge in the cost of insuring European
government debt. Credit-default swaps on Greece soared 86 basis
points to 944, the highest since June 29, according to data
provider CMA. Contracts on Ireland rose 22 basis points to 515,
Portugal climbed 13 to 426, Italy increased 7 to 188 and Spain
was up 8 at 259.  Nickel, wheat and aluminum lost at least 6.6 percent to
lead the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of commodities to a
3.2 percent decline and extend its drop over the past week to
7.2 percent, the biggest plunge in almost two years. Copper for
delivery in March dropped 4.9 percent, the most in four months,
to $3.731 a pound in New York. Gold futures retreated 2.2
percent to $1,338.40 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 