-- Dollar Strengthens to Seven-Week High Versus Euro Amid Irish Debt Turmoil
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-11-16T22:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/dollar-near-six-week-high-against-yen-on-signs-u-s-recovery-strengthening.html
The dollar rose to a seven-week high
against the euro as European finance ministers ducked investors’
pleas for a bailout package for debt-strapped Ireland and doubts
surfaced over Greece’s economic health.  The euro weakened versus the yen and dollar as Irish bonds
fell, reversing a two-day rally, and stocks tumbled. Finance
chiefs lauded Ireland’s budget cuts, and Finnish Finance
Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said the nation agreed to start
consultations on how to deal with its bank situation. The dollar
touched a six-week high versus the yen as Treasury 10-year note
yields traded near the highest level since August.  “There needs to be more clarity, and the euro is subject
to further selling until there is some,” said  Jessica Hoversen ,
an analyst in Chicago at futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The dollar appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.3489 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.3587 yesterday, after earlier falling
as much as 0.5 percent. It touched $1.3448, the strongest level
since Sept. 28. The greenback rose 0.3 percent to 83.29 yen,
from 83.07 yesterday. It touched 83.59 yen, the highest level
since Oct. 5. The euro fell 0.4 percent to 112.38 yen, from
112.88.  The pound slid the most in three months versus the dollar,
dropping below $1.60 as concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
will worsen pushed down stocks.  Sterling fell as much as 1.3 percent to $1.5840, the
steepest intraday decline since Aug. 11 and the lowest level in
almost three weeks. It dropped 0.4 percent against the euro to
84.91 pence.  Greek Target  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said he’s
considering withholding his country’s share of the next part of
Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) rescue, saying the
Athens government missed a revenue-raising target. Greece’s
near-default in May triggered Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Bonds declined across Europe, pushing yields up. Yields on
Irish 10-year notes climbed 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage
point, to 8.24 percent after falling for the past two days. They
touched 8.95 percent on Nov. 11. German 10-year  bund yields  rose
six basis points to 2.62 percent and touched 2.64 percent, the
highest level since Aug. 3.  Finance ministers in the euro region voiced confidence
after a meeting in Brussels that Ireland will ride out its
financial crisis. Katainen said the nation agreed to start
consultations with the European Union and the European Central
Bank on how to deal with the Irish bank situation.  Ireland was negotiating with the EU and International
Monetary Fund about aid to shore up the state’s finances,
furnish capital for the country’s banks and spare it from
tapping the bond market for an extended period, a European
official said on condition of anonymity.  ‘Workable Solution’  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  told Parliament in Dublin
earlier that the nation hadn’t lodged an aid request and the
goal is “a credible, efficient and above all workable solution
that will provide assurance to the markets.”  “We’ve reached a stage where it’s not a question whether
they really need it, but whether the market might force them to
accept a bailout plan as a circuit breaker to the current
environment where sentiment is clearly increasingly bearish,”
said  Matthew Strauss , senior currency strategist in Toronto at
Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s largest lender.  The risk of financial-crisis contagion is “becoming
clearer by the moment,”  Derek Halpenny , head of European
currency strategy in London at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness” with  Margaret Brennan .  ‘Not as Severe’  Because Ireland has enough cash to delay further borrowing
until mid-2011, it “potentially is in a relatively strong
bargaining position, and could be pushing to try and assure that
any terms and conditions in regard to a bailout deal are not as
severe as they were for Greece,” Halpenny said.  The Federal Reserve bought $5.4 billion of U.S. Treasuries
today in its plan to purchase $600 billion of government debt
under a tactic called quantitative easing and to reinvest
maturing mortgage holdings.  “The primary concern on this side of the Atlantic is QE2
for the U.S. dollar,” said  Michael Woolfolk , New York-based
senior currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in
assets under administration.  U.S. economic reports are likely to be interpreted in terms
of the bond buys, Woolfolk said in an interview. Weaker-than-
forecast inflation data “is going to step up expectations of
further QE measures,” he said.  Treasury Yields  Treasury  10-year yields  remained near the highest since
August, encouraging risk-averse investors to seek U.S. debt as a
refuge, even after slipping as Fed officials reinforced support
for quantitative easing. The benchmark note yielded 2.84
percent, compared with the three-month high of 2.96 percent it
reached yesterday.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard , New York Fed President  William Dudley 
and Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  voiced support for the Fed’s
asset purchases.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index tumbled 1.6 percent, while
crude oil for December delivery dropped 3.1 percent to $82.21 a
barrel in New York.  South Korea’s won was the best performer versus the dollar.
It appreciated 0.2 percent to 1,129.47 per dollar after the Bank
of Korea increased the seven-day  repurchase rate  by 0.25
percentage point to 2.5 percent.  Canada’s dollar and the Norwegian krone were the worst
performers among the greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts as
stocks and commodities fell, sapping demand for assets related
to economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  