-- Doral's Mario `Sammy' Levis Sentenced to Five Years for Securities Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-17T00:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/doral-s-mario-sammy-levis-sentenced-to-five-years-for-securities-fraud.html
Mario “Sammy” Levis , a member of
the family that founded Puerto Rican bank-holding company  Doral
Financial Corp. , was sentenced to five years in prison for
securities fraud when he worked as Doral’s treasurer.  Levis was convicted in April of one count of securities
fraud and two counts of wire fraud, for lying to investors about
the value of mortgage-related assets held by the company.  “I do not believe that the five-year sentence will be
disabling,” U.S. District Judge  Thomas Griesa  in Manhattan said
during today’s sentencing. “I do not wish it to be.”  Griesa rejected prosecutors’ arguments to impose a prison
term of as long as 34 years.  “It is inconceivable to me that that kind of a sentence
would ever be seriously considered,” Griesa said.  Levis’s lawyer,  Roy Black , said in a statement today that
his client will appeal and that he will prove he’s innocent.  Prosecutors claimed Levis manipulated the value of
mortgage-related assets to inflate the price of  Doral stock . In
March 2005, the Levis family owned 8.2 percent of the company’s
shares, prosecutors said.  Doral , based in San Juan, Puerto Rico, announced in
September 2005 that it would restate its finances up to the end
of 2004 and cut shareholder equity by $720 million because of
overvalued assets. The company eventually paid $129 million to
settle an investor  lawsuit  and a $25 million fine to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Levis, whose wife, parents and siblings were in the
courtroom for his sentencing, asked Griesa to treat him
leniently.  ‘That’s Not Me’  “I never, never, never intended to do any harm to
anyone,” Levis said. “That’s not me.”  “I am pleading with you now to be just,” he said.  In addition to the five-year sentence, Griesa ordered that
Levis serve two years of supervised release. He didn’t impose a
fine and deferred a ruling on restitution for the victims of the
fraud.  Levis’s fraud caused a $4 billion decline in shareholder
value when it was disclosed, prosecutors said. Griesa said he
was unable to determine, for sentencing purposes, the precise
amount lost by victims or gained by Levis from the fraud.  “I can’t quantify the harm in terms of a dollar amount and
I won’t try to do it,” Griesa said.  Family Lender  The Levis family founded Doral as a small mortgage company
in Puerto Rico in 1972. The company grew to become Puerto Rico’s
biggest residential lender. Many members of the family worked as
company executives, including former chief executive officer
 Salomon Levis , Mario’s uncle.  Prosecutors said that, from 2001 to 2005, Levis caused
Doral to inflate the value of “interest-only strips,” or
“IOs,” held by the company. Levis misled investors into
believing the value of the IOs had been determined by two
independent, outside experts, prosecutors said. Levis also
falsely claimed that Doral loan-sale agreements contained
contractual caps that would limit the company’s losses on IOs if
interest rates fell, the said.  The case is U.S. v. Levis, 08-cr-00181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 