-- Dubai Holding Gets $2 Billion Fresh Capital From Government, FT Reports
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-16T07:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/dubai-holding-gets-2-billion-fresh-capital-from-government-ft-reports.html
Dubai Holding LLC has received $2
billion of fresh government capital as the emirate seeks to
revive the struggling group of companies, the Financial Times
reported, citing  Mohammed Ibrahim Al Shaibani , director general
of the Dubai ruler’s court.  “I don’t want to put any more money in as the government,
but I will do it as and when it’s required,” Shaibani told the
newspaper in an interview.  Dubai Holding, controlled by the emirate’s ruler Sheikh
 Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum , owes banks about $12 billion, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in May. Almost three-
quarters of its debt has been racked up by Dubai International
Capital and Dubai Group LLC, the person said. Dubai Holding has
stakes in U.K.-based hotel chain Travelodge Hotels Ltd,
Doncasters Plc and Madame Tussauds, through DIC and Dubai Group.  Dubai’s government had outstanding direct debt of 105.47
billion dirhams ($29 billion) at the end of July, according an
updated bond prospectus published on the London Stock Exchange
on Sept. 27. The debt includes funds borrowed to finance the
expansion of Dubai International Airport, other infrastructure
projects, borrowings by Investment Corp. of Dubai, and loans
from the Abu Dhabi government and the Central Bank of the United
Arab Emirates, the document showed.  The Dubai government won’t seek to dispose of assets to pay
off its debts until prices have recovered, Shaibani told the FT.
“Some of the companies need a bit of time, a bit of
restructuring and capital injection,” he was cited as saying.  No one from the Dubai government was immediately available
to comment as today is the Islamic feast of Eid Al Adha.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 