-- Dudley Says QE2 Critics Don't `Understand' Fed's Exit Plan
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-16T06:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/dudley-tells-cnbc-fed-critics-don-t-understand-bernanke-s-exit-strategy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said critics of the  expansion  of
monetary stimulus are underestimating the central bank’s ability
to raise interest rates when necessary.  “People do not understand clearly” that “we can have an
enlarged  balance sheet  and not have a long-term inflation
problem,” Dudley said in an interview with CNBC. “We are very
confident of our ability to exit when the time comes.”  A group including former Republican government officials
and economists urged Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in a letter to
stop his expansion of monetary easing, saying it risks an
inflation surge. The missive will be published in today’s
editions of the Wall Street Journal and New York Times, Jennifer
Pollom, a spokeswoman for Economics 21, a Washington research
group whose logo is on the letterhead, said yesterday.  Fed officials are trying to counter criticism at home and
abroad that its policy threatens to boost inflation and weaken
the dollar against the currencies of emerging nations that rely
on trade for growth. Janet Yellen, the Fed’s new vice chairman,
told the Wall Street Journal that the program, known as
quantitative easing, shouldn’t be considered as “some sort of
chapter in a currency war.”  Credit Demand  The Fed can pay interest on excess reserves, “which allows
us to raise the cost of credit in a way to moderate credit
demand when the time comes,” Dudley said, according to a
transcript of the CNBC interview.  “That tool we did not have prior to the fall of 2008,” he
said. “So if you’re reading the old money and banking textbooks,
yes, you would be very concerned that the increase in the size
of the Fed’s balance sheet is going to ultimately lead to a
long-term inflation problem.”  The U.S. central bank’s policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee on Nov. 3 embarked on a second round of unconventional
stimulus, announcing it would buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June in an effort to increase inflation and bring down
an unemployment rate hovering near a 26-year high.  Dudley defended the Fed’s decision against international
criticism that the central bank would roil global economies by
deflating the U.S. dollar. Officials in China, Germany and
Brazil have complained about the Fed’s announcement, with German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  calling the move
“clueless” and suggesting it was aimed at driving down the U.S.
currency.  ‘Off-Base’ Criticism  Dudley called Schaeuble’s criticism “off base.” A U.S.
economy that’s “growing faster” and has “stronger employment
growth” and “less risk of deflation” is “very much” in the
best interest of the global economy, Dudley said. He said the
Fed isn’t “trying to push the  dollar  to any particular level.”  Dudley, who serves as vice chairman of the FOMC, said the
securities purchases will provide a “roughly equivalent”
amount of stimulus as a 0.75 percentage point cut in the Fed’s
benchmark interest rate. The target for the overnight bank
lending rate has been near zero since December 2008.  “By easing financial market conditions,” the asset-
purchasing program will make housing more “affordable,” lower
business-investment costs and increase household wealth by
supporting the stock market, Dudley said.  “It’s going to generate a little bit more employment
growth,” Dudley said. “It’s not a fantasy. It’s not a magic
wand. It’s going to make the economy grow a little bit faster.”  Job Growth  Employment in the U.S. last month increased for the first
time in five months, as  payrolls  climbed 151,000 and the jobless
rate held at 9.6 percent.  Dudley, 57, said that while “it’s heartening to see a
little bit of signs of improvement,” the economy still needs
“many, many months” of gains of 200,000 to 300,000 jobs.  “We have lots of slack in this economy,” Dudley said.
“We’re not even generating sufficient jobs yet to actually
bring the unemployment rate down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  