-- Patients Dying of Cancer Need Talks About Care, Dartmouth Scientists Say
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-11-16T17:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/dying-cancer-patients-need-more-information-about-options-dartmouth-says.html
Patients dying from cancer don’t
receive enough information about end-of-life options at many
U.S. hospitals to decide on their own when to end aggressive
medical care, a Dartmouth College report suggests.  The university’s  Dartmouth Atlas Project  compared records
of 235,821 patients with national surveys that show many people
don’t want aggressive care at the end of their lives, preferring
to die at home with their pain controlled. The analysis of the
medical records showed no evidence that the preferences were
reflected in the treatments given, including chemotherapy and
life-sustaining treatments such as feeding tubes.  The research, released today, indicates that doctors and
patients need to hold more conversations to ensure that care
reflects what dying patients want, said  David Goodman , the
report’s lead author. A proposal for Medicare, the U.S. program
for the elderly and disabled, to reimburse physicians for such
consultations went nowhere after Republican  Sarah Palin  last
year likened the idea to establishing “death panels.”  “Physicians tend to go overboard so as not to miss a
chance to save a patient’s life,” said  George Sledge , president
of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, a professional
group based in Alexandria, Virginia. Dartmouth used quality
measures from association to assess hospital treatment.  The discussions don’t always occur, not least because of
physicians’ reluctance to admit there is no treatment left that
might prolong a patient’s life, said Goodman, a physician. Also,
government and private insurer reimbursement policies “reward
richly curative efforts and give pennies for palliative and
hospice care,” he said.  ‘Undertreatment’  “The biggest problem we have with end-of-life care for
cancer patients is not overtreatment, it’s undertreatment when
it comes to working for quality of life,” Goodman said in a
telephone interview. “Patients want to live long, but they also
want to live well.”  Goodman is co-principal investigator for Dartmouth Atlas in
Lebanon, New Hampshire. That project, which was cited by
President  Barack Obama  during the health-care debate, has issued
reports for more than 20 years showing disparities in how
medical resources are distributed and used.  “The hardest part of my job, bar none, is telling
patients -- most of whom I have been working with for months,
even years -- that I have nothing else to offer them,” Sledge,
an oncologist who is co-director of the breast cancer program at
Indiana University in Indianapolis, said in a telephone
interview.  Cancer Records  In early drafts of the U.S. health legislation, a provision
would have allowed Medicare to reimburse doctors for time spent
in end-of-life discussions with patients. The measure died after
Palin attacked it in August 2009 and Senator  Charles Grassley ,
an Iowa Republican, described the conversations as government
efforts to “pull the plug on granny.”  “That was the most unpleasant part of the entire health-
care debate,” Sledge said. “The idea that this was some
nefarious plot to pull the plug on granny was absurd, when quite
the contrary was the case. These conversations give patients
more autonomy and choice, not less.”  Calls to Senator Grassley’s office and Sarah Palin’s
SarahPac.com weren’t immediately returned.  Medicare Records  The Dartmouth report was based on records of cancer
patients on Medicare who died from 2003 to 2007. Among the
national surveys Dartmouth used to assess patient preferences
were two Institute of Medicine studies published in 1997 and
2001 that documented the overtreatment with curative measures
that patients don’t want and insufficient attention to
suppression of pain that patient do want.  “The more information a patient is given the more they can
make a choice that’s right for their situation,” said Linda
DeBenedictis, president of the  New England Patients’ Rights
Group Inc. , an advocacy organization based in Norwood,
Massachusetts. “I’m hoping that patients will always have that
choice.”  Relying on hospice care instead of hospitals may save the
government money, according to a study at Duke University in
Durham, North Carolina. The research showed Medicare saving
about $2,300 a patient on average when people die under hospice
care rather than in the hospital. The study was published in
October 2007 in the journal Social Science & Medicine.  Quality of Life  While hospitals try to cure patients, hospices focus on
improving a patient’s quality of life by reducing pain and
enhancing function. More than 1.5 million people were treated in
U.S. hospices last year, said J. Donald Schumacher, president
and chief executive officer of the  National Hospice & Palliative
Care Organization , a nonprofit group based in Alexandria,
Virginia.  While Americans often view hospices as places to die,
patients live longer with hospice care, Schumacher said. A study
in the  New England Journal of Medicine  in August showed that
patients diagnosed with incurable lung cancer lived longer when
given palliative care earlier in their treatment, compared with
patients getting standard care.  The Dartmouth Atlas study found that 29 percent of
advanced-cancer patients ended up dying in one of the 137
hospitals analyzed by the report. The rates across the
hospitals, including many academic institutions, showed wide
regional variation.  The disparities reflect the haphazard, “almost
unconscious” manner in which health-care systems evolve,
Goodman said.  ‘Accidents of Capacity’  “If Hospital X got a $50 million gift to build the world’s
best palliative-care center, then patients who go there are
going to get a different type of care than if they go to a place
that just got $50 million to build the world’s best intensive-
care unit,” Goodman said. “So there are lots of accidents of
capacity.”  While the rate was 57 percent at  Westchester Medical Center 
in Valhalla, New York, and 52 percent at  Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center  in Los Angeles, the figure was 19 percent at both
Evanston Northwestern Healthcare in Evanston, Illinois, and  St.
Joseph’s Hospital & Medical Center  in Phoenix, according to the
report. Evanston Northwestern has since changed its name to
NorthShore University HealthSystem.  About 24 percent were admitted to intensive care at least
once during the last month of life. The number ranged from 49
percent at Cooper Health System in Camden, New Jersey, and 46
percent at  St. John Hospital & Medical Center  in Detroit to 12
percent at  Montefiore Medical Center  in New York and 8.9 percent
at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.  Hopkins, Sloan-Kettering  Johns Hopkins Hospital  in Baltimore and Sloan-Kettering
strike a balance between aggressive treatment and palliative
care, Goodman said. In the study, 24 percent of cancer deaths of
Johns Hopkins patients occurred in the hospital. Hopkins had 19
percent admitted to the intensive-care unit during the last
month of their lives; and 59 percent enrolled in hospice care,
according to the study.  At Sloan-Kettering, 34 percent died in the hospital. In
the last month, 42 percent were admitted to a hospice.  “People aren’t going to places like Johns Hopkins or
Sloan-Kettering to die,” Goodman said. “These institutions are
just managing to have these conversations with patients early
enough in the process to give them the opportunity to die at
home or in a hospice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 